                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR0000873




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IBRD 4348-CHA, IDA 3097-CHA)

                                        ON A

                                   LOAN/ CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF

                        US$72.0 MILLION AND SDR14.9 MILLION

                            (US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                            PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                      FOR THE

                      GUANGXI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT


                                     June 23, 2008




Urban Development Sector Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective March 2008)

                           Currency Unit = Yuan

                           Yuan 1.00 = US$0.14

                           US$ 1.00 = Yuan 7.2

                                Fiscal Year

                         January 1 ­ December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOD                  Biological Oxygen Demand
BOT                  Build Operate and Transfer
COD                  Chemical Oxygen Demand
DRC                  Development Reform Committee
EA                   Environmental Assessment
EPB                  Environmental Protection Bureau
FM                   Financier Management
GEPB                 Guangxi Environmental Protection Bureau
GM                   Guilin Municipality
GR                   Guangxi Region
IPCAP                Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan
ICR                  Implementation Completion & Results (Report)
GAR                  Guangxi Autonomous Region
GSC                  Guilin Sewerage Company
GUEPO                Guangxi Urban Environment Project Office
JBIC                 Japan Bank for International Cooperation
LOA                  Loan Administration
m3/d                 Cubic meters per day
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
NGO                  Non-government Organization
NSC                  Nanning Sewerage Company
NWSG                 Nanning Water Services Group
NM                   Nanning Municipality
O&M                  Operation and Maintenance
PDO                  Project Development Objective
PMO                  Project Management Office
QAG                  Quality Assurance Group
QEA                  Quality at Entry Assessment
QSA                  Quality of Supervision Assessment
RAP                  Resettlement Action Plan
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
SEPA                 State Environmental Protection Agency
STP                  Sewage Treatment Plant

Vice President             Mr. James W. Adams
Country Director           Mr. David Dollar
Sector Manager             Mr. Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
Task Team Leader           Ms Chongwu Sun

                                             China
                       GUANGXI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT



                                           CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff

   1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design                    1

   2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                     5
   3. Assessment of Outcomes                                                8
   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                             12
   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                           13
   6. Lessons Learned                                                       18
   7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners  18
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators                                      20
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                     31
   Annex 3. Outputs by Component                                            33
   Annex 4. Industrial Pollution Control Plan                               35
   Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis                                 39
   Annex 6. Resettlement Implementation                                     42
   Annex 7. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes   44
   Annex 8. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance               47
   Annex 9. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR          48
   Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents                                   64

   MAPS - IBRD 29651R, 28799R, 28800R and 36180

A. Basic Information

                                                                    GUANGXI URBAN
Country:                China                 Project Name:         ENVIRONMENT
                                                                    PROJECT
                                                                    IBRD-43480,IDA-
Project ID:             P036414               L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                    30970
ICR Date:               06/27/2008            ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:             CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 92.0M             Disbursed Amount:     USD 78.3M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Guangxi Zhuang Auto. Region
Government of Nanning Municipality
Government of Guilin Municipality
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/03/1996    Effectiveness:       10/30/1998         10/30/1998
Appraisal:             06/26/1997    Restructuring(s):                       05/24/2005
Approval:              06/16/1998    Mid-term Review:                        11/02/2001
                                     Closing:             12/31/2004         12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                     Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          Yes                                         Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agro-industry                                                      4
General transportation sector                                      2
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                                10
Sewerage                                                          76                 80
Solid waste management                                             5                  7
Water supply                                                      13                  3


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                             Primary        Not Applicable
Environmental policies and institutions                          Primary       Not Applicable
Pollution management and environmental health                    Primary          Primary
Water resource management                                        Primary          Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           James W. Adams                      Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:         David R. Dollar                     Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:           Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez            Keshav Varma
Project Team Leader:      Chongwu Sun                         Songsu Choi
ICR Team Leader:          Chongwu Sun
ICR Primary Author:       A. D. C. Godavitarne




                                                ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project objectives are: (a) to improve the quality of major water bodies, in particular
Chaoyang stream and Yongjiang in Nanning and Lijiang and its tributaries in Guilin; (b)
to regulate the flow of the Lijiang; (c) to improve institutional and financial capacity for
environmental protection, environmental services and water resource management; (d) to
pilot a participatory approach to environmental improvement in poor neighborhoods; and
(e) to implement pilot schemes for control of sugar refinery pollution.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target   Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from     Revised       Achieved at
                                               approval       Target      Completion or
                                              documents)      Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Improvement of sewerage and drainage management in Nanning.
                                          Chaoyangxi and

Value           These are available in theYongjiang in

quantitative or project files for each    Nanning should

Qualitative)    component.                attain or maintain
                                          Class V and Class
                                          III respectively.
Date achieved 10/31/1998                  12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Improvement of sewerage and drainage management in Guilin.

Value           These are available in theLijiang River in

quantitative or project files for each    Guilin should

Qualitative)    component.                maintain Class II
                                          water quality.
Date achieved 10/31/1998                  12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Sugar refinery pollution control.
                                          Implementation of
                                          the component
Value           Available in the project  will ultimately
quantitative or                           translate into
Qualitative)    files.                    better water
                                          quality for major
                                          rivers in the



                                               iii

                                           region.
Date achieved 10/31/1998                   12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   EPB strengthening.
                                           Improvement of
                                           monitoring
                                           capacity, as

Value                                      regards frequency

quantitative or Available in the project   and variables

Qualitative)    files.                     analyzed,
                                           improved reactions
                                           times for response
                                           to accidents and
                                           complaints.
Date achieved 10/31/1998                   12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :   Small area improvement.
                                           About 100,000
                                           people who are
                                           current residents
                                           with incomes
Value           These are available in the below the city
quantitative or project files for each     average will
Qualitative)    component.                 benefit from this
                                           component to have
                                           improved
                                           environmental
                                           service.
Date achieved 10/31/1998                   12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :   Solid waste management in Guilin
                                           400 ton/day

Value                                      capacity landfill

quantitative or These are available in the has been realized

Qualitative)    project files.             and 800 ton/day
                                           transfer capacity
                                           will be realized.
Date achieved 10/31/1998                   12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :   Institutional development for sewerage companies in Nanning and Guilin.
Value           These are available in the The companies


                                                iv

quantitative or project files for each   should
Qualitative)    component.               demonstrate
                                         attributes of
                                         financial viability
                                         and have a
                                         continuous
                                         availability of
                                         funds for
                                         reinvestment.
Date achieved 10/31/1998                 12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from                      Achieved at
                                              approval         Revised       Completion or
                                             documents)     Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Length of the sewer constructed in Nanning and Guilin
Value                                    Data to be sought
(quantitative   0                        during ICR
or Qualitative)                          preparation.
Date achieved 10/31/1997                 12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Length of sewers cleaned and repaired every year (km/annually)
Value
(quantitative   NA                       160 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/31/1997                 12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Jiangnan WWTP, voluume of sewage treated (000 m3/day)
Value
(quantitative   0                        240,000m3/day
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/31/1997                 12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                               v

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                      Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                     IP              Disbursements
                                                                  (USD millions)
 1    08/12/1998        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   0.00
 2    02/03/1999        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   3.50
 3    09/20/1999        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   3.95
 4    03/31/2000        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   4.07
 5    09/20/2000        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   4.82
 6    03/30/2001        Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory                  7.68
 7    12/17/2001        Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory                10.58
 8    06/24/2002        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 12.05
 9    12/19/2002        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 14.91
10    03/26/2003        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 14.91
11    10/08/2003        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 19.45
12    03/31/2004        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 21.12
13    11/23/2004        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 23.94
14    06/21/2005        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 27.57
15    01/19/2006        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 39.69
16    12/28/2006        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 56.54



H. Restructuring (if any)

                           ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed at   Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                  Restructuring
              PDO Change                                   Key Changes Made
                             DO     IP     in USD
                                           millions
  05/24/2005                  S     S         27.57




                                        vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design


1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)


Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region was one of the poorest areas in Western China, due in large
part to the infertile, yet picturesque karst hills, low levels of education and infrastructure, and
restrictions that were imposed on the Region due to frontier issues with Vietnam. Key sector
issues addressed in the project are:

Environment and Water Quality. Water pollution was a serious problem in both Nanning (the
capital city) and Guilin (a premier tourist city). Nanning had no wastewater treatment facility;
untreated domestic and industrial wastewater discharged to the Yongjiang, frequently interrupted
Nanning's drinking water supply. Water quality in Nanning's Chaoyang Stream (worse than Class
V1), and the Yongjiang (in danger of falling to Class IV to V), posed serious public health
problems, constrained social and economic development of the city and its role, in recent years, as
the gateway town for developments associated with the China-East Asian cooperation initiative
(ASEAN). In Guilin, the deteriorating water quality and inadequate water depth in the Lijiang and
the Three Lakes (in the city), had serious impacts on Guilin's environment and its growing tourism
industry. Discharge of sewage to tributaries of the Lijiang (Xiaodongjiang and the Taohuajiang)
and the Lakes degraded them to worse than Class V standard during the dry season. Although
Guilin had installed wastewater treatment facilities, there were little investments in wastewater
collection.

Infrastructure in Low-Income Neighborhoods. Environmental conditions in urban pockets in both
Nanning and Guilin continued to deteriorate, due to poor and/or badly maintained infrastructure.
Due to inadequate storm drainage, flooding was a regular feature in these areas. Housing was
poorly maintained and informal extensions encroached into the road space. Due to the high cost of
re-development and the associated social disruption, some areas remained neglected, which led to
unsafe and unsanitary living conditions for the urban poor, in addition to the areas being
economically depressed.

River Flow Regulation. The insufficient depth of water in the Lijiang and the city's Three Lakes
during the dry season impacted on the functioning of long-distance cruise ships and the smaller
tour boats that operated in the Lijiang and the Three Lakes, respectively. Regulating the flow in the
Lijiang was not possible due to fragmented responsibilities for water resources management,
which interrupted regular operation of tourist cruise vessels, especially during the dry months.

Industrial Pollution Control. At the time of project approval, the most important industrial sector
in Guangxi was food processing, which produced heavy pollution loads per unit of output. Sugar
refineries produced a tenth of the industrial output, and 72% of the wastewater pollution load.
Guilin Municipality GM) had already taken action to relocate and/or close all polluting industries
while Nanning had drafted a plan to control industrial pollution, but, needed more data to firm up

1An explanatory note on water quality classification, water quality parameters and designated uses is provided in Annex 1.



                                                        - 1 -

priorities for different levels of intervention.

Institutional Arrangements. Guilin had a wastewater company before the Project, but it was being
operated as a government department. Nanning's rudimentary wastewater facilities were operated
by a government department. Wastewater service providers did not own all their assets or receive
the proceeds of wastewater charges, and depended instead on government budget allocations.
Thus, the sector was not managed along commercial lines.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project development objective was to improve the urban environment of Nanning and Guilin to
facilitate sustainable economic growth and poverty alleviation in the Region.

Specific objectives were to: (a) improve the quality of major water bodies, in particular Chaoyang Stream
and the Yongjiang in Nanning, and the Lijiang and its tributaries in Guilin; (b) regulate the flow of the
Lijiang; (c) improve institutional and financial capacity for environmental protection, environmental
services and water resource management; (d) pilot a participatory approach to environmental
improvement in poor neighborhoods; and (e) implement pilot schemes for control of sugar refinery
pollution.

Primary performance indicators were to: (i) maintain water quality of the Yongjiang (Nanning) at Class
III, and Lijiang (Guilin) at Class II; (ii) improve water quality of the Chaoyang Stream (Nanning) and the
Three Lakes (Guilin) to Class V and Class III, respectively; and (iii) regulate flow in the Lijiang to reach
and maintain a flow of 35 m3/sec, and a water depth of at least 2.5 m in the Three Lakes. The SAR also
described detailed output indicators for each component.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification
Project development objectives and key indicators remained unchanged during the project period. Minor
changes to the key indicators for the Nanning components were agreed between Nanning Municipality
(NM) and the Bank.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries (original and revised)


Original Beneficiaries. The original beneficiaries were the Guangxi Autonomous Region (GAR), Nanning
Municipality (NM), Guilin Municipality (GM) and Guilin Prefecture (GP), including three towns
(Yangshou, Xingping and Baisha) in Yangshou County in Guilin. About 1.6 million residents in the
project cities were estimated to benefit directly from the environmental improvements, including about
110,000 people in the pilot initiative to improve poor urban neighborhoods under the small area
improvements (SAI).

Revised Beneficiaries. Beneficiaries remained the same except that Yangshou town and Xingping town
dropped out of the project. Beneficiaries under the SAI increased to about 180,000 (140,000 and 40,000
in Nanning and Guilin, respectively).




                                              - 2 -

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
Project components, summarized below, were designed to: (a) improve the living environment, improve
river water quality, and build sustainable institutions in Nanning and Guilin; and (b) support sustainable
tourism development in Guilin. A detailed description of the project components is provided in the SAR.

   Sewerage and Drainage in Nanning (US$79.88 million ­ 47% of total project cost): interception of
   wastewater discharging to the Yongjiang and the Chaoyang Stream; expansion of the sewer and
   drainage networks; construction of a 180,000 m3/d sewage treatment plant (STP); improvement in
   septic tank management; and strengthening water quality monitoring;

    Sewerage and Solid Waste Management in Guilin (US$45.70 million ­ 27% of total project cost):
   interception and collection of wastewater in the city (including the Three Lakes) and suburban towns;
   construction of STPs in Xicheng and Beichong, and suburban towns of Yangshou, Xingping and
   Baisha; construction of a 400 tons/d solid waste landfill and 800 tons/d transfer station, including solid
   provision of waste collection and transfer vehicles; and strengthening water quality monitoring;

   Small Area Improvement (US$9.21 million ­ 5% of total project cost): improvement of basic
   infrastructure in low-income neighborhoods targeting about 110,000 people in up to 30 areas in
   Nanning and Guilin, with community participation in planning and cost sharing of up to 40% to 50%
   of costs;

   Lijiang Flow Regulation (US$23.09 million ­ 14% of total project cost): dredging of the Three
   Lakes; lining and extending 26 km of a canal from the Wulixia Reservoir to the Lijiang, including a
   hydro-power plant (2*0.5 MW capacity) en route; forestation of about 2,000 hectares in the Wulixia
   catchment and along the Lijiang; and construction and repair of about 28 km of embankments along
   the Lijiang;

   Sugar Refinery Pollution Abatement (US$4.99 million ­ 3% of total project cost): provision of a
   sub-loan facility to finance treatment of highly polluting wastewater (stillage) in two sugar refineries,
   as a pilot;

   Institutional Development (US$6.44 million ­ 4% of total project cost): capacity building for
   wastewater management, water quality monitoring; and support to develop the Lijiang Water
   Resources Management Commission.

1.6 Revised Components
The following revisions and additional works were included to meet planning requirements and to use
cost savings:

   (i) Sewerage and Drainage in Nanning.
       (a) based on SEPA directions, the wastewater treatment standard was increased from primary to
       secondary treatment;
       (b) the capacity of the sewage treatment plant (STP) was increased from 180,000 m3/d to 240,000
       m3/d to accommodate larger flows;
       (c) the capacity of the storm water pumping station at Dakengkou was increased from 12 m3/sec to
       24 m3/sec, to cater for a 50-year return flood, and without the facility for reverse pumping to


                                            - 3 -

        refresh the Chaoyang Stream;
        (d) a separate pumping station was constructed with local funding to refresh the Chaoyang Stream;
        (e) secondary and tertiary sewer networks were increased by about 41 km utilizing loan savings;
        and,
        (f) the information system for septic tank management in Nanning was deleted as the
        responsibility was transferred to another government agency.

   (ii) Sewerage and Solid Waste Management in Guilin:
        (a) the Xicheng STP (30,000 m3/d) was constructed under a BOT contract instead of under the
        project; and (b) sewerage investments in Yangshou and Xingping towns were constructed using
        State bonds; only one oxidation pond of 2,500 m3/d capacity was built in Baisha town.

   (iii)Small Area Improvement. The number of improved areas was increased to 27 sites and
       4 sites in Nanning and Guilin respectively, covering about 180,000 people.

   (iv)Lijiang Flow Regulation. An additional diversion channel was constructed from the Lijiang to
        provide water to farmers and villages en route, in response to local demands; and only one 0.8
        megawatt hydro power plant was constructed instead of two 0.5 megawatt plants earlier planned.

   (v) Sugar Refinery Pollution Abatement. Two pilots were constructed to treat stillage at two small
        sugar refineries, but replication did not take place due to the consolidation of small refineries.

1.7 Other significant changes
Other significant changes were:

   (a) the merging of the Guilin Prefecture with the Guilin Municipality (GM) in 1999, which facilitated,
   to some degree the management of water uses in the Lijiang;

   (b) change in the Dollar-Yuan exchange rate from 8.30 at appraisal to 7.20 at loan closure, increased
   the demand for counterpart funds, which was compensated by increasing disbursements for civil
   works;

   (c) the deletion of the planned reverse flow feature of the Dakengkou pumping station, and
   construction of a separate pump station to refresh the Chaoyang Stream; and

   (d) project restructuring in October 2004 to accommodate: (i) cost savings of about 31% that arose due
   to over-estimation of costs, financing some project elements using national bonds (Guilin), and
   improved procurement efficiency, which were used partly to finance additional wastewater
   investments; (ii) loan cancellations amounting to US$11.9 million; and (iii) increase in the civil works
   disbursement percentage to 75 %; and

   (e) additional cancellations of US$0.23 million of the loan and SDR0.42 million (US$0.56 million
   equivalent) of the credit at loan closure.




                                              - 4 -

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project Design. The Project correctly addressed the key environmental and tourism-related economic
issues facing the Region, and Nanning and Guilin. Project design incorporated international best practice
in utility management, and a high degree of attention to project design and results. Investments conformed
to the sewerage master plans (for Nanning and Guilin), and water resources management and urban
development plans for Guilin.

In order to promote sectoral reform, a condition for project appraisal was the establishment of a new
sewerage company in Nanning, and operation of the existing GSC as a commercial enterprise with a
business license. The standard cost recovery covenant (of not less than 1.0) was stipulated for both NSC
and GSC. In a significant positive departure from the prevailing regional practice at the time, the legal
agreements defined the total operating revenue as revenues from all sources related to operations,
designed to achieve financial autonomy without subsidies from government

Industrial Pollution Control. The task team recognized that reduction of industrial pollution was essential
to achieve water quality objectives. Yet, the scale of the problem could not be tackled at the project level,
except for a pilot to demonstrate pollution reduction in sugar refineries, which were heavy polluters.
However, it was agreed that Nanning would implement an industrial pollution reduction plan in parallel
with the Project, to bring 33 worst polluting industries into compliance with discharge standards. The plan
also envisaged increases in the frequency and number of industries to be monitored.

Adequacy of Participatory Processes. The Small Area Improvement (SAI) component was a pioneering
initiative in China, which introduced community participation in planning, cost-sharing, and community
infrastructure management. The use of social workers to enhance participation and consultation
contributed to the success and popularity of the program. A participatory process involving affected
people and other stakeholders was also used to prepare Resettlement Action Plans (RAP) and
Environment Management Plans, in conformity with the requirements of the World Bank and
Government policies and procedures.

Risks and Mitigation Measures Identified at Appraisal. Risks identified included:
  · Adequacy of counterpart, and operating funds: annual financing burden on local governments
    confirmed as sufficient and affordable to accommodate infrastructure investments in each locality; and
    a covenant on financial self sufficiency of wastewater companies was incorporated in the legal
    agreements;
  · Institutional capacity to manage increased sewerage facilities: the project included technical
    assistance for institutional and financial strengthening and training;
  · Project benefit of improved water quality limited largely to pollution from municipal wastewater:
    assurances obtained from the Guangxi Government and NM that they will implement pollution control
    plans as an integral part of the project;
  · Two cities could curtail funding for sewerage and pollution control: economic growth projections for
    both cities, and tourism in the case of Guilin, appeared to be good, based on the past and projected
    growth, and environmental improvements were expected to continue;
  · Uncertain level of beneficiary participation to assure success in the Small Area Improvement


                                             - 5 -

    component: initial subprojects implemented were to be monitored, evaluated, modified, and expanded
    based on implementation experience; and
  · Lijiang water regulation may not be possible in the dry season due to natural and management
    reasons. The project addressed this issue through the proposal to create the Lijiang Water Commission
    to manage water resources in the Lijiang basin.

Quality at Entry. Quality at Entry was satisfactory. In addition to the points above, the project design: (i)
was correct to be cautious not to create excess capacities in the Nanning STP and the Guilin solid waste
transfer station because reliable data on wastewater and solid waste generation were not available at
appraisal; (ii) incorporated the industrial pollution reduction plan for Nanning and a pilot for the sugar
refineries; and (iii) introduced institutional reforms in the wastewater sector. Project design should have
foreseen, however, the demand for water by villages along the Lijiang diversion channel diverting water
to the Three Lakes, and the challenges to: create a full-fledged water resources management commission
for the Lijiang basin; or make any dent in the sugar industry pollution reduction with a small pilot. The
project included technical assistance to support institutional strengthening and training, but not for design,
project management and construction supervision, which were routinely included in the China projects.
The lack of this support impacted on the already weak capacity of implementing agencies; also noted in
the Borrower's ICR.

2.2 Implementation

Major factors that affected implementation were: the weak and ineffective project management in the first
three years, until progress improved significantly in 2002/2003 under new management, and a change in
the parent coordinating agency in Guilin; the preoccupation in Guilin with a much larger infrastructure
improvement program supported by the central government, which also created a shortage of counterpart
funding, especially for the Xicheng and Wulixia subprojects; inclusion of additional works to utilize loan
savings, requiring additional time for completion; the SARS and bird flu epidemics, and heavy floods in
2001 and 2006, which resulted in a delay of more than 6 months; protracted discussions with the Bank on
the optimum size of the Jiangnan STP, treatment standard, and the appropriate contracting procedure for
the STP and the Dakengkou pumping station (i.e., turnkey or other), which accounted for about a two-
year delay to complete the Nanning STP; time-consuming domestic approval procedures for ICB
contracts; the long delays in detailed design preparation, particularly for the Nanning STP; complexity of
resettlement, especially for the Chaoyang Stream works; and inadequate government support in Guilin for
cost recovery for wastewater services, resulting in non-compliance of the projects' financial covenants by
GSC. All original components and some additional works were completed for less than the total cost
estimated at appraisal, using only 85% of the Bank financing.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Detailed outputs and outcomes set out in the SAR for each component were monitored closely by the
Project Management Offices and the respective Environmental Protection Bureaus (EPB). The SAR
contained very detailed indicators for each component, which proved to be too complex for the available
institutional capacity, especially during the initial years. This resulted in the monitoring of key indicators,
primarily, by the Environmental Protection Bureaus (EPB). The performance indicators were captured in
the quarterly progress reports that collated data from the implementing agencies and the EPBs. A Quality
of Supervision Assessment was also carried by QAG. In addition, Bank supervision teams carried out
their own monitoring and evaluations and reported the relevant issues in the implementation status reports


                                              - 6 -

(ISR). The above M &E arrangements helped to identify and address issues of implementation, and take
corrective actions as necessary. Much of the excellent water quality data in Annex 1 was supplied by the
EPBs at the city and regional levels.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Social Safeguard Issues. Resettlement action plans were prepared and implemented in conformity with
Bank and Government policies, in consultation with the affected people. Resettlement assessments show
that implementation was completed successfully and that livelihoods and standards of living of affected
persons have improved. A total of 1,450 persons were displaced for the works in Nanning and Guilin. The
largest resettlement for the Chaoyang Stream works (940 persons) was handled satisfactorily, for which
Nanning received a national award for model resettlement. (see Annex 6 for more details)

Environmental Issues. The project was assigned as Category A. The EA and EMP were prepared
according to national policies and regulations and the Bank safeguard policies. The EMP was
implemented satisfactorily during project implementation. An additional EA was prepared when the
capacity of the Nanning STP was expanded.

Financial Management. Appropriate financial management arrangements were put in place to ensure
proper use and accounting of project funds. Financial management was carried out satisfactorily, and no
significant issues arose during implementation.

Procurement. Procurement activities were done in accordance with Bank procurement procedures, and
adequate measures to strengthen capacity for procurement administration were incorporated in the Project.
Procurement performance improved significantly after the initial years, and familiarization with the new
procedures. However, there were a few cases where the Bank declined to finance contracts because: the
design was not approved; or quantities were in excess of those estimated at appraisal; or estimates for
contract variations used `norm' rates; or the method of contracting was not approved by the Bank.

Disbursement. Standard disbursement procedures and arrangements were incorporated in the project.
Equipment rental was financed for works under the Small Area Improvement component. However, there
was no provision for equipment rental in the loan agreements. This oversight was discovered only after
the loan closing date, so no amendment was made. Instead, overdrawing the relevant disbursement
category was authorized through a waiver given by the Loan Department.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/ Phase

Agencies that owned assets constructed under the project, have been organized with adequate staffing and
budget to cover operation and maintenance expenditures. NSC and GSC have established systems, staff
and budgets to meet all operating requirements. The one exception was the Nanning Water Resources
Bureau which did not have adequate funding to operate the pump station to refresh the Chaoyang Stream.
The ICR mission received assurances from the Nanning Municipal Government that this matter would be
addressed as a priority. NSC and GSC would continue to use the financial systems and monitoring
procedures developed during the project using some of the key performance indicators. It would be
appropriate for the Bank to follow up on the above matters, especially in the NSC and GSC during the
proposed Bank's follow-on sewerage project.



                                            - 7 -

The operational performance system developed for the Langdong STP, which was awarded "Class A
Qualification for Operation of Environmental Protection Facilities", will also be adopted for operation of
the Jiangnan STP.

Future plans of the government and utility companies are as follows: (i) NSC: expansion of the treatment
capacity by another 240,000 m3/d (Jiangnan II); construction of the sludge digesters deferred under the
Project, development of a sludge management plan, and access to market finance (in the stock exchange)
by Nanning Water Services Group, the holding company of NSC; (ii) NMG: resolution of the budgetary
constraint that limited the pumping of clean water to maintain flow and water quality in the lower part of
Chaoyang Stream; (iii) GSC: continuation of investments to intercept wastewater entering water bodies
and expand the sewer network; and generation of adequate operating revenues from tariffs, subject to
approval of the Municipal Government; (iv) Guilin Solid Waste Management: construction of the second
phase of the solid waste landfill by about 2010, at a different location due to difficulties in land
acquisition and/or objections from the local government, thereby forgoing projected economies of its
construction adjacent to the original landfill, as planned originally; (v) Nanning and Guilin: continuation
of the participatory Small Area Improvement program under the title of `Small Streets Development
Program' in areas not earmarked for redevelopment in the urban development master plans; and (vi)
Guangxi Autonomous Region: explore ways to replicate the experience gained in the sugar refinery pilot
initiative undertaken under the Project.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: Satisfactory

The two objectives of arresting deterioration in the level of pollution in the Region, and maintaining the
relatively better water quality in the river systems to promote sustainable economic development of the
two key cities of Nanning and Guilin, were highly appropriate to maintain the competitiveness of the two
cities and sustain growth. Improved water quality, and water depth in the river systems were crucial for
sustainable tourism and economic development in Guilin. Coordinated development of wastewater
treatment and collection assured capacity utilization and pollution reduction. Reviving poor
neighborhoods using a participatory development approach, with communities sharing costs to generate
economic opportunities, helping reduce poverty, and providing an alternative to total redevelopment
avoiding significant social costs, was a commendable innovation. Definition of revenue of sewerage
companies as income from operations only, was a significant positive step towards promoting real
sustainability of wastewater services. The pilot intervention to reduce sugar industry pollution addressed
the largest polluting industry through demonstrating options for wastewater treatment. Incorporation of an
industry pollution reduction program in Nanning complemented project investments in municipal
wastewater collection and treatment. Some project design aspects such as the capacity of the Nanning
wastewater treatment plant and the Guilin solid waste management were not finalized at appraisal because
weaknesses in the feasibility studies, and lack of agreement on wastewater and solid waste projections. Project
design also addressed water resources management in the Lijiang basin through a proposal to create a broad-
based water resources management commission, which proved to be an ambitious objective. The Project did not
include technical assistance for detailed design and construction supervision, which was standard in China projects.
Project implementation took three years longer than anticipated at appraisal. The overall project development
objectives and specific objectives were relevant, and very appropriate to address the environmental issues
facing the two key cities and the Region.

                                                - 8 -

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Satisfactory

(a) Water Quality Improvement. Water quality improvements were achieved: in Nanning: Chaoyang
Stream improved to Class IV (compared to the target of Class V); the Yongjiang maintained at Class III;
and in Guilin: the Lijiang maintained at Class II; and Taohuajiang, Xiadongjiang and the Three Lakes
improved to Class III. Thus, water quality objectives set out in the SAR were fully achieved as projected,
and the outcome is rated highly satisfactory. Water quality improvements are illustrated in Annex 1.

(b) Lijiang Flow Regulation. Flow in the Lijiang was increased and maintained at 35 m3/sec in the dry
season, and a water depth of 2.5 meters was restored in the Three Lakes, enabling all tourist boat traffic to
operate without interruption. This outcome is rated highly satisfactory.

(c) Wastewater and Solid Waste Management. Wastewater treatment rates of about 67% (440,000 m3/d)
and 81% (228,500 m3/d) were achieved in Nanning and Guilin, respectively, thereby improving pollution
reduction and water quality, and contributing to improved public health. Over 90% of solid waste
generated in Guilin (about 500 tons/day) was collected and disposed in a satisfactory manner, thereby
reducing pollution of land and water from this source. The outcome is highly satisfactory.

(d) Small Area Improvement. The component was singularly successful in: improving the environment
in the poor, under-serviced neighborhoods; reviving neighborhoods; increasing incomes and property rentals,
and supporting economic regeneration of the areas, thereby contributing to poverty reduction; and introducing a
participatory development approach that demonstrated the willingness and feasibility of mobilizing
communities to actively participate in the development of their neighborhoods, with cost sharing. This
approach was an alternative to wholesale redevelopment without large expenditure and dislocation of
communities. Importantly, the component influenced government policy leading to the adoption of this
approach in many more areas in both Nanning and Guilin (called the `Small Streets Program'). The use of
social workers to work with communities to enhance the level of participation and consultation, and the
design of subprojects to meet local needs, was a great success. The environmental improvements have
contributed significantly to economic revival and regeneration of the neighborhoods. The achievement is
rated highly satisfactory.

(f) Sugar Industry Pollution Abatement. The successfully implemented pilots demonstrated options for
reducing pollution at sugar refineries, but their replication across the GAR has been difficult because of
moves in China to consolidate smaller sugar refineries. Therefore, the intended outcome could not be realized.

(g) Industry Pollution Reduction. Pollution reduction from industry and water quality improvements
were achieved through the successful implementation of the Nanning industry pollution reduction plan,
targeting over 240 industries, including the 33 worst polluters identified at project appraisal, contributing
to reducing the total pollution load that was discharged to water bodies before the project. This outcome
is rated highly satisfactory.

(h) Institutional Development. Significant progress was made towards strengthening the sewerage
companies. At the end of the project, they were well-managed, enjoyed a substantial degree of autonomy,
with control of revenue, ownership of assets, and substantial cost recovery, thereby contributing to
improving sustainability of the sector. Nanning Sewerage Company (NSC) was in compliance with the


                                             - 9 -

financial covenants throughout the Project and is fully autonomous; Guilin Sewerage Company (GSC)
required government subsidies to meet a portion of its financing costs. The institutional development
objective was partially achieved.

(i) Water Resources Management. The Guilin Municipal Government established the Office for
Integrated Construction and Management of the Lijiang Scenic Area, with responsibility for coordinating
the quantity and quality of water in the Lijiang during the dry season. Under this arrangement, the short-
term objective of coordinating water uses, maintaining the necessary flow in the Lijiang, and replenishing
the Three Lakes to maintain the minimum water depth required for boat traffic, was achieved. The longer-
term objective of comprehensive water resources management in the Lijiang basin was yet to be achieved
at Project closure.

Project investments in both Nanning and Guilin contributed significantly to the improvement of the urban
environment. They also helped Nanning to win an award as the national Livable City (Model City for
Excellence in Water and Environment Improvement) in 2006, and the UN Livable City in 2007. Nanning
was also cited by the World Bank as a model for other Chinese cities to follow, at the International Water
Association Conference held in Beijing in September 2006.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Satisfactory

Financial - The NSC is likely to generate financial rates of return above the costs of capital for the
sewerage component. The rate of return results from the fact that the project costs for the components was
effectively controlled. Current revenues of the GSC are inadequate to meet its total operating and
financing costs, and the company is still subsidized by the Guilin Municipality. GSC made annual tariff
increase recommendations to GM following preparation of financial projections. GM was constrained to
approve these tariff increases because of national directives that sought to contain inflationary pressures.
However, GSC plans to prepare and implement, with GM support, a program over the next three years to
achieve sustainability, in a phased manner. In order to continue to achieve and maintain financial
sustainability, both NSC and GSC will need to increase the wastewater tariffs in the next five years, as
indicated in the financial projections. Implementation of tariff increases depend largely on the National
Government's continuing policy guidelines promoting full cost recovery in wastewater services, and local
government's willingness to comply with the guidelines. Financial projections for NSC and GSC are
provided in Annex 5.

Economic - At appraisal, the economic benefits of the wastewater components were analyzed on the basis
of least costs. For the Guilin wastewater component, which included only networks, data was not readily
available and economic benefits were not quantified. Least cost options were selected by evaluating a
number of alternatives options, including: primary or secondary treatment; staged construction of
treatment capacity; utilization of existing treatment capacity rather than adding new capacity; alternative
locations for facilities and alignments of pipelines; operating costs, etc. The Small Area Improvement
component generated significant economic benefits through: improved environmental conditions and
urban regeneration, increased land values, higher rentals for commercial and residential properties, and
generally increased economic activity. A sample survey of the Jiangzheng SAI area in Nanning indicates that
per capita income increased from RMB831 in 1997 to RMB2.030 in 2006 (see Annex 5 for more details).

All planned physical outputs were achieved in Nanning; and most outputs planned in Guilin were also


                                             - 10 -

realized. In addition, significant additional investments were made, all within the original project cost
estimate. Thus, all anticipated economic benefits identified at appraisal, and more, were achieved for less.

Indirect economic benefits from the project include: (a) improved public health in the urban areas of
Nanning served by the project as a result of improved wastewater collection, treatment and disposal; (b)
increased land values in the central area of Nanning along and around the Chaoyang stream; (c)
permanent and temporary job creation on which normal economic multipliers can be applied; (d) potential
savings by industries now discharging through municipal sewers to centralized wastewater treatment
plants, rather than operate costly onsite treatment facilities; and (e) local health, quality of life,
employment generation, increased property values and rentals and other benefits from the regeneration of
low-income urban pockets under the Small Area Improvement component. The project provided a major
indirect economic benefit to Nanning and Guilin by facilitating the continued economic growth, urban
development, and tourism (in the case of Guilin) in an environmentally sustainable manner. Tourism
revenues in Guilin increased nearly threefold, from about US$0.39 billion in 1998 to US$1.1 billion in
2007, and it is very likely that the project improvements contributed in some measure to this success.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

The outcome rating is assessed as `satisfactory' in view of the: (a) the relevance of objectives, design and
implementation; full achievement of water quality objectives for the Yongjiang, Lijiang and its
tributaries, and the Three Lakes; flow regulation in the Lijiang and the Three Lakes that enabled
maintenance of the specified flow in the Lijiang and water depth in the Three Lakes; revitalization and
improvement of economic opportunities in low-income neighborhoods in both Nanning and Guilin,
which contributed to poverty reduction; and successful implementation by Nanning of the industry
pollution control plan that enabled improvement in the environment and development of the areas around
the Chaoyang Stream; and (b) achievement of full financial viability in NSC, and partial financial viability in
GSC, and short-term water resources management in the Lijiang basin, although the broader water
resources management objective for the Lijiang basin was not achieved.

The Borrower feels that the project outcomes merit a `highly satisfactory' rating in view of the many
successful outcomes of the project. Most of the outcomes were fully achieved, and a lot of credit is due to
NM, GM, NSC, GSC and other implementing agencies. However, the overall outcome rating of
`satisfactory' is justified because of the partial achievement of planned institutional developments.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

(i) The Small Area Improvement component was highly successful in mobilizing communities to
participate in the selection and implementation of neighborhood infrastructure in poor under-serviced
areas in the urban core and adjacent peripheral areas, using facilitators (NGOs) from social science
institutes and the neighborhood committees. The transformation in the environment has contributed
significantly to revive these neighborhoods economically, raise incomes and reduce poverty. This pilot
demonstrated the willingness and feasibility of mobilizing communities to actively participate in
development of their communities with cost sharing, and an alternative model for in situ improvement of
neighborhoods without wholesale redevelopment, avoiding large expenditure and no dislocation of

                                              - 11 -

communities.

(ii) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The Project introduced four important interventions with regard to institutional changes/strengthening of
wastewater companies through: enhancement of the degree of autonomy, direct control of all revenue
without passing through the Finance Bureaus, ownership of all assets, and improved financial
management systems and procedures, including enterprise accounting and financial planning capabilities.
One of the two utility companies (i.e., NSC) achieved and maintained financial viability throughout the
project period, and is highly likely to achieve sustainability in the short-term (see Annex 5). The financial
viability achieved by NSC, and the control of all revenue and ownership of all assets by both NSC and
GSC were commendable achievements, quite unusual for China.

(b) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

An unintended but highly positive outcome was the adoption and expansion of the pioneering
participatory development approach of the Small Area Improvement component, under the name "Small
Streets Improvement Program" in Nanning and Guilin in 300 and 100 areas, respectively, under the Small
Street Improvement Programs. Another unintended outcome was the supply of water to villages along the
Lijiang diversion canal following local demands and opposition to water diversion from the Lijiang to the
Three Lakes.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating : Low

The risks to development outcome are assessed as `low' due to the following factors:

(a) Maintaining Water Quality in the Chaoyang Stream. The dedicated pump station to refresh the
Stream did not work regularly in 2007 due to lack of adequate budget in the Nanning Water Resources
Bureau. Given Nanning's strong case to become a `green' city, NM has assured the Bank that arrangements
to provide a regular budget to cover the operating costs of the pump station will be addressed as a priority matter.
Given the public visibility of this operation, and the small costs involved, it is likely that the necessary budget will
provided, the risk is assessed as `moderate'.

(b) Financial Viability of NSC and GSC. NSC is financially viable at present, but tariffs are low in
Guilin, which has required subsidies. In an effort to contain inflation, GM has continued to provide
subsidies to GSC, with a plan to support GSC to achieve sustainability in phased manner. Due to the
importance of tourism to the economy (and hence the environment) of Guilin, GM will provide financial
support to GSC until its tariff is increased. In addition, both NM and GM have assured that they will
comply with the central government guideline for a minimum tariff of Y0.80/m3. Also both NM and GM
increased tariffs during project implementation at a faster rate than stated in the SAR. Thus, the risk to
achieving financial viability is assessed as `low' in both Nanning, and Guilin.




                                                - 12 -

(c) Water Quality in the Three Lakes. Guilin is continuing its program to intercept all wastewater
discharged to the Lakes, and no wastewater is now discharged directly to the Lakes. GM is unlikely to
risk any action that will harm the tourism industry. The risk is assessed as `low'.

(d) Industry Pollution Control. The regional government is continuing its industrial pollution reduction
program, plans to introduce mandatory online water quality monitoring in industries, and increase its
monitoring and enforcement of environmental regulations. In addition, both Nanning and Guilin have
ongoing industrial pollution reduction programs. Based on improvements made in industrial pollution
control over the past 10 years, the high priority now afforded by national government to the environment,
and arrangements already in place, the risk is assessed as `low'.

(e) Solid Waste Management. Guilin's solid waste disposal has transitioned from composting to a
sanitary landfill operation. The landfill constructed under the project will be full by about next year. The
construction of the second phase adjacent to the current site has suffered a setback due to opposition from
the local government. GM is in the process of finalizing acquisition of alternative land for construction of
the second landfill. The risk to maintaining the level of performance of the service is considered `low'.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating : Satisfactory

Project preparation was very comprehensive in conceptualization, attention to overall design and details,
implementation arrangements and definition of detailed performance indicators for each component. The
level of detail provided in the SAR is of a significantly higher quality than what is found in most SARs of
this vintage. The participatory development model in low-income neighborhoods was a pioneering
initiative. Long-term sustainability was addressed through interventions in institutional development,
financial management, capacity building, and pollution control. The task team was highly professional in
its pursuit of introducing new design concepts and utility management practices. The Guilin component
had many subcomponents, which was a challenge for the city to manage. Yet, most outputs were
substantially achieved by loan closure with a three-year extension, except for establishment of the
regional water commission for the Lijiang. Inclusion of technical assistance for detailed design and
project management would have complemented the relatively weak institutional capacity.

The Bank decision at appraisal, to finance only a 180,000 m3/d STP in Nanning, instead of 240,000 m3/d
was reasonable because wastewater projections were unreliable, the feasibility study was weak, the
collection network was not adequately developed, and the Bank had concerns about creating excess
treatment capacity. This conservative approach was appropriate because of the underutilization of
treatment capacity worldwide. The expectation to create a regional water commission based on the
relatively limited objective of maintaining minimum flow in the Lijiang was ambitious. The sugar
industry pollution pilot lacked sufficient leverage to make a significant impact.




                                            - 13 -

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The semi-annual supervision and comprehensive back-to-office reports facilitated project implementation
monitoring, and kept Bank management informed of the problems, especially when it was a problem
project from March to December 2001. Relations with the client were somewhat difficult in the early
years, because implementing agencies needed more convincing on improvements to detailed designs and
related technical matters. The transfer of task team leadership to an experienced national staff from the
Beijing office helped to resolve outstanding issues and improve relations with the client. This move by
Bank management was timely, and was well received by the implementing agencies. Delegation to the
Country Office of responsibilities for supervision of procurement, safeguard issues and financial
management also contributed to improved efficiency in these areas.

The task team specialists made significant contributions to: apprise implementing agencies on Bank
procedures, practices and requirements; assist and guide implementing agencies on advances in technical
design; maintain borrower's focus to comply with the project covenants; ensure sound financial
management, improve procurement performance, and introduce international utility management
practices. The task team took great pains to encourage good technical designs consistent with good
international practice, and also facilitated the introduction of the pipe-jacking technique to accelerate
pipe-laying. Against this achievement, the task team spent a great deal of time to reach agreement with
implementing agencies on matters such as the capacity of the Nanning STP, wastewater treatment
standards, and introduction of turnkey contracting, contributing to a two year delay. The issue of centrally
prescribed wastewater treatment standard should have been taken up with SEPA rather than with
Nanning. Some flexibility and willingness to compromise by the Bank would have facilitated completion
nearer to the original closing date.

Working proactively with the Borrower, the Bank provided extensions of the loan closing date totaling
three years. The Bank also processed the Borrower's request for use of loan savings, primarily to expand
wastewater facilities in the two cities, and to increase the disbursement percentage for civil works.

Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA) Results. QAG reviewed quality of supervision over 2003-
2004. Overall, supervision performance was found to be satisfactory. The task team was advised to: (i)
expedite decision to extend loan closing date to enable completion of all components; (ii) undertake a
quantitative assessment of the progress made in water quality of the Provinces' main water bodies, and
also in reference to the performance indicators in the SAR; (iii) use the findings to outline a strategy for
the Province to bring about further gains in environmental quality. The panel noted the need for
expeditious management follow-up after supervision missions; delays of 2-3 months occurred between
supervision missions and follow up letters.

Fiduciary Compliance
Rating: Satisfactory

Procurement. The Country Office procurement specialists maintained close overview of procurement, and


                                             - 14 -

were available to assist and clarify procurement-related issues to the implementing agencies. Post reviews
were carried out on a random basis. These oversight functions were carried out efficiently and
satisfactorily.

Financial Management. Financial management supervision and overview was done by the Country Office
FM staff. The FM Unit monitored submission of audit reports, and reviewed disbursements. These
oversight functions were carried out satisfactorily.

Safeguards Compliance
Rating: Satisfactory

Bank supervision missions ensured that project agencies followed the agreed resettlement action plans
(RAP) and the environmental management plan (EMP). In addition to the formal missions, the Bank's
Country Office staff conducted monitoring and supervision of safeguards implementation. Bank
performance in this area was carried out satisfactorily.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

(a) Quality at Entry. Project concepts and preparation were consistent with the CAS, and addressed the
key environmental issues of the Region and two key cities, as well as sustainability. The Project
introduced an innovative participatory approach to infrastructure provision, which contributed
significantly to economic regeneration of depressed neighborhoods, and introduced a viable alternative to
redevelopment, and contributed to poverty alleviation.
(b) Project Supervision. The quality and intensity of supervision kept the client focused on sound
engineering and utility practices, and on meeting the legal covenants. There were instances of Bank staff
micro managing implementation by the Bank, albeit in good faith, and included recommendations on
minute design details. Supervision missions continually focused attention on measures necessary to secure
the autonomy of the sewerage companies. Back-to-office reporting, bringing key implementation issues
Bank management was thorough. Bank management agreed with the task team's recommendation to
downgrade the project and accommodated legitimate delays in implementation by agreeing to extend the
loan closing date three times. The transfer of task management responsibility to a Country Office staff
helped accelerate implementation and develop a cordial working relationship.

5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Guangxi Region government provided the necessary leadership and commitment to the project
objectives. The municipal governments provided the necessary counterpart funds to facilitate project
implementation in a timely manner. GM made the necessary changes in project management
arrangements, transferring the overall responsibility from the EPB to the Development Reform
Commission (DRC) in 2003, following which project implementation improved significantly. Despite
weak project management, unfamiliarity with Bank requirements during the initial years, and time-


                                           - 15 -

consuming domestic approval procedures, all subprojects were completed satisfactorily, even though it
took three years longer than originally planned.

Compared to other Chinese cities, Nanning Municipality (NM) and Guilin Municipality (GM) supported
the greater degree of autonomy of wastewater companies by allowing wastewater companies to: retain all
revenue without passing through Finance Bureaus, own all sewerage assets, and implement tariff
increases. NM's support enabled NSC to comply with the financial covenants of the project. Few projects
in China can boast of these achievements. Despite GMs commitment to long-term sustainability, it
adopted a more gradual phasing of tariff increases to recover full costs because of its stronger financial
position. As a result, GSC did not comply with the project financial covenants throughout the Project.

The Guangxi Region and the Nanning Municipal Government implemented the agreed industrial pollution
reduction plan very successfully, by improving industry wastewater management, restructuring and/or
closing down of financially unviable enterprises, and relocating others. Guangxi Region, NM and GM
also strengthened their monitoring and enforcement capacity of their EPBs, covering a larger number of
industries. Overall, the Government performance is judged satisfactory.

Social Safeguards. The largest resettlement in Nanning was handled satisfactorily under the project, and
was recognized as a model of resettlement. Independent monitoring reveals that resettlement
implementation was completed successfully.

Environmental Management. An additional EA was prepared for the expanded capacity of the Nanning
STP. The EMP was implemented satisfactorily in the course of project implementation.

Financial Management. Audit requirements for the consolidated project accounts and accounts of NSC
and GSC were fully complied with.

Procurement. Procurement activities were conducted satisfactorily despite time required by implementing
agencies to become fully familiar with Bank procurement procedures. Ultimately, implementing agencies
recognized the efficiencies and cost savings that resulted from the use of Bank procurement procedures..

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency                                                  Performance

                 Highly Satisfactory. Design, construction, operation of facilities, and compliance with

NSC              financial covenants were highly satisfactory. With the formation of the larger water
                 group responsible for water supply and sewerage, the water sector is on the road to
                 greater autonomy.
                 Satisfactory. GSC has made good progress in intercepting and collecting wastewater

GSC              generated in the city, which has contributed to making Guilin a popular tourist resort. It
                 has continued to strengthen, and has built up a cadre of experienced staff and
                 management.
Guilin           Highly Satisfactory. Works relating to the Lijiang flow regulation, dredging of the Three
Municipality     Lakes, and highly successful landscaping (with own financing) were completed early in


                                           - 16 -

                 the project, contributing substantially to tourism development in Guilin.

Guangxi EPB      Satisfactory. Capacity for monitoring and enforcement were enhanced with project
                 technical assistance.

Nanning EPB      Satisfactory. Nanning enhanced its monitoring and enforcement capacity using project
                 technical assistance.

Guilin EPB       Satisfactory. Capacity for monitoring and enforcement was enhanced with project
                 technical assistance.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Guangxi Regional Government and the two municipal governments were committed to the project
objectives, and completed all the subprojects. GM made changes to project management arrangements to
rectify slow implementation progress. The Municipal Governments supported the strengthening of the
wastewater companies. All implementing agencies performed satisfactorily, including complying with the
Bank's requirements for safeguards, financial management and procurement.




                                           - 17 -

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)
(i) When planning water transmission for city uses through rural areas, engineers need to consider the
needs of local farmers and rural populations en route, to provide some benefits to them also. The
duplication of the Lijiang water diversion canal, providing water for rural populations and local farmers,
was ultimately necessary overcome their initial opposition..
(ii) Water quality improvements cannot succeed through collection and treatment of domestic wastewater
alone. Complementary industrial pollution reduction programs are necessary to achieve water quality
objectives.
(iii) Community participation in infrastructure planning, implementation and management is a viable and
socially acceptable alternative to redevelopment even in rapidly growing cities. The SAI component
demonstrated the feasibility of proactive community participation, cost sharing, empowerment and
poverty alleviation.
(iv) Significant benefits accrue to the Bank and to clients by including experienced national staff from the
Country Office in the task teams; borrowers are able to get quicker responses, and the language barrier is
reduced. The transfer of task manager responsibility to the national Country Office staff in 2002
significantly improved the dialogue with the Borrower, and facilitated the accelerated implementation of
the Project.
(v) Improvements are necessary in the Chinese practice of adopting short duration contracts (12-15
months) with no provision for price escalation, as contractors have experienced price fluctuations that
cannot be accommodated. In the absence of such provisions, contractors would be forced to compromise
on quality. The Country Procurement Unit needs to address this issue.
(vi) The time taken for approval of ICB equipment contracts is very long, and delays implementation.
This requirement affects all World Bank-financed projects in China, and ways need to be found to
improve this situation through policy dialogue with the central government.
(vii) Introduction of new contracting methods, such as turnkey contracting, should be done after model
bidding documents have been introduced, or after standard documents have been thoroughly discussed
and understood during project preparation.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower's Comments on the Bank ICR


The Borrower has stated that the Bank ICR rating of `satisfactory' for Achievement of Outcomes is
inaccurate and unfair in view of the achievements, rather the rating should be `highly satisfactory' for the
following reasons:

The Borrower believes that outcomes deserve a `highly satisfactory' rating because the following were
achieved: (i) target water quality objectives in Nanning and Guilin despite the increasing urban
population; (ii) improved wastewater collection and full utilization of the expanded wastewater treatment
plant with full secondary treatment standard (in Nanning); (iii) the water quality improvement in the
Chaoyang Stream to Class IV, leading to a significant economic regeneration of the whole area, increased
in property values, and initiatives by NM to address water quality in other water bodies; (iv) removal of
the environmental embarrassment of polluted and smelly water bodies in the tourist resort city of Guilin;
(v) the highly successful small area improvements using the participatory model, leading to its


                                            - 18 -

institutionalization in both NM and GM; (vi) effective control of industrial pollution in Nanning,
developing pilots for sugar industry pollution reduction and strengthening the capacity for environmental
monitoring; (vii) significant institutional reforms, especially in the utility companies; and (vii) greater
economic benefits at the same cost.

Responding to the above comments, the ICR was revised to indicate elements of the project where
achievement of outcomes is highly satisfactory. However, the Bank believes that an `satisfactory' rating
for overall achievement of outcomes is justified because: water quality in the Chaoyang Stream can be
achieved only with a regular budget allocation for operating the dedicated pump station to refresh the
Chaoyang Stream; despite assurances received from GM, wastewater tariffs in GSC are still not adequate
to meet the test of financial viability; and the broader institutional arrangement for the Lijiang basin water
resources management was only partially achieved.

(b) Bank Comments on the Borrower's ICR
The Borrower's ICR alludes to three issues that created difficulties with the Bank in the early years of
project implementation, especially in the Nanning sewerage component, that contributed to a delay of two
years in completion.

(i) The time taken for the Bank to review Borrower's reports to justify a larger capacity STP in Nanning is
considered excessive.
(ii) The Bank's judgment, following model studies, that primary treatment was adequate for the Nanning
STP was correct. Meanwhile SEPA had mandated full secondary treatment in all STPs discharging
effluent to specific water bodies, based on national pollution load reduction policies. As a phased
upgrading of treatment standard was not possible in the case of the Nanning STP, It was unrealistic and
futile for the Bank to engage the implementing agency in long discussions to fight a national
mandate on new treatment standards on which Nanning had no jurisdiction.
(iii) Bank involvement contributed to value addition in the introduction of new management and
procurement practices. Bank recommendation for use of a turnkey contract for the Nanning STP was
appropriate. However, turnkey contracting was new to China, and the lack of a Bank model document
compounded the challenges for NSC.

(c) Cofinanciers - Not Applicable

(d) Other partners and stakeholders - (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Not applicable




                                              - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators

A.      Project Outcome Indicators

1. Overall Water Quality in Rivers and Key Water Bodies

All the main water courses impacted under the project now meet their target water quality
classifications, as shown in Table 1.

Nanning. As illustrated in the following tables and graphic presentations, monitoring results
indicate that water quality in upstream of the Yongjiang has remained stable while the water
quality of Yongjiang River as a whole has not experienced major changes through these years
though pollution caused by its tributaries has been reduced, particularly after the significant
mitigation of pollution from 2002 onwards, initially through improved industrial pollution
control, and from 2006 wastewater interception and conveyance. The water quality of
Chaoyang Stream has been improved to meet Class IV standard for surface water through
cleaning up (i.e., dredging), wastewater interception, and water replenishment through a
dedicated clean water pumping station (operated from 2007). These outcomes have been
achieved in the context of Nanning's rapidly expanding urban population and economic
growth over the project period.

Guilin. Water quality of the Lijiang has been maintained at Class II even in the dry season,
and water quality in the tributaries has improved with the project interventions. Water quality
in the Three Lakes also improved to Class III. Adequate flow in the Lijiang, and water depth
in the Three Lakes were achieved enabling the operation of tourist boat traffic without
interruption during low flow periods.

                   Table 1. Summary Water Quality Outcome Indicators*

Water Body                                   Water Quality Classification
                   Target    `96    `97   `98   `99 `00    `01     `02   `03 `04  `05  `06   `07
Nanning
Yongjiang            III    III-IV              III  III           III       III        III   III
Chaoyang              V      >V                 >V  >V             >V        >V        >V     IV
Stream
Guilin
Lijiang               II      III    II   II    II   II     II     II    II  II   II    II    II
Three Lakes          III    III-IV                                           III              III
(Gui, Rong &
Sha)
    Lijiang Tributaries
Taohuajiang          IV       II     II   III   II   III   III     II    III III  III   III   III
Xiaodong R                   >V                      III                                      III
Nanxi R                      >V                     >V                                        V
Ningyaun R                   >V                      IV                                      n/a

*See Attachment to this Annex for an explanatory note on water quality classifications, water
quality parameters and designated uses.

2. Water Quality Parameters for the Yongjiang (Nanning)


                                             - 20 -

2.1     Yongjiang Dry Season Flows

Figure 1 below indicates the dry season flow in the Yongjiang (in March). With the exception
of 1996, a 10 year history of water flow of the Yongjiang in dry seasons has remained
relatively stable, averaging about 250 m3/s.In exceptional years, flows reduced to 40% of the
average during the severe winter drought (1999) and the unseasonal early rainfall in 1996.
The vulnerability of the Yongjiang to pollution from the urban area increased under low flow
conditions, and especially so during periods of severe winter drought. The figure illustrates
that there is no trend of adverse vulnerability to pollution as a result of reduced dry season
flows.

Figure 1 below indicates the dry season flow in the Yongjiang (in March)


              Fig.2 March River Flow Changes of Yongjiang River (1996~2004)
        1600



        1400



        1200



        1000
       s
      
     3   800
      m

         600



         400



         200



           0

           1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007                Yr




2.2 Yongjiang Dissolved Oxygen (DO) Levels

As illustrated in Figure 2, DO levels are highest upstream of the urban area of Nanning and
deteriorate progressively as the river flows through the urban area. DO levels at all urban
locations show an improving trend despite there being no improvement in the upstream level.
The impact of Jiangnan STP, which was commissioned in late 2007 will be seen at the
Shutian and Pumiao monitoring points in due course. Locations of monitoring points are:
Laokou - upstream of the main urban area; Dakengkou-in the urban area at the confluence of
Chaoyang stream; Shutian River-immediately downstream of the main urban area and the
outlet of Jiangnan STP; and Pumiao-approx 12 km downstream of the urban area.




                                             - 21 -

                    Figure 2. Changes of Dissolved Oxygen in Yongjiang
                            River during Dry Seasons (1996~2007)


                10
                 9
                 8
                 7
                                                                         Laokou
                 6
            /L                                                           Dakengkou
                 5
              mg                                                         Shuitang River
                 4
                                                                         Pumiao
                 3
                 2
                 1
                 0

                   96  97  98  99  00  01   02  03   04  05  06  07
                 19  19  19  19  20  20   20  20   20  20  20  20
                                         Year




2.3 Yongjiang Permanganate Index


The permanganate index is a measure of organic pollution in the river and therefore closely
associated with pollution from industrial sources. Figure 3 shows a trend of improvement in
the index at all locations. The erratic levels of the index at Dakengkou up to 2001 (at the
confluence of the Chaoyang Stream and the Yongjiang) are attributed to industrial discharges
into Chaoyang stream, which were effectively brought under control in late 2001.




                                             - 22 -

           Figure 3. Changes of Permanganate Index in Yongjiang River during
                                   Dry Seasons (1996~2007)


         30


         25


         20                                                                      Laokou

     /L                                                                          Dakengkou
         15
       mg                                                                        Shuitang River

         10                                                                      Pumiao


          5


          0
           1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007

                                        Year




3. Water Quality Parameters for the Chaoyang Stream


Figure 4 shows the trend of BOD changes in the Chaoyang Stream during the period 1997-
2006. January 2008 water quality data indicates that the Chaoyang Stream, with regular
refreshing form the Yongjiang, meets Class IV standard. Recorded levels of parameters are:
DO- 7.0mg/l, COD- 10mg/l, ammonia nitrogen- 1.11mg/l and BOD5- 2mg/l. The figure
shows that the quality of the stream has been substantially and progressively improved since
1997, resulting from dredging, wastewater interception and improved industrial pollution
control.




                                           - 23 -

                Figure 4. Change of BOD in Chaoyang Stream (1997-2006)


         600


         500


         400
                                                                                Xiping Bridge
     /L  300                                                                    Nanmian Bridge
       mg
                                                                                Chaoyang Stream
         200


         100


          0

              96  97   98   99    00   01   02   03  04   05   06   07
            19  19   19   19    20   20   20   20  20   20   20   20
                                         Year




4. Water Quality Parameters for the Lijiang, Taohuajiang Tributary and the Three
Lakes (Guilin)


Figures 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 illustrate the annual changes in water quality parameters for the
Lijiang (1996- 2007) for dissolved oxygen (DO), COD and BOD in the Lijiang, the
Taohuajiang Tributary and the Three Lakes (Rong, Gui and Sha), respectively.




                                             - 24 -

               Figure 5. Lijiang Water Quality Parameters (1997~2007)


        9.0

        8.0

        7.0

        6.0
                                                                         DO
/L      5.0
                                                                         CODmn
  mg    4.0                                                              BOD5
        3.0

        2.0

        1.0

        0.0
           1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007

                                       Year




            Figure 6. Taohuajiang Water Quality Parameters (1996-2007


        8.0

        7.0

        6.0

        5.0
                                                                         DO
    /L
        4.0                                                              CODmn
      mg
        3.0                                                              BOD5


        2.0

        1.0

        0.0
           1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007

                                       Year




                                      - 25 -

             Figure 7. Rong Lake Water Quality Parameters (1996~2007)


        10.0

         9.0

         8.0

         7.0

         6.0                                                           DO
/L
         5.0                                                           CODmn
  mg
         4.0                                                           BOD5

         3.0

         2.0

         1.0

         0.0
             1996 1997  1998  1999 2002  2003  2004 2005  2006 2007

                                      Year




              Figure 8. Gui Lake Water Quality Parameters (1996~2007)


        8.0

        7.0

        6.0

        5.0
                                                                       DO
    /L
        4.0                                                            CODmn
      mg
        3.0                                                            BOD5


        2.0

        1.0

        0.0
            1996 1997   1998 1999 2002   2003  2004 2005  2006 2007

                                     Year




                                     - 26 -

                 Figure 9. Sha Lake Water Quality Indicators 1996~2007


          12.0


          10.0


           8.0
                                                                                     DO
      /L
           6.0                                                                       CODmn
        mg
                                                                                     BOD5
           4.0


           2.0


           0.0
               1996  1997   1998   1999   2002   2003   2004  2005  2006  2007

                                              Year




5. Water Flow Regulation in the Lijiang

Table 2 indicates the achievement of the minimum flow n the Lijiang to facilitate
uninterrupted tourist boat traffic during the dry seasons.


              Table 2. Guilin: Lijiang Flow Regulation: Monitoring Indicators

 Indicator      Unit   `96   `97   `98   `99    `00   `01   `02   `03   `04   `05  `06   `07
Flow rate (t) m3/sec         30     30    30    30    30    32    35
(actual)                     30     30    30    30    30    35    37.5 37.5   37.5 37.5 37.5
Minimum       %
frequency of          93.8 93.8 93.8 93.8 93.8 93.8         94    95    96
achieving             93.8 93.8 93.8 93.8 93.8        93.8  90    91    96    96    96   96
flow rate (t)
(actual)
Extension of Km         0     0     5     10    15    20    30    40    50
embankment             n/a   n/a   n/a   n/a   5.64 20.79 20.79   n/a   n/a  20.79 31.93 n/a
wall (t)
(actual)
Reforested    Hectare   0     0    100 100 200        700  1000 1500 2200
areas (t)              n/a   n/a   n/a   n/a   720    n/a  1500   n/a  2400
(actual)




                                            - 27 -

B.       Project Output Indicators

1.       Table 3 indicates the quality of treated effluent at the Jiangnan STP in Nanning.

           Table 3. Treated Water Quality of Effluent from Jiangnan STP

                              COD        BOD5           SS           TP           TN        NH3-N
         Influent              131        40.9          84           2.6          26        21.4
         Effluent             17.8        3.09          14           1.4         18.36      2.03

     National Standard          60         20           20            1           20         8

   Notes: Units- mg/l; Monitoring was conducted in Oct. 2007.

2.       Table 4 indicates the output performance indicators for Jiangnan (Nanning) and Beichong
(Guilin) STPs.

           Table 4. Sewage Treatment Plants: Output Indicators

                  Indicator                                   Targets for Year 2002
                                             Max BOD5             Max COD              Max SS
  Nanning: Jiangnan (t)*                          30                 100                 70
  (actual) (mg/l)                                 5                  21.5               16.3
  Guilin: Beichong (t)                            60                 110                 100
  (actual)                                        12                 40.8                29
  Guilin: Xicheng STP effluent (t)                30                 120                 30
  (actual) [Not completed]                       n/a                 n/a                 n/a
     *t = target

The above tables demonstrate that both STPs are currently achieving the original targets, and in
the case of Jiangnan, the higher standard now imposed.

3.       Performance of the Guilin Chongkou Solid Waste Landfill

Table 5 indicates the data on ground and surface water quality parameters downstream of the
Chongkou solid waste landfill.

            Table 5. Ground and Surface Water Quality Downstream of the Landfill


Indicator                          Unit `96    `02      `03       `04        `05      `06      `07

Guilin Chongkou Landfill (downstream of
site)
Groundwater ­ pH (t)*                     -   6.5/8.5 6.5/8.5   6.5/8.5       -        -        -
                                 P pH
(actual)                                  -    7.23      -     7.25/8.08 7.2/7.93 7.24/7.52 7.19/7.96


Groundwater- max. total SS (t)            -   25        25         25         -        -        -
                                 P mg/l
(actual)                                  -     n/a     n/a       n/a        n/a      n/a       n/a



                                               - 28 -

Surface water-pH (t)                     -  6.8/7.5 6.8/7.5 6.8/7.5   6.8/7.5      -         -
                                P  pH
(actual)                                 -   7.91     n/a   7.4/8.0   7.29/7.81 7.23/7.52 7.25/8.01
Surface water- max. total SS (t)         -    20      20      20         -         -         -
                                P mg/l
(actual)                                 -    19      -      21/76     30/82       n/a       n/a
       *t = target
4.       Financial Indicators for Wastewater Companies

Table 6 illustrates the financial performance of the Nanning and Guilin Sewerage Companies

            Table 6. Financial Performance Indicators

 Indicator         Unit    `96   `97  `98  `99    `00  `01  `02    `03    `04   `05     `06  `07
Nanning
Sewerage
Company
Debt Service P       %      100  100  100  100    100   100  100   100     100    -       -     -
Coverage (t)
(actual)                                                                        100     100   100
Ratio of
revenue        S     %       85   85   85   85     85   85   85     85     85    85      85    85
collection to
billed                                                                           90      90    90
amount (incl.
users of self-
extracted
water) (t)
(actual)
Guilin
Sewerage
Company
Debt Service P       %      100  100  100  100    100   100  100   100     100    -       -     -
Coverage (t)                100  100  100  100     10   100  100   100     100  100     100   100
(actual)
Ratio of
revenue
collection to  S     %       85   85   85   85     85   85   85     85     85    85      85    85
billed                      n/a  n/a  n/a  n/a     94   94   94    99.4   99.4  99.4    99.4  99.4
amount (incl.
users of self-
extracted
water) (t)
(actual)




                                             - 29 -

                                                                        Attachment to Annex 1

Explanatory Note on Water Quality Classifications, Water Quality Parameters and
Designated Uses

Water Quality Classifications. Surface water quality in China is classified under the
Environmental Quality Standard for Surface Water issued by the State Environmental
Protection Administration in April 2002, as follows:

Class I          Naturally unpolluted and specific nationally designated water sources
Class II         Water bodies designated as Class A, protection areas for potable water use,
                 habitat of rare aquatic organism, spawning grounds of fish and shrimp, and
                 feeding grounds of young fish
Class III        Water bodies designated as Class B protection areas for potable water use,
                 fishing areas including winter grounds and migration channels of fish and
                 shrimp, and aquatic plants, and swimming areas
Class IV         Water bodies designated for general industrial use and recreation without
                 direct contact with human skin
Class V          Water suitable for agriculture use and general irrigation/landscaping use

Water Quality Parameters. Whether a water body meets the classification is determined by
a number of parameters. Key parameters include: pH, dissolved oxygen (DO), permanganate
index, COD, BOD5,ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N), total phosphorus (P) and total ammonia
(NH3.The table below indicates the limiting values of parameters applicable to the different
classifications. Designated sources of water for potable use must achieve at least Class III.
Ideally, water sources for major cities should reach Class II. Targets are set based in the
intended water use and the location.

           Limiting Values of Key Water Quality Parameters for Surface Water

No.     Clarification

     Standard                Class I          Class II     Class III     Class IV     Class V

     Item
1    Water                Water temperature variation caused by factitious environment should be
     temperature          limited in the range of:
     (C)                  Max. Weekly Average Temperature Rise 1
                          Max. Weekly Average Temperature Drop 2

2    pH                                                       6-9
3    DO                   Saturation       6             5             3            2
                          factor 90%
                          (or 7.5)
4    Permanganate         2                4             6             10           15
     index
5    COD                  15               15            20            30           40
6    BOD5                 3                3             4             6            10
7    NH3-N                0.15             0.5           1.0           1.5          2.0
8    Total P              0.02 (0.01       0.1 (0.025    0.2 (0.05 for 0.3 (0.1 for 0.4 (0.2 for
                          for lakes and    for lakes and lakes and     lakes and    lakes and
                          reservoirs)      reservoirs)   reservoirs)   reservoirs)  reservoirs)
9    Total NH3            0.2              0.5           1.0           1.5          2.0




                                                 - 30 -

Annex 2. (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                     Appraisal Estimate     Actual/Latest
            Components                                                           Percentage of
                                      (USD millions)       Estimate (USD
                                                              millions)           Appraisal

Sewerage and Drainage in Nanning            64.1                 65.8               103%
Sewerage and Solid Waste
Management in Guilin                        37.6                 37.6               100%

Small Area Improvement                       7.3                 10.5               144%
Lijiang Flow Regulation                     18.0                 17.2                96%
Sugar Industry Pollution Abatement           4.1                  5.0               122%
Institutional Development                    5.4                  3.8                70%


                 Total Baseline Cost       136.5                139.3               103%
Physical Contingencies                      19.8
Price Contingencies                         12.2
                  Total Project Costs      168.5                                    76%


(b) Project Cost (Actual) by Agency (USD Million)

              Components                   Nanning             Guilin         Guangxi Region
                                       SAR       Actual   SAR      Actual    SAR      Actual
 Sewerage & Drainage (Nanning)          79.88      68.4      -         -       -          -
 Sewerage & Drainage (Guilin)             -         -     35.96     53.5*      -          -
 Solid Waste Management                   -         -     9.74         -       -          -
 Small Area Improvement                 5.78       7.6     3.43      3.2       -          -


 Lijiang Flow Regulation                  -         -        -         -      23.09     21.6**
 Sugar Industry Pollution Abatement       -         -        -         -      4.99       5.0
 Institutional Strengthening            2.52       1.3     1.75      2.9      1.20        -
 Total Cost by Component                88.18      77.3    50.89     59.6     29.29      26.6
 Total Project Cost in SAR                                      168.4
 Total Project Cost ­ Actual                                    163.5

* Includes sewerage and solid wastes components.
**Includes institutional strengthening for Guangxi Region EPB


(c) Financing (b) Project Cost (Actual) by Agency


                                      Type of       Appraisal      Actual/Latest
          Source of Funds                                                          Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing     Estimate     Estimate (USD
                                                     (USD M)            M)           Appraisal

  BORROWER/GUANGXI
IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES                                  76.40            85.75          112%

  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND                                     72.00            58.29           81%
DEVELOPMENT
  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                                20.00            19.46           97%

TOTAL                                                 168.40           163.50           97%



                                            - 31 -

(d) Disbursement Profile




                            - 32 -

Annex 3. Outputs by Component

Nanning Sewerage and Drainage.
Sewerage and Drainage. Outputs from this component are: (a) a 240,000 m3/d STP at
Jiangnan; (b) expanded sewers and storm drainage network, including about 67.5 km of trunk
mains, collection sewers and storm drains; (c) a 240,000 m3/d sewage pumping station, a
storm water pumping station of 24 m3/sec capacity at Dakengkou, and a separate pumping
station to refresh water in the Chaoyang Stream. With the completion of the sewers and
treatment plants, including the Langdong STP (200,000 m3day) constructed with other
funding, wastewater treatment has reached about 80% (440,000 m3/day), covering an area of
37 km2 area. Interceptors were constructed along Chaoyang Stream to capture sewage
discharges, and the Stream was dredged to remove about 222,000 m3 of accumulated
sediment. Cleaning up the Chaoyang Stream and refreshing the flow from a dedicated fresh
water pumping station have helped eliminate the serious environmental situation that existed
before the project, and improve water quality to Class IV. The sewage treatment facility is
serving a population of about 430,000, and the Chaoyang Stream clean-up benefited about
270,000 residents by improving the immediate environment, reducing the stench and
providing a better living environment.

Nightsoil management
Purchase of 19 tanker trucks and other vehicles and equipment to improve service quality,
septic tank cleaning frequency, and serve an extended area.

Nanning Small Area Improvement. Specific outputs included: 272,000m2 of local roads;
77.7km of sewers and drains.; 23.4 km of water supply pipes; public toilets; and solid waste
collection points in 27 poor un-serviced neighborhoods, serving about 140,000 residents
(against about 40,000 beneficiaries planned). These improvements have revived the
neighborhoods and increased the income opportunities of the residents, who were able to
engage in trading activities, rent shop and residential space at enhanced rents.

Guilin Sewerage and Solid Waste Management
Sewerage. Outputs of the Guilin components included: (a) pipelines to intercept wastewater
discharges to the Taohuijiang tributary, to convey to the Beichong STP; (b) expansion of the
Beichong STP by 30,000 m3/day to serve the northeastern catchment, including about 21 km
of primary and secondary sewers, and interceptors along a 3.5 km long access road serving
the new urban area; (c) 6 km of trunk sewers and 6 km of secondary sewers, including the
Mantoushan pumping station to collect wastewater from the Qintan catchment; (d) a 2,500
m3/day oxidation ditch type STP and collection networks in Baisha (in Yongshou County);
and (e) sewer networks to serve Xicheng2. These outputs resulted in improved wastewater
collection in Guilin city, and collection and treatment of wastewater in County towns and
reduced pollution discharges to the Lijiang and its tributaries. With the completion of the
sewers and increased treatment capacity, wastewater treatment in Guilin has reached 81%
\(228,500m3/day).

Solid Waste Management. Outputs include: a 400 tons/day sanitary landfill at Chongkou
including leachate treatment, a transfer station with a capacity of 800 tons/day and a fleet of
compactor vehicles to transport waste to the landfill. A fleet of vacuum tanker trucks was also
procured to improve the servicing of septic tanks in Guilin.




2The 30,000 m3/day STP constructed under a BOT is not a project output, as it was not supervised by the Bank.
                                             - 33 -

Lijiang (Guilin) Flow Regulation
Outputs of this component were: (a) increased water depth in the Three Lakes to 2.5 m to
facilitate tour boat traffic; (b) increased flow in the Lijiang to maintain a flow of 35 m3/sec to
facilitate larger cruise boats; (c) diversion canal to convey water from the Wulixia reservoir to
the Lijiang to maintain the required flow, also including a mini hydro power plant (of 0.8 MW
capacity); (d) two diversion canals from the Lijiang ­ one to convey water (2.5 m3/sec) to the
Three Lakes (of 400,000 km2 water surface) to maintain a water depth of 2.5 m for (tourist)
boat traffic, and the other canal to provide water for en route villages and farmers; (e)
improved water quality in the Three Lakes through dredging about 260,000 m3 of sediment,
and construction of embankments; (f) reforestation of about 2,400 ha in the Wulixia reservoir
catchment and along the Lijiang River; and (g) rehabilitation and construction of over 37 km
sections of embankment along the Lijiang.

Guilin Small Area Improvement
Outputs included sewer and drainage networks, paved roads and foot paths, public toilets,
garbage collection points, and street lights in four low income neighborhoods, serving about
40,000 residents in four sites. These improvements have revived the neighborhoods and
increased the income opportunities for residents, who were able to engage in trading
activities, rent shop and residential space at enhanced rents.

Sugar Industry Pollution Abatement
Treatment of stillage resulting from alcohol production at two small sugar refineries to
demonstrate options for wastewater treatment. The project financed equipment costs, while
the civil works were financed with own funds outside the project.

Institutional Development
Wastewater-related institutional reforms of the project were: (a) establishment of the new
Nanning Sewerage Company (NSC) as an autonomous company with a business license, and
commencing operations of the existing Guilin Sewerage Company (GSC) as a commercial
enterprise with a business license; (b) introduction of enterprise accounting, and improved
financial management practices in the NSC and the GSC; (c) arrangements for retention of all
revenue by NSC and GSC; (d) transfer of all wastewater assets to the two companies; (e)
development of two well managed wastewater companies with a strong cadre of experienced
staff; and (f) achievement of financial viability by one wastewater company (NSC), meeting
all operating costs including debt service.

An institutional arrangement to achieve the short-term objective of maintaining the required
water flow in the Lijiang was put in place by GM. However, as the final report was completed
only in late 2007, the establishment of the broad-based Lijiang Water Commission did not
materialize.

The project strengthened the Region and City Environmental Projection Bureaus (EPB) with
training, equipment to enhance monitoring of industries and water bodies, including
increasing the frequency of monitoring.




                                              - 34 -

Annex 4. Industrial Pollution Control

This report is based on the implementation of the Nanning Industrial Pollution Source
Control Plan prepared by the Nanning Environmental Protection Bureau (dated January 20,
2008).

The total annual wastewater discharge in Nanning in 2006 was 372,255,700 m3, of which
industrial wastewater discharge amounted to 166,013,100 m3 (44.60%). Amongst the
pollution loads of industrial wastewater, 60% of COD and ammonia nitrogen discharge came
from agricultural by-product processing and paper industries.

At project appraisal, the Nanning Municipal Government agreed to implement an industrial
pollution source control plan in parallel with the Bank-financed project. The main elements of
the plan were implementing measures to reduce pollution impacts from 33 highly polluting
industries, and improving the performance of the Nanning Environmental Protection Bureau
(EPB) to ensure industry compliance with environmental regulations. In order to assist the
EPB implement the plan, the Project provided support to procure advanced equipment, and
training inputs to enable more effective monitoring and to increase the frequency and the
number of industries monitored.

In the early 90s, industrial growth in Nanning was relatively weak, and pollution discharges
were mainly from light chemical industries. The total pollution load, measured through the
equal standard pollution load (ESPL) produced by Nanning Sugar Refinery and Paper Mill
                                                3

(SRPM), Guangxi CitricAcid Refinery, NCG, and Nanning Maoqiao Paper Mill accounted for
over 90% of the total ESPL of industrial wastewater discharges in urban areas. Organic
pollutants comprised the largest portion of industrial wastewater pollution. The sum of ESPLs
of COD and BOD accounted for 89.35% of the total ESPL of wastewater pollutants in 2000,
and could reach 96.53% if the ESPLs of oil and volatile phenol were added.

Due to the changing pattern of industry later in the decade, pollution loads from industries
changed, as the sum of the ESPLs produced by the agricultural by-product processing, paper
manufacturing and paper processing industries exceeded 80% of the total for the city as a
whole. Including the pharmaceutical and chemical industries, the amount of wastewater
discharge and pollutant load accounted for about 95.06% of the total. Specifically, the ESPLs
of eight enterprises, e.g., Nanning Phoenix Paper Co., Ltd, Nanning SRPM Co., Ltd, NCG,
Mingyang Sugar Refinery of Nanning Sugar Co., Ltd and Guangxi Yangsen Alcohol Co., Ltd
accounted for about 75% of the total for the city, with the COD, SS and oil ranking as the
three top pollutants.

The polluting industries identified fell into two broad categories: (a) enterprises with poor
production capacity and heavy pollution, which required drastic action such as closing down;
and (b) enterprises that could be reformed to comply with discharge/emission standards
stipulated for industrial pollution sources.

NMG, through the EPB, implemented strong time-bound measures under the plan, requiring
the concerned enterprises to undertake measures such as: enhanced wastewater treatment;


3 ESPL is a measure used to assess impact caused by pollutants discharged from a system (i.e., a city or
industry) that consists of several pollution sources with different pollutant discharges. The measure helps find
the main sources and the pollutants. EPSL= pollutant discharged (kg/a) ÷ environment quality standard value
(mg/m3- gas or mg/l-water). ESPL of a pollution source is the total value of the pollutants discharged. ESPL of
a system is the total value of the pollution sources.

                                                     - 35 -

energy saving, introduction of clean technology; adjustment of production targets; and
process modifications. Those enterprises that were not qualified for rehabilitation due to their
poor financial performance, and which were beyond economic rehabilitation were closed
down. Industries in the Chaoyang Stream watershed were given deadlines for compliance
with discharge standards, failing which they were also closed down. By the end of 2000, 103
industries that were forced to close or had to close for financial reasons, and the remaining
137 industries along the Stream were in compliance with the prescribed discharge/emission
standards. Through these measures, NMG successfully accomplished the objectives of the
Pollution Source Control Plan.

The following heavily polluting industries were closed down: Chunguang Electroplating
Factory, Lianchou Electroplating Factory, Associated Educated Youth Plant of Walking
Tractor Factory, Nanning Umbrella Plant and Nanmian Dyeing Plant.

From 1998-2002, EPB increased monitoring of, and compliance by industrial enterprises.
This enhanced monitoring resulted in the construction of the following: (a) a 35,000 m3/d
industrial wastewater treatment plant at the Nanning Sugar Refinery and Paper Mill, which is
the largest and most regulated in the Region; (b) a complex wastewater treatment plant at the
Nanning Monosodium Glutamate (MSG) Factory; (c) a biochemical treatment facility at the
Nanning Citric Acid Plant, only the second such plant in China; and (d) a wastewater
treatment facility to treat pesticides at the Nanning Chemical Group Co., Ltd (NCG). All the
plants met compliance requirements.

In 2006, NMG took additional measures to expedite industrial reform. Eight industries in the
Chaoyang Stream catchment were relocated: Nanning Cannery, Guangxi Qiuchao Group,
Nanning Mengxue Regular Chemical Products Co., Ltd, Sugar Refining Production Line of
Nanning Sugar Refinery and Paper Mill (with 48 years of operation), Guangxi Gold Co., Ltd,
Nanning Zhuangning Industrial Park Co., Ltd (Northern Park), Nanning Zhuangning
Industrial Park Co., Ltd (Southern Park) and Nanning Soy Source Factory.

Additionally, GAR environmental protection funds were used to finance eight wastewater
treatment projects including chemical (e.g., Nanning Chemical Group Co., Ltd.), paper
making, and sugar refining industries that make up 60% of the total COD discharges in
Nanning, which are now in compliance with discharge standards. The compliance rate of
industrial wastewater discharge in Nanning has been stabilized at about 93%, indicating
a significant breakthrough in the control of industrial pollution. Industries within
Chaoyang Stream catchment have all met the emission standards.

Table 1 and 2 below summarize the progress in implementation of the industrial pollution
reduction plan for the Chaoyang Stream area, and Jiangnan District, respectively.




                                              - 36 -

   Table 1. Summary of Implementation Progress of Pollution Control Plan by Industries Along
                                                     Chaoyang Stream

                                                      Industrial      Major
 Measure             Name of Industries              Wastewater    Pollutant or   Target   Implementation

                                                        (t/d)      Treatment       Date       Progress

                 Chunguang Electroplating                          Heavy metal,
                 Factory                                  2            acid       Jun `96     Closed

                 Lianchou Electroplating                           Heavy metal,
                 Factory                                 2.5           acid       Sept `96    Closed

                 Associated Educated Youth
                 Plant of Walking Tractor               58.8       Heavy metal,   Jan `96     Closed
                 Factory                                               acid

  Closure/                                                         Heavy metal,
Rectification    Nanning Umbrella Factory               190            acid       Jan `96     Closed

                 Walking Tractor Factory                833.1      Oil-contained
                                                                   wastewater     Nov `95       n.a

                                                                   High-color
                 Nanmian Dyeing Plant                                 dyeing      Apr `95   Rehabilitated/

                                                                   wastewater               Transformed

                 Monitoring Station of Coal                            Fetid
                 Bureau                                            wastewater     Apr `95     Closed

                 MSG Refinery                          4237.8     COD, BOD, SS    Jan `99    Operation
                                                                                            Suspended*

                 Citric Acid Refinery                  3647.5     COD, BOD, SS     2000      Operation
                                                                                             Suspended
                                                                  Cooling water
                 Soap Works                             480.5      recycling /    Dec `98    Operation

                                                                  Desulfurization            Suspended

Improvement      Woolen Mill                            1193       COD, BOD,      Dec `97     Closed
 with time                                                             Dyes                  (Bankrupt)
   limits        Wires and Cables Factory               429.2      Oil-contained
                                                                   wastewater     Dec `98    Qualified

                 Cigarette Factory                     1440.7     Cooling water
                                                                    recycling     Dec `98    Qualified

                 Civil Soy Source Refinery              41.3       High-salinity              Closed
                                                                   wastewater     Dec "98    (Bankrupt)

                 Repair Shop of Bus Station              30        Oil-contained             Operation
                                                                   wastewater     Dec "98    Suspended
                                                                   Oil-contained              Operation
    New          Yibin Motorcycle Factory                          wastewater     `97- `99   Suspended
 Pollution                                                          Flushing
   Source        Jaitai Concrete Factory                           wastewater     `96-`97  Zero-discharge

  Control        Farm Truck Factory of                                                       Operation
                 Walking Tractor Factory                              Oil, SS     `97-`99    Suspended

* Indicates the enterprises are under rehabilitation.




                                                           - 37 -

Table 2. Summary of Implementation Progress of Pollution Control Plan by Industries in
Jiangnan District
                                                     Discharge                     Implement
                                Wastewater      Concentration (mg/L)                  ation
    Flow         Name of        Discharge                                          Progress in
  Direction     Industries         (t/d)       SS     COD      BOD    Treatment       2006
                                                                      Discharge
                                                                      into network
              Nanning                                                 after
              SRPM                    17,900      656  2,679     603 treatment       Qualified
                                                                      Direct
              As above                12,000                          discharge      Qualified
              Nanning
              Aluminium                                               Direct
              Factory                   2,700      16             4.4 discharge    Qualified
              Nanning                                                 Direct
Tingzichong Power Plant                 2,600      33                 discharge    Closed
                                                                                   Operation
              Tannery                   6,500   1,252  1,532     488 Discharge     Suspended
              Lysine                                                  into Nahong Operation
              Factory                   7,800     105    156      60 Channel       Suspended
              Polyfiber                                               Direct       Operation
              Factory                     900                         discharge    Suspended
              Nanning Silk                                            Direct       Closed
              Factory                     200            516          discharge    (Bankrupt)
              Nanning
              Hemp                                                    Direct       Closed
              Spinning Mill                30                         discharge    (Bankrupt)
              Nanning                                                 Direct       Operation
              Smeltery                     40      50     25          discharge    Suspended
              Plate Glass                                             Direct
              Factory                 15,600        1     1.2      1 discharge     Qualified
                                                                      Separate
              NCG                     29,100      641    269          treatment    Qualified
                                                                      Closed
              Nanning Silk                                            (Bankrupt in
              Spinning Mill             4,500     153     93      58 1996)
              Queen
              Beverage                                                Closed in
  Shuitang    Factory                     950                         Oct 1996
    River     Small electroplating plants and                         Closed in
   System     tanneries                                               Nov 1996

           Total                     101,180



                                             - 38 -

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis

Financial Analysis

Financial returns from the wastewater investments depend on implementation of tariff increases, which
are mandated by the National Government's continuing policy guidelines promoting full cost recovery
in wastewater services, and local government compliance with the guidelines. Compliance with the
project financial covenants by the two wastewater companies is illustrated in the table below.

NSC has implemented an average tariff of Y0.50/m3, which has been adequate to meet the project
financial covenants, though it would require a further increase in 2008 when the treatment plant is fully
operational in 2008. Since appraisal, Nanning has made a series of tariff increases such that the 2007
tariffs are significantly higher than those assumed at appraisal. The wastewater tariff in Nanning
generated sufficient wastewater revenues for NSC to meet its financial covenants for operation and
maintenance expenditures and debt-service in all years up to and including 2007, with an operating
surplus. NSC has sought a tariff increase of Y0.90/m3 average. A tariff increase to a level of Y0.80/m3
at least is anticipated in the first half of 2008, which will allow NSC to meet its financial covenants until
at least 2010.

Guilin was not in compliance with the cost recovery and debt service covenants of the project. With an
average tariff of Y0.60/m3 at project closure, it required government support to meet debt service
payments. The ICR assessment is that NSC is likely to achieve sustainability, while GSC will require
strong government commitment and support to achieve this goal. GM is committed to sustainability of
the sector, and plans to achieve this in a phased manner.

Revenue collection performance in both NSC and GSC averaged 90%, and is considered satisfactory.
All proceeds from the wastewater tariff are remitted directly in full to the companies, which allow them
to monitor income collection performance and gives them the financial autonomy envisaged in the SAR.


               Statement Compliance with Financial Covenants (Unit: million Yuan)
                    ITEM                           2007           2008        2009            2010
      Nanning Sewerage Company
            I Operational income                   101.80         133.66      166.15         241.23
          II Operational expenses                  19.99          50.01       55.51           80.56
               III Debt service                    64.39          73.62       70.67           76.79
                 Net surplus                       17.42          10.03       39.97           83.88
        Guilin Sewerage Company
            I. Operational income                  53.80          52.77       52.80           52.83

          II. Operational expenses                 43.17          46.52       48.47           50.48

               III. Debt service                   25.98          21.49       21.54           22.82

                 Net Surplus                       -15.35         -15.24      -17.21         -20.47




                                                      - 39 -

Economic Analysis

There is no document trail readily available to support the SAR statement that the project would achieve
an overall 21% EIRR (a figure reported to have been extracted from the preparation consultant's report).
For several of the larger components, economic justification was based on least cost analysis rather than
economic cost-benefit assessment. The assessment of achieved economic benefits is further
compromised by the fact that several crucial sub-components were commissioned only recently, or are
still to be commissioned. Thus, evaluation of benefits or assessment of the capability of the investments
were not done for the following: (a) power generation at the Wulixia hydro power plant: power
generation has not commenced as the dam is under major rehabilitation; (b) the Xicheng town
wastewater investments: the treatment plant is still under construction under a BOT contract; (c) Baisha
township wastewater investments: the oxidation pond has not yet been commissioned; and (d) the Guilin
solid waste transfer: the transfer station's capability to handle the design load can only be confirmed at
the end of the first quarter of 2008.

At appraisal, economic benefits of wastewater components in Nanning and Guilin were justified on the
basis of least costs. For the Guilin wastewater component, which included mostly networks, data was
not readily available and economic benefits were not quantified. Least cost options were to be evaluated
from a number of alternatives, including: utilizing existing treatment plant capacity or construction of
new treatment plants; treatment processes, i.e., primary or secondary treatment; network configurations
and alignments; alternative pipeline alignments and locations for pump stations; operating costs, etc.
Continued dependence on the existing septic tank systems was not considered an acceptable option.

Least cost options for capacity and treatment levels were adopted for the Nanning STP following
assessment of projected flows and model studies of the Yongjiang. Despite an increase in the STP
design capacity by one-third during implementation, capacity utilization at project completion was 90%,
and the substantial economic benefits were derived. The least cost design option adopted at appraisal for
the dual function Dakengkou storm flood pumping station was to include a facility to operate it in the
reverse mode to pump clean water to the Chaoyang stream. Some economic benefits were forgone when
the decision was made to construct a separate pumping station to refresh the Chaoyang Stream. Despite
this, land values and economic regeneration increased significantly in the area of the Chaoyang Stream,
and environmental conditions improved.

This Project also had important economic and social benefits, despite its objectives being originally
focused on environmental improvement. Over 350 permanent jobs were created in the wastewater
facilities in the two cities, solid waste facility in Guilin, and in the maintenance and management of the
plantations along the Lijiang and Wulixia watershed. Many hundreds of temporary jobs were also
created during the construction of the facilities. Improved water quality in the local rivers and streams
will benefit many residents in the project area by providing better living conditions and improved public
health. Farmers and others living downstream of Nanning will also benefit, and the risk to pollutants
entering the food chain will be reduced. The Project safeguards against a deterioration in the water
quality of the Yongjiang as Nanning's urban area expands.

No quantitative economic justification was made for the Small Area Improvement (SIA) component at
the time of project appraisal, which appears to be reasonable as it was designated as a pilot
(experimental) initiative. It succeeded beyond expectations because: of the support received from
residents and the city governments; it generated significant economic and social regeneration in the
selected areas; it was replicated (in a modified form) by both Nanning and Guilin city government for


                                                     - 40 -

their own urban regeneration program called the `Small Streets Program'. Some important economic
benefits of this component are: (a) there is a willingness on the part of local residents to contribute to
neighborhood improvements where they can see this accelerating livelihood or economic conditions; (b)
social workers who were engaged to support the SAI program observed that this willingness was greater
in suburban/township areas than in urban areas, probably due to higher levels of self-reliance being the
tradition in those areas; (c) elimination of flood risk and the avoided losses, was a very high priority for
urban residents, together with improved infrastructure which generated small business activities, and
enhanced property values and rental opportunities; (d) the Baisha township SAI initiative demonstrated
an inherent willingness to pay for local sewerage connections as a valued facilitator of livelihood
improvement; and (e) the consultation and participatory process used in SAI schemes proved to be
effective in targeting investment to the real needs of local communities.

The Project also facilitated economic development by providing for rural to urban migration in an
environmentally sustainable manner, and in doing so, contributed to raising significant numbers of local
people from poverty. The poor, who are the most vulnerable to unhygienic living conditions are
benefiting most from the improvements under the SIA, which was specifically targeted to poorer areas
with sub-standard local urban infrastructure. The social and economic benefits of the SAI in 31 areas
have been significant in both forging more cohesive communities through the participatory process
followed, and in providing quality of life gains from new social infrastructure and better income earning
opportunities.

Subprojects under the Lijiang flow regulation were justified on the probable increase in tourism
revenues resulting from enhanced flows in the Lijiang during the dry season, and the opportunity cost of
water in the Lijiang basin. It is not possible to assess whether the economic benefits of the flow
regulation are greater or less than those originally assumed as the effects of the water supplementation
and conservation measures on water flows in the Lijiang have not yet been evaluated. However, the
Lijiang river embankment investment together with associated forestry initiatives appears to have been
effective in arresting river bank erosion, and resulting siltation of the river channel, which will facilitate
navigability and protect tourism revenues. The significant increase in tourist visits and revenues
generated (from US$0.4 billion to US$1.1 billion) during the project period, enhances the probability of
the interventions adding economic value assuming some degree of flow improvement can be
demonstrated. Additionally, the opportunity cost of water used in the alternative economic justification
was a conservative US$0.06 (now equivalent to Yuan 0.5).




                                                   - 41 -

Annex 6. Resettlement Implementation

During project preparation, the only resettlement identified in the project was for sewer line construction
in the densely built-up center of Nanning along the Chaoyang stream, and for Jiangnan STP, located at
an abandoned brick yard on the other side of the Yongjiang River. A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
for Nanning sewerage and drainage component was prepared for project appraisal conforming to Bank
and Government requirements. The solid waste landfill site in Guilin was owned by the municipal
government for a number of years, and involved no displacement of people. Land acquisition or
resettlement of people was not anticipated for the other components of the project.

During the past 10 years of implementation (from 1998 to 2007), additional resettlement requirements
were identified for the Nanning sewerage component, and for four sub-components in Guilin. This
required the preparation of two more Resettlement Implementation Plans (RIPs) in Nanning and four
RIPs in Guilin. After completion of all resettlement activities mentioned in each RAP/RIP, a
resettlement assessment was undertaken by the external monitor in collaboration with the project owner.
Both the QAG and an EASES resettlement thematic supervision missions also reviewed resettlement
implementation under the project in 2004, and found the performance satisfactory.

Resettlement activities completed are showed in the table below:

Sub-Component                 Sub-Projects              LA        HD        PAP      Cost        EMR
                                                        (mu)      (m2)      (No.)    (Y mil)     (No.
                                                                                                 Reports)
Nanning
       1. Chaoyangxi          Whole scheme from            10     12987      940      21.26          4
  Rehabilitation Project      No.13 Middle School
          (Phase I)           to Jiangnan STP
       2. Chaoyangxi          From Dakengkou to           124      9162       80       9.86          2
  Rehabilitation Project      Jiangnan STP
         (Phase II)
       3. Chaoyangxi          Drains and sewers near        0      6055      293      22.66          0
  Rehabilitation Project      Jiangnan STP
         (Phase III)
Sub-total in Nanning                                      134     28204      1313     53.78          6
Guilin
 1.Guilin Sewerage Sub-       (i) Expanded Beichong        39       216       45       4.34          5
        Component             STP
                              (ii) Mantoushan PS
 2. Xicheng Wastewater        Sewage pipes                  0        0        0        0.24          2
          System
    3. Solid Waste Sub-       Jiashan Solid Waste          50        0        78       9.80          2
        Component             Transfer Station
4. Wulixia Replenishment (i) Canal lining                  16        0        14       0.25          2
     Sub-Component            (ii) Shilong Hydro-
                              power Station
    `Sub-total in Guilin                                  105       216      137      14.63          11
 Grand Total for GUEP                                     239     28420      1450     68.41          17



                                                - 42 -

Notes: LA = Land acquisition; HD - House demolitions; PAP = Project affected people; EMR = External
Monitoring Reports and Resettlement Evaluation Reports produced (# of reports)

Nanning had an established capacity for resettlement following relocation of households that returned
after the 1976 Cultural Revolution, a majority of whom were only offered 20 m2 spaces in public
housing the Chaoyang Stream area. Households affected by the Chaoyang Stream works were happy to
move to new apartment buildings that were constructed for them nearby, thereby resolving a contentious
issue that had lasted for over 20 years. The Nanning Resettlement Office that managed the resettlement
for the Chaoyang Stream PAPs received the award of National Model for Resettlement in 2001. The
responsibility for the second phase resettlement was transferred to the Nanning Sewerage Company
(NSC), which carried out the resettlement satisfactorily, along with effective resettlement monitoring
and evaluation. In later years, resettlement progress was affected by the government's compensation
rates, which did not match the fast growing housing market, and expectations of the affected people.
Despite the efforts of the implementing agencies, the prolonged resettlement progress delayed the third
phase of civil works. Additional support and coordination among all the agencies involved could have
made up for the lost time.

Five RIPs were prepared during project implementation to accommodate changes to subprojects and
additional works financed using loan savings. Resettlement training was provided to more than eight
implementing agencies. Internal and external monitoring systems were established, which covered not
only the Bank supported sub-projects, but also those listed in the RIPs, and linked with the Bank
supported sub-projects.

The outcome of each resettlement assessment showed that the resettlement implementation was
completed successfully with full participation of the affected persons whose livelihoods and standards of
living were all improved afterwards. No resettlement issues remained.




                                                 - 43 -

Annex 7. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
          Names                   Title                    Unit            Responsibility/Specialty
Lending

George Plant          Senior Sanitary Engineer    China Department, Urban
                                                    Environment Division  TTL/Sanitary Engineering

Songsu Choi           Senior Urban Economist      China Department, Urban
                                                    Environment Division  TTL/Economic Analysis

Edouard Motte         Senior Municipal Engineer   China Department, Urban Co-TTL/Municipal
                                                    Environment Division Engineering
Alain Bertaud         Principal Urban Planner    South Asia Urban Division Urban Planning

Roger Heath           Principal Chemical
                      Engineer                       Industry Division    Industrial pollution

Kyung Wook Hur        Financial Analyst                  Consultant       Financial Analysis
Mary Judd             Anthropologist             Technical Assistance Unit Sociology
Wei-jen Leow          Project Analyst             Resident Mission, China Project Analysis

Douglas Olson         Irrigation Engineer            South Asia Rural
                                                       Development        Water resources

Margaret Png          Legal Counsel               Resident Mission, China Legal
Chongwu Sun           Project Officer             Resident Mission, China Environment
Dawn Vermilya         Financial Analyst           Resident Mission, China Financial analysis
Yanxiang Wang         Environmental Consultant           Consultant        Environment
Youlan Zou            Resettlement Specialist     Resident Mission, China Resettlement
Supervision/ICR

Edouard Motte         Senior Municipal Engineer       EAP Urban Unit      TTL/Municipal
                                                                          Engineering

Chongwu Sun           Senior Environmental
                      Specialist                  Resident Mission, China TTL/Environment

Youlan Zou            Resettlement Specialist     Resident Mission, China Resettlement
Wei-Jen Leow          Project Analyst             Resident Mission, China Project Analysis
Graeme Barnard        Water Resources Specialist    Consultant, AusAid    Water Resources
Johanngeorg Renkewitz Financial Specialist               Consultant       Financial Analysis
Shunong Hu            Water Resources Engineer    Resident Mission, China Water Supply

Liu Zhentu            Senior Procurement
                      Specialist                  Resident Mission, China Sociology

Tang Hongde           Senior Municipal Engineer          Consultant       Municipal Engineering

Raja Iyer             Lead Management
                      Specialist                      EAP Urban Unit      Institutional Analysis

Louisa Huang          Financial Specialist        Resident Mission, China Financial and Institutional
                                                                          Analysis
Xuemei Guo            Program Assistant           Resident Mission, China Team Support, Beijing
Vellet Fernandes      Program Assistant               EAP Urban Unit      Team Support, Hdqtrs




                                              - 44 -

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

 No.     Date ISR                                                   Actual Disbursements
         Archived                DO                    IP              (USD millions)
  1      08/12/1998           Satisfactory         Satisfactory                 0.00
  2      02/03/1999           Satisfactory         Satisfactory                 3.50
  3      09/20/1999           Satisfactory         Satisfactory                 3.95
  4      03/31/2000           Satisfactory         Satisfactory                 4.07
  5      09/20/2000           Satisfactory         Satisfactory                 4.82
  6      03/30/2001           Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory               7.68
  7      12/17/2001           Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory              10.58
  8      06/24/2002           Satisfactory         Satisfactory                12.05
  9      12/19/2002           Satisfactory         Satisfactory                14.91
  10     03/26/2003           Satisfactory         Satisfactory                14.91
  11     10/08/2003           Satisfactory         Satisfactory                19.45
  12     03/31/2004           Satisfactory         Satisfactory                21.12
  13     11/23/2004           Satisfactory         Satisfactory                23.94
  14     06/21/2005           Satisfactory         Satisfactory                27.57
  15     01/19/2006           Satisfactory         Satisfactory                39.69
  16     12/28/2006           Satisfactory         Satisfactory                56.54




                                           - 45 -

(c) Staff Time and Cost

                                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

                Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands
                                                 No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                                          consultant costs)
Lending
                        FY94                                                    12.74
                        FY95                                                    39.93
                        FY96                                                   150.38
                        FY97                                                   351.96
                        FY98                                                   149.92
                        FY99                                                     1.81
                                         Total:                                706.74
Supervision/ICR
                        FY96                             0                      0.00
                        FY97                             0                      0.00
                        FY98                                                    10.30
                        FY99                                                   120.15
                        FY00                             29                     58.78
                        FY01                             36                     65.87
                        FY02                             35                     83.69
                        FY03                             15                     36.87
                        FY04                             18                     49.54
                        FY05                             19                     43.80
                        FY06                             13                     42.23
                        FY07                             13                     40.26
                        FY08                             6                      33.65
                                         Total:         184                    585.14




                                          - 46 -

Annex 8. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance


         Bank                  Ratings              Borrower       Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                       Satisfactory     Government:         Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:      Satisfactory     Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:    Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:                 Satisfactory     Performance:        Satisfactory




                                         - 47 -

Annex 9. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                   Development Objectives, Project Design and of Quality at Entry

Original Objectives. These are stated in the text of this ICR (Section 6.2). Full details of the
background to these objectives are set out in the Bank's Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) dated 15 May
1998 (Report No. 16622-CHA).

Revised Objectives. Project objectives remained unchanged during the implementation period.

Original Components. Component descriptions are provided in the SAR, and in the main text of this
ICR.

Revised Components (as constructed). Changes were made to the scope of works to reflect changing
circumstances, and to make use of loan savings that arose during implementation. The constructed
infrastructure, compared to those stated in the SAR, is summarised in Table 1 (Nanning) and Table 2
(Guilin) below. The main changes are summarized below:

Nanning Components

Sewerage and Drainage
(i) The design capacity of the Jiangnan STP was increased from 180,000 m3/day to 240,000 m3/day,
     and full secondary treatment was provided, as required by national regulations.

(ii) Main and secondary sewers were increased from the 37 km originally planned, to 67.5km.

(iii)The capacity of the Dakengkou storm pumping station was doubled in capacity to 24m3/sec,
and was designed as a single purpose facility to pump storm flood water only. A separate pumping
station, financed with local funds, was constructed to provide flushing water from the Yongjiang to the
Chaoyang Stream.

(iv)Procurement of computers and MIS development for the night soil sub-component was cancelled as
Government reforms transferred the responsibility for nightsoil management to district government
level, eliminating the need for a centralised management system at the municipal level.

Small Area Improvement Component (SAI)
(v) Six out of the eight areas originally selected for the SAI component became unsuitable. Five
replacement areas were selected and an additional 20 areas were later included to expand the
component, utilizing loan savings.

Institutional Development
(vi) Environmental monitoring equipment for the Nanning EPB was procured using local funds, rather
than the loan funds.

(vii) The original scope of work under the consulting services to Nanning Sewerage Company (NSC)
was extended to assist in the justification of the enhanced Jiangnan STP, and to provide additional
project management and construction management support to NSC.




                                                  - 48 -

Guilin Components

Guilin Sewerage
(viii) Xicheng STP was constructed under a BOT contract, and the length of the sewer network financed
under the project was increased from 3 km to 49 km.

(ix) The plan to build three oxidation ditches in Yangshou, Xingping and Baisha was changed. Yangshou
and Xingping constructed 20,000 m3/d STPs using national bonds, and the project financed only one
oxidation ditch (2,500 m3/d) in Baisha town.

(x) The original plan to build 2,300 m of slope protection in the Wulixia diversion canals and reservoir
area was deleted from loan financing, and constructed using local financing.

(xi)About 4.12 km of secondary sewers were included to improve the wastewater collection in the
Qintan service area.

(xii) Under the North district sewer system, additional works were carried out to reduce pollution
entering the Taohuajiang, including: increasing the originally planned sewers by 8.4 km (to 19.4 km),
and 6.1 km of sewers and a pumping station to improve wastewater collection in the newly developed
areas, and a pumping station.

(xiii) Due to conflict with national policy, approval for purchase of the sewer maintenance vehicles
could not be obtained. Instead, Guilin purchased three sets of ultraviolet (UV) disinfection sets for
installation at Beichong and other WWTPs.

Lijiang Flow Regulation
(xiv) The planned water diversion canal to the Three Lakes was modified to provide two canals: one for
the Three Lakes and the other to provide water to villages en route. The additional works were
undertaken using domestic funding.

(xv) Based on new design guidelines for canals, issued by the Ministry of Water Resources, it became
necessary to incur increased costs to construct additional features such as longitudinal joints, protection
against land slides, weep hole treatment, for which the Bank agreed to finance only a portion of the
expenditure.

Solid Waste Management
(xvi) The capacity of the solid waste transfer station was changed from 300 t/d originally planned to 800
t/d based on new waste generation data, and to cater for the second phase of the landfill.

(xvii)Aleachate treatment facility to treat 300 t/d was constructed near the landfill using national bond
funds.

EPB Capacity Building
(xviii) Due to disagreement with the Bank over payment terms for the EPB packagesAand B, the
procurement was changed to own financing, and instead, one set of Inductively Coupled Plasma
SimultaneousAtomic Emission Spectrometer and 1 set of FT-IR Spectrometer System were procured
under the Project.



                                                  - 49 -

All the above changes were discussed with the World Bank and agreed solutions were documented in
writing either in the Aide Memoires or in separate correspondence.

                Table 1 - Nanning: Summary of Planned and Actual Outputs, and Costs

Component and Asset       Physical Quantities                          Costs (RMB Million)
type
                                            Final Design  Project               Final     Final
                          SAR                             Output       SAR      Design    Cost*


1. Sewerage and Drainage in Nanning                                    755.84   1267.37   n/a

Chaoyang Stream           3.5km             3.1km         3.1km        56.92    50.30     37.55
Interceptors

Chaoyang dredging         180,000 m3        222,000 m3    222,000 m3   43.00    54.45     43.67
and embankments           3.1 km            3.1km         3.1km

Jiangnan Conveyor         3.9km             3.9km         3.5km        24.04    32.85     24.83

River crossing            240,000 m3/d      240,000 m3/d  240,000 m3/d 28.67    39.89     10.56
                          0.5km             1.4 km        1.4 km

Wastewater PS.            240,000 m3/d      240,000 m3/d  240,000 m3/d 20.80    27.49     11.54

Storm water PS            12 m3/sec         24 m3/sec     24 m3/sec    15.00    28.66     14.45

Jiangnan WWTP             180,000 m3/d      240,000 m3/d  240,000 m3/d 147.00   627.11    180.05
                          (primary only)    (secondary)   (secondary)

New Sewers                37 km             63.7km        67.5km       128.50   352.90    141.47

Sewer Maintenance         Not specified                   12 Vehicles  12.14    18.72     11.24
Equipment

Nightsoil vehicles        16 vehicles                     19 tanker    10.20    14.18     3.09
And Equipment                                             trucks

2. Small Area Improvements                                             36.00    73.24     63.13
Communities               8                 27            27
Roads                     51,000 m2         272,000 m2    272,000 m2
Drains & Sewers           51km              77.7km        77.7km
Public Toilets            10                52            52
Waste Stations            8                 47            47

3. Institutional Development                                           17.05    21.98     12.78

Sewerage Company          87 m-months       97 m-months   94 m-months



4. Design and Supervision                                              35.03

5. Contingencies                                                       121.83*

6. Total Costs                                                         965.75   1362.59   557.26

*Total contingency prorated to the two components




                                                    - 50 -

          Table 1A : Additional Works Financed Utilizing Loan Savings in Nanning

                                                                           Investment
Contract No.  Contract name    Construction contents (includes
                               secondary and tertiary sewers)          RMB million 
              Gaofeng,                                                        5.52

NMW/5.0/N     Jiefang, Gaohe, Sewers in Gaofeng Road (574.9m); in
              Mingle, Beining Jiefang road (1058 m); and in Gonghe,
              sewers           Minle, Beining (2095.9 m).
                                                                              4.5

              Huadong,         Sewers in Huadong (1241.8m); and in
NMW/5.0/L     Huaxi sewers     Huaxi (1678.1m)/
                                                                              5.5
              Renming,         Sewers in Renming Road (2307.4m); and
NMW/5.0/M     Xinyang sewers in Xinyang (1468m).
                                                                             11.69
              Jiangnan,        Sewers in Jiangnan (3259m); and in
NMW/5.0/O     Nanzhan sewers Nanzhan (7516 m).

NMW/5.0/P     Baisha sewer     Sewers with length of 9,962m of               17.18
                               diameters 600 mm to 2000 mm.
                                                                             28.57
                               Sewers with total length of 9,931.5m of
NMW/5.0/Q     Wuyi sewer       diameters 300 mm to 2000 mm.
              Jiangnan STP                                                   177.82

NMW/1.0       Phase I          240,000 m3/d secondary treatment
              Jiangnan STP                                                    4.49

NMW/1.0-1     Phase I vehicle  19 vehicles used for production
                                                                              0.86
              NSC GIS
NMG/8.0       system
              Jiangnan STP                                                    0.54
NMT/1.0-2     Phase I office
              equipments




                                         - 51 -

         Table 2 - Guilin: Summary of Planned and Actual Outputs, and Costs

Component and
Asset type           Physical Quantities                              Costs (RMB Million)

                     SAR               Final Design   Output         SAR      Final      Final
                                                                              Design     Cost *
1.Sewerage and Solid Waste Management                                 406.18   422.20    295.59

Qintan trunk         -12 km sewers     9.1km sewers   -9.1km sewers

sewers               -160,000 m3/d                    -250000m3/d     77.60    99.40     42.77
                     PS                               PS
                                       -27.3km        -19.4km

                     -11km sewers      sewers         sewers
                                       -10,000m3/d    -10,000m3/d
N. District sewers   -30,000m3/d PS
                     -30,000 m3/d      PS -5,000m3/d  PS              147.60   132.40    62.70

                     STP               PS             -5,000m3/d PS
                                       -30,000m3/d    -30,000m3/d
                                       WWTP           WWTP
                     -2.5km sewers                    -9.1km sewers
                     -100m             -9.1km sewers  -2.2 km
                     embankment        -2.2 km        embankment
Three Lakes          -6.3 km           embankment     -7.3 km         39.38    77.00     68.04
                     diversion canal   -7.3 km        diversion canal
                     -Dredging:        diversion canal-Dredging:
                     168,400 m3                       249,000 m3
                                       -50.34km
Xicheng              -3km sewers       sewers         -49 km sewers

Wastewater           -20000 m3/d                      -WWTP under     48.00    26.50     24.00
                     STP               -WWTP under
                                       BOT            BOT

                     -Landfill: 2      -Landifill:2   -Landfill: 2

                     million m3        million m3     million m3

Solid Waste          -300 ton/day      -800 ton/day   -800 ton/day    86.30    81.90     93.28
                     transfer station  transfer       transfer

                     -14 vehicles      station.       station.
                                       -31 vehicles   -31 vehicles

County Town                            2,500m3/d      One 2,500m3/d

Wastewater           3 Aeration ponds  aeration ponds aeration pond    7.30     5.00      4.80
                                                      in Baisha town
2. Lijiang Flow Regulation                                            197.90   167.93    137.05

                                       -4 forest      2,800 ha

Lijiang Plantation   -2,630 ha                        -4 forest
                     -67 forest cabin  cabins; and                    50.40    40.30     37.20
                                       seedlings      cabins;
                                                      seedlings
                     - 24.5 km canal   - 21.7 km      -Rehabilitate
                     rehab             canal rehab    21.7 km canal
Wulixia              -400 m canal      -350 m culvert -350 m culvert
Replenishment        - 2*500Kw         -2*500Kw       -1*800Kw        48.80    35.30     30.27

                     hydro-power       hydro-power    hydro-power
                     station           station        station
Lijiang              -26.07 km         31.9 km        31.9 km
Embankments          embankment        embankment     embankment      62.40    61.33     51.34

Wulixia Plantation -8,534 ha                          8,486 ha        36.30    31.00     18.24
3. Small Area Improvement                                             30.20    25.67     21.30
Communities
Road                                                                  30.20    25.67     21.30
Drains, Sewers                         16.66 km       16.66 km
4. Institutional Strengthening                                        24.28    10.30     17.80



                                              - 52 -

        GSC               79 m-months       69 m-months     69 m-months    11.0               10.9
        EPB                                                                 4.5      10.3    2.8
        Lijiang TA                         36m-months      38m-months       8.7              4.1
        4. Design and Supervision                                        28.63
        6. Contingencies                                                   99.21
        6. Total Costs                                                   786.40     621.10   471.76

*Total contingency prorated to the two components

Project Implementation

Project implementation was completed successfully, even though it took longer than planned. At the
start of implementation delays were caused by weak project management, and because implementing
agencies and design institutes were unfamiliar with the World Bank requirements (e.g., procurement
procedures, contract management and construction supervision and disbursement procedures). The
preparation of detailed designs and receiving approvals was also time-consuming. The shortage of
counterpart funds was particularly an issue in Guilin.

Other delays occurred because of the long time taken to reach agreement with the Bank on some
matters, such as the capacity of the Nanning STP, wastewater treatment standard, and the use of turnkey
contracts. The completion of detailed designs in Nanning took over two years. The Chaoyang Stream
wastewater interception was completed early during the Project, but completion of the pumping stations
took much longer due to design changes and the decision to construct a separate pumping station to
refresh the Chaoyang Stream. The Jiangnan STP was finally commissioned in late 2007. All these
factors contributed to the additional time of three years required to complete implementation.

Institutional Changes. The Guilin Prefecture was abolished in 1998, and the Guilin Municipality became
responsible for the Lijiang water resource management. The Xing'an Water Conservancy Bureau,
originally responsible for Wulixia subcompoment, was replaced with the Guilin Water Conservation
Bureau, which also assumed the responsibility for the loan repayment.

Resettlement. Land acquisition and resettlement plans prepared before appraisal were modified to reflect
actual conditions, and supplementary plans were prepared in consultation with the Bank team during the
course of project implementation. Independent monitoring and audit of resettlement activities took
place in accordance with Bank procedures, and the Bank team also made regular supervisory
inspections. The monitoring and audit reports indicate that all resettlement activities were completed in
accordance with agreed procedures, and the households affected are satisfied with the outcome. A
separate project resettlement report was prepared and submitted to the Bank.

Environmental Safeguards. No significant environmental management issues arose during project
implementation, and the environmental management plans prepared to mitigate potential adverse
environmental impacts resulting from the project activity were implemented in full.

Loan Utilization. About US$13.5 million of the loan and US$0.56 million of the credit were cancelled
during implementation. The loan allocation for Nanning was fully utilized, whereas about US$12
million was cancelled from the Guilin allocation. Some loan savings were used to expand networks,
increase the capacity of Jiangnan STP, and increase the number of SAI areas. The unutilized loan of
US$0.227 million was cancelled at loan closure.

Quality at Entry




                                                 - 53 -

From the Borrower's perspective, the quality at entry was satisfactory in most respects as it responded to
urgent pollution control priorities in Nanning, and environmental improvements necessary to support
tourism development in Guilin. Project design was largely consistent with policies and regulations of the
national, provincial, and municipal governments. However, the project as appraised had some specific
shortcomings:

· The original design failed to recognize the need for full secondary treatment at Jiangnan STP in
    Nanning.
· The World Bank was not satisfied with the Nanning wastewater generation projections; hence there
    was no consensus reached on the optimum size for the first phase of the Jiangnan STP; and the
    decision was held in abeyance for the stage of detailed design
· There were unresolved differences on the best strategy to achieve sewerage separation in the main
    urban area of Nanning traditionally served by a combined system.
· The solid waste projections and the sizing of the solid waste transfer station in Guilin was not firmly
    decided at appraisal
· The initial design of the technical assistance to NSC and GSC placed too much emphasis on
    institutional development and capacity building and not sufficient emphasis in supporting project
    implementation.
· Financial analysis made by consultants during project preparation appears to have understated the
    cost recovery tariff.
· Cost estimates made during project preparation phase proved to be overestimated, and significant
    loan savings resulted.

        A.     Achievement of Objectives, and Major Outcomes/Outputs

Nanning

The project is set to achieve the main project development objective in improving the water quality of
Chaoyang Stream and the Yongjiang now that the Jiangnan STP has recently been commissioned, and
receives almost the full design flows from the Dakengkou to Jiangnan conveyor. Flows in excess of the
design capacity can be expected once the remaining sewer works are finally completed in the first half
of 2008, using local funding. The implementation of the project has contributed a lot to the improvement
of Nanning's urban environment, and helped the city win awards as the national Livable City (Model
City for Excellence in Water and Environment Improvement) in 2006, and the UN Livable City in 2007.
The quality of water in Chaoyang stream has significantly improved from the pre-project situation, and
the stench from wastewater entering the stream has been removed. This is achieved naturally during the
wet season, and by water replenishment during the dry season. Improvements in water quality and the
embankments have had a significant regeneration effect on the area, and property prices have risen more
rapidly there than the Nanning average. The construction of the Jiangnan STP, providing full secondary
treatment for 240,000 m3/day provides medium term assurance of water quality in the Yongjiang, and
the planned expansion to 960,000 m3/day allows for demand for the foreseeable future. Through
interception and treatment of wastewater discharged to water bodies, water quality objectives for the
Yongjiang (Class III) and Chaoyang Stream (Class V) were achieved.

Institutional Reforms. In Nanning, institutional and financial reforms have been completed, which have
ensured full compliance with the financial covenants in the loan agreement. Wastewater and water
services are now provided through a partly privatized water group company that is managerially and
financially autonomous of the Municipal Government. The institutional reforms in Nanning have been



                                                 - 54 -

referred to by the World Bank as a model for other Chinese cities to follow and were presented as such
at the International WaterAssociation Conference held in Beijing in September 2006.

The small area improvement (SAI) works have brought livelihood improvements to a population of
approximately 140,000 instead of an initially estimated 46,000. Abroader outcome is that Nanning
Municipal Government has used the SAI experience to develop and implement its own programs of
street level and village centered improvements based on the SAI model.

Industrial Pollution Control. Industrial pollution control (IPC) in Nanning has been greatly improved
during the life of the project. All large industries monitored by the EPB are now in regular compliance
with discharge standards. Compliance by medium and small industries within the urban area is also
assessed as 100%. The number of industries monitored by the municipal EPB has been increased from
75 to 86. This outcome has been achieved through a combination of industrial relocation, industrial
modernisation and installation of pre-treatment and more effective enforcement by the EPB.




                                                   - 55 -

Guilin

Lijiang and Three Lakes Improvements. Project investments supported economic development,
especially tourism, in Guilin through: (i) maintaining water quality and adequate flow in Lijiang to
accommodate large cruise ships; (ii) plantation of forests along the banks of the Lijiang (improving
scenery) and in the Wulixia watershed including economic forestry (such as ginkgo, bamboo) that
provided employment and supplementary incomes to farmers; (iii) replenishing water in the Three
Lakes to maintain a water depth adequate for tourist boats; (iv) improving water quality of the Three
Lakes with wastewater interception and lake bed dredging; and (v) improving embankments in the
Lijiang and the Three Lakes. These improvements have generated significant benefits to Guilin's
tourism development.

The water quality in the Lijiang was maintained at Class II with the extensive interception of wastewater
that previously discharged to the Lijiang and its tributaries. The Project made it possible to achieve
Class IV water quality in the Taohuajiang, and Class III water quality in the Three Lakes. The dry
season flow in the Lijiang was maintained at 35 m3/sec through diversion of water from the Wulixia
reservoir. Maintaining adequate flow in the Lijiang and nearly 2,400 ha of plantation along its banks has
served to enhance the scenery and maintain tourist boat traffic throughout the year. In addition to the
scenery, plantation of economic forestry varieties (i.e., ginko and bamboo) increased income and
employment to farmers and contributed to reduce poverty. The water quality of the Three Lake was
improved through the interception of wastewater and dredging of the lakes. Water diversion to the Three
Lakes has made it possible to maintain a water depth of about 2.5 m to facilitate tourist boat traffic in the
Lakes.

Lijiang Water Resources Management. Consultants investigated and studied water resource management
in the Lijiang basin, and arranged investigations, including national training on three occasions for 15
persons each time, and oversea training for 11 persons in Western Europe andAustralia, and 7
workshops with 180 persons attending. The final report for the Lijiang water resources management plan
was completed by project closure.

Guilin Environmental Improvements. Wastewater from the Qintan district was collected and transferred
to No.4 STP through the construction of Qintan trunk sewer and Mantoushan pump station, which
enabled the capacity of the No.4 STP to be fully utilized and reduced pollution discharging to the
Lijiang. Suburban towns in Yangshou County also improved wastewater collection and treatment: the
project financed a 2,500 m3/d oxidation pond in Baisha, and the two other towns constructed STPs of
20,000 m3/d using national bonds financing. Wastewater services in the Xicheng industrial area and
township were improved through the project-financed sewer network, and the 30,000 m3/d STP
constructed under a BOT contract. With the completion of Beichong STP and North district sewage
pipeline, wastewater from Guilin north district (with 50,000 residents) was conveyed to the Beichong
STP for treatment and then discharged into Taohuajiang, which reduced pollution in Lijiang and
Taohuajiang. Water quality in the Lijiang was maintained at Class II, and water quality in the
Taohuajiang was improved to Class IVV. Water quality in the Three Lakes improved significantly (to
Class III) with the lake dredging and wastewater interception and treatment in the Lijiang tributaries.
The solid waste collection and disposal rate increased from 70% to near 100% with the construction of
the Chongkou landfill and the 800 ton capacity Jiashan transfer station. The improved environment has
helped to make Guilin as one of the premier tourist destinations in China.




                                                 - 56 -

Industrial Pollution Control. Guilin made a lot of progress in pollution control in the following
industries: Guilin Monosodium Glutamate, Guilin Liquan Beer Limited Company, Guilin Sanjin
Pharmaceutical Corporation, Guilin Sauce Factory, Guilin Jiqi Pharmaceutical Limited Corporation. The
municipal government strengthened supervision management and directly notified units in 12 counties
whose discharge was over standard to either improve or face closure. The 19 units which were notified
by government, including Lipu Paper-making Limited Company and Lingui Wutong Paper-making
Plant have achieved discharge standard since October 2000. In total, 815 enterprises in 12 counties have
achieved the specified discharge standard since 2001.

Capacity Building/Institutional Development. Operations of GSC were enhanced and strengthened
through: the introduction of financial and management systems, control of all revenue from the services
provided, and the transfer of ownership of all assets to GSC; MIS, GIS system training and oversees
training; and provision of advanced laboratory equipment and considerable in-country and external
training for staff. GSC became a truly autonomous company, with enhanced capacity for monitoring and
operation of sewerage facilities operation, and maintenance cost control. Capacity of the EPB increased
the number of industries monitored, and also improved its monitoring capacity using the monitoring
equipment and training provided under the project. Project management capacity was strengthened
through consulting services that assisted project management and provided on-the-job training

The GSC achieved a greater degree of autonomy during the project: it acquired a business license;
consolidated all sewerage assets under the company; and had full control of its revenue. GSC increased
the tariff twice; first in 2002 (from RMB0.10 /m3 to RMB0.2/m3), and the second, in 2006 (from
RMB0.20 /m3 to RMB0.65 /m3). However, it was difficult to comply with the financial covenant
because tariff increases generally lasted for about three years and the tariff setting were impacted by the
national consumer price index. GSC's monitoring and analytical capacity was greatly strengthened with
the installation of the monitoring equipment, which are operating smoothly.

The merger of the Guilin Prefecture with the Municipality facilitated the Lijiang water resources
management, specifically, to maintain adequate flows in the Lijiang during the dry season.

EPB Strengthening: The EPB was strengthened by the purchase of office equipment, vehicles and
monitoring equipment, and overseas and domestic training. The institutional and management capacity
of the Guilin EPB was enhanced, especially in monitoring through improved accuracy, range and
frequency. Improvement in EPB's monitoring frequency and coverage is illustrated below:

                                    Monitoring Performance of Guilin EPB
            Monitoring objective                Base Year 1998    Objective             2007
            Enterprise amount                        10               13                 58
            Monitoring times annual
            Large and middle sized enterprise         1               2                   4
            Small-sized enterprise                    1               2                   2
            River sections monitored and annual      1*1             3*3                3*12
            frequency
            Water body monitoring items               7               13                 26
            monitoring of emergencies, (%            30               80                100%
            coverage)
            Average response time for                 7               1                  0.5
            accidents, complaints (days)




                                                   - 57 -

Poverty Alleviation and Economic Regeneration (Nanning and Guilin).

The small area improvement (SAI) works have brought livelihood improvements to a population of
approximately 180,000 (i.e., 140,000 against the estimated 46,000 beneficiaries in Nanning, and about
40,000 against the estimated 27,000 beneficiaries in Guilin). The mix of investments, and hence the
nature of the benefits, varies from area to area, but typically include protection from flooding, roads,
footpaths, garbage collection, public toilets, etc. These improvements have increased property rental
values, resulted in higher income levels for residents, and stimulated new local economic activity (e.g.
from markets, shops and tourism). Abroader outcome is that both Nanning and Guilin Municipal
Governments used the SAI experience to develop and implement its own programs of street level- and
village-centered improvements based on the SAI model.

Other project investments not only improved the environment, but also provided many job opportunities,
and facilitated rural to urban migration. After Mantoushan pump station and Beichong STP completed, it
provided more than 150 jobs; Chongkou landfill station provided 100 jobs, Shilong hydro power station
and Baisha aeration pond provided 50 jobs. The SAI component facilitated economic development and
community stabilization, and increased incomes and employment opportunities.

Overall, the Borrower believes that each individual component has at least achieved the objectives set,
and in several cases the outcome of individual components exceeded expectations.

Major factors affecting implementation and outcome

Factors outside the control of government or implementing agencies
· The fast economic growth and pressures from rural to urban migration resulted in more rapid
    development and redevelopment in the inner suburbs of both Nanning and Guilin cities. This
    required significant changes to the sites originally selected for the SAI component.
· Market price escalation on major construction materials during 2003 and 2004 caused problems for
    construction progress on some civil works contracts which had been bid on a fixed price basis.
· The SARS outbreak in 2003 and Bird Flu concerns in 2005, temporarily disrupted the construction
    program due to movement restrictions that were imposed. In total these events resulted in a delay of
    over 6 months.
· Serious floods in the summers of 2001 and 2006 also had a disruptive effect on the construction
    program, requiring some works to be suspended and others to be rescheduled.
· Unexpected adverse geological conditions were experienced on some sewerage contracts - notably
    on Xiuxiang Road in Nanning.
· Insistence by the World Bank to use a turnkey form of contract for which there was no readily
    available Chinese model document, resulted in procurement delays for the Dakengkou PS and
    Jiangnan STP sub-components in Nanning.
· Due to requirements necessitated by other ongoing city development projects in Guilin, and shortage
    of counterpart funds, some components were postponed by about two years.
· Unfamiliarity of design institutes with Bank procedures and requirements, delayed detailed design
    preparation by at least one year.
· Counterpart funding problems affected implementation of Xicheng and Wulixia subprojects.
· The unforeseen geological conditions in the karst topography of Guilin caused delays in civil works
    contracts.




                                                  - 58 -

· Both Nanning and Guilin spent a large amount of time to understand World Bank procedures in
    procurement, construction management and contract management and disbursement, including the
    considerable time that elapsed to prepare disbursement applications.
· The Project suffered cash flow problems, which severely impacted progress because of the long time
    (about 2 months) taken for the World Bank to process and reimburse disbursement applications.

Factors generally subject to government control
· Government reforms in 1999 resulted in the Guangxi Provincial Water Conservancy Bureau and
    Nanning Municipal Water Conservancy Bureau becoming responsible for urban flood control. This
    reform required these agencies, which had not previously been involved, to review and approve key
    aspects of the Project before work could proceed. Significant delays arose due to the lack of
    familiarity of these newly involved agencies, and resulted in a number of project issues taking longer
    than expected to resolve
· Due to requirements necessitated by other ongoing city development projects in Guilin, some
    components were postponed by about two years.
· Slow government approval of the ICB equipment contracts delayed the procurement process for
    pumping stations and Jiangnan STP. Use of turnkey contracts compounded the impact of this
    procurement delay.
· Significant delays were experienced in the resettlement of persons occupying housing on the
    periphery of the Jiangnan STP site.
· The Nanning Municipal Government imposed restrictions on road construction during key events,
    such as for ASEAN meetings. This had a disruptive effect on sewerage contracts in the city.
· Some sewer contracts experienced delays due to the unexpected discovery of electricity cables, the
    location of which had not been accurately recorded by the electric utility.
· The government decision-making process over the use of loan savings was somewhat slow and
    cumbersome and could usefully be improved for any future World Bank project.
· Shortage of counterpart funds caused delays in several Guilin sub-components.

Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
· Cost estimation at appraisal was inaccurate. Costs estimated at appraisal were generally much higher
    than actual contract prices, affecting the loan disbursement progress and causing large loan savings.
· Implementation agencies were initially unfamiliar with World Bank procedures and requirements,
    which resulted in most components taking longer than expected to get implementation underway.
    This was especially the case where the implementing agencies (IA) either wanted to make changes to
    the appraised component, or where the WB appraisal had left significant design issues in abeyance.



Economic Benefits
The Borrower notes that the SAR economic rate of return (ERR) of 21% in direct benefits was estimated
for the entire GUEP, but there is no link given as to how that ERR was calculated from the individual
subproject economic benefits/justifications, which were evaluated using various different methods.
There is also inadequate reference in the SAR to identify the detailed data sources to allow subproject
re-evaluations. The Borrower has therefore not attempted to replicate the calculations made at the SAR
stage. However, general public health indicators for Nanning city suggest much progress has been made
in the last 10 years. As documented in this report, a significantly greater level of asset construction has
proved possible than was envisaged at the time of appraisal for the same level of investment. It
therefore follows that the economic rate of return must be significantly greater than initially estimated.




                                                  - 59 -

Project Sustainability

Overall Sustainability Assessment
The Borrower recognises that sustainability of the Project needs to be viewed in terms of (a) whether an
appropriate institutional arrangement has been set up to provide for managerial autonomy and
sustainability; (b) the ability to operate and maintain the facilities; and (c) financial sustainability. In the
Borrower's view, the overall Project can be considered sustainable against these criteria. Institutional
and financing arrangements segregate the services provided between commercial activities, where a user
fee can be applied, and those of a general public good funded by the Municipal Governments. GSC, in
conjunction with the Guilin Municipal Government plans to prepare and implement a program over the
next three years, to achieve financial sustainability in a phased manner.

Other Institutional Responsibilities


Other assets constructed under the Project are operated and maintained as follows:
· The Dakengkou Stormwater Pumping station is now operated and maintained by the Flood
    Control Department of Nanning Water Conservancy Bureau (WCB), and funded by NMG.
· Chaoyang Stream maintenance (debris removal, embankments etc) is the responsibility of the
    NWCB's Inland Waterway Management Department and also funded by NMG.
· Stormwater and remaining combined sewers are managed by the Sewerage Management
    Department under the leadership of Municipal Management Bureau and funded by NMG.
· Nightsoil Collection and Disposal Services are managed by District Government Environmental
    Sanitation Departments. This service is partly local government funded (in relation to public toilets
    and public buildings), and partly by charges levied for services to privately owned septic tanks. .

All the agencies described above are adequately staffed and financed for their current responsibilities
and there are no significant skills shortages. A budgetary constraint in 2007 that limited the pumping of
water from the Yongjiang to flush Chaoyang stream during periods of low flow has now been overcome.

Operational Sustainability

The Bank funded investments have been constructed to good quality standards with no obvious inherent
design weaknesses identified to date. However, Jiangnan STP only became operational in September
2007 and some WB funded sewer works have also only recently been completed. Industrial pollution
discharging to municipal sewers is considered to be reasonably well under control and is not giving rise
to significant problems in wastewater operations or compromising the ability of the STP to meet
discharge standards. The Guilin STP and the Langdong STP in Nanning have mature operating systems
and experienced staff. ISO 9000; 2000 systems have been introduced to enhance internal management
levels, work efficiency, service quality and staff performance. Based on the operational performance of
Langdong STP, in 2006, NSC was awarded "Class A Qualification for Operation of Environmental
Protection Facilities" by the State Environment Protection Administration (SEPA). These systems are
being transplanted into the new Jiangnan STP and Langdong Phase II (JBIC funded).

Financial Sustainability
In Nanning, the financing of operations and maintenance of the different project services is either from
the wastewater charge (for the commercial operations of wastewater collection and treatment) and from
Nanning Municipal Government Budget for services providing a general public benefit (such as public
toilets, inland rivers, rainwater drainage and flood control). Thus financial sustainability depends


                                                  - 60 -

essentially on the level of wastewater tariff and the income it generates and also on the ability of NMG
to fully fund the public services. Nanning Government is fully conscious of the flood risk to the City
with drainage and flood protection given high priority in the budget allocation process. The rapid
economic growth in Nanning has resulted in a similarly rapid growth in government revenues and
budgets, and NMG is now much better placed to sustain and improve budget allocations than at the time
of the Project's appraisal.

Since appraisal Nanning has made a series of tariff increases such that the 2007 tariffs are significantly
higher than was assumed at appraisal. The wastewater tariff in Nanning generated sufficient wastewater
revenues for NWTC (then still NSC) to meet its financial obligations for O&M and debt-servicing in all
years up to and including 2006, together with an operating surplus. It is forecast that NWTC will also
make a surplus in 2007, but the final figures are not yet available. A tariff increase to a level of
RMB0.80 /m3 or RMB0.90/m3 was anticipated in the first half of 2008, although implementation is
currently suspended due to the Government's anti-inflation drive. This level of wastewater tariff will
allow NSC to meet its financial covenants until at least 2010. Income collection performance averages
90%, and is considered satisfactory. All proceeds from the wastewater tariff are remitted directly in full
to NSC, which allows the Company to monitor income collection performance and gives it the financial
autonomy envisaged in the SAR.

Guilin was not able to fully comply with the financial covenant in the project agreement. The objective
was to raise sewerage tariff to balance revenues and expenditures, and repay the loan, and have funds for
future expansion of facilities. The sewerage tariff was raised twice: first in 2002, from RMB0.10 /m3 to
RMB0.20 /m3,, and the second time in 2006 from RMB0.20 /m3 to RMB0.65 /m3. According to the
estimate of the Word Bank, the sewerage tariff needed to be increased RMB0.85 /m3 in 2007 to achieve
financial viability as an autonomous company. Guilin faces some difficulties raise tariffs every year
because the new tariffs are maintained for several years before revision, and consistent with the national
controlled index of market price in Guangxi. However, Guilin will prepare a practical plan to formulate an
adequate tariff structure to meet requirements within three years of the project completion.

Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank Performance
The World Bank's performance has been generally satisfactory. The Bank's staff involved in this project
provided very useful assistance, advice, guidance, training and supervision to the staff of the different
project agencies, and the diligence of Bank staff was very much appreciated. Bank involvement has also
been helpful in optimizing the technical performance of the Project. Generally, our view is the
performance of the Bank has improved as the Project progressed. In total, there have been four task
managers assigned to the project. With the first three task managers, who were based in Washington,
communication was not always easy and also there seemed to be a presumption that international
experience was always relevant to the local situation. Whilst there was almost always consensus over the
problems to be solved there were differences over how best to solve those problems in the particular
circumstances of Nanning and Guilin. Since the appointment of the Beijing-based national staff as Task
Manager, together with Bank reforms leading to the transfer of supervisory responsibility to the Bank's
Resident Mission in Beijing, we feel that communications with the Bank greatly improved, and also
there has been a greater understanding of local circumstances by the members of the Bank supervisory
team. This helped to resolve issues that had earlier caused difficulties, and created a genuine
atmosphere of partnership between Guangxi Region and the Bank. The Bank has also shown flexibility
in its relationship with Nanning and Guilin cities in agreeing (i) to extend the loan period; (ii) changes to



                                                  - 61 -

the scope of work; and (iii) increasing the percentage of disbursement. This flexibility has been much
appreciated.

Borrower Performance
The national, Guangxi Region, municipal and district level governments have all been very committed
to, and supportive of the project during its inception, preparation and implementation. Strong efforts
have been made by all the implementing agencies and the Nanning and Guilin PMOs to resolve issues
encountered at every phase of the Project. The Nanning and Guilin PMOs occupied the pivotal role in
coordinating the efforts of the different agencies involved in the implementation, and received high
levels of cooperation. The PMOs have worked hard to improve their effectiveness, especially in the
areas of project implementation planning and project management systems. Stable PMO staffing in
Nanning throughout the project lifecycle and project management changes made in Guilin, progressively
enhanced performance after the slow and difficult start.

        B.      Lessons learned

The implementation of the Guangxi Urban Environment Project was coordinated by Nanning and Guilin
PMOs, acting on behalf of the two Municipal Governments. The PMO staff learned many detailed
lessons from this experience which they hope to be given the opportunity to apply during future projects.
The transfer of increased responsibilities to the World Bank to the Resident World Bank Mission in
Beijing has brought the Bank closer to its customers, and devolving functions should continue to further
improve responsiveness.

Project Specific Lessons

Project Design
· The reluctance of the Bank to accept the requirement for full secondary treatment at Jiangnan,
    despite national policies requiring this, caused significant delays.
· Ensuring wastewater collection and conveyance systems are constructed in advance allowed the
    Jiangnan STP investment to be immediately effective with a guarantee of the full design flow. The
    availability of the full flow also allowed for a more thorough testing of the STP during the
    commissioning stage, giving a greater level of protection of the owner's interests.



Procurement and Construction Management Lessons
· Cost estimates and contingency provisions used at appraisal, proved excessive; more realistic cost
    data should have been obtained and used at appraisal stage.
· Use of the turnkey form of contract (for which no suitable model form existed) created procurement
    delays and yet appeared to give no obvious advantage during the construction stage.
· The Project introduced the construction techniques of "pipe-jacking" and other trench-fewer
    methodologies to Nanning so that these are now in regular use in the city; with a consequential
    reduction in disruption caused by open trench construction.
· Competitive procurement has been accepted as leading to providing greater value for money than
    traditional local methods.

Consulting Services
· The use of a single consulting services package for construction management and institutional
    strengthening worked well, and the Consultants undoubtedly made a positive contribution to the
    implementation of the Project.



                                                  - 62 -

· For various reasons the TA Consultant was not mobilised until March 2001, some two and a half
   years into project implementation. In hindsight the consultants should have been mobilised much
   earlier, and also they should have been involved in project implementation support from the outset.
· The time originally allowed for completion of the institutional part of the work (2 years) was overly
   optimistic and did not take account of the immature state of NSC and GSC as an embryo wastewater
   companies at the time of consultants mobilisation.

Institutional Development and Financial
· Whilst reform objectives as appraised by the Bank have remained valid, the detailed reforms had to
   be modified as circumstances and government policies (national and local) changed.
· The TA consultant's suggestions and their experience both in China and internationally, were helpful
   in shaping the reform strategy eventually adopted by NMG.
· GUEP has proved a useful catalyst for motivating and testing institutional reforms.

Small Area Improvements
· Lessons from the SAI initiative have been incorporated into Nanning Government's own local
   neighbourhood improvement program.
· The involvement of social workers in working with local communities to enhance levels of
   participation and consultation, and to ensure project content and design to meet local needs, has been
   a great success.




                                               - 63 -

Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents

The following is a list of key documents relating to GUEP:

     1. Project feasibility studies and project proposal

     2. Water Resources Master Plan for Nanning

     3. Water Resources Master Plan for Guilin

     4. Updated Urban Development Plan for Guilin

     5. Staff Appraisal Report

     6. Loan Agreement

     7. Development Credit Agreement

     8. Project Agreement

     9. Mission Aide Memoires and Back-to- Office reports

     10. Implementation Status Reports

     11. Semi-annual Project Progress Reports

     12. Nanning Pollution Source Control Program Implementation Report (Nanning EPB) (January

     20, 2008)




                                                 - 64 -

MAPS
CH29651R, CH28799R, CH28800R and CH36180




                                     - 65 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                1   Jiefang Road                                                 CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                2   Renmin Road                              GUANGXI URBAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                3   Beining Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                4   Gaofeng Road                     ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
                                                                    R.
                                                             Xinxu                                                                                                                              5   Gonghe Road                          NANNING COMPONENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (a) EXISTING FACILITIES:
.                                                                                                                                    Beihu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WATER TREATMENT PLANTS

                                                                                                                                          Road                                                                                                      WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
                  XINXU/KELI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SEWER NETWORK COVERAGE

                         AREA                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (b) COMPLETED CONSTRUCTION UNDER BANK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FINANCED PROJECT:
                        Xixiangtang                                                                                          CHAOYANG
                                                                                                                    Yo                                                                                                                              ORIGINAL PROPOSED SEWERAGE COMPONENTS
                                     Road                                                                             Hai
                                                                                                                                   AREA                                                                                                                 - WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
                   Chengcun                                                                 Road
                                                                                     Mingxiu                             Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        - DAKENGKOU PUMPING STATIONS FOR
                                                                                                                                                                  ZHUPAI          Rd.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WASTERWATER, STORM WATER AND
                                                                                                                                                                           Changan                                                                       REFRESHING CHAOYANG STREAM
                                                                  Xijiao
                                                                              ERKENG                                                                              STREAM                                                                                - SEWER NETWORK COVERAGE
                                                                                                                          Rd.
                                                                                                                                Rd.                             Rd.
                                                                              STREAM                                                                                                                                                                ADDITIONAL SEWERAGE COMPONENTS
                                                                                                      Zhonghua
                                                                                                                   Huangdong                             Mingzhu                                                                                        - STORM SEWER NETWORK COVERAGE
                                                                                                      Rd.                     Stream                                      Rd.                           Langdong
                                                                                                                                      3
                                          Y o                            Xinyang                                                                                    Dongge                               WWTP                                           - SANITARY SEWER NETWORK COVERAGE
                                                                                       Road    Huangxi Chaoyang 2                                  Rd.
                                              n                                                                                               Minle                                                    200,000m3/d
                                                g                                                                   1         4                                                                                                                 (c) FUTURE COMPONENTS:

                                                                                           Erkeng                                               5                                         Lake                                                      2015 SEWER NETWORK COVERAGE
                                                                                         Stream                           Beida
                                                                      Zhongrao                          Dakengkou                 Rd.
                                                                                                                      PS
                                                             R                                                                                          NANHU LAKE
                                                                i                                                                                                                                                                                BUILT-UP AREAS
                                                                 v                                                                                                                  hu
                                                                   e                                                   Rd.
                                                                    r                                                                                                            an
                                                                                                                                                                              N                                                                  MAIN ROADS AND STREETS
 CHAO
                                                                                                        Jiangnan                                                                                                                                 RIVERS
                                                               Wuyi
                                                                           Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M O N G O L I A                    L                       JILIN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     O
                                                                                                                                                   Lingtie                       Stream                                                                             G                 LIAONING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                O                              DEM. PEOPLE'S
                                                                                    Henan               .dR         Tingzi   R.                                            Zhupai                                                                            M        BEIJING                  REP. OF KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Beijing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                           naugnaiJ                                                                                                                             N   E                         TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                              Rd.                                                                                                      HEBEI                        REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                      Baisha                                                                                         XIA                                            KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHANXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G                      SHANDONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IN                                        Yellow

                                                                                                                         Jiangnan                                                                                           QINGHAI              N                                           Sea

                                                                                                                          WWTP                                                                                                             GANSU                    HENAN           JIANGSU
                                                                  Baisha Rd.                                          240,000m3/d                                                                                                                       SHAANXI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ANHUI
                                                                                                                                  Shuitang                                                                                                                                                  SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                    Nahong
                                                                                                                    Channel                                                                                                                                        HUBEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SICHUAN                                                        E a s t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ZHEJIANG
                                                                        TINGZI/SHUITANG                                                       R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      XIZANG                     CHONGQING                                          C h i n a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JIANGXI                   S e a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HUNAN
                                                                                 RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                            FUJIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GUIZHO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (see IBRD 28799R)         (see IBRD 29561R)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Guilin                            TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    YUNNAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GUANGXI      GUANGDONG

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Nanning         HONG KONG                        IBRD
     JUNE        This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                            Area of mapMACAO
                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                                                                                                                                      ANMAR           VIETNAM                                                               28800R
                 on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                                                                                                                     LAO                                     South
         2008                                                                                                                                                                 0          1            2          3               MY
                 judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                                                                                                                                                 PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DEM.                     HAINAN       China Sea
                 acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                            KILOMETERS                THAILAND           REP.                                                PHILIPPINES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 28799R


                    This map was produced by the
                    Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                     BUILT-UP AREAS
                    The boundaries, colors, denominations
                    and any other information shown on                                                                                                                                                                     MAIN ROADS
                    this map do not imply, on the part of
                    The World Bank Group, any judgment                                                                                                                                                                     SECONDARY ROADS
                    on the legal status of any territory, or
                    any endorsement or acceptance of                                                                                                                                                                       RIVERS
                    such boundaries.
                                                                                                                             NORTH         EAST                                                                            COUNTY BOUNDARY

                                                                                                                                    AREA                                                                                   PREFECTURE BOUNDARY



                                                                                                                                                                              River
                                                                                     River




                                                                 Beichang WWTP                                                                                 Li
                                                                                                                                     Qingfeng
                                                                 (to be expanded                                                     Pumping
                                                                under the project)                                                   Station




                                                                       ohua
                                                                     Ta                                 Gui
                                                                                                        Lake

                                                                                                   ZHONGNAN
                                                                                                        AREA
                                                                                                         Rong
                                                                                                         Lake


                     km.                          Q I N T A N
                                                  Q I N T A N                                                                      River   EASTERN
Landfill,                                                                                                Sha
                        20                           A R E A
                                                     A R E A                                            Lake                                 AREA
                                                             Jianshan
         Chongkou         approx.
                 oT                                      Solid Waste
                                                    Transfer Station

                                                                  Tiexi Small Area                                      odong
                                                                      Improvement                                    Xia

                                                               Nanxi
                                                                     River



                                                                           Mantoushan
                                                                     Pumping Station
                                                                                                                                                                                         Eastern
                                                                                                                                                                                         WWTP
                                                   CHINA
                                     GUANGXI URBAN                                                ZHONGNAN
ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                                                                                     AREA
                                    GUILIN COMPONENT
                                               (a) EXISTING FACILITIES:

                                                 WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANTS

                                                 SEWER NETWORK COVERAGE

                                                 PRESSURE NETWORK COVERAGE                                                                                 No.4 WWTP
                                               (b) COMPLETED FACILITIES UNDER BANK                                           Southern
                                               FINANCED PROJECT:                                                                 WWTP
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Pingshan
                                                 ORIGINAL PROPOSED SEWERAGE COMPONENTS                                                                                                              Composting
                                                   - PUMPING STATIONS                                                                                                                               Plant

                                                   - WASTE TRANSFER STATION

                                                   - SEWER NETWORK COVERAGE                                                                                                                                                      Li   River
                                                   - CATCHMENT AREA BOUNDARIES

                                                   - DREDGING AND SEWERING                                                    0             1                                 2                                     River
                                                                                                                                        KILOMETERS
                                                 ADDITIONAL SEWERAGE COMPONENTS

                                                   - SEWER NETWORK COVERAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Xiangsi
                                                 SMALL AREA IMPROVEMENT SITE

                                                   To Longsheng                                To Rongjiang    Lingchuan                                                      M O N G O L I A                         L                      JILIN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G                  LIAONING
                   0                       5                                                                                                                                                                  N
                                                                                                   L I N G C H U A N                                                                                         O                               DEM. PEOPLE'S
                                 KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                              M          BEIJING                  REP. OF KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Beijing
                                                                                                                                                                                            N    E  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HEBEI                       REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                             SHANXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHANDONG        Yellow
                                           Jiang                                                                                                                                              NINGXI
                                                                                                                                                                      QINGHAI                                                              Sea
                                         Yi                                                               Jiang                                                                        GANSU
                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHAANXI      HENAN            JIANGSU
                                                                                                        Li
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ANHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHANGHAI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                HUBEI
                                       Lingui          L I N G U I                                        Guilin                                                                   SICHUAN                                                         E a s t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ZHEJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                 XIZAN                       CHONGQING                                            C h i n a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JIANGXI                   S e a
                                                                                                                                                                                                             HUNAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FUJIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                             GUIZHO
                                                                                                                                                                                           Area of map            (see IBRD 29561R)
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Guilin                               TAIWA
                                                                                                                                                                              YUNNAN
                                                                                    Area of                                                                                                           GUANGXI      GUANGDONG
                                                                        Xicheng     main map                                                                                                             Nanning           HONG KONG

                                                    Chongkou               WWTP                                              Li                  To                                                    (see IBRD         MACAO
                                                                                                                                                   Xingping           ANMAR              VIETNAM       28800R)
                                                       Landfill                                                                Jiang
                                                                                             G U I L I N                                                                                                                      South
                                                                                                                                                                           MY        LAO
                                                                                                                                                                                   PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                    DEM.                    HAINAN         China Sea
                    To Rongshui, Liuzhou                                                  To Yangshuo                                                         THAILAND               REP.                                                 PHILIPPINES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JUNE 2008

            Pingguo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 36180


 PINGGUO
                                                                                                                                                                                             SHANGLIN                                                                                                                        CHINA
                                                                                                                  W U M I N G                                                                                                                                                                      GUANGXI URBAN
                    You                                                                                                                                                                                              Binyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Binyang                                                                ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
                       Jiang                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GUILIN COMPONENT
                Long'an
                Long'an                                                                                                                  Wuming
                                                                                                                                           uming                                                                                                                                                  LOCATION DIAGRAM OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Binyang                     B I N Y A N G                                                    NANNING SMALL AREA

                                                                                                                ZHONGLIANG SMALL AREA,                                                                                                                                                                IMPROVEMENT SITES
                                                                                                                LEZHOU SMALL,
                                                                                                                HE'AN SMALL AREA AREA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SMALL AREA IMPROVEMENT SITES
                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                               Wuming                                                                                                                                                                 EXPRESSWAYS
                                                                                   NINGCUN SMALL AREA,
                                           To Long'an                                  DALIN SMALL AREA                              To                                                                                                                                                                               NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
                                                                                                                                  Wuming
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SECONDARY ROADS
DAXIN                                                        XINJIE SMALL AREA                You Jian                                                                                                                                                                                                                RAILROADS
                                                                                                     g                                              JIANZHENG SMALL AREA                                                                                                                                              MAIN TOWNS
                                                                     Tanluo
                                                                      anluo                      Jinling
                                                                                                 Jinling                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROVINCE CAPITAL
                                                                                                               HENGYANG SMALL AREA
                                                            YANGMEI SMALL AREA                                                                                                                       CHANGTANG SMALL AREA
                                                                                                                                       Hengyang
                                                                                                                                       Hengyang                                                                                                                                                                       RIVERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To                                                                          DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                             Tanluo
                                                                              anluo                   Jiangxi
                                                                                                      Jiangxi                                                                                                                          Laibin  YongJiang                                                              COUNTY BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                   Jiang        Changtang
                                                                                                                                                                                                Changtang                                                                                                             PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
                                                    XIALENG SMALL AREA                       Jiangxi
                                                                                             Jiangxi                                          NANNINGNANNING                   Yong                              Nanyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Nanyang                                  HENG
                                                           ZHIXIN SMALL AREA                          Jiangxi
                                                                                                      Jiangxi


     CHONGZUO                     JIUPO SMALL AREA, GENZHU SMALL AREA,                                                                                                                     Liuxu
                                                                                                                                                                                           Liuxu                              NANYANGJIE SMALL AREA
                                    NAHU SMALL AREA, TANME SMALL AREA,

        SHI                     MAZISHE SMALL AREA, SONGCUN SMALL AREA,                 Jiangxi
                                                                                        Jiangxi            TANPU SMALL AREA,

                  ZuoJiang                            MUCUN SMALL AREA                                     NAZHU SMALL AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                 LIUXU SMALL AREA

                                                                           To
                                                         Fusui
                                                         Fusui            Fusui     TONGNING SMALL AREA                            Wuxu
                                                                                                                                     uxu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0                                  10                        20

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KILOMETERS

                                                                                                                                                  N A N N I N G                             S H I
                                                                        To                                                                                                                                                                                                                   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                     Nigming                               Suxu
                                                                                                           Suxu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lingshan                                      shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                          OUCUN SMALL AREA

                             F U S U I                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Lingshan                                                           RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FEDERATION
                                                                             To                               Yan'an
                                                                                                               an'an
                                                                          Nigming                                                                                                                                                                           KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                  HEILONGJIANG

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LINGSHAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MONGOLIA                                                       JILIN                 Sea
                                                                                                             POLOU SMALL AREA               Datang
                                                                                                                                            Datang                                         To                                                                                                                                                                                      of
                                                                                                                                                                                         Qinzhou                                                            KYRGYZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REP.                                                                                     LIAONING D.P.R. OF        Japan
                                                                                                                                                             DATANG SMALL AREA                                                                                         XINJIANG                                                                                   KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MONGOL          BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NEI        BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JAPAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HEBEI  TIANJIN             REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SHANDONG      Yellow
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     QINGHAI                                    SHANXI                       Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NINGXIA                                 JIANGSU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GANSU          SHAANXI HENAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ANHUI         SHANGHAI     E a s t

                                                                                                                                                                                        To                                                                                  XIZANG                                             HUBEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SICHUAN                                                ZHEJIANG        C h i n a
                                                                                                                                                                                      Qinzhou
                                                                                       SHANGSI                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CHONGQING  HUNAN                                        S e a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JIANGXIFUJIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GUIZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (see IBRD 29561R)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (see IBRD 29561R)
                                                                                                                                                             To                                      QINZHOU                                                      National Capital                   (see IBRD 28799R)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (see IBRD 28799R)                                     TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Guilin
                                                                                                                                                          Qinzhou                                             SHI                                                                             YUNNAN       GUANGXI                      GUANGDONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Province Boundaries           Area of Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Area of Map                                                       P h i l i p p i n e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HONG KONG
                                                                               ShangsiShangsi                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (see IBRD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (see IBRD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  International Boundaries                               28800R)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         28800R)           MACAO                        S e a

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         B a y o f                 LAO     VIETNAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P.D.R.                HAINAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        B e n g a l                                                                              PHILIPPINES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JUNE 2008

