                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                     Report No: 28775-IN

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IDA-27740 TF-28729)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF XDR 90.1 MILLION
                                  US$ 142 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                          REPUBLIC OF INDIA

                                                 FOR A

                                        HYDROLOGY PROJECT




                                              May 12, 2004




Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Regional Office

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                             (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                            Currency Unit = INR
                                                  Rs. 34.7 = US$ (Effective 1998)
                                                    US$ 1 = Rs. 45.51 (Effective 2003)

                                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                                April 1   March 31

                                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AQC      Analytic Quality Control                          HLTG          High Level Technical Group
ARG      Autographic Rain Gauge                            HP            Hydrology Project
AP       Andhra Pradesh                                    HYMOS        Hydrological Modeling System (software)
AQC      Analytic Quality Control                          HLTG         High Level Technical Group
ARG      Autographic Rain Gauge                            HP           Hydrology Project
AP       Andhra Pradesh                                    HYMOS        Hydrological Modeling System (software)
Ch       Chattisgarh                                       IA           Implementing Agency
CPCB     Central Pollution Control Board                   IMD          India Meteorological Department
CGWB     Central Ground Water Board                        Kar          Karnataka
CWC      Central Water Commission                          Ke           Kerala
CWPRS    Central Water and Power Research Station          MP           Madhya Pradesh
DPC      Data Processing Center                            Mah          Maharashtra
DSC      Data Storage Center                               MOWR         Ministry of Water Resources
DWLR     Digital Water Level Recorder                      NIH          National Institute of Hydrology
FCS      Full Climatic Station                             NCC          National Coordination Committee
GEC      Groundwater Estimation Committee                  NLSC         National Level Steering Committee
GEMS     Groundwater and Environment Management            NWA          National Water Academy
         System (software)
GIS      Geographic Information System                     Or           Orissa
GOI      Government of India                               PCS          Project Coordination Secretariat
GON      Government of Netherlands                         SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
Guj      Gujarat                                           SLCC         State Level Coordination Committee
GW       Groundwater                                       SRG          Standard Rain Gauge
GWDES    Groundwater Data Entry System                     SW           Surface Water
GWDES_WQ Groundwater Data Entry System for Water           SWDES        Surface Water Data Entry System
         Quality
HDUG     Hydrological Data User Group                      SWQAA        State Water Quality Assessment Authority
HIDAP    Hydrologic Institutional Development              TA           Technical Assistance
         Action Plan
HIDR     Hydrologic Institutional Development Review       TN            Tamil Nadu
HIN      Hydrological Information Needs                    WISDOM       Water Information System and Data Online
                                                                        Management (software)
HIS      Hydrological Information System                   WQ           Water Quality



                                          Vice President:    Praful C. Patel
                                         Country Director    Michael F. Carter
                                         Sector Manager      Constance A. Bernard
                    Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           E.V. Jagannathan

                                            INDIA
                                 HYDROLOGY PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Borrower's Detailed Comments                                            31
Annex 9. Detailed Comments of the Royal Netherlands Embassy                      37
Annex 10. Borrower's Project Completion Report                                   42
Annex 11. Borrowers Summary of Project Operation Plan                            51

Project ID: P010485                                                  Project Name: HYDROLOGY PROJECT
Team Leader: E. V. Jagannathan                                       TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 12, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: HYDROLOGY PROJECT                                        L/C/TF Number: IDA-27740; TF-28729
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (48%); Sub-national government
                            administration (48%); Flood protection (4%)
                  Theme: Water resource management (P); Environmental policies and
                            institutions (P); Pollution management and environmental health (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/27/1993                                     Effective: 12/20/1995                12/20/1995
     Appraisal: 10/05/1994                                         MTR: 01/08/1999                  01/08/1999
      Approval: 08/22/1995                                      Closing: 03/31/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of INDIA/MOWR-CWC, CWB, CWPRS, NIH IMD and State
                                           agencies for surface and groundwater in Andhra Pradesh, Chattisgarh, Gujarat,
                                           Karnataka, Maharashtra. Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Tamil Nadu./Ministry of
                                           Water Resources
                      Other Partners:      Government of The Netherlands

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Joseph Wood
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              Heinz Vagen
Sector Manager:                 Gajanand Pathmanathan                          Shawki Barghouti
Team Leader at ICR:             E.V. Jagannathan                               J. Cunningham
ICR Primary Author:             M. Fitzpatrick; E. Lemaitre;
                                Thiruvengadachari; Rajagopalan
                                (FAO/CP)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1   The main objectives of the Hydrology Project (HP) were to: (a) improve organizational
arrangements for hydrological, hydro-meteorological and water quality data measurement, validation,
analysis and storage; (b) strengthen institutional and technical capabilities; (c) improve physical facilities
and services for hydrological, hydro-meteorological and water quality data measurement, validation and
analysis; and (d) improve the use of hydrological, hydro-meteorological and water quality data.

3.1.2   These objectives reflected Government priorities in the sector and were in line with the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy. They were consistent with the government strategy to evolve towards water
allocation criteria based on reliable hydrological analyses using sufficient and adequate data. They also
reflected the Bank's policies on water resources management and its strategies for the country's water
sector, with the development of a free-standing project focusing on the institutionalization of hydrological
data.

3.2 Revised Objective:
        The original objectives remained unchanged during implementation of the project, although shortly
after the original appraisal (July 1995), agreement was reached with the Government of the Netherlands to
grant-finance consulting services and overseas training. Karnataka state was also included under the Bank
loan, thus extending the project to full coverage of the river basins of peninsular India. Following the 1999
Mid-Term Review (MTR), internal adjustments were made to component activities to reflect evolving
experience and requirements, without modifying the project's objectives.

3.3 Original Components:
        The choice of components and their design was in line with the project's objectives as described
above. The overall project design correctly recognized the complexity of the institutional and managerial
implications of a project involving so many Implementing Agencies (IAs) at central and state levels, and
deliberately planned for some degree of flexibility within a broad, two-phase implementation framework.
The process approach was generally well-adopted and adjustments to the project's physical and financial
targets were relatively easily determined and implemented. However, this approach did require changes in
management culture­particularly related to annual planning­and the design specifically included the
development and application of planning/monitoring tools to complement and contribute to the normal,
regular budgetary planning process of the government departments concerned. Also, while the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) indicated that data collection and data use institutions should be separated, in
hindsight this may have been somewhat unrealistic, and even undesirable, given the Indian context. The
design could also have benefited from the inclusion, in the project activities, of data-related, value-addition
studies (see below at para. 8). Overall, the project design is rated as satisfactory.

3.4 Revised Components:
        Following the MTR, some adjustments were made to the project to take account of initial
administrative delays in implementation, local currency devaluation, falls in unit costs for information
technology (IT) hardware, and increased training provisions. These adjustments, while resulting in a
cancellation of SDR 15 million from the Credit, did not materially affect the components and reflected
more a reallocation among the disbursement categories to include an intensification of the hydrological
networks.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
No quality assessment of project design was made at entry although the SAR was subject to internal peer
review covering environment, irrigation and water resources, hydrology, informatics and institutional



                                                     - 2 -

aspects before endorsement. The project objectives and setting, including the process approach, were
appropriate at the project design stage and the SAR, considering the large number of IAs, was well
developed. However, in the SAR and subsequent project documentation, there was a certain lack of
consistency in the presentation of the project by components and sub-components and, to a lesser extent, by
detailed categories of expenditure (e.g. in the cost tables, the agencies are assigned as components and
sub-components appear to be of diverse importance). As a result, monitoring of project costs appears to
have focused more on implementing agencies and categories of expenditure, without monitoring costs by
components.     In addition, little attention was given to project outcomes and associated monitoring
indicators (including data use); this was not, however, a Bank requirement at the time the project was
prepared. Overall, at implementation completion report (ICR), the quality of project design is rated
satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1    Improve organizational arrangements for hydrological, hydro-meteorological and water
quality data measurement, validation, analysis and storage: Based on the progress made in the project,
the achievement of this objective is rated as satisfactory. The project at closure has established a paradigm
shift in arrangements for data collection, validation and storage, resulting in the development of a national
hydrological measurement network with standardized hydrological data collection and processing, and the
design and implementation of valid, comprehensive, interactive, easily-accessed and user-friendly databases
covering all important aspects of the hydrological cycle. The organizational arrangements for achieving
this objective have involved the constitution of a number of formal structures, generally in the form of
standing committees, the delineation of their roles and their empowerment through appropriate orders, and
monitoring and co-ordination of performance through a Project Co-ordination Secretariat (PCS), all formed
during the implementation period.      Five committees at the central government level (National Level
Steering Committee (NLSC), National Coordination Committee (NCC), High-Level Technical Group
(HLTG), Committee each on Training and R&D) and generally two committees at the state IA level were
formed (State Level Coordination Committee (SLCC) and procurement committee).                  Through these
standing committees' coordination and supporting arrangements, modifications to the existing protocol and
practices and revised organizational arrangements were introduced to the existing hydrology institutions.
These include the development of standardized procedures, protocols and specifications for data collection,
collation, analysis at different levels of agencies' hierarchy and storage, and the introduction of a
mechanism for inter- and intra-agency data validation. A common monitoring format, for data exchange,
management information system (MIS) I and MIS II, for process monitoring were developed and the
reports generated were intended to provide actionable measures for follow-up by the IAs. Even with
common procedures and protocols, it is noticeable that IAs led by championing managers have changed
their culture and performed better.

4.1.2    While these arrangements have largely helped in achieving the project's first objective, the
committees have generally not been fully successful in orchestrating collateral decisions in departments
outside the hydrology project, and the PCS had not been fully effective in driving these committees towards
this end. The result has been delays in procurement, in placing suitable staff, and in training due to state
governments' imposed restrictions on recruitment, staff transfers and travel, and sometimes purchases.

4.1.3    Overall, the organizational arrangements have succeeded in delivering a functioning hydrometric
system, and the achievement of this objective can be rated as satisfactory. However, it could have been
achieved earlier with more proactive coordination.




                                                     - 3 -

4.1.4    Strengthen institutional and technical capabilities: Based on the evident progress and solid
achievements made, this development objective has been achieved satisfactorily. To meet this objective, the
project financed: (i) technical assistance for planning and designing common procedures and training
curricula, and assisting with procurement and over-all implementation; (ii) incremental staff; (iii) staff
training; and (iv) adequate infrastructure in the form of buildings, vehicles, equipment, and IT hardware
and software. As a result, institutions have been strengthened and the project has created an attitudinal
change and increased levels of commitment among data collection and processing staff, who have now
developed a visible stake as important elements in the improved Hydrological Information System (HIS).
The central government and state government departments dealing with hydrological data collection have
collaborated closely to rationalize their networks and to share data, and while this has yet to be fully
achieved it represents a noticeable improvement on pre-HP conditions. Agreed technical procedures for
installing and operating a range of hydrological and hydro-meteorological instruments, and collecting and
processing derived data, are embodied in a comprehensive set of manuals produced by the consultants in
consultation with the end users.      These manuals have been distributed widely and have received
considerable appreciation. All concerned users are now using components of a generally-accepted and
accessible HIS, which generally enjoys wide management support in the states and appears to have
contributed to the development of state water policies. A large number of incremental staff has been
positioned, mostly through redeployment, and all staff has been trained through extensive training
programs, including a training-of-trainers approach. State-level and national help desks have also been
introduced to support HIS users in regard to software and measuring instruments. A large measure of
success was achieved through the Technical Assistance (TA) with respect to supporting these institutional
strengthening measures.

4.1.5    However, in spite of the evident progress and solid achievements made, there do remain some areas
of concern. These include: a general lack of formal, rigorous quality assurance at all levels, and third party
independent audits; inadequate annual and long-term planning for HIS within the state agencies; incomplete
deployment of HIS components, seriously affecting the flow of information; a generally inadequate system
of technical support for all levels of staff involved; the need for more radical changes in institutional
practices; a need for further education and advanced training to increase understanding and appreciation of
HIS-based products (hydrology), even though adequate training has been provided to carry out the basic
activities involved in HIS; and the need for agencies to network with other organizations outside the
hydrology domain who can play a complementary role.

4.1.6    Improve physical facilities and services for hydrological, hydro-meteorological and water
quality data measurement, validation and analysis: Overall, in view of the physical facilities already
established and operational and the general level of hydrology services created, the achievement of the
development objective is rated as satisfactory.             At project closure, rational networks for
hydro-meteorological data and surface water (SW) and groundwater (GW) data collection, including water
quality (WQ), have been designed and implemented. Measuring instruments for data collection have been
procured and are in use. A water quality monitoring network of sampling sites, laboratories with
state-of-art equipment and standard sample collection and analytical procedures covering a wider spectrum
of parameters in the SW and GW domains has been introduced for the first time in many agencies.
Hydrological information is now being collected systematically and processed and archived in data banks in
a standardized manner, and is accessible to different users. Valuable historic data has been computerized
for the first time in all agencies and partly validated. Improved communication systems between HIS
stakeholders have been established and are functioning. The increasing extension of HP systems and
practices to non-HP locations at both central (e.g.. Central Groundwater Board) and state levels (e.g.,
Madhya Pradesh) indicates some mainstreaming and endorsement within the agencies.




                                                    - 4 -

4.1.7    However, the shortfall and long term sustainability of SW observers in a few agencies is of concern
as it could affect basic data collection; additionally, the significant shortfall in IT and WQ specialists in
some agencies may impact data storage functions and sustained WQ data generation. Also, a large number
(20%) of Digital Water Level Recorders (DWLR) of one brand in four agencies (Gujarat, Maharashtra,
Tamil Nadu and Central Groundwater Board ) have been non-functional; although local solutions have
been identified to address some of the technical shortcomings, including short interval manual observations.
However, the shortfall risks impacting the collection of high frequency GW level observations, particularly
needed for aquifer characterization. Other concerns relate to the delays in full implementation of the
dedicated GW data processing and analysis software, Groundwater and Environment Management System
(GEMS), and the dedicated database and data storage software, Water Information System and Data
Online Management (WISDOM). A seamless link between the data processing software in SW and GW
domains and the data storage software remains to be ensured.


4.1.8    Improve the use of data: Even with the delays in HIS in the project period, and the limited time
for improving data dissemination and stimulating demand both within and outside concerned government
agencies, this development objective is rated as satisfactory based on the achievement of the agencies. All
agencies have established Hydrology Data User Groups (HDUG) through formal government orders to
ensure that the HIS is demand-driven and sustainable. Membership is generally broad-based and has
evolved during implementation to include non-governmental users (private and NGOs) in addition to
governmental, semi-governmental and academic institutions. At project closure, most states have used the
HDUG forum to create awareness of HIS data while Maharashtra has completed a Hydrological
Information Needs (HIN) assessment and conducted user satisfaction surveys. In some states (eg. Tamil
Nadu, Maharashtra.), mass awareness campaigns at village level, mostly related to GW and WQ, have
raised the profile of HIS. Most agencies have undertaken steps to promote awareness of the HIS data
among users through a range of media, including newsletters, year-books, national-to-village level
campaigns, issue-based pamphlets and brochures in local languages, mass media, workshops, seminars,
exhibitions and web sites. HIS data is currently generally accessible to the user community, except in
situations where data is considered sensitive and higher-level authorization is required (particularly SW
data). National guidelines on pricing of data have been approved and most agencies apply these. Data
catalogues, data search results and request letters facilitate access to data archives, and data is supplied to
users in hard or soft (electronic) form by most agencies.           Data is supplied to governmental and
non-governmental users to support rational water management decisions and, in some states, the use of HIS
data has been made mandatory in the concerned planning and design departments. Most of the agencies are
also monitoring data requests which can be used to characterize patterns of data use; WQ and GW data has
been relatively more community-based than SW data, and WQ monitoring for point industrial pollution has
been more widespread than for such non-point pollution as pesticides.

4.1.9    Use of HIS data in the IAs is accelerating with some states reporting policy and administrative
actions (supporting the GW regulatory authority in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and
Tamil Nadu; developing a comprehensive GW bill in Tamil Nadu; developing the proposed Maharashtra.
Water Planning and Regulation Authority), as well as technical inputs (drought monitoring and drought
proofing in Andhra Pradesh; planning lower Kolar, Parwathi and Kalisindh dams in Madhya Pradesh;
river-flow diversion studies in Mahadayi river between Goa and Karnataka; revising river-basin master
plan in Madhya Pradesh; action against industrial polluters in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and other
states; and identifying high fluoride and nitrate affected areas in many states), and investments (HIS
triggering the ambitious "Neeru-Meeru" program: Rs. 20 billion with a direct investment of Rs. 80 millions
for additional DWLRs at each micro-basin).


                                                     - 5 -

4.1.10 However, while data dissemination and use is clearly increasing, it is noted that the planning and
design units in many SW agencies are yet to routinely use HIS data for improved hydrologic planning,
design and long-term water resource management. Policy and administrative actions and investments
directly resulting from an appreciation and use of HIS data remain opportunistic. HDUG meetings have
mostly been conducted as a means of informing potential users about HIS rather than exploring, in a
dynamic and participatory manner, feedback for improved HIS management. In addition, the meetings
have generally been held at state capital level, perhaps limiting levels of user participation, and have
usually been chaired by the Secretary of the state department, which has also adversely affected the
frequency and regularity of the meetings. Few of the SW agencies have conducted awareness-raising
campaigns which could contribute to lowering the emotive content in water disputes at local to state levels.
In spite of the suggestions made by several Bank supervision missions, there is an absence of studies
examining the value-addition from the use of HIS, and this limits critical benefit analysis and explicit
delineation of data value. Focused marketing efforts are required for large-scale use of HIS data through
targeted user campaigns, regional and thematic HDUGs, formal linkages with national and state entities
including planning and regulatory authorities and programs, and customized data offerings for user
segments.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1    Overall the project achieved the outputs satisfactorily in all its components albeit with some delays
during the first half of the project period due to the reasons discussed in sections 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3 below.
This was made up by extending the project to December 31, 2003 to operationalize specialized software
and hydrometry equipment.

4.2.2    Upgrading hydrology and data management facilities (US$92 million SAR, US$77 million
latest estimate): Overall, the output achievements of this component is considered to be satisfactory. A
total of 916 river gauge stations, 7912 observation wells and 436 hydro-meteorological stations have been
set up. GW networks are now providing observations that are representative in space as well as geologic
formations, penetrate deeper aquifers, and monitor water level fluctuations at higher frequency. With the
installation of DWLRs at more than 97% of targeted wells aquifer characterization has become possible for
the first time. The collection and processing of WQ data, has now been substantially strengthened with the
creation of a significant increase in analytical capacity (up to some 56 parameters, covering bacterial,
physical and chemical pollutants - including heavy metals and pesticides). Central Pollution Control Board
has accredited one HP laboratory as a national water testing facility and WQ data is also supporting
regulatory action at community-level (eg. Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala), state-level through the State
Water Quality Assurance Authority (SWQAA)s and, at national level, through the Water Quality
Assurance Authority (WQAA).

4.2.3    The dedicated hydrological data entry and processing software (Surface Water Data Entry System
(SWDES), Groundwater Data Entry Software (GWDES)) and data processing software (HYMOS and
GEMS) have been deployed at 390 data centers and data storage software (WISDOM) at 28 data storage
centers among all agencies to ensure standardization and data transfer. Current data is regularly entered,
processed and archived. Valuable historic data has been computerized for the first time in many agencies,
and primary validated. Geographic Information System (GIS) data sets of selected core themes with
standard coding schemes were included at the MTR stage to support spatial analysis of HIS data.
Communication systems have been formalized and are functioning between all state levels concerned with
data collection, processing and storage, between national and state data storage centers, and between data
storage centers and data users.




                                                     - 6 -

4.2.4    While the non-functional DWLRs are likely to affect the collection of high frequency GW
observations, this is not expected to have a significant overall impact on the GW data within the HIS.
GWDES is largely able to satisfy GW agencies' requirements and data dissemination is carried out with
existing software. At project closure, SWDES, GWDES and Hydrologic Modeling System (HYMOS) are
in full use, although GEMS and WISDOM are not fully operational and training assistance in these two
software will be particularly required.

4.2.5    Institutional Strengthening (US$72 million at SAR; US$59 million latest estimate) Overall,
the output achievement of this component is rated as satisfactory. The project has achieved considerable
measure of success in the design and development of the HIS and the TA support was particularly
important for the development of standardized HIS manuals and protocols for data entry, validation and
storage. These also include protocols for WQ analyses and AQC exercises. Central Water Commission
and Central Groundwater Board have extended the HIS software and practices for use in non-HP states,
and several state IAs are adopting these practices for other programs in the state. Such mainstreaming of
project practices within the IAs bodes well for sustainability after project closure. National and state
helpdesks are providing support for software and measuring instruments. National guidelines on data
pricing have been approved and most IAs are already following these. The training programs have been
another major success and all agencies have exceeded their original SAR targets. Emphasis was also
placed on Training-of-trainers and the IAs' training needs after project completion appear likely to be met,
with finalized training calendars for the coming financial year included in their post project operation plans.
The national R&D Evaluation Committee approved 11 R&D studies undertaken, often jointly, by National
Institute of Hydrology, Central Water and Power Research Station and agencies at central and state levels.
These made use of HIS data for such topics as impact on GW of rainwater harvesting and watershed
management, location of artificial recharge structures, seawater intrusion, etc. Four reservoir sedimentation
surveys have been undertaken using advanced bathymetric equipment, Some states (eg. Gujarat) have
compared the results of such surveys with those using remote sensing techniques and recommended remote
sensing use as a complementary survey technique. Overall, institutional support has helped the IAs to
acquire some brand equity, to increase their visibility and improve their profile. This has led to an
influencing of water-related policy decisions, with a number of states enacting bills, declaring water
policies and generally moving into a regulatory regime. The National Planning Commission has also
recognized the need for a quality data base and R&D studies and, in the Tenth Five-Year Plan, this need
has been specifically articulated in the chapter on Irrigation, Flood Control and Command Area
Development.

4.2.6    The provision for envisioning, strategizing and planning the HIS through such mechanisms as
Hydrologic Institutional Development Review (HIDR) and Hydrological Institutional Development Action
Plan (HIDAP), could be responded fully only by very few states (e.g. Maharashtra. and Karnataka).
HIDAP was introduced to all agencies but remained generally unappreciated as it did not fit easily into
their organizational culture. IA staff generally viewed such tools as cumbersome, statistics-driven and not
helpful. MIS I and MIS II were intended to replace HIDAP, but in practice they have evolved into more of
a means for reporting performance rather than for planning future activities. There is an urgent need to
develop an acceptable planning tool to sustain HIS.

4.2.7    Due to a general ban on new recruitment, incremental staff provided by the project was, in most
cases, provided through redeployment. However, the shortage of WQ specialists was not able to be
addressed through such a mechanism and this will affect WQ data. Another weakness has been the lack of
effective inter-agency validation, particularly for river gauge data, though some progress is reported by
state agencies in hydro-meteorology and GW data exchange with India Meteorological Department and
Central Groundwater Board, respectively. All these measures will help to create a platform for interaction



                                                    - 7 -

and confidence building. With regard to WQ, three rounds of Analytical Quality Control (AQC) exercises
between the agencies have been completed and areas for improvement have been identified, including
compliance with established procedures. A final matter of concern is that the R&D studies did not appear
to respond to a coherent R&D agenda and were insufficiently replicated at different locations, thus limiting
their use in operational applications. The design of the R&D program should have identified broad R&D
thrust areas, and conducted a nationally-coordinated research program within each thrust area. This would
have helped to complement and supplement the strengths of participating agencies. Furthermore, such
studies should involve academic institutions to collaborate with HP agencies.

4.2.8   Overall, the project has performed satisfactorily though in view of participation of a large number
of agencies the achievement across the agencies has been rather uneven. The major cause being the
administrative, organizational and work environment in which the IAs carry out their tasks. In general,
since HP activities were more closely aligned to the existing functions of the GW agencies, these appear to
have benefited more strongly from the institutional strengthening activities. The major constraints faced by
HP IAs included: (a) an inability to recruit specialized incremental staff and having to use redeployed staff;
(b) frequent transfers of personnel at top management and at operational levels (latter more pronounced in
the SW agencies); (c) resistance to HIDAP and cultural change workshops; and (d) delays in procurement
of equipment, software packages and in construction of buildings in the initial stages of the project.
However, across all IAs, awareness has been created, decision-makers have been sensitized to the needs
and capacities of HIS, pride has been developed among operators and standard processes and protocols for
hydrology data gathering, validation, archiving and dissemination have been created.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
        Not applicable since no economic analysis was presented in the SAR as it was considered,
correctly, that the quantification of overall benefits would not be feasible given the project's focus on
hydrological data and the impossibility of estimating the global value of both the country's historic data
and the additional information generated by the HIS. However, limited and well-focused case studies could
be undertaken, as described at para. 8.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
        The impact of institutional development can be assessed at four levels: (a) impact within the project
execution agency; (b) impact on the Government; (c) impact on the HIS users; and (d) impact on the
general citizen. The institutional development activities had a very high impact in the IAs. Champions were
created, new work protocols were institutionalized and, in general, scientific attitudes in relation to
gathering, analysis and use of data were developed. This instilled a sense of pride, achievement and
ownership among the project IAs. While the magnitude of this impact varied among the IAs, in general the
project achieved its goal. Similarly, in states such as Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, a good
deal was achieved in terms of impact on the general public thorough mass contact programmes, jal utsavs
and the media. The project did not, however, have adequate impact within the government and among more
professional hydrological data users. Champions within the government system, outside the IAs, did not
emerge and the response to the HDUGs has been lukewarm. It should also be noted that the TA consultants
assumed that the institutional strengthening component would, through the mechanisms of the HIDR and
HIDAP, develop an impact strategy, but this failed to materialize.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome



                                                     - 8 -

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
         The influence of outside factors has been mixed: the Bank's role has been a positive contribution to
the outcome of the project, but natural disasters (the 1999 cyclone in Orissa, and the 2001 earthquake
followed by the 2002 drought in Gujarat) have disrupted project implementation and delayed progress due
to budgetary constraints and diversion of staff.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
         Project start-up was delayed by some 6-8 months due to late administrative approvals both at the
centre (Expenditure Finance Committee) and at state levels, with the central coordinating body, PCS, set up
in April 1996 and inadequate budgets contributing to little implementation being achieved during FY
1995/96. Incremental staff appointments were delayed due to a general ban on recruitment in most
governments and this was aggravated by a general shortage of specialized staff with IT and WQ skills,
causing further implementation delays.        The frequent re-posting or reassignment to other priority
programmes of HP staff, both at senior management (often insufficiently committed to HP) and operational
levels (particularly affecting SW-related activities), also inhibited the build-up of full institutional strengths
among the IAs and had a negative impact on project planning, management, coordination and
implementation. During the early part of the project period, the budgetary process often led to late releases
of the Letter of Credits causing delays in implementation, especially for civil works in the pre-monsoon
period.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
         In addition to the factors described above, HIS staff in several IAs have had additional
responsibilities causing implementation delays. In many cases, IAs lacked experience of the procurement
procedures required by World Bank and early training for IA finance and accounting staff was not
provided; this contributed to delays in procurement. The internal review mechanisms developed by the
project, including pro-active central coordination, were not rigorously or regularly applied, and this
contributed to the IAs not achieving the project activities on schedule (eg. network finalization,
procurement of sophisticated equipment, software acquisition). Equally, project implementation was also
impeded by a lack of both knowledge management through periodic peer group interactions in semi-annual
or annual workshops and the use of the MIS for progress monitoring and planning - instead of just
reporting to PCS. In particular, the reaction of most IAs to the cultural change workshops implemented
towards project closure was lackluster and failed to generate attitudinal changes and increased ownership
within the IAs concerned

5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1    Project costs: SAR total costs were estimated at US$180.9 million (INR 6626 million). IDA was
to provide a credit of SDR 90.1 million (79% of totals costs) and the rest (US$17.4 million) was to be
financed by the Government of Netherlands (GON), Government of India (GOI) and the state governments;
the Netherlands' contribution being in the form of grant-financing for consultancy services and overseas
trainings. After the mid-term review, it was decided to cancel SDR 15 million (16.6% of the loan) due to
slow disbursement at this stage. According to the latest estimate, total costs, including the GON grant, will
be US$152 million (compared to US$181 million at appraisal). Excluding the GON grant, the total cost in
local currency is some INR 6050 million (100% of costs at appraisal). However, this figure contains wide
variations in the budget allocation by implementing agency. Periodic revisions allowed a high level of
flexibility. Thus, several IAs (Central Water and Power Research Station, Andhra Pradesh GW, Gujarat.
GW, Madhya Pradesh SW, Maharashtra, SW and GW) disbursed more than 120% of the SAR estimate in
rupees terms, with a maximum of 250%, whereas others (Ministry of Water Resources, India
Meteorological Department, National Institute of Hydrology, Andhra Pradesh SW, Kerala SW and GW,
and Orissa SW) disbursed less than 80% of the appraisal estimate, with a minimum of 27%. Projects



                                                      - 9 -

costs at the states' level increased in rupees term (112% of appraisal estimate), whereas they decreased at
the level of the central agencies (77%).

5.4.2    The most noticeable change in expenditure pattern occurred for laboratory equipment (more than
200% of SAR estimates, in rupees terms) which reflected increasing concerns in WQ. Costs related to GW
network (124%) and buildings (125%) also increased significantly, whereas costs related to SW and
hydrology and hydro-meteorology networks (70% each), training (49%) and vehicles (79%) were
significantly reduced, due to optimization of the networks, an increased use of in-house and national-level
training, and a ban on the procurement of vehicles.

5.4.3    Project financing: Against the total available IDA Credit of SDR 75.1, after cancellation, the final
disbursement is SDR 70.8 million (94%). The contributions of the central and state governments, in rupees
terms, increased from 1,425 million (SAR estimate) to some 1,600 million at project closure due to the
extension of the project period and the resulting increase in salary and overhead costs. Overall, the
government contribution accounts for 26% of the project costs - excluding GON contribution - compared to
13% at SAR.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1    The sustainability of the project has been assessed in relation to a number of criteria, relating to
short-, medium- and long-term.          These factors encompass HIS use and demand, infrastructure,
organizational commitment and staff, and institutional processes. Overall the sustainability of the project is
rated as likely for the reasons explained below.

6.1.2    At closure, there is clear ownership among project leaders and middle level managers, annual
action plans have been developed, physical infrastructure has been completed and there is broad awareness
of and access to knowledge infrastructure (software, manuals, quality assurance procedures, help desks,
etc.). In addition, staff have been adequately trained to continue project operations and mechanisms for
continuing training are in place.       Most of the IAs have prepared post-project operation plans, with
associated budget submissions, and assurances have been given regarding the availability of budget lines
and financial approvals. Some reservations exist with regard to inter-agency validation, staff availability in
some agencies. Though agencies using such staff have assured them that they will continue to work on HIS
operations, doubts remain as to whether they will not be redeployed elsewhere, weak co-ordination
mechanisms, the lack of champions within the government and among more professional hydrological data
users, and the GEMS and WISDOM software, which has still to become fully operational. With increased
proactive coordination from PCS and appropriate leadership from central-level agencies, given the levels of
ownership and commitment and the availability of budgets, project sustainability in the short-term is rated
as likely.

6.1.3    In the medium-term, sustainability is determined by the way an organization is able to positively
anticipate and manage change, both in terms of people, infrastructure, and both emerging demands from, as
well as increasing numbers of, users, etc. Though most IAs do not currently fully meet the criteria that
ensure medium-term sustainability, there is clearly a base of competency within the organizations which,
building upon the training in HIDAP, HIDR, and cultural change workshops, etc., can acquire these
strengths in the next two years and grow into sustainable organizations. The potential for medium-term
sustainability is generally higher among GW agencies and, overall, in such states as Andhra Pradesh,
Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, and Maharashtra, with reasonable prospects in Madhya Pradesh and in Central
Water and Power Research Station, CGWB, National Institute of Hydrology and Central Water



                                                    - 10 -

Commission, although less so among other IAs. Hence, medium-term sustainability is rated as reasonably
likely.

6.1.4    In the long-term, sustainability is determined by an organization's ability to create, demonstrate
and maintain comparative value, even within a government system where departments compete for financial
resources. In this respect, while few of the IAs currently exhibit such an ability (possible exceptions being
Maharashtra and Karnataka which could be used as role models for other IAs), their continuing and
expanding operation over the medium-term could create a powerful group of users which would, in itself,
help to drive the agencies to acquire such strengths. Based on current indications, it is concluded that the
long-term sustainability of the hydrology project is likely only if the agencies do implement focused and
time-bound programs to develop and continually maintain these management/institutional capacities within
their organizations.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
         At the national level, the government has clearly indicated the importance it attaches to sustaining a
quality hydrological data base and the Tenth Five-Year Plan includes specific reference to this activity
under the fabric of R&D Studies: "For optimal utilization of the water resources and to ensure sustainable
development institutionalized arrangements are necessary to compile and update the data on availability
and utilization of surface and groundwater for various purposes and by sources in basins and sub-basins,
on a continuing basis. Further, personnel involved in the sector have to be adequately trained to improve
their knowledge and skills." At the level of the project, Post Project Operation Plans have been prepared by
all IAs and include the following measures: the NLSC will continue as an HIS Coordination Committee
supported by a Secretariat (ex-PCS); the SLCCs will also continue to function; state-level WQ Review
Committees have been established; all HIS-related activities have been included in the state departments'
annual action plans; provisions have been made in the IAs' budgetary requests for the continuing recurrent
costs under non-plan budget lines; and training posts/cells have been included in the budget allocations for
2004-05. Arrangements are also in hand to ensure continued software maintenance from the suppliers
(annual maintenance contract (AMC) for SWDES and HYMOS has been signed for one year with Delft
Hydraulics; AMCs for the next four years for GEMS and WISDOM have been enrered into) and Help
desks have been set up at central and state levels for assistance to users. A more focused, proactive and
supportive role will need to be played by PCS and other concerned central agencies to ensure that these
arrangements and other technical support to IAs are continued.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
         Project preparation was substantial with a wide and active participation of the national agencies,
bilateral agencies and several Bank and FAO/CP missions. With hindsight, preparation could have been
improved if adequate recognition had been included of the time required, given the complexity and scale of
the project, for initial institutional arrangements and development of ownership, network design and
staffing, and the project schedule appropriately planned.

7.2 Supervision:
         Bank supervision support has been of a high quality, in terms of scope, quality and timeliness.
There has been an excellent level of staff continuity, particularly appreciated by the borrower and IAs, and
the skill profiles of members of the regular, bi-annual supervision missions have been appropriate, timely
and constructive in assisting with implementation problems, particularly in view of the project's process
approach. During the second half of the project, the Bank organized joint supervisions with the Dutch
Government, which further improved the supervision process and helped to reinforce the institutional



                                                    - 11 -

strengthening aspects of the project, particularly during the extension period.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
         The Bank's overall performance was highly satisfactory. The extension of the closing date by a
total of 21 months was appropriate and enabled the IAs to substantially fulfill the project's objectives. The
Bank also maintained a close, effective and constructive dialogue, through its New Delhi office, with all
IAs as well as with the local representatives of the Government of the Netherlands, which financed the TA
component.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
         The time required for preparatory network planning involving joint visits was under-estimated at
preparation and the commitment of the borrower could have also been improved through stakeholder
workshops in the preparatory phase. These would have contributed to ensuring an appropriate level of
institutional support from the beginning of project implementation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
         At the central level, the coordination, vision and technical leadership provided through the PCS
was inadequate and possibly suffered more so by the pro-active role assumed by the consultant. The state
IAs were looking for greater support from PCS in problem-solving and in preparation for the Bank's
supervisory missions, which was not always forthcoming. Delays in the submission of reimbursement
claims and discrepancies in reported costs could have been avoided if a dedicated financial monitoring
officer had been appointed within the PCS. Furthermore, overall financial monitoring was carried out for
the PCS by a consultant and, following the withdrawal of the TA team, the PCS has had difficulty in
maintaining this system. Overall, the PCS did not have the appropriate strength in skills mix to be an
effective counterpart agency and the gradual takeover from the consultant in many support activities, such
as help desks and MIS, did not take place. In the absence of a fully-developed withdrawal strategy, the
departure of the TA consultants created a gap in assistance to the IAs.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
         While the IAs performed reasonably well within the constraints of the institutional framework,
more commitment and support from the ministers and senior administrators should have been ensured from
project start for better progress. The project turn-around was achieved in many agencies when a champion
lead the agency, and hence proper care should have been taken in filling the top positions. Procurement
performance would have been better with the training of all staff including finance and accounting staff
dealing with the project. Training targets have been exceeded resulting in overall staff improvement. Staff
positioning called for innovative strategies within the policy banning new recruitment within many
agencies. The IAs relationships with PCS and the consultant were harmonious.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
         The overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory, and would have been better if the
institutional constraints had been recognized and appropriate strategies developed.

8. Lessons Learned

The major lessons emerging from the implementation of the project are:

Technical

a)       Any novel technology and IT software being introduced by a project of this type should take into



                                                     - 12 -

account the ground conditions, the capacity for absorption by the users and therefore appropriate training
and phasing needs to be part of the project design. The design of new software should also be phased with
the requirement rather than overly elaborated in one phase.

b)       HP design did not include data-related, value-addition studies as part of its MIS/learning
environment. It is worth attempting to develop a benefit assessment mechanism in HIS-related activities
using linkages with academic institutions and specific consultancies to develop assessments of value
addition of a reliable data system.

c)       Practical application and use of HIS should be further strengthened by introducing Decision
Support Systems for water related operations.

Institutional

d)       Any project of this recurring nature needs understanding and firm support of the high level
management for success of project implementation and its sustainability.

e)       There is a need to develop a project planning and monitoring mechanism suited to Indian conditions
as externally developed HIDAP has proven ill-suited due to an insufficient recognition/ incorporation of
institutional settings and culture in India.

f)       At Project closure, it appears that the use of HIS data remains opportunistic and meetings of data
user groups (HDUG) have mostly served as a means of informing potential users about HIS rather than
exploring, in a dynamic and participatory manner, feedback for improved HIS management. There is,
therefore, need to develop marketing strategies to promote data dissemination and use, packaging for
specific users' requirements, use of various media, analysis of data requests and feedback from users, and
HIS-related training/awareness raising for all users.A communication strategy as proactive reporting,
publishing and dissemination are found as useful tool for data dissemination to public.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Ministry of Water Resources, Government of India (Project Coordination Secretariat)

9.1      Specific Comments are as below:

9.1.1    Role of Central level Committees (Paras. 4.1.2 and 4.1.3): These committees were constituted
for definite objectives so that the work could be undertaken by Implementing Agencies (IAs) effectively.
These committees worked effectively as per the objectives stipulated and contributed towards successful
completion of the project.       The earlier missions also did not comment about functioning of these
committees. Some of the major decisions taken by NLSC/NCC relate to principles of data sharing and inter
agency data validation, pricing of data, protocols for SW and GW activities, policy issues related to
procurement etc.

9.1.2    Quality Assurances (Para. 4.1.5): Long term planning aspects during the project period were
worked out with the help of consultants and the project has performed satisfactorily. In addition future
requirements have been worked out in the form of Vision document which was also given to earlier World
Bank Missions as well as to ICR mission.

9.1.3    Non-functioning of DWLRs (Para. 4.1.7): The DWLRS were procured by individual



                                                     - 13 -

implementing agencies as per provisions in their component. In various National Coordination Committee
meetings, these agencies were requested to take necessary action with vendors so that defective DWLRs are
repaired/replaced without further delay. However, technical skills available in some States/CWPRS are
being used for repair of DWLRs.

9.1.4    HDUG and value addition studies (Paras. 4.1.10 and 4.2.5): HDUGs have been set up by all
the agencies and regular meetings are being held to discuss the use of HIS in various activities of States.
During the project period main thrust, interalia, was on the setting up of networks for HIS as per the
objectives set for the project. However value addition studies are required to be incorporated as a project
activity and included for future projects.

9.1.5    Acceptable Planning tool to sustain HIS (Para 4.2.6): HIDAP had inherent draw backs which
emerged during the initial project period itself. Under the activity of Technical Assistance, MIS-I and
MIS-II formats for reporting was developed which has not served as an adequate planning tool. Therefore,
a fresh look on this is being made and working out requirements is in process now keeping long term
sustainability aspects into account.

9.1.6    Monitoring and problem solving by PCS (Para 7.5):              Adequate technical leadership was
provided by PCS through the respective expert central agencies viz. CWC, CGWB etc. The assistance to
the state was provided by development/procurement of common softwares like WISDOM, GEMS,
HYMOS, SWDES, GWDES, common GW hardware through CGWB, standard SW&GW manuals,
National Help Desks by CWC and CGWB, Inter agency data validation through CWC/CGWB/IMD. In
case it is intended that a nodal agency like PCS will assume more pro-active implementation of a project
involving a large number of implementing agencies suitable structuring of PCS for any future project is
necessary.

9.1.7    Detailed comments of the Ministry of Water Resources and other implementing agencies are
annexed (Annex 8).

(b) Cofinanciers:
9.2    Royal Netherlands Embassy (RNE) (Donor of: Technical Assistance (TA) to Hydrology Project.
Project period: May 1996 till June 2003. Grant amount:  15,00 million).RNE has indicated that as the
ICR report itself spends little attention to the Final Evaluation of the TA, it has decided that it would be
most appropriate to have the executive summary of the Final Evaluation, (with minor text adoptions) as
their additional comments to the ICR report. (The executive summery is at Annex 9). Major findings and
issues listed are as below:

9.2.1    Achievements: The project has brought about the establishment of a national hydrological
measurement network with a standardised approach to hydrological data collection and processing. Central
government and state government departments dealing with hydrological data collection have been brought
together to rationalise networks, share data and carry out a mutual verification of each other's data. The
technical procedures for installing and implementing different types of monitors and collecting and
processing the data in a number of different situations are embodied in a comprehensive set of manuals
produced by the consultants in consultation with the end users. These manuals have been distributed
widely and have received considerable applause. In addition, the states have greatly appreciated the
support given by the Consultants in procurement and implementation of equipment and buildings.

9.2.2    All groups are now using components of an accepted Hydrology Information System that ranges
from data entry and preliminary validation to analysis and secondary validation leading to data storage for


                                                    - 14 -

both surface water and groundwater data. The implementation of HIS has been done within the context of
institutional strengthening in the states departments. This has involved mobilising extensive support in the
management of the states for HIS. It is interesting to reflect that at least in some of the states the
development of state water policies appear to have been influenced by the Hydrology Project, and
presumably by the activities of the Consultants.

9.2.3    A large number of staff has been trained through an extensive training programme introduced by
the Consultants. In particular, a training of trainer programme has been initiated with a number of such
staff trained in each state.    Further support that leads towards sustainability of HIS is seen in the
introduction of state and national help desks to support the various procedures that are involved in the data
collection, processing and dissemination between the different users and institutions.

9.2.4    A considerable problem faced by the Consultants was in changing the work culture within the
government and state departments that have yet to accommodate the arrival of the digital knowledge based
economy. The Consultants have remained true to the process approach, which has underlined the whole of
their activities, and have introduced a novel set of cultural change workshops that address the values of
individuals and particular staff groups. These workshops appear to have been warmly welcomed by the
three states that have participated in them, and they show a good potential for bringing about changes in
working culture.

9.2.5    Finally, the Consultants have endeavoured to advise and assist in some innovative R&D projects
that make extensive use of the data, and this way have set the pace as `drivers' for the data. It is concluded
that main objectives of the TA project have been reached.

9.2.6    Issues/General overview:         Yet the sustainability of these achievements, in the sense of
maintaining and even increasing the level of activity and scope of data collection and continually improving
the processes and procedures involved, is at risk in most states. The key areas of concern include:
§        Poor validation of much of the data, including the lack of formal quality assurance at all levels,
despite extensive training and assistance by the Consultants and others.
§        Inadequate annual and long term planning for HIS within the state departments.
§        Incomplete deployment of HIS components, seriously affecting the flow of information.
§        A barely adequate system of technical support in place for all levels of staff involved.
§        The need for more far reaching changes in institutional practices.
§        Further education and advanced training to increase the understanding and appreciation of HIS in
its operation, even though adequate training has been provided to carry out the basic activities involved in
HIS.
§        Inadequate awareness of the real needs of potential data users and the lack of emphasis on the
provision of relevant data.
§        The need for many more `drivers' for data both internally within government and externally by
other users.
§        The need to adopt appropriate strategies for strengthening the Hydrology Data User Groups and
making them broad-based so as to create demand for data.
§        The need for the agencies to network with other organisations outside the hydrology domain and
who can play a complementary role to the agencies.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable

10. Additional Information



                                                    - 15 -

                                                                                                                                              Appendix
                                                           INDIA: Hydrology Project ­ ICR
                                                                  Sustainability Ratings



Criteria        Sub-criteria                                  Importance                                     Comment
                                                               (V-Vital;
                                                               E­Essential;
                                                               D-Desirable)

HIS use and      Easy access to HIS data and products                V         All the agencies have ensured sustained access to HIS data and
demand           Extension of HIS practices and systems                        products and are extending HIS practices beyond scope of HP.
                 within agency                                       V         HDUGs and dissemination processes have, to a certain degree, been
                 Vibrant HDUGs                                        E        institutionalized although these and other essential criteria are still
                 Increasing requests with time for raw and                     weak and will require effort/attention in the future.
                 processed data                                       E        The application of user fee systems been agreed and is broadly applied
                 Transparency of HIS process and procedures                    (at nominal fee levels); however, need to address value-based pricing
                 Integration with planning and regulatory             E        for both hydrological data and analyses/products.
                 bodies involved in water management
                 Management/investment decisions based on             E        Other desirable criteria will require promotional efforts and proactive
                 HIS                                                           interventions by concerned nodal and state agencies.
                 Use of HIS in water disputes                         E
                 User fee systems for verified data and               E
                 products
                 Benefit analysis studies demonstrating data          E
                 value
                 Suggestions from users for improvements to           E
                 HIS
                 Strong user segments as data drivers                D
                 Energetic outreach programmes                       D
                 Mechanisms for user information/interaction         D
                 Users willing to pay for value (hydrological
                 products)                                           D
                 Use of HIS in community-based
                 programmes                                          D

                                                                     D
Infrastructure                                                               The availability of physical and knowledge infrastructure is generally
               Physical infrastructure:                                      sufficient and can underpin sustainability in the short- and medium-term.
               · Availability                                         V      Some reservations on the IAs' abilities/capacities to maintain this
               · Ability to maintain                                  V      infrastructure ­ particularly with regard to the use and maintenance of
               Knowledge infrastructure (manuals, procedures,                manuals, procedures, protocols and quality assurance systems. These
               protocols, models, quality assurance, etc.):                  aspects will need particular attention.
               · Availability                                                Additionally, some uncertainty that the essential criteria can be met; in
               · Ability to use and maintain                          V      particular, aspects related to management changes and knowledge
               Ability to upgrade physical infrastructure when        V      infrastructure which will require special attention: more of HPI efforts.
               required
               Ability to manage change in knowledge                  E
               infrastructure
                                                                      E
Organizational Ownership/commitment:
commitment and · Among Ministers and Senior administrators;                  At project closure, ownership/commitment among high-level stakeholders
staff          · Among HIS staff at all levels                        V      appears mixed, while generally solid among HIS project leaders,
               Clear role and integration within internal             V      middle-level managers and staff.
               structure                                                     Organisational roles are generally well-articulated but more time is needed
               Clear vision and goals                                 V      to consolidate linkages, develop both incentive frameworks for HIS
               Adequate dedicated and permanent staff                 E      champions and forward planning systems.
               Government orders on establishment and                 E      Overall, strong organisational commitments are needed and HIS will need
               structure                                                     to demonstrate value, both internally and externally.
               Positioning/nurturing of champions                     E
               Forward planning on annual, short-term and             E
               long-term bases
               Endorsement of HIS practices and systems within       E/D
               agency
               Ability to retain, train and nurture                   D
               Incentives for better performance                      D
               Budget provision as separate head in annual            D




                                                                            - 16 -

               plans
                                                              D
Institutional    Quality assurance:
Processes        ·     Inter- and intra-agency validation,         Protocols have been developed for inter- and intra-agency validation
                 authentication;                              V    but are still only weakly implemented and do not yet appear to be
                 ·     Third party certification              V    thoroughly integrated into practice. Third-part certification will need
                 Coordination mechanisms:                          to be addressed.
                 ·     State/Centre                           E    Coordination mechanisms have been established and are functioning,
                 ·     Among State agencies                   E    though with varying effectiveness. Increased central guidance on
                 Tracking and monitoring                           technical aspects needed from nodal agencies, as well as strengthened,
                 ·     On basis of approved plans             E    proactive, overall coordination. Further training in TQM and M&E

                 ·     Leading to action points               E    essential.

                 Coordination mechanisms:
                 ·     Among all concerned organisations      D
                 ·     Among Central agencies                 D
                 ·     Dissemination of lessons learnt and    D
                 best practices
                 Quality assurance ­ TQM                      D
                 Tracking and monitoring
                 ·     Feedback for improved performance
                 Alliances and networks                       D
                 Peer group interactions for knowledge        D
                 exchange
                 Cultural change achieved                     D
                                                              D




                                                                 - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:

                       Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in SAR at end-                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                                        project

Overall project outcome: easy access to a reliable and robust hydrological and             Transparent and easy data access to HIS established for user
hydro-meteorological data bank for all potential users, both public and private.           community, except when data considered sensitive (mostly SW data in
                                                                                           sensitive areas) and authorization required.




Development Objective 1: Improve organizational arrangements for hydrological and hydro-meteorological data measurement, validation and
analysis

- Organizational structures in place                                                       Completed


- Organizational processes in place                                                        Completed and mostly followed: inter-Agency validation weak



Development Objective 2: Strengthen institutional and technical capabilities

- requisite staff in-post and fully operational.                                           Generally achieved OK though some specialist staff shortages (WQ
                                                                                           and IT)

                                                            1/

           Incremental staff: professionals                                             794                                                                87%

           Incremental staff: specialists                                               348                                                                60%

Training                                                                             30,681                                                                96%


Development Objective 3: Improve physical facilities and services for hydrological, hydro-meteorological and water quality data measurement,
validation and analysis

- civil works, buildings (including instrumentation sites,                                 100 % with 398 data centres completed; WQ labs - 121%; buildings
data centers and laboratories) completed.                                                  98%.

- hydro. and hydromet. data equipment installed and                                                                                                        95%
operational.

- systems for hydro. and hydromet. data collection and                                     SW systems in place and fully functional; delayed development and
validation developed, installed and fully functional, with                                 operation of GW software GEMS and data base/data storage software,
procedures for maintenance and updating.                                                   WISDOM.




Development Objective 4: Improve use (transfer and dissemination) of hydrological and hydro-meteorological data

- Hydrology Information Needs document prepared             All IAs                        20 % of IAs have completed HIN exercise
- HDUGs formed.                                             All IAs                                                                                      100%

- HDUGs include private organizations and NGOs              All IAs                        Seven out of nine states

- Requests for HIS data                                     N.A.                           Nos. requests range from 5 ­ 140 among 11 IAs with records available




_________________
1/ Revised target after MTR




                                                                        - 18 -

Output Indicators:

                 Indicator                  Unit     Projected in SAR Revised targets    Actual/Latest
                                                      at end-project   after MTR and        Estimate
                                                                       Desk Review




Project costs                               US$        181 million            -           152 million
                                             INR          6,080       5,830 (excluding        6,050
                                                                        GOTN grant)


Data collection, entry and processing

Data collection sites:

    ·      SW gauge sites fully equipped    Nos.          1,009             916              100%
    and operational                                                    (MIS - 1,020)

    ·      GW sites fully equipped and                    6,434            7,912             100%
    operational

    ·      WQ labs. equipped and            Nos.           254              274               94%
    functional
                                            Nos.           206             1,536              98%
    ·      Standard RG                      Nos.           233              668               99%

    ·      Automatic RG                     Nos.
Nos. of inter-agency validations with IMD   No.of                            9                  7
                                           agencies
Nos. of inter-agency validations with SW    No.of                            9                  4
agencies                                   agencies

Data exchanged with CGWB                    No.of                            9                  9
                                           agencies

Labs. Active in AQC programme                 %            100              100              100%
HDUG membership as per revised TOR            %                             100              100%
Nos. HDUG meetings (SW and GW)               N o                         2 per year        2 per year
                                                                                         achieved in last
                                                                                              year
Level of HDUG representativity                                                          Except Mah, all
(State/local/other)                                                                    others at state level


HIN and user satisfaction surveys           Nos.           n.a.         20 agencies            5%
completed
Level of systematic sharing of validated    Nos.                        20 agencies            Nil
data
In-house trainers active                      %                                            100 %(113
                                                                                          hydrometry,
                                                                                       60WQ, 15 each in
                                                                                          SWDES and
                                                                                       HYMOS,70 GW,
                                                                                          30 GWDES

Post-project training plan prepared         Nos.                       9 states and 5        100%
                                                                      central agencies

R&D studies:                                 Nos                             11              100%

States using HIS in support of policy        N o                        20 agencies     All GW agencies
formulation, implementation, planning                                                     and 50 %SW
                                                                                            agencies
and design.
Nos. of Agencies monitoring HIS data         N o                        20 agencies          100%
requests and use




                                                     - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

         Project Costs by Components (million $US)         ASR        Latest      % of
                                                          Estimate    Estimate   Appraisal

Upgrading of Data Collection and Management Facilities          91.5       77.0         84%

  Observation Sites (Works and Equipment)                       43.2       32.4         75%
      SW                                                         22.2      13.0         59%
      GW                                                         18.6      18.1         97%
      Hydrometeorology                                            2.4        1.3        55%
  Buildings                                                     22.3       22.1         99%
  Data Management Hard/Software and Communication
                                                                23.3       18.1         78%
  Equipment
  Laboratory Equipment                                           2.7        4.5        165%


Institutional Strengthening                                     89.4       74.6         83%
  R&D, Survey and Special Studies                                3.1        2.9         92%
  Training                                                       6.6        2.5         37%
  Consultant Services (Dutch Grant)                             17.4       15.7         90%
  Equipment                                                      9.8        6.6         68%
      Office and Training Equipment                               3.2        2.9        92%
      Vehicles                                                    6.6        3.7        56%
  Incremental Reccurent Costs                                   52.5       46.9         89%
      Incremental Staff Costs                                              36.3
      Other Incremental Recurrent Costs                                    10.6


TOTAL                                                          180.9      151.6         84%




                                                  - 20 -

Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (Appraisal Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)


Expenditure Category                                        ICB          NCB         Other     N.B.F. Total Cost
1. Works                                                                 28.8         15.9              44.7
                                                                         (23)        (12.8)            (35.8)
2. Goods
    2.1 Vehicles                                            2.6          3.1           0.9               6.6
                                                           (2.4)         (3.0)        (0.8)             (6.2)
    2.2 Equipment                                           33.3         10.8          8.1              52.2
                                                          (31.5)        (10.1)        (7.6)            (49.2)
3. Consultant Services
    3.1 Dutch Grant T.A.                                                                        17.4    17.4


4. Training
    4.1&4.2 Training                                                                   6.6               6.6
                                                                                      (6.3)             (6.3)
5. Research & Development                                                              0.9               0.9
                                                                                      (0.8)             (0.8)
6. Miscellaneous
    6.1 & 6.2 Incremental Recurrent Costs                                             52.5              52.5
                                                                                     (43.6)            (43.6)
Total                                                       35.9         42.7         84.9      17.4    180.9
                                                          (33.9)        (36.1)       (72.0)            (142.0)
Notes: Figures inclusive of contingencies, taxes and duties and rounded to one decimal point;
      Figures in parentheses are the respective amount to be financed by IDA




                                                             - 21 -

      ProjectFinancing byCategoryofExpenditure                                     ASREstimate                                       LatestEstimate                           %ofAppraisal
                                                                                                                         Govof                   Dutch                 Govof         Dutch
                        (US$ million)                         GovofIndia          IDA         DutchGrant        Total                IDA                      Total           IDA            Total
                                                                                                                         India                   Grant                 India         Grant
Civilworks                                                             8.9            35.8               0.0       44.7      7.2         32.3                    39.5     81%   90%             88%
Goods                                                                  3.5            55.8               0.0       59.3     10.7         36.2                    46.9    307%   65%             79%
Training(training,studies,workshops,seminars)                          0.2              6.8              0.0         7.0     -0.6         3.1                      2.5 N.A.     46%             35%
ConsultancyServices(DutchGrant)                                        0.0              0.0            17.4        17.4      0.0          0.0        15.7        15.7                    90%    90%
IncrementalRecurrentCosts                                              8.9            43.6               0.0       52.5     20.5         26.4                    46.9    230%   61%             89%
TOTAL                                                                 21.5          142.0              17.4      180.9      37.9         98.0        15.7        151.6   176%   69%      90%    84%


Note1:Dataavailabledoesnotpermittodevelopthebreakdownofprojectfinancingbycomponentsbutonlyprojectfinancingbycategoryofexpenditure.
Note2:Thediscrepancyobservedintrainingandstudiescategory(IDAfinancingexceedingreportedexpenditure)isprobablymostlyduetodiscrepanciesinallocationofcostsrelatedto:
      (i)R&Dandspecialstudies(allocationofequipmentandcivilworkcosts)or(ii)training(allocationoftransportcosts).




                                                                                                              - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




Not applicable since no economic analysis was presented in the SAR as it was considered, correctly, that
the quantification of overall benefits would not be feasible given the project's focus on hydrological data
and the impossibility of estimating the global value of both the country's historic data and the additional
information generated by the HIS.




                                                  - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/22/1994              12     TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
                                             HYDROLOGIST (6); REAL
                                             TIME DATA MANAGEMENT
                                             (1); METEROLOGIST(2);
                                             WATER QUALITY (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              08/16/1994              11     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             CONSULTANTS (6); ODA
                                             (2); WORLD BANK STAFF
                                             (2);
              09/22/1995

 Supervision

              11/17/1995                4    INSTITUTIONAL SPEC. (1);         S               S
                                             SR. IRRIGATION ENG. (1);
                                             WATER RESOURCES (1);
                                             IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1)
              06/02/1996                3    INSTITUTIONAL SPEC. (1);         S               S
                                             IRRIGATION ENGINEER (2)
              12/03/1996                5    INSTITUTIONAL SPEC. (1);         S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT ENGINEER
                                             (2); IRRIGATION ENGINEER
                                             (2)
              06/13/1997                4    INSTITUTION SPECIALIST           S               S
                                             (1); IRRIGATION ENGINEER
                                             (2); PROCUREMENT
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              12/16/1997                4    IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);         S               S
                                             INSTITUTION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); WATER RES. ENGINEER
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              07/20/1998                4    HYDROLOGIST (1);                 S               S
                                             IRRIGATION ENGINEER (2);
                                             PROCUREMENT ENGINEER
                                             (1)
              08/20/1999                5    HYDROLOGIST (1);                 U               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL MANAG. SPL.
                                             (1); WATER RESOURCES SPL.
                                             (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
              08/20/1999                8    HYDROLOGIS (1);                  U               S
                                             IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONL EXPERT (1);



                                              - 24 -

                      FINANCIAL MANAG. SPEC.
                      (1); PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                      (1); WATER RESOURCES
                      SPEC. (1); GROUNDWATER
                      SPEC. (1); DATABASE
                      MANAGEM. SPEC (1)
      09/21/2000    6 HYDROLOGIST (1); SR.         S    S
                      WATER RES ENGINEER (1);
                      SR. PROCUREMENT ENGINE
                      (1); FINANCIAL MANAG. SPL.
                      (1); INSTITUTIONAL DEV.
                      SPL (1); GR.WATER/DATA
                      BASE SP. (1)
      04/25/2001    7 SR IRRIGATION ENGINEER       S    S
                      (1); WATER RES. SPECIALIST
                      (1); PROCUREMENT
                      SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                      MGMT. SPL. (1); WATER
                      MANAGEMENT SPL. (1);
                      IT/DATABASE MGMT. SPL.
                      (1); INSTITUTIONAL SPL,
                      RNE (1)
      10/19/2001    6 SR IRRIGATION ENGINEER       S    S
                      (1); SR. WATER RES
                      ENGINEER (1); SR
                      PROCUREMENT SPL. (1);
                      FINANCIAL MGMT SPL. (1);
                      INSTITUTIONAL SPL. (1);
                      GROUNDWATER SPL. (1)
      05/10/2002    4 WATER RESOURCES ENGG         S    S
                      (2); PROCUREMENT
                      SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                      MANAGEMENT (1)
      11/01/2002    7 TASK LEADER (1); CO-TASK     S    S
                      LEADER (1); PROCUREMENT
                      SPECIALIST (1);
                      GROUNDWATER SPECIALIST
                      (1); DATABASE MGMT/GIS
                      SPLS (1); FMS (1);
                      INSTITUTIONAL SPLST (1)
      05/26/2003    5 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                      IRRIGATION (1); WATER
                      RESOURCES (1); WATER
                      QUALITY (1);
                      INSTITUTIONAL (1)


ICR
      11/17/2003    6 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                      ECONOMIST(1);
                      INSTITUTIONAL (1);
                      DATABASE
                      MANAGEMENT (1);
                      IRRIGATION (1); WATER



                      - 25 -

RESOURCES (1)




- 26 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   62                          288
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        72                          157
  Supervision                                283                          1187
  ICR                                          22                           94
  Total                                      439                          1726
Note: ICR figures include FAO support




                                                - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.     SAR, Hydrology Project, July 14, 1995

2.     Proposed Amendment of Credit, June 1996

3.     Mid-Term Review Report, Vols. I-III, Ministry of Water Resources, December 1998

4.     Project Completion Report, Ministry of Water Resources, November 2003

           - Main Report and Abstract
           - Implementing Agency Reports
           - Abstract of MIS Report to September 30, 2003
5.   Hydrology Project, MIS I and MIS II Reports (to September 30, 200)

6.   World Bank Supervision Mission reports (PSR and Aide Memoire)

     - WB Project Launch/Supervision: October/November 1995
     - WB Supervision: May/June1996
     - WB Supervision: November/December 1996
     - WB Supervision: May/June1997
     - WB Supervision: December1997
     - WB Supervision: July1998
     - Mid-Term Review: January1999
     - WB Supervision: August 1999
     - WB/RNE Joint Supervision: February/March2000
     - WB/RNE Joint Supervision: Sepember2000
     - WB/RNE Joint Supervision: April 2001
     - WB/RNE Joint Supervision: October 2001
     - WB/RNE Joint Supervision: April/May 2002
     - WB/RNE Joint Supervision: October 2002
     - WB/RNE Joint Supervision: May 2003
7.   Review of Technical Assistance, Final Evaluation Report, RNE, April 2003

8.   Hydrology Project Technical Assistance, Final Report, June 2003

9.   Implementation Completion Report, Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and CAD Dept., November 2003

10.  Implementation Completion Report, Government of Gujarat, October 2003

11.  Presentation to ICR mission, Karnataka Dept. Mines and Geology, November 2003

12.  Report on Groundwater and Surface Water Components, Kerala State, November 2003

13.  Presentations by all IAs to ICR mission, November-December 2003

14.  Pilot Study ­ Mini Watersheds, State GW and SW Resources Data Centre, Tamil Nadu.

15. ICR with Appendix and Working Papers, January 2004




                                                - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Detailed Comments on the ICR

Comments of the Ministry of Water Resources (Groundwater and Minor Irrigation Wing- Project
Coordination Secretariat): The Development objectives of the Hydrology Project were to improve (i)
Physical facilities through modernization/rationalization of the hydrological and hydro-meteorological
observation network; (ii) Institutional and Technical capabilities through infrastructure build-up and
trainings to the officials; (iii) Organizational arrangements through restructuring & mainstreaming of the
activities; and (iv) Promote use of Data through setting up of HDUGs, websites, etc. for setting up of
functional Hydrological Information System (HIS) consisting of Hydrological, Hydro-meteorological and
Water quality data.

      The project was fully able to achieve the development objectives. As far as the physical facilities are
concerned almost 100% targets were achieved. Hydrological sites operational (100%), Meteorological
sites operational (100% ), Piezometers sites operational (100%), Computers installed (95%) and major
equipments in position (98%).

      The Institutional and Technical Capabilities were enhanced through constitution of Purpose driven
Committees at National, Central and State Level for providing necessary guidance regarding various
generic and implementation issues. Over 10,000 staff were trained in India (250% of SAR target) and 108
officers trained Overseas under nine study tours/trainings. Standard softwares for data entry, validation
and storage were provided uniformly to all the implementing agencies. However some more time was
required in development/modifications/fine-tuning of WISDOM (Data Storage Centre Software) and
GEMS ( Ground Water Data Entry and Processing Software) because of the nature of such software to be
utilized by a large number of agencies as in this project.         The 1,548 major/minor buildings were
constructed (98% of SAR target), 519 New vehicles procured (91% target) and GIS Datasets (digitized
maps) were procured under the project. Due to general ban on recruitment of staff, there was shortage of
WQ/IT staff, however attempts were made to fill up the vacant posts by redeployment and providing on the
job trainings etc.


      The Organizational Arrangements were improved through restructuring of organizations by
formation of separate hydrological divisions and rationalization of the number of data collection sites in
consultation with the Consultants, central agencies and the state agencies. The data collection/collation
system was modernized through provision of state-of-the-art equipments and standard softwares. Data
processing and data storage centers were established for data storage and dissemination. The HIS activities
were mainstreamed through issue of Govt. orders in almost all the states for mandatory use of HP data in
water resources planning/design.      IWRM studies were taken up in Sabarmati and Godavari basins.
Establishment of Protocols for various HIS activities, documentation of Surface Water and Ground water
manuals and establishment of 3-tier Help-desks at Central/State/Division level were also completed.


      Hydrological Data Users Groups (HDUGs) at State level and central level, with members from
Government/semi government/academic institutions/NGOs were constituted and regular meetings held to
promote the use of data and to make the HIS demand driven. Websites were launched in almost all the
agencies and mass awareness programmes taken up. Comprehensive HIS website is under advanced stage
of launching by CWC.


      In the wrap up meeting for the ICR mission held under the chairmanship of Secretary (WR) on
9.12.2003, the implementing agencies had reiterated their commitment for continuation of HIS activities in



                                                     - 31 -

post project period along with adequate funds for O&M of networks, trainings and continuation of trained
staff for the purpose. The National Level Steering Committee would continue in the post project period as
HIS ­ Coordination Committee (HISCC) under the chairmanship of Secretary (WR) with similar functions
and participation at Secretary level of the states and Heads of Departments of central agencies. Secretariat
work for HIS-CC and Coordination work for Hydrology Project activities would be continued by GW&MI
wing, MoWR as HIS Coordination Secretariat (HIS-CS)               State agencies have also      assured for
continuation of State Level Coordination Committees for post project coordination. Technical as well as
operational details have been documented in SW/GW manuals and protocols for these activities have been
developed and are under implementation. Help Desks have been established at National, state and
division levels for HIS activities. Uniform pricing structure has been finalized in NLSC/NCC meetings.

         However comments on some specific issues are as follows.

       Role of Central level Committees (Para 4.1.2 and 4.1.3): These committees were constituted for
definite objectives so that the work could be undertaken by Implementing Agencies (IAs) effectively. These
committees worked effectively as per the objectives stipulated and contributed towards successful
completion of the project. The earlier missions also did not comment about functioning             of these
committees. Some of the major decisions taken by NLSC/NCC relate to principles of data sharing and inter
agency data validation, pricing of data, protocols for SW and GW activities, policy issues related to
procurement etc.

       Quality Assurances (Para 4.1.5): Long term planning aspects during the project period were
worked out with the help of consultants and the project has performed satisfactorily. In addition future
requirements have been worked out in the form of Vision document which was also given to earlier World
Bank Missions as well as to ICR mission.

       Non-functioning of DWLRs (Para 4.1.7): The DWLRS were procured by individual implementing
agencies as per provisions in their component. In various National Coordination Committee meetings,
these agencies were requested to take necessary action with vendors so that defective DWLRs are
repaired/replaced without further delay. However, technical skills available in some States/CWPRS are
being used for repair of DWLRs.

       HDUG and value addition studies (Para 4.1.10 and 4.2.5): HDUGs have been set up by all the
agencies and regular meetings are being held to discuss the use of HIS in various activities of States.
During the project period main thrust, interalia, was on the setting up of networks for HIS as per the
objectives set for the project. However value addition studies are required to be incorporated as a project
activity and included for future projects.

       Acceptable Planning tool to sustain HIS (Para 4.2.6): HIDAP had inherent draw backs which
emerged during the initial project period itself. Under the activity of Technical Assistance, MIS-I and
MIS-II formats for      reporting was developed which has not served as an          adequate planning tool.
Therefore, a fresh look on this is being made and working out requirements is in process now keeping long
term sustainability aspects into account.


       Monitoring and problem solving by PCS (Para 7.5.): Adequate technical leadership was provided
by PCS through the respective expert central agencies viz. CWC, CGWB etc. The assistance to the state
was provided by development/procurement of common softwares like WISDOM,                 GEMS, HYMOS,
SWDES, GWDES, common GW hardware through CGWB, standard SW & GW manuals, National



                                                     - 32 -

Help Desks by CWC and CGWB, Inter agency data validation through CWC/CGWB/IMD. In case it is
intended that a nodal agency like PCS will assume more pro-active implementation of a project involving a
large number of implementing agencies suitable structuring of PCS for any future project is necessary.


Agency-wise Comments


Central Water Commission: With regard to the concern expressed regarding sustainability of HIS, it is
emphasized that one of the core activity of CWC has been data collection, processing, data dissemination
and its use for last five decades. These activities have been further strengthened under HP and therefore
there should not be any concern in this regard. In fact, being an apex organization at the national level in
this field, CWC, by carrying out the following activities, will act as driving force for sustainability of the
HIS in other participating agencies also:

(a) Continued operation of National Help Desk and provide assistance wherever needed in the use of
    SWDES , HYMOS and WISDOM software by all the participating agencies.
(b) Preparation and periodic updation of the combined catalogue of meta-data.
(c) Maintenance of HIS web-site.
(d) Inter-agency data validation.
(e) Trainings of personnel of state and central agencies at National Water Academy, Pune.
(f) Continued interaction with the participating agencies.

With reference to concern expressed regarding delay in the operationalisation of the WISDOM software it
is to mention that the development of the WISDOM software has been a resource intensive and time
consuming activity as it required significant amount of input and coordination with all the participating
agencies. The revised version 1.2 of the WISDOM has been installed at all the DSCs. An eight days
training course cum feed back programme on WISDOM was organized in Delhi from 15th December to
23rd December,2003. The training was attended by the participants from 22 DSCs. The feedback
received from the participants is very encouraging and positive. In fact many of the participants handed
over the meta-data during the training programme itself. WISDOM has been fully integrated with the
GEMS as the correct export file from GEMS was also furnished by the CGWB during the training
programme. Hence, the operationalisation of the WISDOM is assured. There exists a seamless link
between the data processing software in SW and GW domains and the WISDOM.

National Water Academy of CWC is fully equipped to cater to the needs of the various training
requirements of CWC as well as other participating agencies.

As suggested in the Aide-Memoire, to spread the gains made under the Hydrology Project, CWC is already
in the process of introducing the data entry and data processing softwares in the areas not covered under the
Hydrology Project. Also, it is planned to get the various soft wares developed in the country itself to avoid
the problems related to upgradation and maintenance.


Central Ground Water Board: The ground water historical data was already in computerized formats
and got converted to new format in the hydrology project period. The name of Dedicated Ground Water
Data Processing and Analysis software, maybe read as Groundwater Estimation and Management System
(GEMS). Now GWDES developed for data entry and bring data of all the agencies to a common platform
has been dispensed with and data of all the agencies has been converted to GEMS. At present only one
software i.e. GEMS is operational in all the agencies. GWDES is standalone software with limited data



                                                    - 33 -

entry and analytical capabilities. However, GEMS is an advanced GIS Integrated Software based on client
­ server technology which include the functionality of GWDES and other advanced functionality for
analyses and report generation.


Central Water and Power Research Station: Hydrology Project has provided institutional strengthening
primarily by way of upgradation of rating tank facility, hydrometric instrumentation services to the DWLR,
procurement of: advanced hydrometric equipment, computers and communication                     equipment and
integrated bathymetric system for reservoir sedimentation survey; which has resulted in state-of-the-art
equipment and adoption of analytical procedures in the fields of calibration of current meter, water quality
and sedimentation survey. The potential for sustainability of gains under HP at CWPRS is high, with the
services of the institution being made regularly to other agencies on a payment basis under the principle of
`no-profit-no-loss'

National Institute of Hydrology: NIH has not only carried out a number of training programmes under
the Hydrology Project successfully but also has organized the training programmes on Hydrological data
processing in Patna & Guwahati for officers of Central and State organizations in States which are not
covered by Hydrology Project Phase-I. Also the institute has the resources persons and infrastructure for
organizing training programmes and undertaking Res & Dev projects. So the sustainability in case of
NIH should be rated higher and not marginal. NIH is willing to organize training courses on Basic
Hydrology and organize new as well as refresher courses on SWDES and HYMOS. NIH would also like
to participate in the Help Desk.

Andhra Pradesh (GW): There was lot of commitment and support from the senior administrators in the
implementation of Hydrology Project and also the use of HIS. The program of the project and data
collection was closely monitored at the highest level.

Gujarat : A total 139 users have used the data on ground water, water level, water quality etc. These users
include, Research Institutions, Academic Institutions, Research Scholars, Government and Semi
Government departments etc. GWRDC has also launched the web site (www.gwrdc.nic.in) that covers
general and technical information which include water level and water quality plans of the state for creating
awareness among the people of the state. Both data on Surface Water and Ground Water was used in
conjunction of water resources planning for the State of Gujarat. Both, this data collected for surface water
and ground water component during Phase-I of the Hydrology Project was used in basin level / village level
planning for its effective application at field condition. Creation of River basin Organization (RBO) for
Sabarmati River Basin is in progress.

Karnataka (SW): The state has managed to overcome shortcomings about delays in procurement, in
placing suitable staff and in training due to state governments imposed restrictions on recruitment, staff
transfers and travel and sometimes purchases in the best possible manner within the framework of the state
rules. Also where redeployment was not best possible, the state has managed recruitment of specialists
posts through contract appointment. The HIS data has already been mainstreamed into Water Resources
Dept. and all water related clearance are accorded in the Data Centre.


Karnataka (GW): HIS Core Group has been formed at the Directorate to provide technical support to
field staff and this group will support technically all level of staff in sustaining the HP activities. HIS Data
are being used for other projects by the dept. and the data is sold to voluntary agencies and universities for
their requirement.




                                                     - 34 -

Kerala (SW): It calls on each one of us to maintain and improve the quantity and quality of fresh water
available for future generation as well as the present. Total supply of water in river basins is
non-expandable and hence there will be rising competition for scarce water, raising socio-economic
pressure to define water rights more clearly. The Hydrology Project has helped the surface water
component of Kerala Water Resources Dept. in upgrading and expanding its observation network and
helping in generation of reliable and authentic data using modern technologies. An amount of Rs. 200 lakhs
has been included in the state budget plan head for the year 2004-05 for O&M and Trainings.


Kerala (GW): Project implementation in our case has brought out the importance of need for staff
dedicated solely to the activities of the Project at the District Data Center level, so as to ensure strict
adherence to the collection schedules, timely analysis of data, and preparation of reports to ensure timely
follow-up on urgent matters. In the case of Digital Water Level Recorders though there were initial
setbacks due to acclimatization problems, we have achieved almost 100% functionality for DWLRs.
During the period of Hydrology Project-I itself, based on HIS data, we have undertaken construction of
artificial recharge structures, such as sub-surface dykes and check-dams, on pilot study basis, to augment
the ground water resources. Significant attitudinal change has been achieved in our Department, and the
intended modern work culture has been readily imbibed by the officers involved in the Hydrology Project.
In fact, there was lot of enthusiasm amongst the officers despite the HP work being thrust upon them as
additional work, especially in the District Data Centers, to make use of the new methodology and
equipment made accessible to them by the Project. It is this enthusiasm that has ensured achieving the
nearly 100% functionality for our Digital Water Level Recorders, despite major non-functionality in the
beginning. Government authorities are now experiencing the indispensability of HIS data for their decision
making processes. Budgetary allocation has been provided for the Financial Year 2004-2005, for
continuing the Hydrology Project activities.

Madhya Pradesh: With hindsight it appears that the project design could have been improved in respect
of the following for better project outcomes:-

(i)      Training in HYMOS included as small capsule in Statistics which is inadequate. Handling large
datasets and processing the same to obtain cogent results involves proper understanding of statistical
analysis to avoid a GIGO situation.. Thorough training in advanced statistical analysis should have been a
part of the project under HRD.
(ii)     The project could have been inter-disciplinary in nature. The project has only involved civil
engineers and hydrologists, geohydrologists, chemists, policy makers and others do not seem to be enthused
by the project.
(iii)    There was too much stress on vertical integration and less than optimal interaction with the state
level IAs.


Maharashtra (SW): The state has completed a HIN assessment and conducted user satisfaction surveys.
The state has undertaken steps to promote awareness of the HIS data among users through website,
workshops, public meetings, Jal-Utsav and seminars. Recently GOM has directed that the Chief Engineer
HP is the sole authority for issuing water availability certificate for irrigation projects in the state. The
decision of GOM represents the value additions in HIS activity which is purpose driven. The state has
planned certain key areas for sustainability of the project, such as physical infrastructure, O&M of the
network established during the project, financial requirement for sustainability of HIS activities. Public
awareness about HIS is being achieved through meetings, workshops, Jal-Utsav etc. The long term
sustainability is practically possible in the state because of changed attitude not only at Manger level but at
Observer level also. The project has created harmony amongst staff.


                                                      - 35 -

Maharashtra (GW): As regards DWLR, 2 out of 60 nos. INSITU make DWLR, all the 636 Greenspan
make DWLR and 250 out of 299 installed (total procured 391 DWLR) Unidata make DWLR are
non-functioning. Steps are being taken by the state for legal action in case of Greenspan make DWLR. As
regards WQ staff, 25 nos WQ posts have been sanctioned. Senior chemist post has been filled remaining
posts will be filled up very soon.


Orissa (SW&GW): The present system of audit is conducted by Auditor General, Govt. of India (Orissa)
following the existing procedure of Public Works audit. Introduction of audit by an independent agency for
HP would accelerate the process of reimbursement with an easy and guided procedure squarely applicable
to HP norms and procedures.


Tamilnadu (SW&GW): The Hydrology Project target in all respects viz., procurement, civil work,
training, establishing HDUG network, conducting mass awareness programmes and all other related goals
wee achieved in full without any lapse. The HDUG members and NGOs are often meeting us regarding
HIS. The HIS network established in Tamil Nadu has reached the rural roots as well as water planners.
Tamil Nadu will prove itself as a fore runner in HIS sustainability. The lessons learnt are turned into
fruitful results to strengthen the HIS.




                                                  - 36 -

Additional Annex 9. Detailed Comments of the Royal Netherlands Embassy (RNE) on the
ICR

Donor of:         Technical Assistance to Hydrology Project .
Project period: May 1996 till June 2003. Grant amount:  15,00 million.
Summary of total TA staffing in person-months: International: 480, National: 1717.

Introduction: In March 2003 the Netherlands Embassy charged a Mission The Mission consisted of
Roland K Price, Mission Leader and Hydrologist, Dimitri Solomatine, Data Management and Training
specialist; S.Rajagopalan, Institutional Specialist; Dilip Fouzdar, Groundwater and User perspective; and
Henk Nijland, Water Management Specialist, Resource Person.
 with evaluating the Technical Assistance provided to the Hydrology Project. The Mission made brief
visits to the implementing agencies, during which time the Mission assessed how well the TA had been
effective in stimulating the performance of the agencies. Although the Mission could assess that the project
achievements are considerable, the sustainability of the achievements of the Hydrology Project in the 24
implementing agencies is of key concern.

Major Findings

Achievements: The project has brought about the establishment of a national hydrological measurement
network with a standardised approach to hydrological data collection and processing. Central government
and state government departments dealing with hydrological data collection have been brought together to
rationalise networks, share data and carry out a mutual verification of each other's data. The technical
procedures for installing and implementing different types of monitors and collecting and processing the
data in a number of different situations are embodied in a comprehensive set of manuals produced by the
consultants in consultation with the end users. These manuals have been distributed widely and have
received considerable applause. In addition, the states have greatly appreciated the support given by the
Consultants in procurement and implementation of equipment and buildings.

All groups are now using components of an accepted Hydrology Information System that ranges from data
entry and preliminary validation to analysis and secondary validation leading to data storage for both
surface water and groundwater data. The implementation of HIS has been done within the context of
institutional strengthening in the states departments. This has involved mobilising extensive support in the
management of the states for HIS. It is interesting to reflect that at least in some of the states the
development of state water policies appear to have been influenced by the Hydrology Project, and
presumably by the activities of the Consultants.

A large number of staff has been trained through an extensive training programme introduced by the
Consultants. In particular, a training of trainer programme has been initiated with a number of such staff
trained in each state. Further support that leads towards sustainability of HIS is seen in the introduction of
state and national help desks to support the various procedures that are involved in the data collection,
processing and dissemination between the different users and institutions.

A considerable problem faced by the Consultants was in changing the work culture within the government
and state departments that have yet to accommodate the arrival of the digital knowledge based economy.
The Consultants have remained true to the process approach, which has underlined the whole of their
activities, and have introduced a novel set of cultural change workshops that address the values of
individuals and particular staff groups. These workshops appear to have been warmly welcomed by the



                                                    - 37 -

three states that have participated in them, and they show a good potential for bringing about changes in
working culture.

Finally, the Consultants have endeavoured to advise and assist in some innovative R&D projects that make
extensive use of the data, and this way have set the pace as `drivers' for the data.

The Mission concludes that main objectives of the TA project have been reached.

Issues/General overview: Yet the sustainability of these achievements, in the sense of maintaining and
even increasing the level of activity and scope of data collection and continually improving the processes
and procedures involved, is at risk in most states. The key areas of concern include:
§       Poor validation of much of the data, including the lack of formal quality assurance at all levels,
despite extensive training and assistance by the Consultants and others
§       Inadequate annual and long term planning for HIS within the state departments
§       Incomplete deployment of HIS components, seriously affecting the flow of information
§       A barely adequate system of technical support in place for all levels of staff involved
§       The need for more far reaching changes in institutional practices
§       Further education and advanced training to increase the understanding and appreciation of HIS in
its operation, even though adequate training has been provided to carry out the basic activities involved in
HIS
§       Inadequate awareness of the real needs of potential data users and the lack of emphasis on the
provision of relevant data
§       The need for many more `drivers' for data both internally within government and externally by
other users
§       The need to adopt appropriate strategies for strengthening the Hydrology Data User Groups and
making them broad-based so as to create demand for data
§       The need for the agencies to network with other organisations outside the hydrology domain and
who can play a complementary role to the agencies

Data validation: The achievement of the Consultants in implementing a standard hydrology information
system in the nine states with the co-operation of CWC and CGWB over a period of six years is
remarkable. Yet it marks only the beginning of a long process of building up a truly Indian HIS. This is
because as yet the people responsible for data collection and processing have not built up sufficient
experience of what they are doing and an understanding of the importance and value of the data they are
collecting. As a consequence in almost all states the Mission was concerned at the poor validation of the
data collected so far and a lack of objective self-review of the processes they are using. This has lead to an
overconfident trust in the accuracy of the data.

Such failure to appreciate the inherent uncertainties in the data is not unexpected as shown by the emphasis
of the Consultants both on their manuals on data validation and on the coverage of the subject in the
extensive training courses conducted. Yet the validation procedures agreed upon are not being followed,
and additionally quality assurance is not being implemented through formal checking by superiors of the
work done by their juniors. This is not a trivial problem to address in that it involves the accumulation of
experience, an attitude of curiosity and support from management in ensuring that procedures are followed.
Here, better procedures that are conducive to sharing information within and between the state data groups
could have been tried. For example, communities of (good) practice in water data management could have
been encouraged at the level of the data practitioners (rather than at the data users level), both at the state
and national levels.




                                                     - 38 -

Infrastructure Action Plans: The lack of acceptance of the Hydrology Infrastructure Action Plan
(HIDAP) by the states is disappointing and there were not enough attempts by the Consultants to adapt it in
the light of Indian government experience. This has meant that, although each state department has
produced its annual plan for HIS with its particular objectives and budget to satisfy its internal
requirements, there has been no long term planning tool in place to identify objectives over, say, a five-year
period. It is true that some states are struggling to make financial ends meet, and some are preoccupied
with recovering from emergency situations such as flooding, riots and drought. Nevertheless, a long term
planning tool that enables the state departments to look five years ahead would be valuable in targeting the
necessary resources to meet proposed needs. Whatever form HIDAP takes in the future it should be the
result of a relevant Indian format that should be developed primarily by Indian staff themselves.

Hydrological Information System: The complete HIS envisaged in the early stages of the project has not
been achieved within the project duration. SWDES, GWDES and WQDES are in place along with
HYMOS for surface water data. The consultants have largely been responsible for the introduction of the
data entry and validation software, which has proved to be greatly appreciated by all of the states. It should
be mentioned however that releases of the software through standard software engineering procedures were
not fully followed. The final project versions of GEMS and WISDOM have yet to be delivered. The
history of software development within the project has not been entirely satisfactory. Original contract
obligations for GEMS and WISDOM have not been fulfilled. This situation has resulted in a tangible
tension between the software developers and the Consultants. The situation is undoubtedly difficult and
complex. Whereas there may be a number of different reasons why this situation has arisen and the
Consultants have tried hard to resolve it, the Mission thinks that the Consultants could still have been more
proactive in managing the conflict.

Support procedures and training: The TA project is presently due to finish at the end of March 2003.
This means that the support given by the Consultants to the states and CWC and CGWB will then be
stopped. Thereafter staff in the states will depend on internal facilities such as the help desks and the
training provided by the internal trainers and institutes such as NWA and NIH. Apart from the problem of
how to deal with training and support in using the software that is yet to be supplied the Consultants have
endeavored to put in place a system of self-help for the states.

In the view of the Mission however, this has not gone far enough. A number of points can be identified.
There is no formal process of recording, synthesizing and disseminating lessons learned by experience of
data collection, processing and distribution.     There is no procedure for improving and updating the
manuals. The help desks have barely been used in all of the states, and there is little evidence that they are
likely to be used significantly in the future, even though problems will arise and help will be required. In
other words, they may fall into disuse. Part of the problem lies in the fact that the Consultants have
perhaps been too proactive in designing, producing and implementing the software, technical manuals and
management procedures, even though they involved staff from the states in setting up the terms of reference
for these items.

Role of CWC and CGWB: Another issue comes from the position of the CWC and CGWB, which could
ideally be more proactive in providing the states with the sort of technical assistance and advice that has
been the responsibility of the Consultants during the HP project. The Project Co-ordination Secretariat
(PCS) is supposed to co-ordinate this technical assistance and advice, but it does not appear to have been
adequately prepared by the Consultants and properly staffed, and there is little evidence that the intended
role is appreciated by the states.




                                                     - 39 -

Cultural and organisational change: It was recognised in the terms of reference for the TA that some
radical actions would need to be taken in regard to the processes of the groups in the states handling
hydrology data. The failure to introduce HIDAP shows that bringing about changes in the processes is a
very difficult task.    It was rather late in the project that the consultants turned to cultural change
workshops. These place an emphasis on exploring individual and group values, as a means of making staff
aware of how they form their beliefs and attitudes concerning their work, with the possibility of making
changes to these values, beliefs and attitudes. In parallel, the Consultants could have explored other
infrastructural arrangements, such as the CWC and CGWB taking on a more resource-oriented role
concerning the states.

User Groups and Data `Drivers': Sustainability of data collection in the states depends in part on the
internal and external stakeholders for the data. Hydrology Data User Groups (HDUGs) have been set up in
all of the states, some with more success than others have. In a few states little interest has been
forthcoming from external users of the data and the groups have not met for a long time. In other states
communications have been set up with potential users, but little has been gained in terms of data needs.
Questionnaires have been distributed to users in some states and these have yielded useful results. No state
appears to have changed any of its data collection procedures or processing in the light of user needs.
Obviously, it is still early days in terms of making potential users aware of the benefits that can come from
having good, reliable hydrological data, but the HDUGs are an important concept that may have not been
exploited enough by the states.

There need to be many more `drivers' stressing the need for data, both internally in government, for
example, through the state planning departments, and external customers, such as industry, agriculture,
finance institutions and research. Newsletters, websites, articles in the local newspapers, documentaries on
TV, school and public education programmes, celebrations such as Jal Utsav (being co-ordinated by the
Consultants in March 2003), can all help to raise awareness generally, as well as promoting and
publicising the state water policies. Consultant initiated a number of such activities and these should be
continued and extended.

Sustainability: All previously addressed issues considerably influence the sustainability of the Hydrology
Information System (HIS). The following is a summary of the impression that the Mission has formed of
the sustainability of HIS in each agency. We see good prospects for the sustainability of HIS in Andhra
Pradesh (SW&GW), Karnataka (SW&GW), Tanil Nadu (SW and GW), Maharashtra (SW&GW), and in
CWRPS. There are reasonable prospects for the sustainability of HIS in Kerala (GW), Gujarat (GW),
Orissa (GW), Madhya Pradesh (SW&GW) and in CWC, CGWB, NIH and IMD . Finally, the Mission has
some concern for the sustainability of HIS in Kerala (SW), Gujarat (SW), Orissa (SW), Chhattisgarh (SW
and GW) and in PCS.

Recommendations: By March 2003 the loan period of the World Bank to India for the Hydrology Project
had been extended for another nine months from 1 April 2003 to 31 December 2003. The Mission
considered it reasonable to consider the future of any possible technical assistance in terms of the same
period Due to the sudden ending of the bilateral development cooperation relationship between Netherlands and
India in June 2003, the end date of the Technical Assistance could not further be extended beyond June 30, 2003.
and of an extended period that may coincide with or bridge the gap to the possible phase 2 of the Hydrology
Project. The primary focus has to be on the sustainability of HIS and the associated management processes
and technical procedures within the states and at the central agencies.

Short term (to the end of 2003):
§        Assist the states in developing formal QA in connection with validation protocols and procedures


                                                     - 40 -

for data collection, processing and communication.
§        Assist in setting up a system of on-the-job training of staff responsible for data collection and
processing at all levels.
§        Ensure the satisfactory completion of the GEMS and WISDOM software by the contractors and
the subsequent implementation, maintenance and training.
§        Ensure that effective user manuals are in place for all components of the HIS.
§        Improve the implementation of Help Desks at divisional, state and national (CWC and CGWB)
levels.
§        Carry out cultural change workshops in all states, addressing personal and group values, beliefs
and attitudes of participants.
§        Arrange for more advanced training on hydrology and information systems to be given to post
graduate engineers aged 35 or less.
§        Help the implementing agencies to develop annual and medium term plans using an adapted version
of HIDAP.
§        Ensure the operationalization of the HIS national co-ordination committee, the technical
secretariat, and the corresponding committees at the state level.

Longer term (2004-):

Promote the need for a more vigorous acquisition of user requirements through HDUGs.

§        Introduce lessons learned protocols for all technical and management processes.
§        Introduce assessment procedures for the effectiveness of training.
§        Work with CWC and CGWB to ensure improved inter-state sharing of data.
§        Carry out workshops on marketing data and facilities (eg WQ analysis) and customer needs
analysis.
§        Put in place procedures and mechanisms such that the technical and procedural manuals can be
adapted for Indian practice.
§        Promote the establishment of state and national HIS staff groups (practitioners using the software,
and collecting and applying data) that include national agencies as well as the state departments.
§        Promote and support innovative R&D projects that have a high demand for hydrological data (eg
flood forecasting and modelling, river basin management, drought proofing, conjunctive use of surface and
ground water).
§        Encourage CWC and CGWB to act as professional resource centers for the implementation of the
HIS by the states.
§        Put in place mechanisms for regularly updating visions, plans and processes related to the HIS.
§        Establish a national mechanism for continuing professional development of the HIS personnel at all
levels, including Masters and PhD levels.

Source: Review of Technical Assistance, April 2003.




                                                     - 41 -

Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Project Completion Report

                                            Government of India,
                                       Ministry of Water Resources,
                                (Ground Water & Minor Irrigation Wing )
                 India: Hydrology Project ( Cr. 2774 ­IN) Project Completion Report.


1.      Project Concept/Objective:

1.1     The need for a reliable and easily accessible hydro-meteorological data base for various activities
in planning and management of water resources to meet the challenges of ever increasing demand for
reliable and good quality water supply for various uses such as Domestic water systems. Agriculture,
Industrial and Power generation, is well accepted.

1.2     The main objective of the Hydrology Project was to improve the institutional and organizational
arrangements, technical capabilities and physical facilities available for measurement, validation, collation,
analysis , transfer and dissemination of hydrological, hydro-meteorological and water quality data, and for
basic water resources evaluations within the concerned agencies at Central Government level and in the
nine (9) participating States. The project, therefore, aimed at upgrading and expanding Hydrometry and
Data Management, Institutional Strengthening with provision for technical assistance and training
arrangements to support improvement of institutional and technical capability objectives.

1.3.    The Project was launched in December 1995 with International Development Association (World
Bank) assistance of SDR 90.1 million. At the time of mid-term review the credit assistance was reduced to
75.1 million SDR due to decrease in cost of computers, overestimation of training targets and increase in
dollar parity with the rupee. The project was originally scheduled to be implemented in a period of 6 years
(1995/96 to 2000-2001). The credit closing date has been extended twice first up to March 2003 and
finally 31st December, 2003 for fully operationalizing the infrastructure and softwares developed under the
project. The Government of Netherlands has provided a grant-in-aid of Euro 14.84 million in the form of
Technical Assistance (TA) under a bilateral Indo-Dutch agreement, in the form of Consultancy services
and overseas trainings. The TA started in 1996 and the closing date December 2001, was extended upto
March 2003 co-terminus as World Bank assistance. The TA was closed w.e.f. 30.06.2003.



2. Project Design and Implementation:

2.1     As stated in SAR, it was considered that keeping in view the complexity of institutions and
management challenges and involvement of a number of agencies in the project, a flexible responsive
approach would be appropriate. The project implementation and inter related strengthening of capabilities
of each implementing agencies (IA) was designed to be steered and managed through a "Process
Approach". It was accordingly considered that it would be best to take up specific work programmes
through continuous monitoring, feed back and adaptions as experience is gained while the general
objectives and direction of the project are defined.

2.2     It has been experienced that the built in flexibility in such an approach has been very useful in
implementation of a project of this nature.




                                                    - 42 -

2.3      The main activities taken up under the project to achieve the desired objective were:-

i)       Upgrading    and     establishment   of   appropriate     River  Flow    Observation    network  for
hydro-meteorological observation and data collection and improvement/establishment of surface water
laboratory facilities.

ii)      Upgrading and establishment of appropriate Ground Water Observation Network for data
collection and improvement in ground water Laboratory facilities.

iii)     Upgrading     Data     Management      Facilities    involving    data   processing,   storage   and
transfer/communication facilities/network.

iv)      Strengthening institutional arrangement through additional manpower and capacity building to
enable operation and management of the infrastructure built through the project.

v)       Organizing required formal training and on the job training.

vi)      Other related activities e.g. R&D activities, procurement of equipments etc.

2.4      The performance of various activities have been quite satisfactory and the details about progress
and project completion are given under paragraph 3 hereinafter.

2.4.1    In view of the complex nature and diverse activities involved in a project like this involving a
number of agencies with spatial and thematic overlap of activities to be taken up, the need for strong
co-ordination of activities and management was accepted in the project design as contained in the SAR. It
has been observed that such an approach has been beneficial in delivering the targeted result. The project
execution authority was devolved at central, state and project level and in each State two Participating
agencies (viz SW&GW) were involved apart from several central agencies designated as nodal for
particular subjects. The following major committees were very crucial towards successful implementation
of the project.

·        National Level Steering Committee (NLSC) under the chairmanship of the Secretary, Ministry of
Water Resources, Govt. of India to resolve project policy, storage and generic implementation issues.
·        National Co-ordination Committee (NCC) under the chairmanship of Member (RM), CWC for
overall project coordination and advisory function to state level coordination groups.
·        National Hydrology Training Committee (NHTC) under the chairmanship of Commissioner (WM),
MOWR to review and approve training courses, workshop and seminar with related issues.
·        R&D Evaluation Committee under the chairmanship of Member (RM), CWC to review and
approve R&D proposals taken up under the project.

2.4.2    The Project Coordination Secretariat (PCS ) headed by the Commissioner (WM) MoWR was an
important nodal point towards successful implementation of the project. The PCS has provided effective
support in project implementation through maintaining direct linkage with the W.B. on the one hand and
handling matters related to procurement etc. processed by various agencies.

2.4.3    The pace of implementation in the initial years of implementation was comparatively slow. The
reason for the same was a time consuming process in establishing observation network requiring systematic
finalization of location, rationalization through joint visits, review by state and central agencies. However,



                                                     - 43 -

the works were carried out systematically inspite of some delay as the central agencies (viz., CWC, CGWB
and IMD) possess expertise in the field.

2.4.4    In procurement, the initial delays were due to delay in finalizing specifications for different
equipment, some of which were new to the IAs, by specification committee and consultants.

2.4.5      From the experience above, it appears that some initial period in the project needs to be provided
for this kind of preparatory works while designing such a project. Also, it could have been more effective
if the Central Coordinating Office (PCS) would have been entrusted with project implementation
management in a broader manner supported by a project management consultant to oversee co-ordination
of the various project management issues. As per the vision statement approved for HIS Coordination
Secretariat (presently PCS), in the post project period one officer of the level of Scientist C from Central
Ground Water Board and one officer of the level of Assistant. Director from Central Water Commission
need to be continued for carrying out coordination with the nodal central agencies namely ­ CWC for
Surface Water, CGWB for Ground Water and IMD for Meteorological aspects. The project finance
management during the project period also would have needed an appropriate system rather than the
coordination left to be consultants alone.

2.4.6    The project being the first of its kind and of a complex nature from the point of view of creation of
infrastructure for data network related to different agencies, it was not easy to organize, execute and
monitor various components of works. But the IAs have come out with success stories inspite of various
constraints with the ultimate benefits in mind.

2.4.7    The main objective of the project i.e. setting up of an efficient Hydrological Information System
(HIS) has been achieved and a versatile HIS is in place. The data management system is functioning
although some related components e.g. GIS interface GEMS are not fully operational as yet as a result of
various constraints in processing, statutory clearances required from other ministry etc.

3. Project Performance:

3.1      The project performance is being monitored on a quarterly basis through a Management
Information System (MIS) developed by the consultants. The Consultants have withdrawn from the project
since 30th June, 2003; however, the MIS analysis is being carried out by the PCS, although appropriate
handing over was not done by the Consultants.

3.2      The progress of infra-structure development works are very good and almost fully achieved.
Almost all the agencies are well into Phase II of the Project although there was some shortfall in targeted
works for Kerala, Orissa and IMD as a result of some internal constraints. However, there is no shortfall
in performance of I.M.D. in Training and Studies and incremental staffing (recurring costs) out of the four
sub-heads. The percentage allocation of funds for Orissa and Kerala is comparatively low and, therefore,
this shortfall does not significantly alter the overall project performance.

3.3      As of September,2003, full targets have been achieved in Establishment of River Gauging Sites,
Meteorological Stations and Groundwater Observation Wells; 94% Water Quality Labs have been
established; 98% of buildings have been completed, 95% of computers and 92% of vehicles are
operational. Over 9000 staff were trained and about 95% training targets have been achieved overall.
There is some savings in items like procurement of computers which is mainly due to reduction in costs.
Against the revised allotment of Rs.5804.03 million, the expenditure upto September 2003 is Rs.5643.34
million which is about 97%.


                                                       - 44 -

3.4     The yearwise expenditure, category-wise allotment/expenditure and agencywise reimbursement
claimed/reimbursed are given at Annexures-3, 4 & 5 respectively. The abstract of overall progress on
Infrastructure Development upto September 2003 towards completion and IA-wise summary is at
Annexure-1. Other IA-wise/overall performance is at Annexure-2. At the time of mid-term review the total
cost of the project was estimated as Rs.611.67 crores. This was reviewed by the Ministry of Water
Resources in October 2002 while forwarding the case for extension to World Bank. As per this estimate the
revised allotment was Rs.5800.4 million spent in the balance project period i.e. December 31, 2003.
Component-wise fund utilization upto September 2003 is quite satisfactory and is generally about 95%
level.  The total expenditure upto September 2003 is Rs.5644 million which is 97% of the revised
allotment. The final allotment of the project is Rs.6020 million (tentative).

3.5      Uniform softwares developed under the project have been used by the I.As. Surface water and
groundwater manuals have been prepared and required protocols have been formulated.

3.6     As per the reimbursement status (available from the World Bank) against the total credit of
Rs.75.1 million SDR, disbursement as on 06.11.2003 is Rs.69.63 million SDR leaving an undisbursement
claim of Rs.5.466 million SDR. As per the information from the IAs, the reimbursed amount is Rs.3996
million against claim preferred for Rs.4114 million. Considering a time gap of about 4 months required for
consolidating and processing reimbursement claims by the agencies, it can be presumed broadly that
expenditure incurred upto June 2003 has been reimbursed. The projected expenditure from October to
December 2003 is Rs.376 million. Considering a reimbursement rate of about 75% and exchange rate of 1
SDR to Rs.65, amount of reimbursement for a 3 months period (October to December) works out to
Rs.4.34 million SDR. Therefore, the balance reimbursement for a six month period considered to be still
outstanding can match the undisbursed amount of Rs.5.466 million SDR. Thus the total credit is likely to
be fully utilized by the end of project period.

3.7     Operationalization of the two main softwares WISDOM and GEMS is a very crucial activity under
the project. Both these softwares have been installed at different places.

        WISDOM Software has been installed in all locations by February-March, 2003. The revised
version of WISDOM 1.2 has been released/installed in September 2003 after certain modifications/fine
tuning. An eight day refresher training course at New Delhi will be held on December 2003 for the
participants from all the Data Storage Centres.

        Installation of the GEMS software after rectification of initial difficulties and refinements has been
completed on all sites. A revised version is also to be installed by November 30, 2003. Various reports and
maps are being generated utilizing this software at NDC Faridabad.

3.8      Hydrological Data User Groups (HDUGs) have been formed in all the States and central level
with representatives of governmental and non-governmental organizations.

        The data generated under Hydrology Project has been successfully used in the following fields
which have direct as well as indirect impact on social sector:-

a)      Monitoring of droughts and floods

  (i)   `Neeru-Meeru' programme in Andhra Pradesh and `Pani Roko Abhiyan' in MP for tackling
        drought.


                                                     - 45 -

  (ii)  Integrated River basin studies for Sabarmati basin in Gujarat and Upper Godavari basin in
        Maharashtra.

b)      Optimum design of water conservation /control and highway structures

  (i)   Proper design of water conservation structures of over 13,000 check dams, re-designing of earth
        dams and rain water harvesting, e.g. check dams etc.

  (ii)  Planning of lower Kolar, Parvathi and Kalisindh dam in Madhya Pradesh.

  (iii) Evaluation of impact of rain water harvesting structures on ground water recharge in AP,
        Karnataka, Gujarat, Maharasthra and CGWB, extent of sea water ingression along with coast in
        TN and AP.

c)      Planning on inter state rivers
        HP data has been used for river flow diversion studies for Mahadayi river, an inter state river of
        Goa & Karnataka.

d)      Ground Water resource assessment and auditing at district/block/village and watershed levels
        HP data has been used for development of a comprehensive ground water bill in Tamil Nadu.

e)      Water Quality monitoring related to public health

  (i)   Water Quality analysis, indicated high levels of Nitrate, Fluoride and BOD/COD in some districts
        and 11 takes in the vicinity of Bangalore city.

  (ii)  HP data used by the Pollution Control Boards and PHE Deptts. For taking appropriate actions on
        polluters.

  (iii) Detection of Arsenic/Fluoride in Madhya Pradesh and Fluoride in Kerala.


f)      Supporting framing of state water policies, acts and regulations

  (i)   HP data is facilitating ground water regulatory authorities in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh,
        Karnataka and Tamil Nadu in their decision making.

  (ii)  HP data used for development of Master Plan for Krishna Basin, water availability studies for
        power projects.

  (iii) Acts/Policy changes in Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Kerala are being effected through HIS
        dissemination and public awareness campaigns.

3.8     Websites have been launched at AP (SW&GW), Guj (GW), Ka (GW), Ke (SW), Mh (SW&GW)
and Or (SW&GW). These websites have been used to disseminate HP data. Guj (SW), Ka (SW), Ke (GW)
, MP (SW&GW), Ch (SW&GW), TN (SW/GW) are at an advanced stage of launching their website.
Metadata has been placed on the web wherever the website is launched. Data and information are also
disseminated in various forms: Year Book in many states; district-wise GW year-books (Ka, Guj and AP);


                                                   - 46 -

Monthly Reports (AP); and Newsletters/stickers/posters (AP,TN). Water awareness programs are also
used as a platform to bring the HP data into public domain (AP, Ka, TN and Mh). Jal-Utsav--, a public
awareness campaign -- was held all over the HP agencies during March 22 (World Water Day)-April, 25,
2003 to sensitize the public at large on the need for water conservation and judicious management.

4.       Other experience/Lessons learnt

4.1       As role of PCS in overall coordination, management, monitoring at national level and providing
uniformity in project development activities is vital, there is a need to suitably strengthen the PCS to
enable taking up this responsibility in effective manner wherever such a project is taken up.

4.2      Appropriate training to the personnel in implementing agencies concerned with procurement and
related matters about bidding procedures and intricacies in the beginning of the project could have been
beneficial. Although the same set of personnel being responsible for different works (e.g. procurement and
civil works/installations) was a constraint, this requirement will have to be considered from project
management point of view for any future project.

4.3      Institutional strengthening through provision of additional personnel was a difficult task due to
various reasons like, ban on recruitments, abolition of posts etc. Therefore, feasibility about deployment of
staff need to be considered in more details and agreed upon by the IAs at the Appraisal stage so that project
implementation becomes more systematic and sustainability is improved.

4.4       The probable risk of non utilization of HIS data does not exist any longer as data of HIS has
already been utilized for various purposes.

4.5      In procurement, bids from reputed suppliers have to be sometimes declared non-responsive as a
result of variations which are insignificant towards the quality of bid. This leads to delay in procurement
and related project activities.    It will be worthwhile to consider necessary revision in procurement
procedure so that some such provisions can be suitably modified.

4.6      The amount involved in many of the ICB packages was too small to evoke interest from overseas
bidders. The foreign bidders who have their representatives/authorized dealers in India normally bid for
these procurements through ICB. The stipulations in Credit Agreement need to be made a little more
flexible, so that provision for change to NCB in special cases with appropriate scrutiny and approval from
the Bank is incorporated.

4.7      The consultancy services provided under the Hydrology Project provided assistance to the IAs in
understanding various activities.

4.8      As a result of nature of project, a direct cost benefit assessment of the project is difficult. However,
the project has rendered immense benefit by setting up a national hydro-meteorological network within the
project boundary, development and integration of data entry, data storage, and communication network
providing management facility.        The institutional strengthening component has enabled creation of
supporting manpower structure to sustain the HIS network although the full targeted objective for
additional manpower could not be achieved due to various regulatory constraints in the Governments.
However, the staff component related to the project is capable of operating its various components of the
HIS effectively. The project also has generated due kind of enthusiasm in the operating personnel who are
also involved in using the data in various ways and are undertaking data utilization for various purposes on
their own. The HIS data has already been utilized for problem solving and planning purposes.


                                                     - 47 -

4.9      The Project period of six years was required to be extended as this ambitious project was to be
completed. The experience of this project will be very useful in monitoring and management of any future
project of this type in much more effective manner as the critical issues, requirements etc. are well
anticipated/documented now.

4.10    In general the IDA performance in supporting and supervising the project has been positive and
quite helpful. A rational assessment from IDA which has led to extension to the project period has enabled
successful completion. However, the IAs have experienced difficulties at times in smooth flow of funds
during implementation. A mechanism enabling reasonable amount of advance with the IAs will result in
better implementation.

4.11    Annual visits of WB Supervision Mission have been very helpful towards Project Monitoring and
Implementation.

4.12    Technical assistance from Government of Netherlands has been very helpful in implementation of
monitoring of Hydrological project. It has been very useful in planning net work, providing software,
preparation of standard manuals/guidelines for execution of HIS and trainings to the implementing agencies
in various HIS activities. However, consultant contribution need to be considered, inter-alia, to serve
capacity building endeavor so that the support can benefit in post project operation.

4.13    There has been significant technical in puts provided by the consultants (RNE) to the implementing
agencies of the HP.      Some of these are, framing of specification of all equipments, preparation of
guidelines/manuals for installation, operation and observations, introduction of computerized Hydrology
data processing, specification     for dedicated data processing softwares, preparation of standard data
validation and processing procedure and manuals, and assistance in planning and implementation in
extensive training programme and development of large number of training modules.               However, the
consultants' performance towards the end of the project period in areas like validation of data, in inter
agency data validation and finalization of ground water manual was not matching the requirements. The
consultants input was quite significant in providing thrust towards implementation in the initial years;
however, a proper withdrawal strategy was a major shortcoming which will need to be properly framed for
any future project.

5.      Sustainability in the post project period

5.1     Hydrology Project has strengthened the hydro-meteorological monitoring network to have high
quality, better frequency and spatially represented water levels and water quality data and avoids
duplication in efforts in data collection by the state and Central agencies. All the agencies have confirmed
that they would be taking necessary action for ensuring sustainability of the project.

        For sustenance and mainstreaming of the HP activities beyond project closing date, the agencies
have taken following measures.

5.2     All the HIS activities have been included in the annual activities in the post project period.

5.3     Provisions are made in the agencies' annual budget for Operation and Maintenance and the
agencies are confident about its approval in the budget for 2004-05.

5.4     Training plans for the post project period has been prepared and fund provisions have been made in


                                                     - 48 -

the normal budget allocation for 2004-05.

5.5      Necessary administrative measures are being taken to retain the trained staff in place in the post
project period.

5.6      It has been decided that National Level Steering Committee (NLSC) would continue in the post
project period as HIS ­ Coordination Committee (HIS-CC) and PCS as HIS-Coordination Secretariat
(HIS-CS) with similar functions. Adequate funds have been provided for in X Plan period. The agencies
also confirmed long term continuation of State Level Coordination Committee (SLCC). Other measures
for long term sustainability are also being taken by IAs.. These include A.P. (hiring of vehicles for next
five years, earmarking year-wise O&M funds for all the years under the X Plan); Gujarat (post project
training under WALMI); Karnataka (periodic HIS divisional level workshop); Maharashtra-GW
(establishment of a consultancy cell; change management process and participation and demand driven data
collection and management process) etc.

5.7      Utilisation of the two main softwares developed under the project namely WISDOM and GEMS is
an important activity in the post project period. Both the softwares have been installed in all locations by
respective nodal surface water and ground water agencies (CWC and CGWB). Although a number of
trainings have been conducted on these softwares, the training activities and organizing refresher course
will be continuing activity in respect of these softwares for effective operation. Also because of the
comprehensive nature and capability of the softwares, coming out which revised version of the software is a
continuous process after incorporating suitable modifications etc.       The High Level Technical Group
(HLTG) will also function as the Technical Advisory Group for efficient functioning of these softwares.

6.       Principal gains:

6.1      As covered in the main report, principal gains from Hydrology Project are:

·        Establishment of Monitoring network with domain specific data collection infrastructure,
integration of monitoring network amongst different agencies in same domain and uniform and standardized
measurement techniques.
·        Establishment of HIS involving Computerization of historical and current data; advance level of
data processing and analysis through required hardware and software reducing time lag in processing and
inferences.
·        Establishment of data centers and inter-agency data exchange facility.
·        Institutional Strengthening with incremental staff and Extensive skill and capacity building in staff
through multiple training modules.
·        Improved data dissemination and making it user friendly with help of HDUG.

6.2      Pre and Post Project Scenario ­ A comparison of the SW, GW, Meteorological, Water Quality
monitoring networks along with data processing and dissemination prior to inception of Hydrology Project
and the status in the post project scenario establishes significant gains from the project in the
hydrometeorological system which is the backbone for many water sector activity. The main observations
are given at Annexure-6. It is seen that the monitoring network prior to hydrology project was in a
relatively unorganized stage with non uniform procedures between agencies which was improved upon by
state of art equipment, scientifically located observations sites, uniform procedures between agencies and
collection of reliable high frequency data and trained staff. Replication of the system/network established
under the project will provide a versatile HIS at the national level.



                                                     - 49 -

6.3      The Water Quality Assessment Authority (WQAA) under the Ministry of Environment and Forests
(MOEF) with MOWR has become operational with a clear objective of improving water quality regime in
the country. State Level Water Quality Review Committees (WQRC) have been set up in most of the
States and union territories including the nine HP states. The HIS under HP will be an important facility to
provide immense support to this endeavour.

6.4      Realization of scarcity value of water with passage of time and increase in population has led to
appreciation about importance of hydrometeorological data on which various decision about water
utilization planning, development and management is dependant in the country. As a result of the National
Water Policy and Water Vision 2050 (MoWR), the future perspective about water requirement and need
for management is well understood also by a large number of NGOs and people in general as stakeholders.
All these have boosted interest in HIS created at different levels. In line with the International Year of
Fresh Water 2003, India is also observing 2003 as the year of Freshwater.            Apart from increased
awareness about water related activity in general, there has been increased plan of action at various water
related agencies including Govt. Organizations. Keeping in view Millennium Development Goals and other
international initiatives, development through the project is a very useful step forward in the water sector
activity in the country and has opened up avenues towards integrated water resources management.
Therefore, the impact of the project on the water sector is a very positive one.




                                                    - 50 -

Additional Annex 11. Borrower's Summary of Post Operation Plan

                                 Post Project Operation Plans (Summary)


         Hydrology Project brought in changes to strengthen the monitoring network to have high quality,
better frequency and spatially represented water levels and water quality data and avoids duplicity in data
collection by the state and Central agencies. These agencies have realized the advantages of the HP and
many of them have encompassed these in their regular activities. For sustenance and mainstreaming of the
HP activities beyond project closing date, these agencies have taken following measures.

·        All the HIS activities have been included in the annual action plan during post project year

·        Provisions are made in the agency's annual budget for O&M and the agencies are confident about
its approval in the budget for 2004-05.

·        Training plans for the post project period have been prepared and fund provisions have been made
in the normal budget allocation for 2004-05.

·        Necessary administrative measures are being taken to retain the trained staff in place in the post
project period.

·        As regards providing adequate specialists staff, fresh recruitment is difficult. The posts would be
filled up by redeployment and outsourcing with training.

·        It has been decided that National Level Steering Committee (NLSC) would continue in the post
project period as HIS ­ Coordination Committee (HIS-CC) and PCS as HIS-Coordination Secretariat
(HIS-CS) with similar functions. A vision paper has been approved for HIS-CS and adequate funds have
been provided in X Plan.

·        Most of the agencies also confirmed long term continuation of State Level Coordination Committee
(SLCC) and formation of Water Quality Review Committee as a standing committee beyond the Credit
closing date. In many agencies, certain initiatives are being taken which would lead to long term
sustainability. These include A.P. (hiring of vehicles for next five years, earmarking year-wise O&M funds
for all the years under the X Plan); Guj (post project training under WALMI); Ka (periodic HIS divisional
level workshop); Mh-GW (establishment of a consultancy cell; change management process and
participatory and demand driven data collection and management process) etc.

·        The Water Quality Assessment Authority (WQAA) under the realm of the Ministry of
Environment and Forests (MOEF) has become operational with a clear mandate of protecting the quality of
national water resources. State Level Water Quality Review Committees (WQRC) have been set up in
most of the States and union territories including the nine HP states. Close linkages will have to be
established with respective State Pollution Control Boards.

·        Prospects of mainstreaming and sustainability of HP activities looks encouraging. Task groups
have been formed in Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, and Karnataka to initiate and manage the
change process for sustainability.      In other states the agencies have taken the responsibility of
mainstreaming through interactive awareness. Action plan include:



                                                    - 51 -

·      Creating link data bases and managing

·      Use data for action plan for drought management, drought monitoring, artificial recharge/rain
water harvesting and resource estimation

·      Interaction with stake holders/water users

·      Creating awareness and knowledge sharing.

Detailed agency wise Post Project Operation Plans have been prepared for all the agencies and a copy of
the same was presented to the ICR mission.




                                                  - 52 -

- 53 -

