Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2774 IN
Chhattisgarh Agreement
(Hydrology Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF CHHATTISGARH
Dated September 20, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 2774 IN
CHHATTISGARH AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated September 20, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 
(Chhattisgarh).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement dated September 22, 1995, as 
Page  2
amended to date (hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) between India (the 
Borrower) and the Association, the Association agreed to make available to the Borrower an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to ninety million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 90,100,000) (the Credit) to assist in financing the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
the Development Credit Agreement; 
(B)
by the Project Agreement dated September 22, 1995 (hereinafter called the 
Project Agreement) between the Association and the States of Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Kerala, 
Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa and Tamil Nadu (hereinafter the Project States), and the 
Karnataka Agreement (hereinafter called the Karnataka Agreement) dated July 22, 1996 between 
the Association and the State of Karnataka (hereinafter Karnataka), the Project States and 
Karnataka have agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of carrying out of Part A of the 
Project, as provided in their respective agreements; and
(C)
Part A of the Project, will, in addition to the Project States and Karnataka, also 
be carried out by the State of Chhattisgarh (hereinafter Chhattisgarh) with the Borrower’s 
assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Chhattisgarh part 
of the proceeds of the Credit, as provided in this Agreement;
WHEREAS Chhattisgarh, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions(as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Chhattisgarh declares its commitment to the objective of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and environmental practices, and technical and hydrological practices, 
standards and criteria, under the overall coordination of MOWR, and shall provide, or cause to 
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
Part A of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Association and Chhattisgarh shall otherwise agree, Chhattisgarh shall carry out 
Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to 
this Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Dutch Grant, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, as amended by the Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. Chhattisgarh shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Chhattisgarh Agreement and Part A of the Project.
Section 2.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General 
Conditions, Chhattisgarh shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and 
Chhattisgarh, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, 
for the future operation of Part A of the Project;
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views on said plan; 
and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association’s comments thereon.
Section 2.05. (a) Chhattisgarh shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Chhattisgarh shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Chhattisgarh of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Chhattisgarh shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect 
of Part A of the Project of the departments or agencies of Chhattisgarh responsible for carrying 
out Part A of the Project.
(b)
Chhattisgarh shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than nine 
Page  4
months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the audit thereof, as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Page  5
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Second Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and Chhattisgarh 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms 
before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly 
notify Chhattisgarh of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C
  64145 (MCI)
Page  6
For Chhattisgarh:
Secretary to the Government
 of Chhattisgarh
Department of Irrigation
Raipur
Chhattisgarh, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Chhattisgarh may be taken or 
executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as the Chief Secretary shall 
designate in writing, and Chhattisgarh shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in New Delhi, 
India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
STATE OF CHHATTISGARH
By /s/ Ajay Singh
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
1.
To assist in the implementation of Part A of the Project, Chhattisgarh shall maintain the 
Project coordination arrangements agreed with the Association.
2.
Chhattisgarh shall undertake in collaboration with the Borrower and the Association, not 
later than October 31 of each year, starting October 31, 2001, an annual review of the Project, 
and shall incorporate the findings of such review in the work programs referred to in paragraph 3 
Page  7
(a) below.
3.
(a)
Chhattisgarh shall furnish to the Association for the Association’s review and 
comments not later than December 31 of each year, starting December 31, 2001, work program, 
cost estimates and budget proposals for Part A of the Project for the following fiscal year.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.01 (a) of this Agreement, 
Chhattisgarh shall make budgetary provisions sufficient to implement the work program referred 
to in (a) above, starting fiscal year 2000-2001, and for each subsequent fiscal year thereafter until 
Project completion.
4.
To assist in the management and dissemination of hydrological data generated through 
the Project, Chhattisgarh shall set up, not later than August 31, 2001, hydrology data user groups 
with membership and terms of reference agreed with the Association.
5.
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement and paragraph 3 
of this Schedule, Chhattisgarh shall take the necessary action for providing, in a timely manner, 
all the funds needed for covering operation and maintenance costs under Part A of the Project.
