Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                              CREDIT NUMBER 2774 IN
                                              (Amendment)
                         Karnataka Agreement
                         (Hydrology Project)
                               between
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                 and
                         STATE OF KARNATAKA
                         Dated July 22, 1996
                                              CREDIT NUMBER 2774 IN
                                              (Amendment)
                         KARNATAKA AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 22, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the STATE OF KARNATAKA (Karnataka).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement dated September
22, 1995 (hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) between
India (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to ninety million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 90,100,000) (the Credit) to assist in financing the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement;
      (B)   by the Project Agreement dated September 22, 1995
(hereinafter called the Project Agreement) between the Association
and the States of Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh,
Maharashtra, Orissa and Tamil Nadu (hereinafter called the Project
States), the Project States have agreed to undertake certain obli-
gations in respect of the carrying out of Part A of the Project;
      (C)   the Borrower has also requested the Netherlands Minister
of Development Cooperation (hereinafter the Minister) to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the technical assistance
under the Project, and pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April
1, 1996, and April 25, 1996, between the Borrower and the Netherlands
Minister of Development Cooperation (hereinafter referred to as the
Page  2
Dutch Grant Agreement), the Minister has agreed to provide such an
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to twenty nine
million nine hundred thousand Netherlands Guilders (NGL 29,900,000)
(hereinafter referred to as the Dutch Grant);
      (D)   the Borrower has requested the Association to agree to use
the savings in the Credit resulting from Dutch Grant financing, to
finance the costs of carrying out Part A of the Project in Karnataka,
and the Association, after due consideration, has agreed to this request;
      (E)   in addition to the Project States, Part A of the Project
will also be carried out by the State of Karnataka (hereinafter called
Karnataka) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Karnataka part of the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS Karnataka, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement, and the Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                             Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Agreement
Amending Development Credit Agreement, and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                             ARTICLE II
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) Karnataka declares its commitment to the
objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and environmental practices, and
technical and hydrological practices, standards and criteria, under
the overall coordination of MOWR, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for Part A of the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Association and Karnataka shall otherwise
agree, Karnataka shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Dutch Grant, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement, as amended by the
Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement.
      Section 2.03. Karnataka shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part A of the
Project.
      Section 2.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article
IX of the General Conditions, Karnataka shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
Page  3
this purpose between the Association and such Project State, a plan,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, for the future operation of Part A of the Project;
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Association's comments thereon.
      Section 2.05. (a)  Karnataka shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
      (b)   Karnataka shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by Karnataka of its obligations under this
Agreement.
                             ARTICLE III
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) Karnataka shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part A of the
Project of the departments or agencies of Karnataka responsible for
carrying out Part A of the Project.
      (b)   Karnataka shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in para-
                  graph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine months after
                  the end of each such year, the report of such
                  audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
                             ARTICLE IV
                    Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
      Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and Karnataka thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement,
                  as amended hereby, shall terminate in accordance
                  with its terms; or
            (ii)  the date twenty (20) years after the date of this
Page  4
                  Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Association shall promptly notify Karnataka of this event.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE V
                      Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram
to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made
at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address
as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                   Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C             82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      For Karnataka:
            Secretary to the Government
               of Karnataka
            Department of Irrigation
            Bangalore
            Karnataka, India
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of Karnataka may be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary
or such other person or persons as the Chief Secretary shall designate
in writing, and Karnataka shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of
each such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but
one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/  D. Joseph Wood
                                            Regional Vice President
                                                         South Asia
Page  5
                  STATE OF KARNATAKA
                  By  /s/  N. Valluri
                                          Authorized Representative
                              SCHEDULE
                       Implementation Program
1.    To assist in the implementation of Part A of the Project,
Karnataka shall maintain the Project coordination arrangements agreed
with the Association.
2.    Karnataka shall undertake in collaboration with the Borrower and
the Association, not later than October 31 of each year, starting
October 31, 1997, an annual review of the Project, with an interim
review in October 1996, and shall incorporate the findings of such
review in the work programs referred to in paragraph 3 (a) below.
3.    (a)   Karnataka shall furnish to the Association for the
Association's review and comments not later than December 31 of each
year, starting December 31, 1996, work program, cost estimates and
budget proposals for Part A of the Project for the following fiscal
year.
      (b)   Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.01 (a)
of this Agreement, Karnataka shall make budgetary provisions sufficient
to implement the work program referred to in (a) above, starting fiscal
year 1996-l997, and for each subsequent fiscal year thereafter until
Project completion.
4.    To assist in the management and dissemination of hydrological
data generated through the Project, Karnataka shall set up, not later
than December 31, 1996, hydrology data user groups with membership
and terms of reference agreed with the Association.
5.    Without limitations to the provisions of Section 2.01 of this
Agreement and paragraph 3 of this Schedule, Karnataka shall take the
necessary action for providing, in a timely manner, all the funds
needed for covering operation and maintenance costs under Part A of
the Project.
