Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2774 IN
                                             (Amendment)
                         Agreement Amending
                    Development Credit Agreement
                        (Hydrology Project)
                               between
                                INDIA
                                 and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated July 22, 1996
                                              CREDIT NUMBER 2774 IN
                                              (Amendment)
                         AGREEMENT AMENDING
                    DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 22, 1996, between INDIA, acting by its
President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement dated September
22, 1995 (hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) between
the Borrower and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to ninety million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 90,100,000) (the Credit) to assist in financing the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement;
      (B)   by the Project Agreement dated September 22, 1995
(hereinafter called the Project Agreement) between the Association
and the States of Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh,
Maharashtra, Orissa and Tamil Nadu (hereinafter called the Project
States), the Project States have agreed to undertake certain obliga-
tions in respect of the carrying out of Part A of the Project;
      (C)   the Borrower has also requested the Netherlands Minister
of Development Cooperation (hereinafter the Minister) to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the technical
assistance under the Project, and pursuant to an exchange of letters
Page  2
dated April 1, 1996, and April 25, 1996 between the Borrower and the
Netherlands Minister of Development Cooperation (hereinafter referred
to as the Dutch Grant Agreement), the Minister has agreed to provide
such an assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
twenty nine million nine hundred thousand Netherlands Guilders
(NGL 29,900,000) (hereinafter referred to as the Dutch Grant);
      (D)   the Borrower has requested the Association to agree to use
the savings in the Credit resulting from Dutch Grant financing, to
finance the costs of carrying out the Project in Karnataka, and the
Association, after due consideration, has agreed to this request; and
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto, hereby agree to the following
amendments to the Development Credit Agreement:
                                ARTICLE I
                               Definitions
      The following two definitions are added at the end of Section
1.02:
      "(m)  'Karnataka' means the State of Karnataka of the Borrower
       or any successor thereto; and
       (n)   'Karnataka Agreement' means the agreement between the
       Association and Karnataka of even date herewith, as the same
       may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
       schedules and agreements supplemental to the Karnataka
       Agreement."
                              ARTICLE III
                       Execution of the Project
      (i)   Section 3.01 (c) is deleted and replaced with the following:
      "Section 3.01. (c) Without limitation or restriction upon any of
      its obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
      the Project States to perform in accordance with the provisions
      of the Project Agreement, and Karnataka in accordance with the
      provisions of the Karnataka Agreement, all the obligations of
      the Project States and Karnataka therein set forth, respectively,
      shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
      provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources
      necessary or appropriate to enable the Project States and
      Karnataka to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
      permit to be taken any action which would interfere with such
      performance."
      (ii)  The term 'Karnataka' is added after the term 'Project
      States' in Section 3.01 (d).
      (iii) Section 3.02 is deleted and replaced with the following:
      "Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
      procurement of the goods, works and services required for the
      Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
      and consultants' services required for the Project and to be
      financed out of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant, shall be
      governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development
      Credit Agreement, as amended by this Agreement."
      (iv)  The following is added at the end of Section 3.03.
      "and by Karnataka pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Karnataka
      Agreement."
                             ARTICLE V
                   Remedies of the Association
Page  3
      (i)   A new paragraph (c) is added and reads as follows:
      "(c)  Karnataka shall have failed to perform any of its obli-
      gations under the Karnataka Agreement."
      (ii)  A new paragraph (d) is added and reads as follows:
      "(d)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
      of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      which shall make it improbable that Karnataka shall be able to
      perform its obligations under the Karnataka Agreement."
      (iii) A new paragraph (e) is added, and reads as follows:
      "(e)  (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the
      technical assistance financed by the Dutch Grant under the
      Project shall have been terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
      to the terms of the Dutch Grant Agreement.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
      if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Asso-
      ciation that: (A) such termination is not caused by the failure
      of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such
      agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the technical assistance
      under the Project are available to the Borrower from other
      sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations
      of the Borrower under this Agreement."
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      New Sections 6.03, 6.04 and 6.05 are added and read as follows:
      "Section 6.03. The following is specified as an additional matter
      for the effectiveness of the Agreement Amending Development
      Credit Agreement and the Karnataka Agreement within the meaning
      of Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that all
      the necessary clearances and approvals for Karnataka joining the
      Project have been obtained.
      Section 6.04. The following is specified as an additional matter,
      within the meaning of Section l2.02 (b) of the General Conditions,
      to be included in the opinion to be furnished to the Association,
      namely, that the Karnataka Agreement has been duly authorized or
      ratified by Karnataka, and is legally binding upon Karnataka in
      accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.05. The date ninety (90) days after the date of the
      Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement is hereby
      specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
      Conditions, for the purposes of the Agreement Amending
      Development Credit Agreement and the Karnataka Agreement."
                               SCHEDULE 1
                Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement is deleted and substituted with the following table:
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                20,700,000        80%
(2) Goods                      32,400,000        100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
Page  4
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 80%
                                                 of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items
                                                 procured locally
(3) Training and studies         4,200,000       100%
(4) Incremental staff           24,600,000       90% until
    salaries and                                 March 31, 1999,
    incremental                                  75% until
    operation and                                March 31, 2000, and
    maintenance                                  50% thereafter
    costs
(5) Unallocated                  8,200,000
                                __________
           TOTAL                90,100,000
                                ==========
2.    A new paragraph 5 is added in Schedule 1, and reads as follows:
      "5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3
      above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
      by Karnataka for expenditures prior to the date of this Agree-
      ment, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
      exceed SDR 300,000 may be made on account of payments made by
      Karnataka for expenditures before that date but after March 31,
      1996."
                                SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
      The term "and Karnataka" is added after the term "Project
States."
                               SCHEDULE 3
                  Procurement and Consultants' Services
      The term "and Karnataka" is added after the term "Project States."
      Paragraphs 1 and 2 of Section II, "Employment of Consultants,"
in this Schedule, are deleted and replaced with the following:
"1.   In order to assist in the carrying of the Project, the Borrower
shall ensure that consultants financed under the Dutch Grant shall be
selected in accordance with terms of reference agreed with the
Association, and shall have qualifications and experience acceptable
to the Association."
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
      Paragraph 2 is deleted and the rest of the paragraphs are
renumbered accordingly.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        INDIA
                        By  /s/  N. Valluri
Page  5
                                              Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By  /s/  D. Joseph Wood
                                                Regional Vice President
                                                             South Asia
