CREDIT NUMBER 2774-IN
Project Agreement
(Hydrology Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
STATE OF GUJARAT
STATE OF KERALA
STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH
STATE OF MAHARASETRA
STATE OF ORISSA
and
STATE OF TAMIL NADU
Dated                                1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2774-IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT                                 3
AGREEMENT, dated                   iu,     , 1995, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 'ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the
States of Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh,
Maharashtra, Orissa and Tamil Nadu (the Project States).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various -currencies equivalent to ninety million one hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 90,100,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that the Project States agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, and in this Agreement;
(B)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by the States
of Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra,
Orissa and Tamil Nadu (hereinafter called the Project States) with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the Project States part of the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
WHEREAS  the  Project  States,  in   consideration  of  the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Project States declares its
commitment to the objective of the Project as set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end,
shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial  and   environmental  practices,   and  technical   and
hydrological practices, standards and criteria, under the overall
coordination of MOWR, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for Part A of the Project.


﻿- 2 -
(b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and the Project States
shall otherwise agree, each of the Project States shall carry out
Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program
set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. Each of the Project States shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement and Part A of the Project.
Section 2.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, each of the Project States
shall:
(a)  prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six months after the Closing Date or such later date as
may be agreed for this purpose between the Association
and such Project State, a plan, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
for the future operation of Part A of the Project;
(b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with such Project State on said plan; and
(c)  thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
Section 2.05. (a) Each of the Project States shall, at the
request of the Association, exchange views with the Association with
regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
(b)  Each of the Project States shall promptly inform the
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by
such Project State of its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Project States shall maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of Part A of the Project of the departments or agencies of
such Project State responsible for carrying out Part A of the
Project.
(b)   Each of the Project States shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent   auditors   acceptable    to   the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and each of the Project States thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)   the  date  on  which  the  Development   Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii) the date twenty (20) years after the date of this
Agreement.


﻿-4-
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify each of
the Project States of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party' s address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C            82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUJI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Andhra Pradesh:
Chief Secretary
Government of And.hra Pradesh
Hyderabad
Andhra Pradesh, India
For Gujarat:
Chief Secretary
Government of Gujarat
Gandhinagar,
Guj arat, India


﻿-5 -
For Kerala:
Chief Secretary
Government of Kerala
Trivandrum,
Kerala, India
For Madhya Pradesh:
.Chief Secretary
Government of Madhya Pradesh
Bhopal,
Madhya Pradesh, India
For Maharashtra:
Chief Secretary
Government of Maharashtra
Bombay
Maharashtra, India
For Orissa:
Chief Secretary
Government of Orissa
Bhubaneswar,
Orissa, India
For Tamil Nadu:
Chief Secretary
Government of Tamil Nadu
Madras
Tamil Nadu, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of any of the Project States may be taken or
executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as
such State shall designate in writing, and each Project State shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
' Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
STATE OF GUJARAT
STATE OF KERALA
STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
STATE OF ORISSA
STATE OF TAMIL NADU
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
1.    To assist in the implementation of Part A of the Project, each
of the Project States shall maintain the Project coordination
arrangements agreed with the Association.
2.    Each of the Project States shall undertake in collaboration
with the Borrower and the Association, not later than October 31 of
each year, starting October 31, 1996, an annual review of the
Project, and shall incorporate the findings of such review in the
work programs referred to in paragraph 3 (a) below.
3.    (a)   Each of the Project States shall furnish to the
Association for the Association's review and comments not later than
December 31 of each year, starting December 31, 1996, work program,
cost estimates and budget proposals for Part A of the Project for
the following fiscal year.
(b)   Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.01 (a)
of this Agreement, each of the Project States shall make budgetary
provisions sufficient to implement the work program referred to in
(a) above, starting fiscal year 1995 - 1996, and for each subsequent
fiscal year thereafter until Project completion.
4.    To assist in the management and dissemination of hydrological
data generated through the Project, each of the Project States shall
set up, not later than December 31, 1995, hydrology data user groups
with membership and terms of reference agreed with the Association.
5.    Without limitations to the provisions of Section 2.01 of this
Agreement and paragraph 3 of this Schedule, each of the Project
States shall take the necessary action for providing, in a timely
manner, all the funds needed fc. covering operation and maintenance
costs under Part A of the Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


