CREDIT NUMBER 2774-IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Hydrology Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2774-IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 f cg- , 1995, between INDIA,
acting  by   its  President  (the   Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by the
States  of Andhra   Pradesh, Gujarat,   Kerala, Madhya   Pradesh,
Maharashtra, Orissa and Tamil Nadu (hereinafter called the Project
States) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Project States
part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreements of even date herewith between the Association
and the Project States;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.   The  "General  Conditions   Applicable  to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of  the   Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project States" means the States of Andhra Pradesh,
Gujarat, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa and Tamil
Nadu of the Borrower, and the term "State" means any of those
States;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Project States of even date herewith, as the


﻿-2-
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the States Agreement;
(c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)   "MOWR" means the Ministry of Water Resources of the
Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(e)   "CWC" means the Central Water Commission, an agency
under MOWR, or any successor thereto;
(f)   "CGWB" means the Central Groundwater Board, an agency
under MOWR, or any successor thereto;
(g)   "NIH11 means the National Institute of Hydrology, an
agency under MOWR, or any successor thereto;
(h)   "CWPRS' means the Central Water and Power Research
Station, an agency under MOWR, or any successor thereto;
(i)   "MOWR Agencies" means CWC, CGWB, NIH and CWPRS;
(j)   "IMD" means India Meteorological Department, or agency
under the Ministry of Science and Technology of the Borrower, or any
successor thereto;
(k)   "Central Agencies" means CWC, CGWB, NIH, CWPRS and IMD;
and
(1)   "Fiscal year" means the financial year of the Borrower
and the Project States, commencing April 1, and ending March 31 of
each year.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to ninety million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 90,100,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) -The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve
Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.   Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied frcm the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the   Association  shall  reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15
commencing January 15, 2006 and ending July 15, 2030.        Each
installment to and including the installment payable on July 15,
2015 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.


﻿-5-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall (i) cause MOWR to coordinate the overall
implementation of the Project; (ii) carry out Part B of the Project
through MOWR Agencies; and (iii) carry out Part C of the Project
through IMD; all with due diligence and efficiency, and in
conformity   with   appropriate  administrative,   financial   and
environmental practices, and technical and hydrological practices,
standards and criteria, and shall provide promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause the Central Agencies to
carry out Parts B and C of the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)  Without limitation or restriction upon any of its
obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the
Project States to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of the Project States therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable the Project States to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(d)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to the Project States and the Central Agencies in
accordance   with  the   Borrower's   standard  arrangements   for
developmental assistance to the States of India and to its Central
Agencies.


﻿-6-
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part
A of the Project shall be carried out by the Project States pursuant
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)  prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six months after the Closing Date or such later date as
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and
the Association, a plan, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, for
the future operation of Parts B and C of the Project;
(b)   afford the Association a reasorable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the op--tations, resources and expenditures in respect of
Parts B and C of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out Parts B and C of the Project
or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)      have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal


﻿-7-
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent   auditors   acceptable    to   the
Association;
(ii)     furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)     furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)     maintain or cause to be maintaihed in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)     ensure that all records     (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made; and
(iii)     enable  the   Association's  representatives  to
examine such records.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)     have the records and accounEs referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in   accordance   with   appropriate'  auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;


﻿-8-
(ii)      furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
and
(iii)      furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Any of the Project States shall have failed to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that any of the
Project States will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by each of the Project States, and
is legally binding upon each of the Project States in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Iadia
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, PIN 110001
India
Cable address:               Telex:
ECOFAIRS                  953-3166175
New Delhi


﻿- 10 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
.Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
./Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works              19,900,000        80%
(2) Goods                    30,000,000        100% of fo-eign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 80%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3) Consultants'              9,000,000        100%
services,
training,
and studies


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Incremental staff        23,600,000        90% until
salaries and                               March 31, 1999,
incremental                                75% until
operation and                              March 31, 2000, and
maintenance                                50% thereafter
costs
(5) Unallocated               7,600,000
TOTAL               90,100,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "incremental staff salaries" means salaries in
respect of posts created for the Project after March 31, 1995, and
"incremental operation and maintenance costs" means operations and
maintenance costs of additional office space, vehicles and equipment
incurred under the Project after March 31, 1995.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 3,800,000 may
be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after March 31, 1995.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for: (a) goods and works under contracts not exceeding


﻿- 13 -
$200,000 equivalent, except for the first three contracts of each
civil works and goods for each of the Project States and each of the
Central Agencies; (b) services under contracts not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent for employment of consulting firms and $50,000
equivalent for employment of individual consultants, respectively;
(c) training and fellowships; (d) works procured under force
account; and (e) incremental salaries and incremental operational
and maintenance costs, all under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower and the
Project States in improving their organizational arrangements,
institutional and technical capabilities, and physical facilities
for measurement, validation, collation, analysis, transfer and
dissemination of hydrological, hydrometeorological and water quality
data, and for basic water resource evaluations.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:     Prolect States
(a)  Hydrometry and Data Management
1.    Upgrading and expanding the physical infrastructure for
hydrometric activities related to the quantity and quality of
surface water and ground water resources and for monitoring of
hydrometeorological parameters through construction of observation
site works and buildings, and provisions of measuring instruments
and equipment, and laboratory facilities.
2.    Upgrading systems for collection, validation, and processing
of data on reservoir operations and river diversions, and return
flows from surface water diversions and on ground water withdrawals
through the provisions of buildings and measuring instruments and
equipment.
3.    Upgrading and standardization of data management facilities by
establishment of computerized data banks for the storage and
retrieval, analysis and dissemination of data related to the
quantity and quality of surface water and ground water resources and
for  monitoring   of  hydrometeorological  parameters,  including
provision of equipment and buildings.
4.    Provision of communication systems, including equipment and
services to inter-connect the project computerized data centers.
5.    Provision and installation of instruments and equipment, and
services to improve or establish flood forecasting systems.


﻿- 15 -
6.    Provision of instruments and equipment, and services for
sediment surveys of reservoirs.
7.    Carrying  out  of  survey,  investigation  and  design   of
hydrometric and hydrometeorological activities.
(b)   Institutional Strengthening
8.    Strengthening existing hydrological and hydrometeorological
institutions in technical and management areas through the provision
of local training, incremental staffing and operation and
maintenance, equipment and vehicles.
9.    Provision of consultants' services, overseas training and
study tours, and studies for institutional strengthening.
Part B:     MOWR and MOWR Agencies
(a)  Hydrometry and Data Management
1.    Upgrading and expanding the physical infrastructure for
hydrometric activities related to the quantity and quality of
surface water and ground water resources and for monitoring of
hydrometeorological parameters through construction of observation
site works and provisions of measuring instruments and equipment,
and laboratory facilities.
2.    Upgrading and standardization of data management facilities by
establishment of computerized data banks for the storage and
retrieval, analysis and dissemination of data related to the
quantity and quality of surface water and ground water resources and
for  monitoring  of   hydrometeorological  parameters,  including
provision of equipment and buildings.
3.    Provision of communication systems, including equipment and
services to inter-connect the project computerized data centers.
4.    Carrying  out  of  survey,  investigation  and   design  of
hydrometric and hydrometeorological activities.
5. -  Carrying  out  of  research  and  development  related   to
hydrometry, water quality measurements and data processing.


﻿- 16 -
6.    Upgrading calibration facilities through the provision of
works, instruments, equipment and services.
(b)   Institutional Strengthening
7.    Strengthening existing hydrological and hydromete rological
institutions in technical and management areas through the provision
of training facilities, local training, incremental staffing and
operation and maintenance, equipment and vehicles.
8.    Provision of infrastructural support for the National Water
Academy at Pune, and the National Groundwater Training and Research
Institute at Raipur.
9.    Provision of consultants' services, overseas training and
study tours, and studies for institutional strengthening.
Part C:     IMD
(a)   Hydrometeorology and Data Management
1.    Upgrading and standardization of data management facilities by
establishment of computerized data banks for the storage and
retrieval, analysis and dissemination of data related to monitoring
of hydrometeorological parameters, including provision of equipment
and buildings.
2.    Provision of equipment and services to inter-connect the
project computerized data centers.
3.    Carrying  out  of  survey, investigation   and   design  of
hydrometeorological activities.
4.    Upgrading calibration facilities through the provision of
works, instruments, equipment and services.
5.    Carrying  out  of  research  and  development   related  to
hydrometeorological measurements and data management.
(b)   Institutional Strengthening
6.    Strengthening IMD's technical and management capabilities
through the provision of training facilities, local training,
incremental staffing and operation and maintenance, equipment and
vehicles to assist IMD in providing technical support to the Project


﻿- 17 -
states, MOWR, and MOWR agencies in (i) upgrading and expanding the
physical infrastructure for monitoring of hydrometeorological
parameters;   and   (ii)   strengthening  related   institutional
arrangements.
7.    Provision of consultants' services, overseas training and
study tours, and studies for institutional strengthening.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2001.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the following
procedures:
(a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines,
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.
The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide for
appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the
cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such
an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the
Bank's prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part D 1(a)
of this Section, the Association's prior approval will be required
for (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period
of extension exceeds sixty (60) days, and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
(b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with Part A,
the Borrower and the Project States shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purpose of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower and the Project States
shall use bidding documents based on other internationally
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more.


﻿- 19 -
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereof, civil works may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding
$14,300,000 equivalent, may be carried out by force account in a
manner satisfactory to the Association.
3.    (i)   Equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of not more
than $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding
$10,000,000 equivalent, and (ii) vehicles estimated to cost more
than $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding
$2,700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.    (i)   Equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of not more
than $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding
$7,600,000, and (ii) vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of
not more than $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
exceeding $900,000 equivalent, may be procured on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
5.    Proprietary equipment and software estimated to cost the
equivalent of not more than $1,500,000 may be directly purchased in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:


﻿- 20 -
(a)   With respect to (i) the first three contracts of each
civil works and goods for each of the Project States and each of the
Central Agencies, and (ii) each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist in carrying out the Project, the Borrower
and   the   Project   States  shall   employ   consultants   whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultants' Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower and the Project States shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have


﻿- 21 -
been agreed with the Association. Where no *relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower and
the Project States shall use other standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of
cor.sulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
each or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to
prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
consulting  firms,  (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably  determined by  the Association,   (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
(b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)  the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule, provided, however, that, unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $4,000,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus t.e total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered by the Association pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or
exceed the equivalent of SDR 14,600,000.
2.    (a)   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
(b)  Each payment (including a payment under a letter of
credit) for an eligible expenditure in an amount equal to or less
than the equivalent of $2,000,000 shall be made exclusively out of
the Special Account.   The Association may from time to time, by
notice to the Borrower, revise the threshold amount specified in the
preceding sentence.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for


﻿- 23 -
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Association shall have requested.
(b)      (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account,
the   Borrower  shall   furnish  to   the
Association requests for deposits into the
Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.
(ii)     Prior to or at the time of each such
request, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association  the   documents  and   other
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment
is requested. On the basis of each such
request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount as the Borrower shall
have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to
have been paid out of the Special Account
for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     3 of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly


﻿- 24 -
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.
(d)   once the total unwithdrawn    amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.


﻿- 25 -
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon 'otice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.    To assist in the implementation of Parts B and C of the
Project, the Borrower shall maintain at the central level Project
coordination arrangements agreed with the Association.
2.    The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1996, employ in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement, the team of main consultants to assist
in the implementation of Parts B and C of the Project.
3.    The Borrower shall undertake in collaboration with the Project
States and the Association, not later than October 31 of each year,
starting October 31, 1996, an annual review of the Project, and
shall incorporate the findings of such review in the work programs
referred to in paragraph 4(a) below.
4.    (a)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association for the
Association's review and comments not later than December 31 of each
year, starting December 31, 1996, work program, cost estimates, and
budget proposals for Parts B and C of the Project for the following
fiscal year.
(b)   Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a)
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall make budgetary provisions
sufficient to implement the work program referred to in (a) above,
starting fiscal year 1995 - 1996, and for each subsequent fiscal
year thereafter until Project completion.
5.    To assist in the management and dissemination of hydrological
data generated through the Project, the Borrower shall set up, not
later than December 31, 1995, hydrology data user groups with
membership and terms of reference agreed with the Association.
6.    Without limitations to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement and paragraph 4 of this Schedule the Borrower shall take
all necessary action for providing, in a timely manner, all the
funds needed for covering operation and maintenance costs under
Parts B and C of the Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


