Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22517
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-39050; SCL-39056; SCPD-3905S)
ONA
LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 88 MILLION
TO THE
INDONESIA
FOR A
FOURTH HEALTH PROJECT: IMPROVING EQUITY AND QUALITY OF CARE
SEPTEMBER 28, 2001
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. r



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective As of March, 2001)
Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
Rp I million = US$ 96.25
US$ 1.00 = 10,390
FISCAL YEAR
April l March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANC                  Antenatal Care
ASKES                Health Insurance for government employees
CPS                  Central Project Secretariat
BHS                  Basic Health Services
DIP                  Project Budget Allocation
ICR                  Inplementation Completion Report
JPKM                 Janinan Pemeliharaan Kesehatan Masyarakat
MOH                  Ministry of Health
NGO                  Non-govemmental Organization
NTB                  Nusa Tenggarra Barat
PUSDIKLAT            Center for Education and Training of Health Persoonel
PUSKEMAS             Health Center
PPS                  Provincial Project Secretariat
QA                   Quality Assurance
QAM                  Quality Assurance Mechanisms
QAP                  Quality Assurance Program
RDU                  Rational Drug Use
SAF                  Special Assistance Fund
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
SKM                  Non-medical administrators
SSN                  Social Safety Net
TA                   Technical Assistance
WHO                  World Health Organization
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din-Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Mark Baird, EACIF
Sector Manager/Director:    Maureen Law, EASHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Vincent Turbat, EASHD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
FOURTH HEALTH PROJECT: IMPROVING EQUITY AND QUALITY OF CARE
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    9
6. Sustainability                                                                       11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      15
9. Partner Comments                                                                     15
10. Additional Information                                                              16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003965                                       Project Name: Fourth Health Project: Improving
Equity and Quality of Care
Team Leader: Vincent Turbat                               TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: October 10, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Fourth Health Project: Improving Equity and    L/C/TF Number: CPL-39050;
Quality of Care                                               SCL-39056;
SCPD-3905S
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: HC - Primary Health, Including Reproductive
Health, Chi
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  07/27/1992                              Effective: 09/08/1995          09/08/1995
Appraisal:  11/22/1994                                MTR: 10/01/1998            11/18/1998
Approval:  06/15/1995                              Closing: 03/31/2001          03/31/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOI/MOH
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Russell Cheetham
Country Manager:     Mark Baird                                 Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:      Maureen Law                                Himelda Martinez
Team Leader at ICR:   Vincent Turbat                           Vicente Paqueo
ICR Primary Author:   Albert Sales
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Perjormance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:



The aim of the project is to improve health outcomes by giving province, district and puskesmas
(health centers) managers greater responsibility, authority, resources, and skills to enhance health care
quality and equity. Specific project objectives are: (i) to increase the authority and capacity of provincial
and district health offices and health centers to plan and implement health programs as they deem
appropriate to local conditions; (ii) to ensure that the provision and consumption of key health services
conform to affordable, cost effective standards of care; (iii) to improve access and utilization of these
health services by the poor; and (iv) to improve efficiency in the delivery of basic health services (BHS).
These objectives were consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Indonesia. They
supported directly the decentralization policy of the Government and addressed some of the main challenges
in the sector, in particular the need:
- to focus on the quality and efficiency of basic health services (very timely and appropriate objective
in view of the fairly rapid expansion of the health care delivery system during the late 80's and early 90's)
and;
- to increase accessibility of affordable and good quality services to the poor (fully supported by the
analysis of health conditions and morbidity and mortality pattems in the country).
The selection of five provinces -- mainly to complement previous Bank's assistance and other donors'
programs while covering geographic areas with different institutional capacity and levels of needs -- was
also appropriate.
3.2 Revised Objective:
A fifth objective to the Project, i.e.,: "better resource allocation and revenue generation", was
added after the third supervision mission (Project Status Report dated May 1997). The addition
constituted a minor correction of what may have been an oversight at the time of appraisal and did not
involve any restructuring.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project components were: (i) Health Facility Construction and Upgrading; (ii) Special
Assistance Program for Basic Health Services; (iii) Support for Quality Assurance Mechanisms; (iv)
Support for Training and Curriculum Development; (v) Support for Performance-linked Initiatives; (vi)
Replication and Piloting Incentives; (vii) Project Management Support; and (viii) better Resource
Allocation and Revenue Generation.
The Project design underscored the importance of introducing fundamental changes in the sector,
an approach which was very appropriate in view of the "systemic" nature of many of the key issues in the
sector (e.g., a centralized managerial structure, inadequacies in administrative procedures and processes,
and an inefficient incentive system). Many other features of the Project's design were also highly relevant
to its objectives. For example, the Project gave a lot of attention to institutional development, introduced
new approaches in the sector (e.g., the quality assurance programs and the use of bloc grant allocations
under the SAF), and supported a number of important innovative initiatives. The Project design took into
account the experience of previous Bank's operations, particularly the Indonesia Third Health Project (e.g.,
decentralisation, use of bloc grants and system for drugs monitoring --LPLPO).
However, the Project design was also very complex and may have been too demanding to the
concemed implementation agencies. It covered the three major development areas of the sector (i.e., the
institutional framework, the delivery of services and health care financing) and addressed a wide range of
difficult issues in each of them. It required close coordination between a large number of institutions at
- 2 -



several levels of the health system, from central agencies and units of MOH to Provincial and District
Health Offices and Health Centers managers. Also many project activities required fundamental changes
in behavior and processes -- an additional factor of complexity.
3.4 Revised Components:
The design of the Project was not significantly revised during implementation. However, MTR
findings and the two loan cancellations led the TTL to propose that the project focus be mainly on Quality
Assurance and JPKM/JPS-BK (see section4.2, component 6). As a result, Project Development
Expenditure (PDE), except for JPKM/JPSBK, were phased out and civil works were downsized.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was marginally satisfactory:
-     the SAR and other project documents provide relatively weak justifications (e.g., linkages between
the analysis of the health sector situation and the Project) for some of the project components. The project
components and interventions supporting increased accessibility to the poor --one of the main objectives of
the Project -- were disappointingly modest;
-     the identification and description of components lacked clarity and precision. By the end of the
Project, several implementing units and staff involved in the Project were still confused about the
classification of the components and the respective interventions included in each of them;
-     the arrangements for coordination between the various technical and implementing units involved in
the Project, at the central level and in the provinces, relied primarily on senior officers of the MOH who
could not possibly carry out this task in addition to their regular functions, while the Head of the Central
Project Secretariat did not have enough seniority to do so on their behalf; and
-     the proposed monitoring and evaluation system was unreasonably complex considering the limited
capacity of the implementing units. The long list of indicators, which was agreed upon by the Bank and the
Government, was never used and only a few of these indicators were retained by the implementing agency.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcomes of the Project are satisfactory.
First objective (increasing the authority and capacity of Provincial and District Health Offices, and
health centers' managers)- The Special Assistance Fund (SAF) provided a significant amount of additional
resources to district health authorities and health centers managers for critical activities which had been
traditionally underfunded (e.g., transportation for supervision and repair and maintenance of equipment).
The Quality Assurance Program (QAP) raised awareness on the issue of quality of care at all levels and
introduced health staff behavior changes (e.g., counselling of patients and improved prescription practices)
and various mechanisms to improve efficiency in the day to day management of health centers. Both the
training and the management support components made a significant contribution to capacity building.
Second objective (ensuring more affordable and cost-effective standards of care)- Studies on
willingness and capacity to pay led the local govermments to revise their user fee tariff and to develop
exemption schemes for the poor. Two components had a significant impact in that respect: the QAP
introduced cost-effective approaches and the Rational Drug Use pilot experiment resulted in a marked
decrease in the use of antibiotics, injections and multipurpose therapies -- three categories of drugs which
increase greatly the cost of services.
-3 -



Third objective (increasing access and utilization by the poor)- Health personnel reported an
increase in the use of health centers and other project facilities by the poor, although supporting data are
limited. The SAF undoubtedly facilitated the financing of critical activities which benefit primarily the
poor (e.g., outreach services) and address high priority needs (e.g., reproductive health and assistance to
birth deliveries). The SAF was also used to subsidize the delivery of basic health services to the poor.
Meanwhile, the JPS-BK (ADB-financed) provided free basic health services to the poor through the Social
Safety Net.
Fourth objective (increasing the efficiency of BHS)- The QAP introduced mechanisms to improve
the processing of patients at health centers as well as the technical skills of health care providers. The
Rational Drug Use experiment reduced the prescription and use of unnecessary and expensive drugs. And,
the SAF helped develop outreach services -- a key factor of efficiency in the delivery of BHS. The project
also contributed at increasing the outreach activities that are needed especially in the remote areas. Finally,
by providing basic equipment and upgrading the infrastructure, it increased the credibility and effectiveness
of the health services provided by puskesmas and pustus (sub-health centers).
Fifth objective (promoting better resource allocation and revenue generation)- Public expenditure
for health have increased during the Project while the important Social Safety Net program also gave high
priority to the sector. The Cost Recovery scheme has been streamlined and extended to all public health
facilities. Tariff have been revised according to the results of the user fees study (willingness and capacity
to pay). They are systematically posted to reduce the under-the-counter payments. However, some local
governments are still collecting most of the proceeds to increase the local budget. This means that part of
the proceeds from the cost recovery scheme do not benefit the health sector (a relatively large proportion of
the revenues from health facilities do not yet benefit either the facilities themselves or the sector).
Moreover, health staff do not benefit sufficiently from the cheme and their financial incentives remain
extremely low.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Health Facility Construction and Upgrading
Rating: Satisfactory
A wide range of upgrading work, from small improvements (e.g., installation of tiles floors,
replacement of roofs, improved water supply and sanitation etc.) to total replacement of facilities were
carried out in over 3,700 health centers and sub-centers, 26 District Drugstores, 11 District Hospitals, and
a number of other facilities such as Provincial Training Centers, administrative buildings and nursing
schools.
These achievements were partly offset by two problems. First, there were substantial differences
in performance between provinces. And second, the quality of work was reported to be poor in certain
areas where the implementation capacity was particularly limited and the bidding procedures grossly
inadequate. (See also section 5.3 and 7.6)
Component 2: The Special Assistance Fund (SAF).
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
The SAF provided a substantial amount of resources to finance key activities such as,
- 4 -



transportation, operation and maintenance of facilities, and outreach services. Furthermore, the SAF was
instrumental in introducing the concept of block grants in the five provinces, thus improving significantly
the regular procedures for budgeting and resources allocation (DIP) and giving more authority to provincial
and to district health offices.
The SAF was slightly less successful with regards to its institutional objectives as the allocation of
block grants to districts and facilities was not always effectively linked to the preparation of development
plans and budgets by District Health Officers and health centers managers. As a result, the opportunity
was missed, in some provinces (e.g., NTB) to use block grant allocations as incentives for good planning
and budgeting.
Because of its novelty and relative complexity, the SAF program has not been fully implemented
during the first two years of Project implementation. The introduction of the Social Safety Net (SSN) in
1998-1999 may have also contributed to reducing the outcome of the SAF, as the SSN, which was also
following a "block grant approach", literally competed for similar expenditure. Because the SSN did not
require the preparation of budgeted action plans, several district as well as health center managers applied
for the SSN funds rather than for the SAFs.
Regrettably, no performance indicators were developed to evaluate objectively the outcome of the
SAF in terms of day to day operation of the facilities concerned and of its impact on capacity building.
Component 3: Support to Quality Assurance Mechanisms.
Rating: Satisfactory
The Quality Assurance Program (QAP) was introduced in virtually all Puskesmas covered by the
Project. It raised awareness of quality issues and quality assurance mechanisms among health
professionals at all levels as well as local authorities. The QAP also introduced fundamental changes in
behavior and, as such, contributed directly to the development objectives of the Project.
The Program had also serious shortcomings. First, it was developed and promoted with
tremendous support from external consultants and ownership by the provinces and districts, at least during
the first few years of the program, was limited.
Second, the number of interventions for which quality assurance mechanisms were established (i.e.,
the "rate of adoption") was actually very limited. On average, quality assurance interventions concerned
only 4 or less priority health problems (out of 10 initially targeted by the Program) in 75% of the health
centers covered by the program. This figure however, hides considerable variations between provinces: in
East Kalimantan for example, only 3% of the health centers implemented more than 4 of the 10 "ckecklists"
as compared to 75% in East Java.
Third, the design of the program itself had serious flaws, despite the fact that it was tested in pilot
areas during Project preparation. In particular, the methodology and instruments used (e.g., checklists and
problem solving) proved to be more useful for improving the processing of patients than the technical skills
and behaviors of health care providers. The problem was recognized after a few years and the concept of
clinical algorithms (i.e., guidelines for making diagnosis and prescribing treatments, based on a critical path
analysis of the patients complaints and symptoms) was introduced.
Fourth, there is little evidence that the QAP has had a significant impact on the utilization of
- 5 -



services - one of its basic assumption as well as justification. Instead, it is now clear that the issue of
under-utilization is far more complex.
The monitoring and evaluation system which was established for the QAP is very limited and does
not permit an objective assessment of key outcome such as the impact of the program on patient
satisfaction and on staff behavior.
Component 4: Supportfor Training and Curriculum Development
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
Most training activities of the Project concerned the QAP. These activities were implemented
efficiently and with only minor delays, considering the innovative nature of the program and the fact that all
training materials needed to be developed. Quality of the training is generally considered to be satisfactory
although the lack of relevant performance indicators make it difficult to assess this aspect objectively. This
component has also helped build the capacity of staff at PUSDIKLAT (the central units of MOH which is
responsible for much of the in-service training of health personnel) which had no prior experience in the
area of quality assurance.
Other training activities of the Project concerned various technical (e.g., rational drug use and
tuberculosis control) and managerial (e.g., management of health centers) aspects and were also
implemented very satisfactorily.
The Project financed 119 international fellowships (12 to 24 months) and 82 domestic fellowships
in a wide range of disciplines, including quality assurance, health care financing - related areas,
management and public health. Although the fellowship program did face some difficulties (such as the
identification of suitable candidates and their utilization after their return from abroad) it was generally
satisfactory. Several beneficiaries from the program (both individuals and units such as, JPKM) expressed
their satisfaction to the ICR mission with the quality of training received.
Component 5: Supportfor Performance-linked incentives
Rating: Unsatisfactory
Overall, the Project gave low priority to the need to establish an effective incentive system in the
sector and this component was relatively small. While the Project design was not appropriate in that
respect, achievements are also disappointing.
The system which was developed and introduced by the Bureau of Personnel to evaluate
performance of health professionals at the district and puskesmas levels, focuses almost exclusively on
attendance (i.e., time spent in the facilities) and pays virtually no attention to the quality of services
delivered or to such aspects as the relationship between health workers and patients. It is also based on a
self evaluation of their performance by health staff, with limited inputs from facility managers and districts
health officers.
There has been no attempt so far, to develop an effective incentive system -- a measure which
many consider to be critical to further development in the sector.
No performance indicators were developed to assess this component objectively.
- 6 -



Component 6: Replication /Piloting of Innovative Initiatives
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
Eight innovative initiatives, including four major ones, and over 60 small studies were carried out
under this component. The output of the small studies is difficult to assess because of lack of adequate
information. Some of the larger pilot initiatives were also inconclusive for various reasons. Nevertheless,
at least four major initiatives made a significant contribution to improving health sector policies and
--although to a lesser extent --to achieving the financial and institutional objectives of the Project. These
initiatives concern: (i) Family Doctors; (ii) SKM; (iii) JPKM; and (iv) Rational Drug Use.
About 25 medical doctors received additional training in family medicine and established their own
private practice under the "Family Doctors experiment". Services of these private practitioners were
financed on a capitation basis through ASKES (the insurance scheme for government employees). Detailed
reports and early evaluation of the experiment are available (including providers and patients satisfaction)
and show that the experiment has been highly successful (with more than 50% of ASKES members shifting
to the family doctor option). Meanwhile, the experiment --the first of its kind in the country-- has
demonstrated the feasibility of using alternative providers of basic health services, at no additional cost for
the system and low additional cost for the patients.
The SKM experiment, consisted of using non-medical administrators (SKM) to help manage
health centers. A large nunber of SKM were assigned to various health centers under the Project. The
experiment faced a number of difficulties (e.g., the SKM were relatively inexperienced and lacked
credibility and, the scheme was not properly introduced to health personnel) and was only implemented for
18 months. Nevertheless, the use of non-medical personnel to help manage health centers, opened the door
to alternative solutions to critical and difficult issues, such as, the shortage of medical doctors in remote
areas and the small amount of time spent by medical doctors on clinical work (presumably because of
administrative duties). The SKM experiment also raised awareness among decision makers on the issue of
efficiency and cost effective use of high level categories of personnel. Although improvements are still
needed, the concept and design of this sub-component were generally appropriate. A proper evaluation of
the scheme was never done, partly because of the short duration of the experiment.
JPKM (Jaminan Pemeliharaan Kesehatan Masyarakat), JPS-BK, Dana Sehat, are experimental
risk pooling mechanisms aiming at covering the costs of basic health services for the general population,
and especially the poor (under JPS-BK and Dana Sehat). In addition, the JPKM scheme raise awareness
on the issue of managed care among the main partners concerned: officials of MOH and other agencies,
local authorities, health care providers and patients themselves. Under these experiments, the project
contributed technical assistance, training and funding. Substantial capacity building was achieved through
a fair amount of training of staff involved in health administration, health care delivery and insurance
scheme (pra-Bapel and Bapel) and fellowships at USC university. Information and teaching materials (i.e.,
distance learning activities) were also developed. Finally, the JPKM was instrumental in providing
technical assistance to the provinces, through the assignment of staff specifically trained in the area of
managed care and health care financing, in general.
The Rational Drug Use (RDU) experiment aimed at improving the prescription practices of health
personnel, through training, provision of guidelines, supervision and monitoring. The experiment was
highly successful and significant improvements were observed and recorded, including a substantial
reduction in the use of unnecessary antibiotics, injectable and polypharmacy. Such improvements are
- 7 -



potentially important in terms of both cost containment and quality of care. Near the end of the Project,
the RDU initiative, which had been carried out as a separate sub-component, was integrated with Quality
Assurance interventions. (e.g., clinical algorithms).
Component 7: Project Management Support
Rating: Highly Satisfactory for East Java; Satisfactoryfor the central level, West Sumatera, West
Kalimantan and East Kalimantan; Unsatisfactoryfor NTB
This component provided support to establish the Central Project Secretariat (CPS) and a
Provincial Project Secretariat (PPS) in each of the five provinces. It also included provision to support
project management at the district level.
The assignment of full time personnel to the Project was adequate at the central level (CPS) and in
East Java (6 full time staff) but, only moderately satisfactory in East and West Kalimantan and minimal in
West Sumatera (no full time head of the PPS). It was unsatisfactory in NTB where only two staff working
on the Project were full time and the head of the PPS was a part time employee. Office accommodation
was relatively adequate and so was the availability of office equipment and transport facilities.
Particularly disappointing was the use of the international technical assistance. Only I foreign
technical assistant was recruited to help with Project implementation (9 were planned in the SAR). See
also sections 5.3 and 7.6.
Component 8: Better Resources Allocation and Revenue Generation
Rating: Satisfactoryfor better resources allocations and Unsatisfactoryfor revenue generation.
The allocations of resources to the health sector in the five provinces has improved significantly
during the Project, as a result of both an increase in government expenditure for health (including through
the SSN) and the allocation of additional resources through the SAF.
In contrast, performance of the Project in generating more revenue for the sector has been
disappointing. A useful study on the ability and willingness to pay was carried out during the first years of
the Project and tariffs were subsequently increased at most health centers and sub-centers. A system to
exempt the poor was also established. However, with a few exceptions, most district authorities have
allocated a small proportion only (e.g., 10 to 15 percent) of the revenue to the sector. The economic
situation in the country and the establishment of the Social Safety Net itself may have also weakened the
arguments in favor of tariffs increase presented by health sector managers to local authorities.
While increased revenues did help improve services, their impact on the utilization of services by
the population have not yet been clearly demonstrated. Data on health budgets at the provincial and district
do not provide information on the sources of financing, thus making it difficult to assess the outputs of
revenue generation interventions.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NA
4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA
-8 -



4.5 Institutional development impact:
The development impact of the Project has been substantial in many ways. Three main outcomes
contributed to this achievement:
First, the Project raised awareness on key issues in the sector and on alternative approaches to
address these issues. In this respect, the emphasis of the Project on qualitative aspects and on the
utilization of services by the population, was timely and highly appropriate. Awareness was also raised of
such issues as the public / private sector mix (family doctors experiment), the efficient use of key
personnel (SKM) and the need for better cost containment (JPKM).
Second, the Project introduced fundamental changes in the way the system works. Two of the
main components were particularly important in that respect: the SAF and the QAP. The SAF introduced
the concept of block grant allocations, thus providing a convincing alternative to the conventional
procedure for budgetary allocation (DIP) while strengthening the link between planning and resource
allocation, and protecting key expenditure which are often neglected (e.g., for repair and maintenance). As
for the QAP, it modified substantially the approach to health problems and patients care through the
introduction of new instruments (e.g., checklists and clinical algorithms) which are now increasingly used
in the country.
Third, the Project contributed directly to capacity building, both at the central level and in the
provinces through its training and fellowship component. At the central level for example, PUSDIKLAT
staff (the unit responsible for in-service training of MOH in "managerial" matters) were introduced and
trained in the concepts and methodology of quality assurance while the fellowship program enabled JPKM
to assign permanent advisors on managed care in the provinces.
In contrast, the development impact of the Project has been somehow disappointing with regards to
two aspects:
the Project largely missed the opportunity to make a significant contribution on the incentive
system in the sector, both because of weaknesses in design (i.e., insufficient attention to the issue) and poor
performance of the component on "performance-linked incentives"; and
-      so far, revenues generated at health facilities have not benefited much either the sector or the
facilities themselves.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The complexity of the Project and other weaknesses in Project design (see sections 3.3 and 7.1)
may have partially contributed to delays and problems during implementation, particularly as the capacity
of the implementation agency may have been over-estimated.
The civil unrest in Kalimantan, (1996 - 1997) resulted in two years of virtual inactivity,
particularly in the districts concerned.
The East-Asia crisis and the macroeconomic conditions in the country have undoubtedly affected
the Project. The cancellation of a large proportion of the initial loan can be attributed to a large extent to
the devaluation of the Rupiah of more than six fold.
- 9-



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government's commitment to the Project may have been limited, at least at the beginning of the
Project. It took several years for the provincial and district health offices concerned to assume full
ownership of such key interventions as the SAF and the QAP.
The Government's reluctance to use international consultants constituted a major impediment to
project implementation. Some of the important outcomes of the Project, like the increased capacity of
District Health Offices to plan and budget for their resources were not achieved satisfactorily mostly
because the project support in terms of international technical assistance was not utilized. Also, the
Government never hired a Project Technical Advisor, despite the successful experience with such an
advisor under the Indonesia Third Health Project.
The establishment of the Social Safety Net competed directly with the SAF component as it
provided funds for similar expenditure but without linking the allocation of resources to proper planning
and budgeting at the district level.
5.3 Factors generally subject to imnplementing agency control:
Weaknesses in management (see also section 7.6) and possibly also the lack of effective incentive
system have affected the Project. In this respect, the poor coordination between the CPS and other central
units (e.g., PUSDIKLAT) and the provinces was specifically mentioned during the ICR mission, as an
important factor of delays and unnecessary frictions among partners in the Project.
The inadequate use of the Project support (particularly the technical assistance), already mentioned
in Section 5.2 has been particularly damaging.
Few provinces and implementation units have developed an adequate monitoring and evaluation
system for the Project, thus making it difficult not only to assess the outputs and outcome but, also to build
upon the Project's achievements to further develop sector policies and programs.
With specific regard to the civil works components of the Project, poor quality of work and delays
have been partly the result of the poor (technical) qualifications of both government staff and local
consultants concerned, a problem which was itself very much related to inadequate bidding procedures (see
Section 7.6).
Beneficiary participation appears to have been minimal and an often ineffective top down approach
was used in the introduction of many of the new concepts like the use of checklist and algorithms (QAP)
and the assignment of SKM as Health Center managers.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Two loan cancellations were made during project implementation totaling about US$ 39.0 million
or 44.3 % of the original loan amount. While the first of these cancellations has to be fully attributed to the
devaluation of the Rupiah against the dollar, the second is the result of: (i) the further devaluation of the
Rupiah against the dollar; (ii) insufficient performance in project implementation; and (iii) poor monitoring
and evaluation of disbursement by the CPS.
- 10-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the Project is very likely for the following reasons. First, the Governments
commitment, which was initially limited, is now well established, at least in most districts. The MOH has
already replicated several activites experimented by the HPIV, particularly in relation to quality assurance,
SAF's and the use of SKM. Both health managers and decision makers and local authorities have become
well aware of the main concepts of the Project and of the related issues (e.g., quality of care, cost effective
use of resources and income generation at health facilities). A continuous debate on these issues is now
very much part of the day to day management of district health sectors.
Second, The Project did introduce fundamental changes in the system -- one of the main pillars of
its concept. There are indications for example, that the concept of bloc grant allocations (SAF component)
will be increasingly used in the sector, especially with the new laws on decentralization. The use of revenue
from health facilities to finance the development of health services is now an important item for discussions
between health managers and local authorities. From a broader point of view, the door has been opened to
fundamental changes in the role of government in the sector, both as provider of services (family doctors
experiments) and as financier (JPKM).
Third, The decentralization policy of the Government, enacted in early 2001, is itself a factor
which will contribute to the Project's sustainability as it will increase the authority and capacity at
provincial and district levels while providing a suitable institutional set up for furthering concepts like the
use of bloc grant allocations.
Fourth, despite the obvious needs for adjustments and improvements, the technical viability of the
Project also appears to be promising, partly because of the increased awareness and commitment and partly
because many key personnel at all levels have been trained and have become familiar with the advantages
of approaches such as the checklist (to help process patients effectively) and clinical algorithms (to help
improve quality of care). A National Council for quality assurance is about to be established and, the
Indonesia health sector has been designated "Center of Excellence for QA" by WHO.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Project was complex and supported many interventions in different development areas.
Consequently, there is also a wide range of arrangements which need to be made in order to insure
continued operation of the Project. Three domains deserve particular attention. First, health managers in
the project area will need to continue the dialogue with local authorities and advocate for increased
financing in the sector. Specifically, they should advocate for the financing of key activities which were
funded through the SAF and for the return to the sector of the revenues from health facilities.
Second, continued emphasis needs to be placed on institutional strengthening. In-service training
will be needed in such areas as the use of algorithms, the management of health centers and cost recovery.
Renewed emphasis will need to be placed on the preparation on action plans and budgets by district
authorities and on the linkage between these plans and the allocation of resources. The establishment of an
effective monitoring and evaluation system deserves very high priority. Unless such system is in place, it
will be difficult to make a thorough assessment of certain outputs and outcomes and to use some of the
Project's achievement for future policies and programs.
- 11 -



Third, the development and introduction of an effective incentive system should be a continuous
concern of all partners in the sector. A number of key issues in the sector related to the use of resources
will simply not be resolved until such system is in place.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Project identification was very adequate. The Project was fully consistent with both the
Government policies and priorities in the sector and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy and its
concept -- primarily a system's approach -- and priorities (e.g., quality, efficiency and affordability of basic
health services and accessibility to the poor) were highly appropriate.
Project Preparation was less satisfactory. The Project is complex and probably too ambitious,
considering the institutional capacity in the country. There is a large number of components and the
description of these components lacked clarity and precision (see also Section 3.3).
Two main weaknesses are more directly related to Project Appraisal: (i) the implementation
capacity of many implementing units was under-estimated and the issue was not clearly recognized as a
risk; and (ii) Government commitmnent to certain key activities of the Project, typically the quality
assurance program and the Special Assistance Fund, was limited.
The qualifications, number and mix of expertise of Bank staff involved in Project identification,
preparation and appraisal were adequate. In the specific case of the Quality assurance Program, (in
practice, one of the main focus of the Project), the component's design, preparation and even
implementation was done with very extensive use of extemal consultants (the same consultant was involved
in both the preparation and implementation).
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance in supervision has been highly satisfactory:
-      Supervision missions were organized regularly and frequently (about twice a year) and there is
evidence that these missions included a significant amount of field work in the provinces concerned;
-      Reporting of progress was adequate and key issues were identified and discussed appropriately
with the Executing Agency;
-      Performnance rating by Bank staff was generally consistent with the findings of the ICR mission,
particularly regarding the development objectives which were rated "Satisfactory" throughout the Project.
An earlier rating of "Unsatisfactory" for implementation progress (e.g., around the end of 97, rather than
one year later, as it was done) might have been warranted;
-      Support provided by Bank staff has been very satisfactory. During the supervision missions, much
technical assistance was provided in a wide range of areas, from cost recovery and pricing policy to the
JPKM and RDU initiatives and the development of monitoring indicators. There is also evidence that a
number of practical suggestions from the Bank (e.g., the establishment of a QA Coordination Committee)
facilitated Project implementation; and,
-     Bank staff played adequately an advocacy role when needed, as it was the case for the increased
allocation of expenditure for health, including from the revenues generated at health facilities.
- 12 -



It must be noted that financial resources were not sufficient to carry out the Supervision Plan
established during appraisal, particularly regarding the participation in project supervision of specialists for
technical activities (such as civil works, quality assurance, BHS and infectious diseases). However, Bank
staff commitment has enabled to partially compensate the lack of resources.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall Bank performance has been satisfactory. Project identification and objectives were highly
appropriate. There were several flaws in design including the Project's complexity and weaknesses in the
implementation arrangements but many of these weaknesses were appropriately corrected during
supervision.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Involvement of the implementing units at the time of Project preparation may not have been
sufficient, judging from the initial confusion (and lack of ownership) regarding key project components and
concepts, the absence of advanced preparatory work for the facility rehabilitation component and the
failure to include the project expenditure in the DIP during the first year of implementation. A detailed
assessment of the borrower's performance during project preparation (i.e., during 1994 and 1995), in terms
of quality and number of staff involved is difficult to make at this time.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall Govemnment performance was satisfactory.
The decentralization policy, enacted in early 2001 and the corresponding increase of authority
given to the district levels provided much support to the Project and will contribute to its sustainability.
The MOH provided also adequate support to new policy initiatives, from the block grant allocations and
the increased revenue at health facilities, to the testing of innovative approaches (e.g., SKM, family
doctors etc.).
Government commitment, while limited at the beginning of the Project, increased gradually during
implementation. By the end of the Project, several initiatives had been replicated in other projects (Block
grants, quality assurance methods and clinical algorithms), or had been the focus of sector-wide
interventions.
Government performance in appointing key managers is less satisfactory. Both the Project
Director and the Project Manager were senior officials of MOH (the Secretary General and the Director of
Planning, respectively) and could not possibly be actively involved in day to day implementation of the
Project, considering their regular responsibilities and workload. The Project Secretary (head of the CPS),
in practice the main person responsible for Project implementation at the central level, did not have
sufficient seniority to ensure effective coordination between the CPS and the implementing units --both at
the central level and in the Provinces.
The Government's reluctance to hire international consultants, an issue mentioned at several
occasions in this report, has been fairly damaging, particularly since one of the Project's main objective
was to increase the capacity of health sector managers at the peripheral level.
- 13-



Resources allocated to the health sector during the duration of the Project increased steadily. The
availability of counterpart funds, often delayed, did not seem to have affected significantly Project
implementation.
The processing of the two requests for cancellation was marred by uncertainties and inaccuracies
regarding the amount of the loan proceeds which had actually been used at he time of the requests and, by
extensive delays in obtaining the needed information from the Government.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance was marginally satisfactory.
Coordination between the CPS and the implementing units at the central and provincial levels was
less than optimal, partly due to weaknesses in design and partly because of inadequacies in management, at
all levels.
Staffing of the CPS and of the Provincial Project Secretariat (PPS) in East Java was adequate. It
was minimal at the PPS in West and East Kalimantan and West Sumatera and, largely insufficient in
NTB. In some cases (e.g., East Kalimantan) there were very frequent changes in the personnel assigned to
the Project.
Health authorities in East Java established very active working groups for most of the Project
activities. While similar groups were also established in the other provinces, the effectiveness of these
groups was very variable and some of them contribute very little to Project implementation.
Civil works activities were significantly delayed in the beginning because of prolonged confusion
regarding the source of funding for the needed rehabilitation (i.e., the Government INPRES Fund or the
loan), combined with a lack of advanced preparation work.
The use of the Project support, including training and technical assistance, was largely insufficient.
The monitoring and evaluation system which was established by the implementing units was minimal, a
problem which can be partly attributed to weaknesses in design, at the time of project preparation. There is
little evidence of significant beneficiary participation activities.
Procurement of civil works was affected by the poor qualifications and lack of experience of the
members of District Bidding Committees. In some districts, particularly in West Sumatra and East
Kalimantan, the bidding process was grossly inadequate and characterized by widespread (and unregulated)
corrupted practices. The quality of works in these districts was clearly affected.
Compliance with the Project's covenants as well as the reporting requirements was generally
satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
satisfactory
Despite difficult political and economic situation, the complexity of the Project and the innovative
nature of several interventions, the borrower managed to implement satisfactorily most of the Project
components and sustainability is very likely. The cancellation of a large part of the loan can only be partly
attributed to poor performance of the implementing agency.
- 14 -



8. Lessons Learned
Key lessons learned for task teams are as follows:
-      The Project design should not be overly ambitious and complex and the capacity of the
implementing units over-estimated. The Project would have benefited from focusing on fewer
interventions. Many implementing agencies in the Provinces and Districts do not have the capacity to
implement civil works activities satisfactorily;
-      The implementation arrangements must be sufficiently well defined, particularly regarding the
number of full time and part-time personnel required to implement the project at all levels, the
qualifications and seniority level of key managers and, the management support needed in terms of training
and technical assistance;
-     The monitoring and evaluation system must be established during project preparation. The
"guidelines" that were suggested in the Project documents were too complex and unrealistic;
-     Key issues in the sector, particularly the lack of effective incentive system, should be adequately
addressed in the Project. It was not the case for this project. Also, the coexistence between public and
private practices that hinders progress were not addressed;
-      The greatest impact of the Project may be due to "capacity building" components and to
interventions which raised awareness of key issues and new approaches (e.g., the SAF quality assurance
program and family doctors experiment) among health personnel and decision makers;
-     Pilot initiatives, even modest in terms of investment, can be extremely effective in terms of
improved health sector policies and programs;
-     A strong commitment by the implementing agencies and beneficiaries is critical to the successful
introduction of new concepts and approaches. When such commitment is lacking or limited at the time of
project preparation, implementation is likely to suffer substantial delays and problems;
-      PDE's are very effective ways to help the country study and implement pilot innovative activities;
-      A good quality assurance program can improve quality of care and is well accepted because it
provides staff with both empowerment and a safer framework for their practice. It also enables to reduce
costs (e.g., reduction in the use of certain drugs as a result of the RDU). However, the linkage between
quality improvements and utilization of services proved to be more complex than initially thought and will
require further study;
-      Managers at the health centers and districts levels do have the capacity to budget and plan and
should be empowered to do so, with adequate training and technical assistance support;
-      Drug management has improved at the District level but renewed efforts are still needed at the
facility level (e.g., Health Centers).
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
*      HP-IV received a continuous supports from the World Bank and the task- mission. Through the
Aide Memoire, the Secretariat (CPS) and the implementing units received valuable recommendations and
technical assistance. But sometime the follow-up reports that have been sent to the World Bank were not
received by the addressee.
*      The implementation of HP-IV from 1996 to March 2001, prepared the 5 provinces (East
Kalimantan, NTB, West Kalimantan, West Sumatera and East Java) and all its districts for the
decentralization process and reforms of all aspects. That is why these provinces were more prepared
compared to the other provinces. This is one of the many advantages of HP-IV for preparing health
- 15-



decentralization.
*      Since the managers and staff of the HP-IV provinces were already trained with management, health
planning, financing, etc. they were familiar in developing their own district health planning and its
financing to produce a good district proposals. They were prepared with bottom-up planning approach.
*      Since there are many new construction and repair, the health facility looked much better compared
to other provinces. These health facilities were also equipped with essential equipments, so that they can
provide quality health services, which can satisfy the community. Most of health manpower were already
trained with Quality Assurance of health services.
*      Even there are problems (besides success stories: efficiency, Rational Drug Use, cleanliness of the
building, etc), in general Ministry of Health is satisfy with the performance of HP-IV. The Ministry is now
try very hard to make the implemented program sustainable.
(b) Cqfinanciers:
none
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
none
10. Additional Information
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Maftix                    Projected In last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimae
1. Rate of adoption of quality assurance  not available                        100%
(QA) mechanisms at district level;
2. Special assistance funds (SAFs)     US$ 7.2 million                         US$ 7.1 million
allocated;
3. Involvement of NGOs and the private  not available
sector;
4. EPI and ANC coverage;                                                       - coverage of immunization against the main
diseases (e.g., DPT, Polio etc.) has remained
over 80% since the start of the Project
- coverage of 4 ANC: East Kalimantan: 39%;
West Sumatera: and NTB: 70 - 80 %; East
Java and West Kalimantan: over 80%
5. Quantity and quality of health personnel;  not available
6. Unit costs;
7. visit rates at Health Centers                                               West Sumatera: 0.75; West Kalimantan:
0.61; East Kalimantan: 0.89; NTB: 0.87; East
Java: 0.69
8. Selected health status indicators
9. Share of central, provincial and district
health subsidies going to BHS and the poor;
10. Facility fees and revenues.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected In last PSR                   Actual/Latst Estmate
Rate of adoption of Basic Health Services                                      100%
Compliance rates                                                               60-70% of health centers achieved a
compliance rate of 80% for 4 basic health
services (QA Program)
Retention Rate                                                                 25-100% of the health centers
End of project
- 17-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
N:Wa,                  .               DPro  osty   e t  S o          an ri-
Health Facility Construction and Upgrading           36.90          22.30           60.43
Special Assistance Program for Basic Health Services  37.30          5.00            13.4
Support for Quality Assurance Mechanisms              7.50           5.60           74.66
Support for Training and curriculum Development       9.10          10.75          118.13
Support for Performance-Linked Incentives             0.60           0.20           33.33
Replication and Piloting                             15.50            1.00           6.45
Project Management Support                            6.50           3.85           59.23
Better Resource Allocation and Revenue Generation     1.40           0.30           21.42
Total Baseline Cost                                 114.80          49.00
Physical Contingencies                               5.70
Price Contingencies                                 13.80
Total Project Costs            134.30           49.00
Total Financing Required             134.30          49.00
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
X - A~~~~~~rou~#ilc Mthd                                      8 W  : o
1. Works                      0.00         24.40         7.00          0.00        31.40
(0.00)       (16.80)       (4.50)        (0.00)      (21.30)
2. Goods                      2.00          5.40         7.90          0.10         15.40
(1.50)       (4.10)        (5.90)        (0.00)      (11.50)
3. Services                   0.00         0.00          8.50          0.00         8.50
(0.00)       (0.00)        (8.50)        (0.00)       (8.50)
4. Fellowship, Training       0.00         0.00          13.40         0.00         13.40
and Workshops
(0.00)       (0.00)       (10.70)       (0.00)       (10.70)
5. Project Management         0.00          0.00         5.20          0.00         5.20
(0.00)       (0.00)        (5.20)        (0.00)       (5.20)
6. Incremental Recurrent      0.00         0.00          60.40         0.00        60.40
Costs                        (0.00)        (0.00)       (30.80)       (0.00)       (30.80)
Total                      2.00         29.80         102.40        0.10        134.30
(1.50)       (20.90)       (65.60)       (0.00)      (88.00)
Notes: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
N.B.F - not Bank financed
- 18-



Project Costs by Procuremet Arrangements Actual/Latest Estimate  US$ million e uivain)
Expxlditum Catepry                      PrKcurB NCB                    N.B8F.      Total Cost,
1. Works                        0.00           0.86          18.26          0.00          19.12
(0.00)        (0.78)        (16.62)        (0.00)        (17.40)
2. Goods                        0.80           0.00           7.18          0.00          7.98
(0.80)         (0.00)        (4.67)        (0.00)         (5.47)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00           2.93          0.00          2.93
(0.00)        (0.00)         (2.93)        (0.00)         (2.93)
4. Fellowship, Training         0.00           0.00          11.36          0.00          11.36
and Workshops
(0.00)        (0.00)         (9.68)        (0.00)        (9.68)
5. Project Management           0.00           0.00           1.50          0.00          1.50
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.50)        (0.00)         (1.50)
6. Incremental Recurrent        0.00           0.00          23.55          0.00          23.55
Costs                          (0.00)         (0.00)        (11.71)         (0.00)       (11.71)
Total                        0.80           0.86          64.78           0.00         66.44
l_____ _  (0.80)    (0.78)        (47.11)        (0.00)        (48.69)
'Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equi lent)
Percentte of Appraisal
Component              AppraEsdIaE t               ACtua}at* eta                       -
,_____ _  Bank  I  Govt.   C. Oe                O pt      CoF.           Govt.  COP.
Health Facility Const.   28.92     13.91     0.00      22.69      10.98     0.00     78.5   78.9   0.0
Spi. Assist. Prog ( BHS)  18.37    0.00      0.00       7.49      0.02      0.00     40.8   0.0    0.0
Support for QAM          4.03      0.00      0.00       2.02      0.00      0.00     50.1   0.0    0.0
Training & Curriculum    9.65      0.16      0.00       9.61      0.15      0.00     99.6   93.8   0.0
Performance Incentives   0.58      0.04      0.00       0.15      0.01      0.00     25.9   25.0   0.0
Adapt. of HP III Innovat.    1.20  0.11      0.00       0.30      0.03      0.00     25.0   27.3   0.0
Piloting Dist. Hlit. System  16.30  0.00     0.00       4.07      0.00      0.00     25.0   0.0    0.0
Project Manag. Support   7.54      0.00      0.00       1.49      0.00      0.00     19.8   0.0    0.0
Resources Allocation     1.41      0.00      0.00       0.44      0.00      0.00     31.2   0.0    0.0
Notes:
As of May 2001
Two cancellations were observed in 1998 and 1999 totalling US$ 39.0 million.
- 19-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cyclc                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Perfornance Rag
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, cetc.)   Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
Sept. 92
Appraisal/Negotiation
Dec. 94                      6   1 Sr. Economist,
I Operations Analyst,
I Operations Officer,
2 Health Specialist and
1 Sr. Medical Officer.
Supervision
Nov.95                       3   2 Sr. Economists and                 S             S
I Operations Officer
Sept.96                      2   1 Sr. Economist and                  S             S
I Operations Officer
April 97                     4   1 Sr. Economist,                     S             S
I Health Economist,
I Health Systems Specialist, and
I Operations Officer
Nov. 97                      2   1 Health Economist and               S             S
I Operations Officer
May 98                       2   1 Health Economist and               S             S
1 Operations Officer
Nov.98                       2   1 Health Economist,                  S             S
I Public Health Specialist and
I Operations Officer
April 99                     3   1 Health Economist,                  U             S
I Public Health Specialist and
I Operations Officer
Aug.99                       4   1 Health Economist,                  U             S
I Public Health Specialist,
I Architect and
I Operations Officer
Feb.00                       3   1 Sr. Health Economist,              S             S
I Public Health Specialist and
I Operations Officer
Nov. 00                      2   1 Sr. Health Economist, and          S             S
I Operations Officer
ICR
May 01                       2    1 Sr. Health Economist and          S             S
I Public Health Specialist
- 21 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
_   No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                                           414
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision                                                          467
ICR                                       16                          75
Total                                                                956
- 22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O1 Macro policies                        ORH  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Sector Policies                       * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Physical                              O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
O Financial                              OH  *SUOM  ON  ONA
O Institutional Development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
FlEnvironmental                          OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
LGender                            OH OSUOM *N ONA
O Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
L Private sector development             0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
OI Public sector management              0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
LI Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
O Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
E] Supervision                                      * HS O S  Ou  OHU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS  * u   O HU
E Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                O HS OS  0  U  0 HU
Ol Overall                                          OHS OS  O u  O HU
- 24 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report, Improving Equity and Quality of Care, Fourth Health Project NO. 13991 -IND,
May 1995.
2. Loan Agreement for Fourth Health Project between the Republic of Indonesia and International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development, Ln. 3905-IND, July 1995.
3. Aide-Memories and BTOs for preparation and appraisal missions.
4. Aide-Memoires and BTOs for supervision missions.
5. Project Supervision Reports (PSRs).
6. Mid-Term Evaluation Review of Fourth Health Project, January 1999.
7. Second Annual Report of Fourth Health Project, June 1998.
8. Third Annual Report of Fourth Health Project, September 1999.
9. Fourth Annual Report of Fourth Health Project, June 1999 - May 2000.
10. Final Evaluation of Fourth Health Project, 2001.
11. Performance Indicator Fourth Health Project, May 2000.
12. Final Report-Health Manpower Utilization Component, Fourth Health Project, 1996-2000.
13. Country Report, Quality Assurance in Indonesia, November 2000.
14. Health Center Staff Standardization, April 1999.
15. Executive Summary SAR on Personnel Component of Fourth Health Project, February 2000.
16. Final Report, Estimation of National Burden of Disease in Indonesia, 1998.
- 25 -



