Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3905 IND
                                Loan Agreement
                            (Fourth Health Project)
                                    between
                             REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                      and
                      INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                AND DEVELOPMENT
                             Dated July 11, 1995
                                                        LOAN NUMBER 3905 IND
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated  July 11, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
       WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
       WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
       Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
       (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
       (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
read:
             "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
             agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account
Page  2
             of expenditures in the territories of any country
             which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
             produced in, or services supplied from, such
             territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
             to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
             if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
             Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United
             Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
             the Charter of the United Nations."
       (c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
             "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have
       arisen under which any further withdrawals under the
       Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
       Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
       Agreement."
       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
       (a)   "BAPELKES" means a provincial health in-service
training center;
       (b)   "FY" and "Fiscal Year" mean the Borrower's fiscal
year commencing April 1 and ending March 31;
       (c)   "Provincial Statement" means the Statement of
Provincial Government Support for the Fourth Health Project by
the Governors of the Participating Provinces dated April 13,
1995;
       (d)   "Participating Provinces" means the Borrower's
provinces of East Kalimantan, West Nusa Tenggara, East Java,
West Kalimantan, and West Sumatra;
       (e)   "Program Development" means the Borrower's program of
providing resources for the formulation and testing of
innovative schemes in the health sector, and "Program
Development Expenditures Operating Guidelines" means the
Guidelines referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;
       (f)   "PUSDIKLAT" means the Borrowerþs Center for Education
and Training of Health Personnel;
       (g)   "Quality Assurance" means the program established
under the Project to improve technical competence, client
satisfaction, efficiency, effectiveness, coverage and access to
basic health services;
       (h)   "Special Assistance Funds" means the Borrower's
program of providing discretionary resources to health centers
and health districts for the financing of expenditures for
health service improvements, and "Special Assistance Funds
Operating Guidelines" means the Guidelines referred to in
paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
       (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
       (j)   "Statement of Policy" means the Fourth Health Project
Policy Statement  by the Borrower's Ministry of Health dated
April 13, 1995; and
       (k)   "Third Health Project" means the project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (Third Health Project) between
the Borrower and the Bank, dated June 1, 1989.
Page  3
                               ARTICLE II
                                The Loan
       Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of eighty eight million dollars
($88,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
       Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
       (b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in United States dollars a special deposit
account in Bank Indonesia or in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2001, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
       Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one  percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
       Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
       (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
       (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
             (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                    ending on the date immediately preceding each
                    date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                    Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                    in which this Agreement is signed.
             (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                    as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                    expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                    outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                    after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                    or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                    to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                    loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                    1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                    otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                    this Section.
Page  4
             (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
                    the second six months of a calendar year.
       (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                    "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
             principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
             outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
             Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
             determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
             one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
             dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
             the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
             principal amount outstanding during the preceding
             Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
             during such Interest Period."
                    "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
             each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
             the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
             respect of such Quarter."
                    "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
             commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
             1 in a calendar year."
       Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
       Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
       Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Health with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, health and training practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
       (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
       Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
       (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the
continuation of the relevant activities under the Project;
       (b)    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
Page  5
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
       (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
       (b)   The Borrower shall:
             (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                    paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                    for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                    audited, in accordance with appropriate
                    auditing principles consistently applied, by
                    independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
             (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                    in any case not later than six months after
                    the end of each such year, the report of such
                    audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                    such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                    requested; and
             (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other
                    information concerning said records and
                    accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
                    shall from time to time reasonably request.
       (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                    accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                    records and accounts reflecting such
                    expenditures;
             (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                    has received the audit report for the fiscal
                    year in which the last withdrawal from the
                    Loan Account or payment out of the Special
                    Account was made, all records (contracts,
                    orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                    documents) evidencing such expenditures;
             (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to
                    examine such records; and
             (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                    included in the annual audit referred to in
                    paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                    report of such audit contains a separate
                    opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                    statements of expenditure submitted during
                    such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                    and internal controls involved in their
                    preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                    related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
Page  6
                                 Termination
       Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
       Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
       Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
       For the Borrower:
             Ministry of Finance
             c/o Directorate General of Budget
             Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
             P. O. Box 2458
             Jakarta 10710
             Indonesia
             Cable address:                        Telex:
                    FINMINISTRY                    45799 DJMLN-IA
                    Jakarta                        44319 DEPKEU-IA
       For the Bank:
             International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
             1818 H Street, NW
             Washington, DC 20433
             United States of America
             Cable address:                        Telex:
                    INTBAFRAD                      248423 (RCA)
                    Washington, DC                  82987 (FTCC)
                                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                                   197688 (TRT)
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                          REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                          By  /s/ Darmosutanto Budiman
                                                   Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                             RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                          By  /s/  Marianne Haug
                                              Acting Regional Vice President
                                                      East Asia and Pacific
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Page  7
1.      The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated           % of
                              (Expressed in       Expenditures
                                 Dollar               to be
       Category                Equivalent)          Financed
(1)    Civil works under         20,300,000       91%
       Part A.1 of the Project
(2)    Equipment (except          8,900,000       100% of foreign
       vehicles) and                              expenditures,
       furniture                                  100% of local
                                                  expenditures
                                                  (ex-factory
                                                  cost) and 65%
                                                  of local
                                                  expenditures for
                                                  other items
                                                  procured locally
(3)    Overseas fellowships        6,600,000      100%
(4)    Training and               3,600,000       100%
       workshops
(5)    Program                     4,700,000      91%
       Development
       under Part B.4 (b)
       of the Project
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated           % of
                              (Expressed in       Expenditures
       Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(6)    Special Assistance under                   100%
       Parts A.2 and B.4 (b)
       of the Project:
       (a)  incurred in FY 1995/96 3,000,000
             and in FY 1996/97
       (b)  incurred in FY 1997/98 6,500,000
             and in FY 1998/99
       (c)  incurred in FY 1999/20003,600,000
             and thereafter
(7)    Project manage-             4,900,000      100%
       ment support
(8)    Incremental                                100%
       operating costs:
       (a)  incurred in FY 1995/96 4,500,000
             and in FY 1996/97
       (b)  incurred in FY 1997/98 7,600,000
             and in FY 1998/99
       (c)  incurred in FY 1999/20003,500,000
             and thereafter
(9)    Consultants'               6,100,000       100%
       services and studies
Page  8
(10)   Unallocated                 4,200,000
                                   _________
       TOTAL                      88,000,000
2.      For the purposes of this Schedule:
       (a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in  the currency  of any country other than that of the Borrower
for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
       (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower;
       (c)   the term "Civil works" under Category (1) means civil
works carried out under the Project and not financed by the
Borrowerþs sectoral development grant to regional governments
(INPRES);
       (d)   the term "Program Development" means expenditures for
health services and consultants' services, including related
goods, as set forth in the Program Development Expenditures
Operating Guidelines;
       (e)   the term "Special Assistance" means expenditures for
goods and services as set forth in the Special Assistance Funds
Operating Guidelines, the financing of the total annual
expenditure by the Bank being not more than (i) 75% in
FY1995/96 and FY1996/97, (ii) 50% in FY1997/98 and FY1998/1999,
and (iii) 25% in FY1999/2000 and thereafter;
       (f)   the term "Project management support" means
expenditures for the operation of the central, provincial and
district Project implementation units, including travel
allowances, office costs, and administrative support; and
       (g)   the  term  "incremental operating costs" means
expenditures for the operation and maintenance of provincial
facilities, district health offices, and health facilities
providing basic health services, the financing of the total
annual incremental cost by the Bank being not more than
(i) 75% in FY1995/96 and FY1996/97, (ii) 50% in FY1997/98
and FY1998/1999, and (iii) 25% in FY1999/2000 and thereafter.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.     The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts valued at less than
$200,000 equivalent; (ii) works under contracts valued at less
than $1,000,000 equivalent; (iii) fellowships, training,
Program Development, Special Assistance  Funds,  Project
management and incremental operating costs; and (iv)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued at less
than $100,000 equivalent each and contracts for the employment
of individuals valued at less than $50,000 equivalent each,
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
       The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower
in improving health outcomes by giving provinces, districts,
and health center managers greater authority, responsibility,
Page  9
resources and skills to enhance health care quality and equity,
through: (i) increasing the authority and capacity of
provincial and district health offices to plan and implement
health programs as appropriate for local conditions; (ii)
ensuring that the provision and consumption of key health
services conform to affordable and cost-effective standards of
care; (iii) improving access and utilization of key health
services by the poor; and (iv) improving the efficiency in the
delivery of basic health services.
       The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Facility-Level  Service Improvement
1.     Health Facility Construction and Upgrading
       Construction, upgrading and renovation of health centers,
health sub-centers, drug warehouses, laboratory facilities,
training facilities and district hospitals in the Participating
Provinces, including construction of water supply facilities
and provision of equipment, furniture and vehicles.
2.     Special Assistance Program for Basic Health Services
       Enhancement of the ability and motivation of front-line
health providers and managers to render higher quality and more
accessible basic health services that efficiently meet the
needs and demands of clients and that effectively reach the
poor in the Participating Provinces, through: (a)
institutionalization of Quality Assurance practices in basic
health services facilities and related supervisory and support
units; (b) improvement of the utilization of
basic health services at health facilities, including social
marketing, greater adequacy of drug provision and quality of
services; (c) strengthening the outreach activities of health
facilities, including intensification of immunization campaigns,
and strengthening of district health offices, including
management capacity; (d) carrying out of on-the-job training
for staff of health service facilities and related supervisory
and support units in Quality Assurance and basic health services
problem-solving, management and planning, laboratory services,
and supervision of health services and outreach activities; (e)
provision of equipment and furniture; and (f) provision of
Special Assistance Funds to health facilities.
Part B: Institutional Development
1.     Support for Quality Assurance Mechanisms
       Strengthening the capacity of central, provincial and
district health agencies to promote and establish Quality
Assurance practices in health facilities and in the units in
charge of the supervision of health facilities through: (a) a
review of current standards as applied to clinical protocols,
and management and support procedures; (b) establishment of a
formal accreditation process; (c) training of clinic staff and
field supervisors, and enhancement of field support for the
application of modern Quality Assurance techniques; (d)
development of central and provincial staff and professional
organizations   as   sources   of    technical   assistance
for    Quality  Assurance;  and (e) documentation and
dissemination of problem-solving experiences through production
of Quality Assurance newsletters; including carrying out of
workshops, implementation of a system of staff performance
incentives, and provision of materials, fellowships and related
consultantsþ services.
2.     Support for Training and Curriculum Development
       Development of institutional capacity at the central,
Page  10
provincial and district level to provide the training support
required by the implementation of the Quality Assurance program
and other training activities under the Project through: (a)
strengthening PUSDIKLAT and BAPELKESþ capacity to train
trainers and develop learning materials and methodologies
needed for the Quality Assurance program; (b) assessment of
clinical training needs; (c) development of Quality Assurance
learning packages and alternative training courses such as
distance learning; (d) training, evaluation and certification
of trainers; (e) monitoring and evaluation of post-training
performance; (f) provision of appropriate learning incentives;
and (g) establishment of a training information system and
approval process; including implementation of a system of staff
performance incentives, and provision of instructional
materials, equipment, workshops, fellowships, and related
consultantsþ services.
3.     Support for Performance-Linked Incentives
       Establishment of a system for measuring and rewarding
district staff performance in the provision of basic health
services, including implementation of a system of staff
performance incentives, and provision of materials, equipment,
and related consultants' services.
4.     Replication and Piloting of Innovative Initiatives
       (a)   Dissemination and adaptation in the Participating
Provinces of innovations carried out under the Third Health
Project, including (i) integrated planning and budgeting, (ii)
drug management, and (iii) equipment inventorying, ordering and
procurement; and provision of workshops and related
consultantsþ services.
       (b)   Piloting  of  exemplary  integrated   district
health   systems   through (i) provision of Special Assistance
Funds to health districts, and (ii) implementation of pilot
Program Development proposals including managed health care
(Jaminan Pemeliharaan Kesehatan Masyarakat) and Quality
Assurance studies in health districts.
5.     Project Management Support
       Strengthening local Project implementation units to carry
out the activities under the Project, including provision of
related consultantsþ services.
Part C: Improved Resource Allocation and Revenue Generation
       Design and promotion of facility-level fee increases,
revenue retention, local resource mobilization, targeting of
health subsidies to appropriate recipients and activities, and
efficient resource allocation.
                                    * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
2000.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                            Amortization Schedule
                                              Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
March 1, 2001                                      1,690,000
September 1, 2001                                  1,750,000
March 1, 2002                                      1,815,000
September 1, 2002                                  1,880,000
March 1, 2003                                      1,945,000
September 1, 2003                                  2,015,000
Page  11
March 1, 2004                                      2,085,000
September 1, 2004                                  2,160,000
March 1, 2005                                      2,235,000
September 1, 2005                                  2,315,000
March 1, 2006                                      2,395,000
September 1, 2006                                  2,480,000
March 1, 2007                                      2,570,000
September 1, 2007                                  2,660,000
March 1, 2008                                      2,755,000
September 1, 2008                                  2,855,000
March 1, 2009                                      2,955,000
September 1, 2009                                  3,060,000
March 1, 2010                                      3,170,000
September 1, 2010                                  3,280,000
March 1, 2011                                      3,395,000
September 1, 2011                                  3,515,000
March 1, 2012                                      3,640,000
September 1, 2012                                  3,770,000
March 1, 2013                                      3,905,000
September 1, 2013                                  4,045,000
March 1, 2014                                      4,185,000
September 1, 2014                                  4,335,000
March 1, 2015                                      4,490,000
September 1, 2015                                  4,650,000
_____________________________
* The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective    dates of withdrawal.  See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                           Premiums on Prepayment
       Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
the premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of
the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for
the applicable time of prepayment below:
       Time of Prepayment                    Premium
                                      The interest rate
                                      (expressed as a
                                      percentage per annum)
                                      applicable to the Loan
                                      on the day of prepayment
                                      multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
       before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
       not more than six years
       before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
       not more than 11 years
       before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
       more than 16 years
       before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
       more than 18 years
       before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
       maturity
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  12
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: General
       Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the þGuidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Creditsþ published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1.      Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.     The following provisions shall apply to goods to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
       (a)   Grouping of Contracts
       To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more each.
       (b)   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
       The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.     National Competitive Bidding
       (a)   Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of
the Guidelines.
       (b)   Equipment and furniture estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $200,000 per contract, and $5,400,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.     International or National Shopping
       (a)   Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
per contract and $7,900,000 equivalent or less in the
aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of international or national shopping procedures in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.
       (b)   Civil works estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent per contract and $5,000,000 equivalent or less in
the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.     Force Account
       Civil works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8
of the Guidelines, and costing $2,000,000 equivalent or less in
the aggregate, may, with the Bankþs prior agreement, be carried
out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said
paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  13
1.     Procurement Planning
       Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.     Prior Review
       With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or more, each contract for civil
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more,
the first contract for goods in each Participating Province
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and the
first contract for civil works in each Participating Province,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.     Post Review
       With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.     Consultantsþ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions  of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be
used.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                           SCHEDULE 5
                     Implementation Program
1.     The Borrower shall:
       (a)   not later than October 31, 1996, furnish to the Bank
the guidelines for the pricing of personal health services
provided by health centers and hospitals, and protecting the
poor from the impact of price adjustments; and
Page  14
       (b)   not later than October 31, 1996, implement the system
for the annual collection of consolidated budgetary information
for health related public expenditures to monitor the
achievement of the targets referred to in paragraph (a) above,
and for assessing the impact of proposed central and provincial
budgetary allocations on the funding of basic health services.
2.     In carrying out Part B.4 of the Project, the Borrower
shall carry out the Program Development activities in
accordance with the Program Development Expenditures Operating
Guidelines, agreed with the Bank.
3.     In carrying out Parts A.2 and B.4 (b) of the Project, the
Borrower shall carry out the activities under the Special
Assistance Fund in accordance with the Special Assistance Fund
Operating Guidelines, agreed with the Bank.
4.     The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1995,
furnish to the Bank the classification, on the basis of poverty
issues, of health centers and health districts in the
Participating Provinces, as referred to in the Policy
Statement.
5.     The Borrower shall cause the local governments of the
Participating Provinces to take all actions required for the
implementation of the Provincial Statement in each district
selected to participate in the Project, including:
       (a)   the requirement that the share of the district health
budget for basic health services and the poor be increased
annually;
       (b)   the requirement that health service fees be adjusted
upwards and that such revenues be used for purposes of the
health sector; and
       (c)   the requirement that part of the earnings of the
health centers be used by such facilities for health center
performance incentives.
6.     In carrying out Part B.2 of the Project, the Borrower
shall:
       (a)   not later than January 31, 1996, furnish to the Bank
a proposal for a scheduling and management mechanism for the
training of staff which minimizes disruption in the health
facilitiesþ activities and which ensures that (i) training
courses under the Project address documented skills deficits
critical to the improvement of basic health services and have
defined and measurable outcomes, and (ii)  training courses are
evaluated on the basis of the traineesþ measurable acquisition
of relevant knowledge and skills; and
       (b)   before implementing the training, ensure that the
relevant course materials are available for the trainees.
7.     The Borrower shall:
       (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance
with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
       (b)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about December 31, 1997,
a report integrating the results of the monitoring  and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof during the period following such date;
Page  15
and
       (c)   review with the Bank, by February 28, 1998, or such
later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the
Bankþs views on the matter.
8.     The Borrower shall:
       (a)   cause technical audits of Project implementation to
be carried out, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, by April 1
in each year during the implementation of the Project; and
       (b)   a copy of such audit to be furnished to the Bank, for
comments, by July 31 of each such year.
9.     The Borrower shall provide the required vehicles for the
Project in accordance with a schedule agreed with the Bank.
10.    The Borrower shall:
       (a)   not later than March 31 in each year, commencing
March 31, 1997, furnish to the Bank evaluation reports,
covering approximately a two-year evaluation period, of the
health districtsþ performance in terms of agreed performance
indicators; and
       (b)   thereafter, review with the Bank the reports and take
all measures required to ensure improvements in the health
districtsþ performance in terms of the agreed performance
indicators, including, if necessary, the reduction of Special
Assistance Funds to non-performing health districts.
                                 SCHEDULE 6
                               Special Account
 1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
       (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (9) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
       (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and servicesrequired for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
       (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$8,000,000.
2.      Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.      After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
Page  16
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
       (a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
       (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
                    for deposits into the Special Account at such
                    intervals as the Bank shall specify.
             (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                    the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                    documents and other evidence required pursuant
                    to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                    payment or payments in respect of which
                    replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
                    each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf
                    of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan
                    Account and deposit into the Special Account
                    such amount as the Borrower shall have
                    requested and as shall have been shown by said
                    documents and other evidence to have been paid
                    out of the Special Account for eligible
                    expenditures. All such deposits shall be
                    withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
                    under the respective eligible Categories, and
                    in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
                    have been justified by said documents and
                    other evidence.
4.      For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
       (a)    if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
       (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
       (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
       (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Page  17
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.      (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
       (b)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.
       (c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
       (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
