n-P.-RTS DFSKl
~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~f~tf YIII             ^JS%W              R E STR IC TE D
I1MILIIuj vW         i   vliE   Report tNo. PTR-16a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report moay
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
'THLT mE THIRD T IG L-TTCrUWr A  PO E CtT r'r
.1 LL.L A I "Jk ± LX..  "1..JL I I Y YL I  1c IX'.JU   %.LA   I
YUGOSLAVIA
May 15, 1969
Transportation Projects Department



tI%TMTDLD1T'V VnTTTaTATtnTTPQ
Currency Unit              = Dinar (Din)
TTC+ 1I i 00                   a    -I D 125
UbJq   Iev                    I -."C%J  I 5e- U
Dina.r 1.00                   US$-0.08
Dir.cr 1,000,000           = 'US$ 80,000
IWEEIGHra ANL} MESURE
System in Use              : Metric
Metric                     : BritishV/uS EquivaIents
1 m                 = 3.28 ft
1 kma               = 0.62 mi
1 km2               = 0.386 sq mi
1 m ton             = 0.98 lg ton
1.1 US sh ton
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
SUMMAY                                                       i - ii
1. INTRODUCTION
2.  BACKGROUND                                                     3
A. General                                                     3
B. Transportation in Yugoslavia                                3
C. Transnort Coordination
D. Highway Network and Highway Transport                       6
EP  migh way Administration and nrg7anization                  7
3. THW PRO.EP.T                                                   10
A. Description                                               1i
B. Design Standards and Engineering                           12
C. Execution                                                  12
D. Cost Estimates and Financing                               13
4. ECONOMIC EVALUAITON                                            16
A. General                                                    16
B.7Zagrb-,'e-t,-rlovac                                   17
C.  Gostivar-Kicevo                                           18
D.  vvIw.iida-oUstojra                                        19
5  IrlulFUUIMI\IJAI I UNON                                       21
Tnis report has been preparedU  y Messrs. VtUter  kEcnUL1U1LL),  adueni
(Engineer), and IWinston (Editor) on the basis of an appraisal mission
to Yugoslavia in October-November 1968 and information subsequently
received frcm the Yugoslav authorities.



Table of Contents
- Page 2 -
TABLES
1. Freight Traffic by Mode of Transport, 1958-1967
2. Passenger Traffic by Mode of Transport, 1958-1967
3. The Motor VehicLe Fleet, 1958-1967
4. Highalay Expenditures, 1958-1970
5. Public Roads in the Six Republics 1967
6. Modernization of Highway Svstem, 195d-1967
7. Product:ion and Import of New Vehicles, 1960-1967
8.  Federal Desi_sn Standards
9. Estimated Cost of Highway Sections
10   Average Tailu Traffiej hv Seetie-mn 1QA7-1QlcT
11.  Motor Vehicle Operating Costs and Savings per km
CHART
Typical Organization of a Road Fund
MAP
Yugoslavia - Highway System



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD HIGHWJAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        Vransport is one of the most dynamic sectors of Yugoslavia's ECc)n-
omy. Road transport has taken a larger share of traffic in recent years,
thus steadily reducin- domrinne.ac  of the rai lwras. Trunkinp is vProwine at a
rapid pace and the motor fleet is expanding rapidly, The growth of tourism
is closelyasoeite     wit.h -roadtaso.
ii.        The higha.y network is not modern e" r.ough to          ie
the growing traffic demands. Road transport is beginning to encounter
se eus difi A4 ltfie  inos1 +p -4t ofP vhe c         fl-. C 1n - -r.oe
traffic congestion is heavy and maintenance costs are high; further dete!rio-
ror  f' -Livn  4o.dton     n  h  -:-4ter-4-ion,a- routes wudjoadz
* ~,. ~   ~  .~.a..1.  %.J..J1.A. UJ.LJLIQ  UIJ±  L1he  .in~. u e   ia. L1 LUL~   .. uLLJo  W JLLJ.L"  J W.JkJ..L
the furthez growth of tourism.   The traffic on some road sections already
~~ d. ±1~L ±U.L ±UUr_Letat U±LV±UUU lurpllvay  VJJ.Lul  b~~Jt.U.o' U
irdicates~~VL a!ree  orfur-ln  idd"L;-y      ¢¢ access cor,trol    GnULJ
some of the! lesser travelled routes, in the poorer areas of the country,
coimrXercial haulers prefer to take long detours to avoid road seotiob -Lsi.
very poor condition. The need for better facilities is urgent.
iii.      The country's six Republics and two Autonomous Provinces, respon-
sible for tihe development and maintenance of the highway network since 1967,
are preparing large highway investment programs. In September 1968 the
Government subdmitted plans for new highwray sections in seven parts of the
country for the Bank's consideration. The total cost of these sections was
over US$200 million. Three sections for which the studies and engineering
were most advanced were selected for the proposed Third Highway Loan. The
remaining sections will be considered for possible future Bank financing.
iv.       The proposed project would have sections in three Republics.    Two
of the sections would be four-lane highways, with toll facilities, in the
more develciped northern part of the country. These expressways, in Croatia
and Slovenia, would form parts of new international highways linking Yugo-
slavia's Adriatic coast to Hungary and Austria. The third section, in the
western mountains of Macedonia, would replace a very low standard road in
a less-developed part of the country. In sum, the project would include
the construction of 82 km of four-lane divided highway, including short
access roads, and 6 km of two-lane highway.
v.        T'he Government recently made the Republics responsible for highway
investments as part of a larger effort to decentralize economic decision-
making. Each of the Republics has a highmay agency charged with planning
and execution.  Because this decentralization of resnonsibility has been so
recent, higTway administration is in a period of transition, The Bank can
play a useful role in advising the variouqs Yugoslav authorities on the prob-
lems of administration; it obtained assurances that improvements will be
made in   tffingj rla+.a clnet+Aion,  nld coordiation of plann-inge



4- -ti 
;.     he~LAI reorg'anI z ation hI-as n,oto affototred exeCubIAo1n ofP it"h-e tbW-0 .P. :- oUs
highway projects financed by the Bank. These loans totalled US$45 million
equivalent, CUotracts for Uoth projects were awarued to Yugosiav contrac-
tors after international competitive bidding in which foreign firms parti-
cipateU.  The fLrst project was satisfactorily completed on schedule anm
the second is expected to be completed on schedule about September 1969.
vii.      The proposed project costs amount to US$75 million equivalent, in-
cluding contingencies.  Cost data are based on detailed designs and con-
tracts for similar work. Contracts would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.  Depending on whether local or foreign con-
tractors would carry out the project, and the extent to which foreign equip-
ment would be used, the foreign exchange component would be between 10% and
viii.     On a conservative basis, savings in vehicle operation costs alone
are estimated to yield rates of return between 12% and 15% on the investments
in the three highwzay sections.
ix.       The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$30 million
equivalent; such a loan would cover 40% of total costs or about the same as
the maximum estimated foreign exchange component. The balance of finance
would be provided by the respective Republics. The term of the loan would
be 25 years including a grace period of five years. Based on the time the
highways will come into service, the grace period would be about 3A years;
the proposed lengthening ts five years is i nteprrier +,  ontribute toward
easing the heavy external debt service burden of Yugoslavia during the next
few years.



vTr,nCT.AVTA
APPAI.AT.AL OFW TWrp TJmn PT1T(',GTAV PPOTTrT
1. INTRODUCTION
leOl  The~~J wVrJr"le-4. ofO 4the Soia  -t-FdrlRpb       fYgsa
.o.Vl     m blie u.vve  I.eLU Xi uji oe -ai"u  ~   IkL.L    .J
has requested a loan from the Bank to help finance the construction of
three important hig-wa-y sections in the Socialist Republics of Croatia,
'i1acedonia and Slovenia. The proposed loan would amount to US$30 million
eauivalent; such a loan would cover 4O07 of the estImated project costs.
1.02      The loan would be made to the Federal Government, which would
make the loan proceeds available to the three Republics. The latter wouLd
be responsible for the execution of the project and appoint their Road
Funds (comparable to highway departments) as executing agencies.
1.03      The highlway sections included in the project are part of a larger
program of highway construction which was submitted in September 1960 for
consideration by the Bank. The three sections were selected by the ap-
praisal mission in view of their high economic priority and their advanced
stage of preparation. Other sections included in the program also have
high economic priority but they were not yet ready for appraisal at the
time of the mission's visit. Their preparation was scheduled to be com-
pleted at various times between mid-1969 and Spring 1970 and they will be
considered by the Bank for further lending.
1.04      The Bank has previously financed two highway projects in Yugo-
slavlia. The first, covered by Loan 344_-YU (1963) of US$35 million, was
for the completion of the coastal section of the Adriatic Highway (h22 lhn)
and parts of the Central Highlway (174 km).  The conpletion of the coastaL
liighwav has lent a fonsiderable inmpetus to the ranid develonment of tourism
in recent years. The Central Highway has become the main arterial highway
nf the coruntry, pyneriencina higher traffic grrt.h t.hnn originally antici-
pated.
1.05      The second highwlay loan (485-YU, 1967) of US$10 million is for
the im..provement of certain sections of a 36?7 Ik7 trunk road, from Zupanja
to Opuzen, which forms an important link between the Adriatic and Central
Cn gis,a poei                          on sce      a   Jr. a i   rsecte+.n to be cm-
pleted satisfactorily by September 1969 within the funds allocated.
1.06      I'he Bank has made three other loans to Yugoslavia for transport
tota..ll.Ii~, ng ,L~) IILL.L. 1  J.li ,  a .l.L o J. lVwa.y.  .LIV LfLr u. o U 10.  for U
million (361-YU) and US$70 million (395-YU) covered projects which have
encoun'uered delays in execution anXd increases incost s; execut ion is now
proceeding on revised schedules. The standard-gauge line built between
Sarajevo anu Ploce, under the fLrst lUoan  iU  1 UiEpUeraUti  wit UdieUel trac-
tion. Unde!r the secord loan, the modernization program for the main rail
lines has been reduced in scope with the approval of t'ne Bank; this program
is now expected to be substantially completed by the end of 1970. The
third loan for US!>50 million (531-YU), signed in 1968, is for construction



- 2 -
of a standard-gauge line between Belgrade and Bar; progress is satisfactory
and completion is expected by the end of 1972 as originally scheduled.
1.07      This report was prepared by Messrs. IWouters (Economist), Kaden
(Engineer) and Winston (Editor) on the basis of an appraisal mission in
October-November 1968 and additional information collected by Mr. Kaden
in Belgrade in February 1969.



- 3 -
2.  BACKGROUDT
A. ren 1
2.01      Yugoslaava has an area of 25,80t.       bout the same as t    Fed-
eral Republic of Germany or the United Kingdom. The population is about 20
1IL..L..LjJ 1 1"±L   -L.  rJ. VW.LL%~ d;. U  C2J.L  CLALU:LUd. .L L. UU  VJ.L A.L/O
llionj ar.- i9 +v    gata.cu          teo    %
C.        ThJe_ Jim  eIJ ULIU i]y  s  u. versi.Lt:uu;  Iicu .l ,  ili, sILLL.L Lk J._1r,
and tourism all account for significant portions of economic activity.
Iiner-al resoQUces being exploitLed include iron,v lead and ziUnc, bauxitue and
lignite, oil and natural gas. Although a large part of the country is
mountainous, agriculture thrives in the many val eys and, more extensively,
in the rich plains in the north and northeast. Manufacturing has developed
rapidly in all parts of the country. Yugoslavia has many tourist attrac-
tians; foreign tourism has developed rapidly along the entire Adriatic coast.
Iransit trade continues to be important due to the country's position astride
the Balkan Peninsula.
2.03      The economy grew rapidly between 1962 and 1966, at an average
rate of about 7% per year.  In 1967, the rate of growth was considerably
lower, about; 1%, as the economy was adjusting to economic reforms intro-
duced since 1965, but it rose again to scmewhat over h% in 1968. The grcss
"'materiall'/ product; amounted to Din 110 billion or about US$8.8 billion
equivalent. GIP per capita, according to the customary national accounting
concepts, is estimated at about us$550.
2.04      Yugoslavia is a socialist federal state composed of six republics;
one republic, Serbia, includes two autonomous pravinces.   These governmental
entitities have considerable autonomy and authority over their affairs, in-
cluding basic decisions over investment in infrastructure. There are marked
differences among these entities: per capita income is three to four times
higher in the more developed parts of the country than in the lesser develop-
ed parts; there are three official languages as well as religious and othler
cultural differences.
2eO5      Te organization of the economy is based on workers' self-manage-
ment of t-ntrjrnrise.  T_h referm meansres of recent years hnve aimed at a
reorientation of the economy, making the enterprises increasingly independ-
ent in their dcisons and subiect to the operntion of mnrkt+. forees_     hey
have also aimed at bringing the entire economy into closer relation with the
wonrld mnrket;- +.tradeo irH+.h +.ha ,-nn-ert -ib +la cul c  countri  hazs increoasedr
B3    Transport-atir., i-n Yuol- avi-a
2O6n,     The maain Jinres of -P - - - - - 4n 4- o'D-i  flb-Np run alorg a no37+t>
C.. .i    L.11  _I0LL  .4_J~   'J.  J ~L  U   .±I.F .L  . L L LU kQ.CLOVAa~  % ZJ J  L.L I U LL 0.LlJ1J   C, 0. WLJ.=U .
west-southeast axis in keeping with the mountainous terrain and river vaLleys
CU±I inLL serir.  Uje                             u'`a     resTlh agrieuenural adL induCIIIl  areasO  Tshe C'Ltral
and Adriatic Highways form the main axes of the highway network and are part
yi The gro-- PiauCia IprUUodUc  a iugo3lav econoriwc inuex, is simi Larv
GMP but excludes certain services such as public administration, defe3nse,
education, a--d professionai services.



- h -
of the European highway system. The Zupanja-Opuzen highway, being completed
under Loan 485-YUI, will greatly improve highway transport between the Adri-
atic and thle Central Highway.
2.07      International highway connections are of special concern to Yugo-
slavia because it has a border with seven countries. European hi ghwavs
traversing Yugoslavia extend through Eastern, W4estern, Central and Southern
Europe. Several international connections; particularly those with Italy
and Austria., have become very important as tourist routes.
2.08      The recent trend in transport is indicated below; the share of
railway traffic it, total traffic *s decnlirng, wthile the share of road trans
port is increasing.
Passenger Traffic
(b0il' on p-assenger-M1,)
year     Total     Rail,warys   ighjays               Tater       Airways
Buses    Cars        Transport
1964     22.8       12.3       4.8     5.1            0.2          0.4
1966     29.8       12.2       8.0     8.9             0.2         o.5
Freight Traffic
(billion m ton-kom)
Year     Total     Railwaiy,rs          Highwalys           lWater Transport
Trucking       Own      Inland     Coastal
Enterprises    Account  akLterways  Tratffic
196L     28.6        18.3            2.A           4.4       3.1        0.
1966     32.0        17.5            3.6           6.7       3.9        0.3
2.09      Railway freight, which reached a peak in 1964, has since declined
by about 7% mainly as a result of the closing of uneconomic lines, a shift
frcm coal to oil as fuel, and increased competition from road transport.
Nevertheless, the railways remain the largest carrier of freight, accounting
for over 50,, of total freight (for more details see Table 1).
2.10      The railways are also important carriers of Dassengers, but Si nce
1966 they ha-ve been replaced by road transport as the prime mode of passenger
travel. Road passenger traffic has increased very ranidly in recent years
(Table 2), a trend which is expected to continue in the next few years, mainly
as a result of a further fast growth in the nu.mber of private cars (Table 3).
Truck transport has been increasing at about 20% per year. River transpcort
has retained an important and competitive place in           .ansport.   tA
the national airline, serves the major cities of the country and Europe.
-~~                    L-"~- '-',  U~i1  QU~~IJ.~  U.k ~±.ra ." U  VJ± -e -U - u±ans-
Rerrkda remains the dporainat expands  port  though swai e to Belgrade isco le
ferred to B-r as tha.t port expands and the new railway to Belgrade is completed.



2.11      In 1967, investment in transportation amounted to Din 2.A billion.
This corresponded to about 10% of total fixed investment in '-r econorliy.
2.12      Although responsibility for infrastructure investment has shiited
to the Republics, substantial Federal participation has continued because
of ongoing camnitments.   In 1967,the Government spent Din 207 million (Table I)
on new highway construction, mainly for ccmapletion of the Skopje-Adriatic
highway. Although there is no law that precludes further Federal financing,
there are no plans (apart from ongoing commitments) for doing so in highways.
A special Federal fund for aiding the less developed regions can, however,
be used for i-nfrastructure including highwarays.
C. Transport Coordination
2.13      Some problems of transport coordi-nation existed in earlier years:
revenues fr(m road user charges failed to cover adequate maintenance of the
highlway network while the railways maintained uneconomic lines and were
charging rates below cost for some commodities and services.   The Government
has been aware of these problems and its policies have aimed at establishing
fair competitive conditions for all major modes of transport.   The low rail-
way rates mentioned above have been raised, several uneconomic lines havE
been closed., and road user charges have been raised.  The Government has
commassioned the Transport Tnsti tute of Rel rmade to nrenare a comnrehensive
study of the com-,petitive position of rail and road transport; this stud-!
might be co)rpleted in 1970.  The Gove-rnment --ave assuraces during loan
negotiation,s that it would make the draft of the above report available when
lt+ is crrplt-ed+ arl    g 4 i e einral,n   wou Al ecaw ew . t+h the 'ankiL regard-
ing the development of transport and particularly regarding measures for
im,provi n g co o rdav,etion and prlanrnrg -in the transport+ setor.
2 41      A1J the present time, the market is the dominat force regulat ng
competition within road transport.   The conditions of entry into the field
are lieral., U   isrport rates genera'lly . re.lect cos's, adl the road trasort
enterprises are free to set their own rates. Transport for own account an(d
transport b: sorme private oper-ators offer a strong competitive challenge to
trucking enterprises (Table 1).
2.15      According to Federal regulations, the revenues from specific road
user charges are distributed to the Republics and other local authorities
and must be devoted to maintenance and improvement of the existing highways.
These revenues can be augmented by contributions from the budgets of the
Republics and other local authorities at their discretion.   Revenues from
road user charges have been as follows:
1966        1967         1968 /
(Din million)
1.  Tax on gasoline and diesel oil     276         498         742
2.  Fees on motor vehicles             155         171         220
3. Fees on trucks and trailers          46          46           6
4. Taxes on foreign motor vehicles      12          12          12
Total revenues                     :7          727       1,020
1/ Estimated by Federal Secretariat for Economy.



- 6 -
2.16      Although the available statistical information is not conclusive,
the indication is that the previous shortfall between revenues from road.
user charges and maintenance expenditures has been eliminated. The inprove-
ment is the result of the rapid increase in traffic in recent years and an
increase ir, the tax on fuel. The Government estimates that revenues will
be sufficient bv 1970 not only to cover adequate maintenance but also a large
part of imorovement expenditure.
2.17      As to the! railways, they have complied wTith the agreement under
Loan 531-YT t.o incr2     rates and fares aim.ing to mT.eet financial goals. Pas-
senger fare increases of 6.3% and 12% were made effective in July 1968 and
in March 1969, respectivelyQ  On October 1, 1968, freight rates were raised
on average by 4.8% (based on 1967 traffic data).   Despite these increases,
tsh.e ffrmnciaal g,*S foPr ' 19o6O ,,any r.ot be filly 1t r  t  mtinlv hbeause traf-
fic has been lower than expected. The railways are preparing a plan of ac-
tlon, for the timel. achieve-iment of these financial goals.
2.18    sDie ad11,Iu'Lstrat.ive reorganization1 ofL 197V Ahas raised a- new isu
of transport coordination, namely how to replace the coordinative role pre-
viously perfornied 'by the Federal Gov-ermient, in regard to hlghway plan ing.
The Federal Government now defines its functions as being limited to legis-
lation of basic laws regarding highwary finances, irniin-riu  desip7 standards,
etc. Although the Government intends to collect information on the various
highway programs and collate them into the next Five-Year Plan, for 1971- 75,
the Republics and Autonomous Provinces will be solely responsible for pre-
paring the highway plans.  As a result, it is possible that there will be
insufficieint coordination of investments in the highways serving more than
one Republic.  The Yugoslav Government is aware of this problem and is car-
rying out special Istudies to improve the coordination of investments in the
highway sector.
D. HiEhwa" Network and Highway Transport
2.19      Thle highway network (Table 5), which is about 80,000 Im long, con-
sists most:Ly of low standard roads built in the first instance to serve
animal drawnJ velhicles or light motor traffic. The present total length of
paved highways is only about 17,000 km; the rest consists mainly of gravel
highwiays and to a lesser extent of earth highwrays. More than half of the
paved highwiays have been built since 1962 (Table 6). Despite this effort,
the modernization of the highway network has not kept pace with the expan-
sion in motor traffic and in particular with heavier commercial traffic.
Mlost highways, including same of the newly paved highways, do not have
adecuate bearing capacity and suffer severe damage from heavy trucks in
areas subject to deep frost. Many highway sections need a whole new pave-
ment strnc1-.tre.  Also, the traffic on certain sections requires the intro-
duction of four-lane divided highwyays with access control and grade sepaLra-
tion of crossingst The highway authorities in the Republics and Autonomous
Provinces are assessing highway needs and priorities for construction and
im;provem.ent;5 theyr have large poa  in aeprrntinn 
2.20      The recent rapid groh of hi- -.way traffic is due to manny Lunder--
lying factors. Betwreen 1963 and 1967, the number of cars increased over



- 7 -
300,i an' trucks a-lst dacubl-e- (Tab1le 3)N.  heMan,cueo psegrcr
_)Uup  U    Idf  lu iUKia ut   u  ULLUU±U  Ik 1dU.Ltz  .) I  iie  Ii1L1dJIL tLk-L UU1.t5  UJ.  j~imooU1ru   U,CLJ.L
in Yugoslavria increased from about 20,000 in 1963 to 48,000 and imports from
950 to 50,(00 (Table 7); there are plans to increase domestie o-utput to over
100,000 vehicles per year in the near future.  Another factor is the rapid
increase in tourism. The total number oI roreigners entering Yugoslavia,
excluding crossings by frontier residents, increased from about 3 million
in 1963 to about 23 million in 1967, mainly on account of an increase in the
number of Short-term visitors.  The corresponding official foreign exchange
receipts rose fram US$68 million to US$186 million.  The increase in receipts
is lower than in the nurnber of tourists, mainly because there has been a
shift towmard popular tourism and also because of a greater use of unofficial
exchange facilities.  In 1967, approximately 4 million visitors were classi-
fied as tourists (long stay), 17 million as excursionists (short stay), and
2 million as transi.t. By far the larger part arrived by car or bus.
E. Highway Administration and Organization
2.21      There has been a major change in highway administration since the
second highway loan made early in 1967. The Federal Basic Law on Public
Roads (1967) has made the Republics and Autonomous Provinces almost entirely
responsible for the planning, design, construction, maintenance, and f inanc-
ing of all public roads in the area for which they are responsible. There
are still four administrative classes of highways (see Table 5). The
Federal Assemblv decides which highways fall into Class I; these highways
usually traverse more than one Republic. The Republics are authorized to
designate Class TT and TTT roads.  rlass TV roads are under the iurisdic-
tion of the conmmunes (ccrparable to municippalities).
2.22      Ihere is no uniform organization for highway administration in. the
Republics.  Croatia., Bosnia-Herceovina, Taedonra, Slovernia and Vojk.r-;drnl/
have Road Funds (Chart), which are public agencies with their own funds,
responsible for the planning, design, construction and maintenance of roads.
However, many of these functions are contracted out, subjec-t to the super-
v 4is ior, U.L tU4AIL .J UCof.± *n sUIaf  Genera.L.y, a 1 cLLF..d i9 governed. by a -Board of 21 mL Mbers,'
including a President, who are appointed by either the Assembly or the Execu-
tl ve CZou nci4.] of the TRepubl,ic. Board --r,bers -r se"ccted to represent poLi-
UJ. V  ~   '.J.  U1El  I. L LLJ.L.LL. U J ',.0J  A  ~ILI'J  ..X  L ~. V W~.I'  .  A'
tical, professional. and economic interests.
2.23      Serbia, Kosova-Metohijal/ and Nlontenegro have Road Councils, which
are si-milar to Road Funds but have considerably les auministrative c.pacity.
At the present time, they are simply control bodies, mainly responsible for
the administration of earmarked funds accruing from road user charges.  Sinrlce
they are not staffed to carry out all the functions of highway administra-
tion they have delegated most of these functions to road maintenance enter-
prises.
1/ Autonomous Provinces.



2.24      The 1967 reorganization also restructured the administration of
highlwayr maintenance.  At the time of the second Bank loan, the revenues
earmarked for maintenance and improvement were collected in each of 34
territories across the countryr; they were channeled directly to road main-
tenance enterprises, which were organized under a special law and charged
with hightraYr maintenance in their areas.
2.25      The earmarked funds now go to the Road Funds or Councils. As a
result, there is greater flexibility in matching available ftmds to highway
needs. Furthermore, the road maintenance enterprises no longer have a
snecial status- they have been made subiect to the basic Federal legisla-
tion for all industrial and commercial enterprises. Consequently routine
maintenanGe is now covered bv negotiated. contractual arrangements between
the Road Funds or Councils and the road maintenance enterprises.   Organ-
izational arrangements differ, however.   For examnlpl   in Slovenia the Road
Fund has se-arate contracts with seven autonomous enterprises; in Croatia
four regional Road F,nds wh.ich are solelyr responsibhl e for hi gh-wy mainten-
ance, deal with enterprises in seven areas; while in 14acedonia there is
only one =a1gmMted --d,I               er+erprA -e.  Cor.tracts_t f^r i.pn -
ment projects are also negotiated, sometim.es after competitive bidding by
roadu enterprl ses  i o  a"l over Lithe countU. -
2.26    Acodn     toth  `Fdral Basic Law- on ruli Pads, the earrrke
ra *cor'1n            0 'o it U"e .4 D'±U LjZLIJJt U UU.L_ JAM IUO~., A   C-XI
funds for highways can be devoted to both maintenance and improvement of
the existing nletwork.   mpru-veluent can be lnterpreted to include nre-wd road.
construction provided the new highway follows substantially the existing
alignment.  This ma-r allow maintenance funds to be diverted to new construc-
tion. With a view to eliminating this possibility, the Government intends
to review the Federal Basic Law pertaining to the use of earmarked funds
and all pertinent regulations and laws relating to the highway sector, in
order to refilect the experience gained in the past two years.. Tne three
Republics involved in the project have given assurances that maintenance
will have first call on earmarked funds.
2.27.  The hoad Fands and Councils are still adjusting to the new organiza-
tion of highway administration.   Some pressing problems relating to staffing,
data collection and processing, and coordination can already be identified.
As to the first problem, the Road Funds involved in the project have satis-
factory plans for strengthening their organizations and are actively re-
cruiting adclitional staff.
2.28      As to the problem of data collection and processing, representitive
traffic voltume counts have been organized for the entire country during the
past few years. These counts are taken manually on specified days and hours
and in accordance with common procedures agreed to by most European coun-
tries.  Although these counts provide very useful information, they are not
fully adequate for project preparation and the overall planning of the high-
way network. Therefore. the Road Funds and Councils should improve the
systematic collection and processing of data required to make an adequate
assessment of the technical, economic, and financial asDects of the high-
way network and traffic. With regard to the highway network, the data
should cov.er the phyT in t Ihn ratei-Psris ti-s and the, cost of administration,



construction, and maintenance. With regard to traffic, the reouired data
would fa ll into three broad categories: (i) vehicle flows; (ii) volume,
nature, and movenrent of goods and passengers; and (iii) transportation
costs and rates. To the largest extent possible these data should be
collected and processed on a uniformL country-uide basis. During loan nego-
tiatinsg te Fedra-l Uov-errz,r,enr, andA tL-he th,L ee Pxpubicsexrssd uhn 
intention to cooperate in improvirg the system of collecting and processing
data pertainling to highiMway transport.
2.29   A~s tUo coor"nat on i-n t-he h"ig . -Va- 4,C;~ys e c -t-or, the  arem t .>eeai
issues: First, there is inadequate coordination of highway investmrents, as
explained alo-ve id paagraph 2.18. Second, there is a need to improve the
dissemination of technical knowledge and other information pertaining to
the highwayis. The Govermnent and the Yugos'av Road Association have this
matter under consi-deration. Third, within the Road Fund or Councils, there
is also insufficient coordination between the various disciplines engagedl
in overall highway planning and in project preparation; in particular the
role of the econorist needs to be strengthened. The Road Funds involved
in the project are taking steps to improve the coordination of work within
their organizations.



- 10 -
3   THE Ppn.TErT
A. Description
3.01     Tlhe proposed project consists of the construction of three
.L"LLWacy sections JAI.I .L.L ULrWUe iPwpUb.LiLc  (IMap.P:
In- Croatia, a four-lane divlded nignway LroII
Zagreb to Karlovac, about 45 lari long, together
with access roads of 2.7 km to Karlovac and
2.5 kam to Zagreb.
In Macedonia, a two-lane highway from Gostivar
to r1cevo, aDout 40 km long.
bu Sloveniia, a four-lane civided highway from
17rhTnTa71;o P ostoina, about 32 km long.
The four-lane highways in Croatia and Slovenia account for respectively,
34h% and 5L4 of the total project cost eligible for Bank financing, while
the highway section in Macedonia accounts for only 1257 of this cost.
3.02      The highway section in Croatia (Map), connecting Zagreb and
Karlovac, would be part of European Highway E96 which connects the port
of Rijeka and Budapest. Hungary has already started construction of one
carriageway of a planned expressway between Budapest and the Yugoslav
border. Croatia has given the proposed section highest priority in its
highway plan because the existing road is a bottleneck on this important
route.
3.03     TChe existing highway, about 54 km long, has a pavement between
6 m and 7 im wide and practically no shoulders. Its capacity is also
Limited because it runs through many villages where traffic flows are
interrupted, and because the road has several sharp curves and some steep
gradients of up to l10%. The pavement is inadequate for current traffic
loads and is subject to regular damage from frost.  Since it would be
uneconomical to unporade the existing road. it is pronosed to build a four-
lane divided highway along a new alignment. In 1972 traffic on a new
hia ihwav wolildl avnrna- A inn motor vephi .1 cl. npr iavy  The new hi ghuav wouild
--O---~~~~~__           _    --V- -  D- -Z - C  r-_   --./ -  ----  - 0-- '  ' --V-- --
be 9 km shorter than the existing road; the latter would be maintained
for lonal trnffin ane animnl crrnwrn vehicles, qnin for tfraffic wishing to
avoid paying tolls since the new highway will be a toll road.
3.04      The project section also includes access roads to the cities
of Zagre  Pnr   loac.    In Zagreb, the access road, animprovementof an
existing road, would connect the new highway with the approach roads to
two mAOdern.. brndges acmos the nv- River, one brdg  is  -eAdy in ilsace
the other would be built by the City of Zagreb to replace an existing o:Lder
bridgeU~.  The.LIU WU.L± VJwoUrLU UULidLOL c  of  W LUIeLILLir,g WIA1 eC gLLU r L.LJid L frmvU



to four lanes; the constraction of adequate ntersections   nd sidewalks:
and the provision of modern signalling equipment. In Karlovac, a four-
lane access road w-ll be bUilt as part of the project; the works would
include bicycle lanes, sidewalks, and intersections for distributing
traffic in. the city- and betweien trhe trnk- roads leading to Rijeka and Split.
3.05      The f-ull utilization of this section would reqre, soon after
completion, improvement of the connecting road towards Rijeka. During
loan negotiations, assurances were obtained that Croatia would improve
this connecting road as required to permit the optimum utilization of the
project highway section, taking into consideration the benefits to be
derived from the investment in improvements.
3.06      The highway section in Macedonia (Map) would be a 45.7 km stretch
of the so-called W%yestern Road. This route goes from Skopje to the Greek
border, via Tetovo-Gostivar-Kicevo-Ohrid-Bitola, a distance of 254 km.
The Republic intends to improve this entire route in a phased construction
of a new two-lane highwiay, partially following the existing alignment.
For planning and construction purposes, the Road Fund has divided the 1,11
Western Road into seven highway sections according to traffic and road
ccnditions. The project section Gostivar-Kicevo is classified as a Class
I highway; it has high priority and is most advanced in its engineering
preparation; construction has already begun and is about 10% complete. In
1972, traffic on the new highway would average about 500 motor vehicles
per day.
3.07      The existing road, about 49 km long, has a badly maintained,
water-bound macadam pavement, about 4-5 m wide, on a 6-7 m roadway. The
alignaent, leading through very mountainous terrain, includes 42 curves
with radii between 9 m and 20 m and, over a length of 2 km, gradients
between 1CF and 13%. It would be uneconomical to improve the existing
road to the standards necessary for future traffic.
3eQ8      The oroiect section would follow a new alignment, for two-thirds
of its length, in mountainous terrain (up to 1,220 meters above sea level);
in this difficul t terrain;, the existing road would be retained for animal
drawn vehicles. In easy terrain, the new highway would follow the existing
alignment and a separate lane on eac'h side would be provided for animal
draiwn vehicles.
3.09      Construction work already completed by contract covers about 10%
of the total cost of construction; these works a     no- in- cluded in the
project. The work was supervised by the Road Fund and found to be satis-
factory. New contracts would be awarded to complete the balance of the
work after the loan is signed.
3.10      The highway section in Slovenia (Map), connecting Vrhnika and
Postojrna soutthwest of LjublJna, would be part of -uropean Highway E93=
It would substantially improve this route at its highest elevation, about
600 m above sea level. The Postojna Pass pro-vides the shortest r    , at
relatively low elevation east of the Alps, connecting Central and Northern



- 12 -
Europe to the Adriatic Sea. Furthermore, E93 cormects Sith E94, another
important European Highway, in Ljubljana. Slovenia has given the European
highways oIn its territory the highest priority in its road program. Prc,ject
preparation of the section is the most advanced among sections with a
similar priority.
3.11      The existing highway between Vrhnika and Postojna, 35 Im long,
has a pavement width between 6.50 m and 7.50 m but without significant
shoulders. The pavement structure is inadequate even for the present
traffic load, an average of about 9,000 vehicles per day, and is subject
to frost damage.  The highway has a difficult alignment; for example, it
has sharp r.urves. with sonme radii smaller than QO meters, and steep gradi--
ents of up to 10%.  The highwiay also runs through numerous built-up areas.
It woulld ber-  neconnyominI i.n t  mrove suhbstnn-tinAII  the Pi estina road.
3=12      TPhe new four-la ne rl-r,ipui hidhwr w-ill fnl IrT. a  ewnP  aliJ'nment.
It will start near Ljubljana in flat terrain and continue in rolling terrain.
The I as+. Q 1cm +.townardt Pt+ojina -.r1i I as  +:hmrnugh diffirict rok formnatAins.
3.13    r'i  -W-rXe  *t',st A road 1 1-nl  berr.c-.an  for loa  t.ra~fficj fo nCn-.
motorized -traffic, and for traffic wishing to avoid tolls since the new
3.14     ]5n    loar negotitos       suacsw         ot-e      hl,mo      i
would improve connecting sections at each end of the proposed highway as
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_                     _   I_'  ~1_   1 s   1  2_ 2  _S1 _*u. ...
reason.bly re -q quireu to permit the o(Ptiuwri u li-atio oul u th  nw h i ghlway,) 
taling into account the benefits to be derived from the investment in su.ch
-msplo-ven-len-t. The designs of the improvement of these conecting sections
are scheduled for completion in mid 1969.
B. Design Standards and Engineering
3.15      lew Federal design standards (Table 8) are being applied to the
project. These standards, which are satisfactory, became effective in
riarch 1969.
3.16      Por all project sections, detailed designs, engineering cost
estimates and bidding documents have been prepared and are satisfactory.
The engineering enterprises carrying out the work are competent.
C. Execut:ion
3.17      The Road Fund in each of the three Republics would be responsible
for the execution of the road section in its respective area. Construc--
tion wJill be by contractors; unit price contracts will be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. For bidding purposes, the three highways will.
be divided in two to three subsections each and with major bridges bid
for separately. Prequalified contractors wrill be invited to submit bids,
for one or for several highway subsections, and for major bridges,



- 13 -
separately or  omnhinAed; +he award will be marde tor +he Aln&Tp+. PVTnatd
combination of bids for each highway. Prequalification procedures have
alreac1v rcmmrn erei so c          cn beg^n nn 1969.
3.18      Go^str^nn+.tion will be supervised by the Road  uneds, assisted
by the engineering enterprises which prepared the detailed designs, and
by quali.fed soil and material testing *-sint±tUt    TrA1 contracts for
construction wrill be awyarded in 1969 and the work is expected to be com-
---WU      LL   %.~ LkU &% U           VC,V*;,A   1G~L,   LV " .LV   .
special difficulties in acquisition are envisaged. The Republics have
'UIJLLLJ..LIIIS.L  IAJj OU u49=LaUt  1j jU±-V1- WctJL . UW  dV  d."dL)±t: I.Vl  UO L;U11 O UL I1v
to begin as scheduled.
D. Cost Estimates and Financing
3.20      Estimates of construction costs are based on unit prices of
sinilar contracts under execution ana on partially completed aedallea
designs.  Supervision costs have been taken as 5,0 of the estimated construc-
tion cost for each section, a customary practice in iugosiavia; tnese
supervision costs are realistic.
3.21      The projec-t cost estimates incorporate a 10  contingency allow-
ance for possible increases in physical quantities and for unforeseen
requirements of supervision.  They also incorporate a price escalation
contingenc;y of 5-.
3.22      The total cost of the three highway sections is estimated at
about US$84 million equivalent, as indicated in Table 9. The cost of
right-of-way, project preparation, and construction prior to the loan
agreement have been excluded from the cost of the proposed Bank project,
which is estimated at US$75 million, as shown below:
Cost Estimates-i
(million)
Construction    Supervision  Contingencies     Total
Din      US$',  Din     U S$  Din      US8   Din    US$
CROI'TLA:
Zagreb-Karlovac   265.8    21.27  13.3    1.06   hl.9     3.31  321.0  25.68
MACE DONIA:
Gostivar-Kicevo    92.3     7.39   4.6      .37 14.5      1.16  lll.    8.92
SLOVENIA:
Vrhnika-Postonina  118.3   RR 3)6  20q 9      .-647 6c.9  5-27 505.1   hO0.)A
Pntire Project      776.04    P 62.12  38.8  3.10 122.3     9.78  937.5  7'.0O
1/  Including taxes: and duties.



- I
- 14 -
3.23      On the assumption that all construction contracts would be
awarded to iugoslav contractors,  wnich has been the experience unwlder
previous Bank highway loans to Yugoslavia, and that such contractors would
use mostly domestic equipment, the estimated foreign exchange cost would
be 10-15è of the construction cost.   On the other hand, assuming that al:L
contracts would be awarded to foreign contractors using their own equip-
ment, the foreign exchange cost could be about 40' of the construction
cost. The project contracts would be fairly large and of a size that cou ld
attract foreign bids, considering that foreign firms have submitted bids
for smaller contracts on previous highway projects in Yugoslavia.
3.24      Each of the three Republics has enacted an investment law cover-
ing the project section in its territory.   These laws also specify the
financing of the project.
3.25      The Federal Government and the three Republics have given assur-
ances that adequate local funds will be available to carry out the project.
3.26      Croatia and Slovenia have decided to levy tolls on their highway
sections included in the project.  Tolls are viewed as additional road
user charges and revenues Will be pooled with the receipts of other road
usercharges. The debt service of any loan for the construction of the
toll highwjays wrill thus be independent of the specific revenues from tol:Ls.
The Road Funds will be responsbile for the collection of tolls and for
the maintenance of the toll highways and facilities. The intention is to
introduce tolls experimentally during an initial period; more definitive
tolls rill be established on the basis of this exnerience.   The obiective
of each Republic is to levy tolls in a flexible manner and to set rates
at reasonable levels to ensumre an optimum economic iiue of t.he nroot.
highways and alternative routes or means of transportation.
3.27      A Bank loan of US$30 million equivalent would represent 40O of
the n-4-4-4-Ate project cost- such- a "oar, probabl wod -over -a par -f _oca
VW...  _ ~  .LA L  LA   '  IJ v .9   A .A. L  .J  LJC1IJ.LJ  wu~LA_A. J V   J   *   U4   W_  _L%'C7J-
currency costs, as did the previous two highway loans. Disbursement on
+h l-Ioar, wou'L' ld  e against actual_ e-en   tures -le - pr-e construction- -4
U.L.~Le J. 1 ~ U..iU  d..LllLI~U 4  UUCL.±  t;J.A.PtZLU.LUU±L_t;  LA.ILLUl-C:.L  ±.LVV--   %.;±UJ.L U.L CUU.L'JJ
contracts and would be made in accordance with tlle above percentage and
tt +hA  nt4  _ tAN  -_4e Acumien 4-.s 4 or  -4Sa ~      .,    4^n-z
.-,,,  u      w rL  v. V iW  V CULJV  %AO   WII A UCL. IJ I . L:a1.411 '.LQUI±  rl  U  W LA.L
an allowance of 5"(of payments made to construction contractors)for
QI-e-;sn      The Ba' MUs D-1.e option-44  to reAduce 4-1,e A,uuse,e. - ----- 4-.,e
should the estimated costs of construction increase, so as to spread
di 0sbu sem.er,-± as evenlLyr as practi cable in41 reVlabt-ion too  progres  V. UUOrto
expenditures on the project.    If on completion of the project any surpl-us
in the loans accoUnti occurs, lt would be cLancelled.



15 -
3.28      Assuming that the proposed loan would be effective by mid-1969.,
the estimated disbursements would be as follows:
(in US$ million equivalent)
Calendar Year        Total               Bank         Yugoslav Sources
1969             10.4                 *h.2               6.2
1970              31.9               12.7               19.2
1971              26.3               10.5               15.8
1972              6.4                 2.6                3.8
75.0               30.0                45.0



- 16 _
4. ECO01MOIC EVALUATION
A. General
11.o1     The three highway sections in the project would improve parts
of major routes. The proposed expressways in Croatia and Slovenia would
relieve parts of existing highways, which are congested, especially
during the tourist season, and have technical deficiencies. Congestion
will continue to increase before the new highway sections could be
completed; and prospects are that the existing highways will be unable
to accommodate normal traffic growth. The section in Macedonia would
replace a badly worn gravel road in mountainous terrain. Driving
conditions on the existine road are so bad that a significant Dart of
the through traffic is taking a much longer route.  The lack of adequate
hiahwav connections is holding back the economic development of this
region.  Ln general, the need for the three project sections is urgent
and their construction shonl1d be unnrtken without delay.
4=O2      The expect;ed traffic o.n each of the three sections is ndlirated
in Table 10.  These forecasts are based on past traffic trends, recent
orijnh-and-c+estination s+udies, pronjections of output and incomes  nt
zo-ies of influence, and the estimated development of foreign tourism.  The
traffic forecasts take into accv-t not only the present 1.t4 +capi
of the existing highways and adjacent sections of the new highways to ac-
--bmdate acLclit-ional. 4tra1'fi'Jc, `Dut- a'lso addit.ionall trafi  whichL woul be-L
generated by the new highways and by the improvement of neighboring
sections lat,er on. This generated traffic helps to explain the relatlvely
rapid growth of total traffic on each section (about 15% per year) during
the firsX few,% yyears after its scheduiled opening.
4.03      The project would yield adequate economic benefits. For
purposes of calculating an economic return on investment, only savings in
vehicle operating costs, as shown in Table 11, are counted as benefits.
These savings range frorL 23% to 44h1 of vehicle operating costs per km for
passenger cELrs and from 17% to 54% for trucks and trailers; tney do not
take into account any time savings for occupants of passenger cars nor of
passengers in buses. Vehicle operating costs are based on present
conditions on the existing highways. For the sections in Croatia and
Slovenia, tils understates the savings because the costs of traffic
congestion on the existing highways will increase significantly before
the new sections can be completed. On this conservative basis, the
savings in vrehicle operating costs are estimated to yield rates of return
ranging from 12% to 15% on the investments in the three sections. This
assuraes tha-t in Croatia and Slovenia the adjacent sections will be
improved adequately in a timely manner.



- 17 -
4.u04     Tie returns also do not take into account other hue-lieitzs suchl
as a likely reduction of maintenance expen-ditures on existing highways,
greater comiort and safety in travelling, less damage to cargoes and
possible recluctions in inventory requirements.  Savings in vehicle
operating costs accruing to foreign tourists have been included on the
ground that these benefits can be regarded as a stimulus of at least
equal value to this important sector of the economy.
4.05      While each of the three sections would parallel a railway,
they would not divert a significant volume of freight now being carried
by these ra-ilways. High value freight already goes by truck, with most
of the freight on the railways in Croatia and Slovenia consisting of
bulk commodi'ties for which rail transport is better suited than road
transport; the parallel railway in Macedonia is being built to supply
the Skopje steel mill with iron ore from a mine near Kicevo. Construction
of the project roads is not likely to have a significant effect on railway
passenger traffic. The project roads are relatively short and therefore
their effect would be mainly limited to local passenger traffic, which
is relative-Ly unimportant for the railways. Therefore the project is not,
expected to create any undue competition for the railways.
B. Zaereb-Karlovac
L.o6      This highway rsectinn would reli eve the mnst heavilv travelled
part of the route between Zagreb, the capital of Croatia, and Rijeka,
the Gnuntry's mAin port.  It would be part of ET6o the Europenn HighwAy
connecting Rijeka and Budapest. It would also connect in Zagreb to the
CentralHWighray, which is the pr-ncipal highway traversing Yugoslavia anc
part of the European highwvjay system. It would also connect in Karlovac
w i t Sl't he r oal d to, 3p ' Itl iI.Jn . ioa*r  V .&.Jt JnduAs.tr i-l- ad ts cnd thAo =4 i; -- t -- W. t-1-- t h
Adriatic coast.  Consequently, this highway section would serve a large
arm-a' c+retc      - -g brA the  ntr  borders.
.07 1.101' The new IL1WaJ wVUi d meet varied nee's.  In- .4..1.14  t LirLa4te
zone of infLuence, it would serve a population exceeding one million.
.TnL particulU;r, it vwuLdU L"rect--.Ly serve WZagreb, wLhiLc A.3 Whe lios iUj1.±U.LUi%
administrative, commercial and industrial center in Croatia, and Karlovac,
..hich has several large indust@ries and is an im^-portwant to-urist center.
This area a'lso has rich agricultural resources. The new highway would
help to meet tile need for better highway facil±ties followLng the rapid
increase in the vehicle fleet. In its larger zone of influence, the new
highway wou'ld promote long-distance trucking and tourism.  In particular,
it would support the planned expansion of the port of Rijeka. This port
currently handles 8.5 million m tons of cargo, inciuding 1.6 miiion m
tons of general cargo; the intention is to expand its total capacity to
20 million m tons by 1985.  Only about 150,000 m tons of the generai



- 18 -
cargo now goes via the existing highway; this traffic is expected to
increase substantially.  In regard to tourism, the new ihighwiay would
remove a bcottleneck on an i:nportant tourist route to the Adriatic.
4.08     EDuring the past few years, the level of traffic service on the
existing highway has deteriorated.  Traffic has growm at an average rate
exceeding 25% per year and, in 1968, the average daily traffic reached
about 5,500 vel-Licles. Heavy congestion occurred during the tourist
season.  Tc provide some relief, restrictions have been imposed on animal
drawn vehicles.  The authorities are considering introducing restrictions
on day-time truck traffic.  Engineering and economic analyses show that
it would be uneconnomical to improve and increase the canacitv of the
existing highway to meet future traffic requirements.
4.09      A. four-lane divided higlhway, followring a new alignment,
clearly will be required in the near futu-e. For 1972I, taffic on the
new highway is estimated to amount to about 6,300 vehicles per day. The
question WE!S considered whether two new carriageways should be built at
once or in two stages. A comparison of these two alternatives indicated.
+ha + eons uc+ion Or bot- carriageways at once would be .m.ore -c.nmianol
than stage construction.
4.10      ]n comparison withl the existLng highway, the savings in vehicle
opera'ing c:osts or, tI1h proposed h .h.y are   Is.afted to -ld z r  of
return of about 13% for a toll highway.  Access roads have been considered
as an integral part of 'the highi-way section. Thie rate of ret.ui  -fwhich iE
conservative (para. 4.03), indicates that construction of the new four-larne
divided highway is economically justified.
C. GostivLr-4Kicevo
4.11      Thi-s section would be part of the Western Road, running between
Skopje and the Greelc border via Tetovo-Gostivar-Kicevo-Ohrid-Bitola.
hiacedonia plans to reconstruct several sections with the expectation that
the Western Road would become an important tourist route.  The section
between Gostivar and Kicevo has highest priority, for reasons other than
tourism as explained below. Although tourist traffic on this section
may become important at a later date, this traffic has not been taken
into account in calculating the rate of return.
4.12      Utilization of the existing Gostivar-Kicevo highway is
severely l-waited by technical deficiencies, in particular by the steep
gradients md poor condition of the road pavement (para. 3.07). Traffic
on the existing road, mostly trucks and buses, has increased in recent
years mainly as a result of economic activity associated with the
construction of a railway and the opening of an iron-ore mine near Kicevo.
The average daily traffic in 1968 was 250 vehicles (Table 10). Due to



- 19 -
the poor driving conditions, however, part of the traffic that would
normally use the road -- through traffic between Kicevo and Skopje -- is
taking a much longer route via the Central highway. T'his diverted
traffic amotunts to some 50 vehicles per day, mostly heavy trucks, despite
the fact that the alternative route is also partly in poor condition and
adds some 8', kilometers to the trip (199 ki instead of 114 km). In
estimating savings in vehicle operating costs, this diverted traffic has
been taken into account. On conservative assumptions, savings in
vehicle operating costs are estimated to yield a rate of return of 15.
on the investment in the proposed highway. These savings alone justify
the construction of the proposed project section.
4.13      A modern highway which could be kept open all year around would
be a significant inducement to the development of agriculture and
industry in the immediate vicinity of the highway. The Kicevo region has
a population of about h0 000 and suffers from tile lack of Rood highway
connections., Agriculture, wlich is now largely organized on a subsistence
basis, mould be able to develon market surnluses of fruit. vegetables,
livestock and livestock products. In the industrial sector, a new higl-j-
way would sneed un the Pexiut.ion of existing plans to increase substantially
the production of wood products and ceramics and may lead to new ventures.
D. Vrhnika--Postojna
4.14      This highway section, as part of the main artery between
T.Lubljanna  the capital and most important ciy+ of Slovernia  and the
Adriatic, would serve a large volume of through traffic. It would serve
the highly  devreloped regionn  the imm.ed;ate zone of ;"f]liene; Postojna
itself is an industrial and tourist center. As part of the European
zh    J= st   \3l ,       e    gS    would serve a. itwd~ zoneJ.I of J.rlJ
including Rijeka, Trieste and Gorica, and thereby help promote internaticnal
transit frih  arnd attrac -Pore- gn tou-lst s.orte,oeth      2.
~ u  .j.j.  u  a.±'J  a.L Ul. Q..  S. L.J  _L  L±   SJUUiLC  U,  U..  uli  iLA  !u±-l  blicIi  C. . U
million cars that crossed the border from Austria in 1967, the largest
portion usecL ts   - 4
highway have become steadily worse.  Between 1963 and 1967, traffic grew
at an average rate exceeuing 25%o per annlum, partly as a result of thJRe
rapid increase in tourism.  In 1967, the average daily traffic had
increased to about 9,090 motor venicles (Table 10) but in 1968 it
declined by about 15% following the events in Eastern Europe.  There is
heavy congestion during the tourist season. Restrictions on the use of
the highway by animal drawn vehicles are already in force and other
restrictions on traffic are being considered. wnile such restrictions
may provide some relief, the inargin for further traffic growth on the
existing highway is limited. It would be uneconomical to improve
substantially and increase the capacity of the existing highway; there-
fore, a new highway should be provided.  The existing highway would
continue in use following construction of new facilities.



- 20 -
4.16      A four-lane divided highway will be needed in a few years to
accommodate the exqpected traffic. In 1972, traffic on the new highway
is estimated to am,lount to about 10,000 velhicles per day.  The question
was considered whether the two carriageways should be built at once or JLn
two stages. As for the Zagreb-Karlovac section, construction of the four
lanes at once would be more economical.
h.17      Voehicle operating costs on the pronosed four-lane divided
highway would be considerably lower than on the existing highway. On
the basis of conservative assqUmntions (n ra., 403?, savings in vehicle
operating costs alone would yield a rate of return of about 12% for
a toll facili+ty.  Consequently, construction of the proposed highway
would be economically justified.



- 21 -
5. RECOMEINATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Yugoslav
Government concerning the following principal points: the improvement of
coordinatic,n and planning in the transport sector; a review of the Federal
Basic Law on Public Roads; the earmarking of funds for highway maintenance
in the Republics; and the setting at reasonable levels of aay tolls on
the project; highways.
5.92      The proposed project is technically and economically justified
and is therefore recommended as a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$30 million with a term of 25 years. The highways are expected to come
into service in abnit Y.A years;, but a grace period of five years 4.s
recommended to help.ease the heavy external debt service burden of
Yugoslavia diring t.he next few years.



Table 1
YUGLOSL.-.VL;A - T1IiJ  rPIG.A-FvEC i-i T
F.-jJG.jj:i  T:iA'F17CL bY &iuDE OFU T1>.-1±P0UxCTL, 19_5-1L67_
Traffic (millions of ton-km)
Year      Total     Railway          Niaritime                   .lighway
Inland                   Trucking       avm
Waterway      Coastal    Enterprises     Account
1958    :L6,284     13,031      1,491        257           560            9h5
1959    1L7,947     13,974      1,636        499           816          1.022
1960    '20,534     15,191      2,009        390         1,016         1,923
1961   '20,986      14,941      2,085        370         1,382          25208
1962    21,573      15,033      2,212        358         1,615          2,355
1963     '25,469    17,345      2,569        376         2,024          3,155
1964     28,559     15,258      3,108        370         2.399          4,424
1965     30,167     18,036      3,313        407         3,029          5,382
1966     321,020    17,518      3,853        3X2         3,612         6,695
1967       n.a.     16,921      3,942        246         3,998           r.a.
1965                   2J135                 283            P1            1.7
1966                   2Li4       364        199            91             10
1967                   2)6        358        1)7            98            n.a.
1 / PlroE
Source: 2 X 1eral 6re9u of Statistics:    stat9tc -'I B 'et r6i9ber, 1968.
Iliarl c 25~ 190`9



Table 2
YUGOSLAVIA - TH1IRD EIG,WrVY PROJECT
FASSFZER TPAFFIC BY MODE OF TRANSPORT, 1958-1967
Traffic (millions of Passenger km)
Year    Total       Railway           Highwav         Airway      Maritime
Passenger       Domestic            Inland
-  _1__/   Car                 Coastal Waterwav
1959    1,51        87          ..6         ,25          60       359      30
1959    12,521      9,250       2,231       580          82       352      26
1o60    1r,663    1-,n  9       2,826     1,877         11.       370      27
1961    16.,368    10,089      3,139      2,620         136       361      23
1962    1.2h4       9,908       3431      3,h92 -38                        21
1963    19),372    10,673       3,876     4,236         267       30t4     16
1965    26,170     12,800       6,025     6,634         480       215      16
1966ir~     ., ;?UV    U., 7,8  8Q70  5O1
1967    33,011     10,753       9,599    12,ooo2/       532       119       8
Average Distance (km)
1965                   54          28       n.a.        757         4      43
1966                   57          27       n.a.        907
1967                   55          26       n.a.        833        36      37
1/ Interurban   public services only.
E/ Estilnate based on thie assumption thl at eaci) passenger car trarelled about
1L,000 km anrnually with an average occupancy rate of 2.5 persons !per car.
Source: Federal Bureau of Statistics: Transport and Communications
March 25, 1969



YUGOSLAVIA - TIIIRD HICGMAY PROJECT
TH:E MOTOR 'VEHICLE FLIET, 1958-1967
(Thousands)
Passenger                                             Trailers
Year            Motorcycles                Cars            Buses            Trucks            and Others       Total
l958               37.6                     '28.3           3.9              l3.6                12.B          L26.2
1959              '5h.5                    :39.0            .6               49.8                16.3          4L6h.2
1960               69.7                     25.2            5.1              54.6                19.h          203.1L
1961.              ?2.1                     75.5            5.2              50.5                16,6          ?19.9
1962               91.0                     97.9            6.1              58.0                19.,          272.2
1963               98.0                   112.5             6.6              64.5                20.3           301.9
196L;             102.2                   11h1.8            7.4              72.6                21.B          345-8
1965              1o6.4                    187.8            8.2              84.4                24.7           411.5
1966,              112.3                   253.3            9.8              98.8                 27.6          501.8
1967             1i1. .                   3 52. 1          11.2             115.L                31.8          621.9
Source: Federal Bu:reau of Statistics:  Statistical Bulletin, October 1968
March 25, 1969                                                                                                   l



TABLE 4
YUGOSLALVIA - THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Financing of Highway Expenditures, 1958 - 1970
Year                 and Maintenance      Government 1/          and Others 2/
1958                       341                 161                   180
1960                       494                 271                   223
1961                      6h7                 370                   277
1962                       650                 326                   324
∞63Q                       708 O1%                                   l 82
1964                     1,025                 411                   614
1oz e:                   1 oar~                1 V                   Qcvl
I OK, if                'I  one                                      p ivoV
1966                     1,0h8                 140                   908
967~~~~~                    ~     ~    ~~ l,3-l  20,7       1,224i
1968  3/                 1,965                 286h/               1,679
1969  3/                 2,41                  28lr/               2,160
1970  3/                 2,371                 2531/               2,118
1/  Investruent only.
2/  Funding of highway investments and maintenance by republics, districts,
cormunities and others; the latter represent industrial and commercial
enterprises, mainly interested in the financing of highway investments of
the republics.
3/ Estimates.
h/  On-going commitments
Source:   "Federal Secretariat for Economy"
May 14, 1969



YUGOSLAVIA - 'TRTl uT RTGHWAY Tn---
PUB3LIC ROX3DS I.1 TH  SI' FPIPUBLICS 1967
Bosnia and
Road                 Hercnego
Type of Surface   Class 2/    Total    vina            Croatia   Mlacedonia       Montene gro     Serbia 3(       Slovenia
I-IV       78 932       9 270        22 660        5,291           2,958         26, 136        12,617
I           9,6 ml77z,96 ,6
All Types          II        11,735       2,473         1,961         889              508         4,203           1,701
III       20,1140      1,571         7j,378         696             302         6,322           3,871
IV        3741      1fc9l/         10 934      280               1,557        12,349           6,212 1/'
I-IV     _154.83        1 368         4329           971             710          5,285          2,820
Paved              I          7,2' 0                    25019         632 2,019  32
II         4,1.26        3'58          884          234             168         1, 405          1 077
III        3,c 08         36         1,1114          57              37          1, 123           641
IV          1, 069       1314          312            8            _37            2146          2512
I-IV _     42,.18     _  477         14,038        1,236           2,2214        12,190          7)95r3
Gravel             I          2 3,35        27       T                                                7Wi             23
II         7,1553      211]5         1,077          599             3140         2, 798           6214
III       15,88D       1,535         6,217          342             265          4,291          3,230
IV        1650          _-      _    6376            52     __1,        96_      ,3_            L,507'6
I-IV       21 331     3,.45           4,293        310814             24          8661           1,81414
Compact Earth                    3          -            -             31 _                         -               -
II            56                                     56                          -. 5
III        1 252                        47          297             -              908           -
-    ~   -    _    IV      .19 5'92  _    31,425        h2146       2,700               214         7,753          1, 8414
I/' Condition as of 1966; there are no data f'or 1967.
D2/ Dfined in Section 2E of text.
I/ Includirg the two Autonon:ous Provinces
S,ource:  Federal Secretariat, for Econony
'ILarch 2S, 1969



Table 6
YUJGOSLAVIA - THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
MODERNIZATION OF HIGHWAY SYSTEM. 1958-1967
Increase of Road Length     Length of Improved Road
with Biti-mi nous Pavement         System 1/
Year                    (Annual)                   (Cumulat.ive)
1958                       833                       5,014
1959                    1,047                        6,061
1960                      712                        6,773
1961                       946                       7,719
1962                    1,281                        9,000
1963                     1,277                      10,277
196h                     1,325                      11,602
1965                     1,062                      12,66h
1966                    1,710                       1h,37h
1967                    1,109                       15,h83
1/ All kinds of pavred roads better than gravel roads
Source: Federal Secretariat foir Economy
March 25, 1969



YUGOSLAVI:A - THIRD HIGHWJlAY PROJE'T
PRODUCTION AND IMPORT OF NEW VEHICLES, 196D-19657
(units)
Production              1960        196(1       1962         1r63        9614        1965        1966        1967
Cars                   10,,461     114,999     13,125       20,293      27,854      35,880      37,687      47,888
Motor cycles            41,414     37,751      31,968       43,113      48,142      48,774      48,773      49,559
Trucks                  4,564       5,1,26      6,454        7,975       9,081       9,572       8,870       9,654
Buses                     896         829       2,144        1,823       2,,362      2,899       2,899       2,421
(mmor-ts-
Cars                   1,150        1,247          454         953       4,785      13,049      20,199      50,303
Motor Cycles             7,713      11,293        2017         142         972         929       3,136       6,376
Trucks                     277         649         103         527       1,563       1,5544      1.,015      7,677
Buses                       75          39         125           1          10          50          89          241
Source:   Federal Bireau of Statist:ics:  Stntistical Yearbook, 1968
MD
March 25, 15969



TA BLE 3
YUGOSLAiVIh - THIRD HIGIHAY PROJECT
FEDERAL DESIGN STANDARDS!/
A. For Four-Lane Dlvided Highways
(applied on expressways Zagreb-Karlovac and Vrhnika-Postojna)
Design Characteristic               Unit             Type of Terrain
Flat        Rolling
Design Speed                        km/h            120         120
He.ximum Gradient                    %                3.00        4.00
Width of (a) Through Lanes            m         2 @   3.75    2"  3.75
(b) Slow Ikoving Lane.3/    m                -          3.00
niinimum Width of Shoulder
(a.) including Slow
Moving Lane            m0 -.0
(b) without Slow
moving Lcne            m               2.50        2.50
l'.Eiimiur Widt;h of Center i.hdian  m                4.00        4.00
MiVnimum Sight Distance (non
passing)                           m,             270         270
Tvnpe of Wear,ing Surface            -Aphleonrt
Design Cha.-acteris-tic         TJit4 4are                 IKarlo . va
Width+y of' Carr-iagelday        r,7007U
4n~. -  X 1    Al,,,   A) 4.!~                   O_.-~c  --~o -  4..7. -  ~*  
WV.U Ui o CeIenter i'UUdLa      mn              1.00          1-^JO
iV±dUUI Uolf RLgrlgh-oLi-nay     m               0U.00       2U.OU
i/  Extract of the Federal Design Standards published in i4arch 1969.
7/ Not i nc-l.uded in Federal Design Standards.
3/ An additional paved lane for heavy trucks and other slow moving
motori.zed traffic on steep up-gradients.



TABLE 8
(continued)
YTGOSlAVIA - THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
FEDERAUL DESIGN STANDARDS
B. For Two-Lane Highways of Category 2
(applied on trunk highway Gostivar-Kicevo)
Type of Terrain
Desian Characteristic         Unit     Rolline     Hillv      I4iountainous
Design Sneed                  k-rn/h     inY'R0) C)'n)        6(Lon()
Ihximnm G.rIianlie             %           4         6         6(7) (7.<)
Woidt.h Of' Lar'ps             m      3.75(3.50)  3.50(3.00)  3.00
I'aniiru Sigh,t Dist-ance (r.on
passing)                     m      185(130)     130(90)     90(60)
Type of Wearing Surface        -                 Asphalt Concrete
Tn. Loun,aiLVusterrainU 0    n1 s-uchl thler areas as mia-y be deemed appropriaUU1
parking areas for disabled vehicles shall be provided. They shall be 3.0 m
wlde (kmeasured from the wearing sur-^ace edge to the face of guard raii) b:y
40 mi long, spaced at about 0.5 km intervals on alternate sides of the road.
l.OTE: Hormal minini,ums are indicated by ( ).
Exceptional miinimums applied only with the special approval
of the Bank, are indicated (( jj.
Ydnimum design axle load is 10 m tons.
May 14, 1969



TAiE Si
YUGOSLAVIA - THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
E:STIKATED COST OF HIGHWAY SECTION
Di n (millions)                  _(millionsj
Noneligible Eligle Total      Noneligible EigiLle Total
CROATIA
ZaRreb-Karlovac
Project Preparation          7.7                          O.62
Right-of-Wa,y               42.2                          3.37
Construction                          265.8                        21.27
Supervision                            13.3                         1.06
Contingencies                _Ll.9                        _3.35
Subtotal                  h9.9      321.0   370.9       3.99     25.68    29.67
MACEDONIA
Gostivar-Kicevro
Project Preparation          1.4                          0.11
Fight-of-Way                 1.9                          0.15
Construction
0. )  A,ULV 4  _O~  SJ lq> 
December 31, 1968       10.0                          0.80
U) $'o bJe ex.ecuted                  937.39
Supervision
a) execut,ed as o f
December 31, 1968        0.11                         0.03
b) to be executed                      14.6                        0.37
Contingencies                         14.5                         1.16
Subtotal                  13.7      1lI.L( 102 .1       1.0         92    10.01
Vrhnika-Posto pria
Project Preparation         16.u'7                         -314
Right-of-Way                28.2                          2.26
Construction                          418.3                        33c46
Supervision                            20.9                         1.67
contingenc ies                         65 .9             _5.27 
Subtotal                 -44.       55      55.         3.60     40.4tQ   4b.90
Grand Totals               105.5      937.5 1,Ou46.0 8J.68         7.00     63.68



Table 10
YUGOSLAVIA - THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC, BY SECTION, 1967-91
(vehicles per day)
Highway Section       Actual        Projections for New Highways 2/
1968         1972     1977     1982     1992
1.  Zagreb-Karlovac       5,482         6,300  12,000    18,500   30,000
2.  Gostivar-Kicevo         250  1/       470      730    1,090    2,300
3.  Vrhnika-Posto.ina     8,039         10,200  19,300   30,000   43,000
1/  In addition, some 50 vehicles per day of through traffic now use
longer routes, and would divert to an improved facility.
2/ The projections used in the economic evaluation for Highway Sections
1 and rI assum. t.hat ahboiit, 6  of traffie wolud divert to the toll
facilities in the early years after opening the sections for traffic.
May 14, 1969



YUCOSULVIA - THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS AND SAVINGS PER KM.
(Dinars, net of taxes)
Zagrebi)-Karlovcac               Gostivar-Kicevo                   Vrhnika-Postojn.a
Type of Vehicle       Fcisting Proposed                 Existing Proposed                   Existing Proposed
_  Highw   I!Igh                      Tay   hway      ,     s_          h        h       Savings (S'
Passenger Car./         0.38L4   0.2 96   0.(088   23    0.593    0.'333    0.260   ,44      0.400    0.305    0.095   24.
2'/
Autobus--
(44. seats)           1]720    1.356     o.364    21L   3.855    1. 571  .2.284     59      1    .972  1.422  0.550   28
Light Truck
(4-5 m ton)           1 177     0.9:33   0.o244   21L   1.792    1.:L77    0.615    44      1.345    0.979    0.366   27
Heavy Truck
(7 m ton)             1.207     0.969    0.238    20    2.2146   1.'275     o.97:1  143     1.384    1.073    0.311   23
Truck with Trailer
(7:m ton + 8 m ton)   1.643     1.349    0.294    18    3.601    1.842     :1.759  49       1.881    1.4.80   0.401   21
Tractor with, Semi-
trailer (22 m ton)     2.072    1.729    0.343    17    5.008    2.295      2.713   .54     2.350    1.889    0.461   3C
1/  excluding the value of t,ime for arny occupants.
2/  excluding the value of time for passengers.                                                                          V
1&3
Narch 25, 1969                                                                                                       jH



YUGOSLAVIA: THIIRD HIGH'WAY PROJECT
TYPICAL. ORGANIZATION OF Ak ROAD FUND
r---     --i        FEDERAkL ASSEMBLY   ]
F Ö  -j ~FEDEIRAL EXECUTIVE C(JNCIL]
I                      ~~~~~~~~~~FEDERAL SiECRETi F1FIEDERAL. SECRETARIAT1
I  FOR FINANCILF    [    FOR ECONOMY   I
I.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~~~~~~~~O TrRANSPORTATION
ISIMIILAR                   [A&SEMBLY OF SOCIAUJST REPUBLIC OFMAEOI
ORA6MiIZATUOU  IAEONj~
I N THE OTHER
FIVE REPIlUS           I___
IAND IN THE TWO II
IAuTmo=O*    I  Ö     --          EXECUTIVE COUNCIL DF MACEDOPIA    II
I         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
L.-~~~~~~~~~~~7
ROAD FUND                           SECREARIAT  ]
I  L.     C  __O
21 MEM9R BOARDO HEAIDED
BY Ai PRESIDENTJ[                            Z
-___       D~~~CIRECTOR          XI                         MTL
DEPARITkME  FOR                   F   DEFPARTMENIT FOR                    DEPAkRTMENT FOR       [    DEIPARTMENT FOAI      f     EPARTMIENT FOR
STUD AN DESIGNA                   L                                    ..AD CONSTRUWINMANEACTE   L  UDGE-T AND ACCOUINTS    [ENRAL AOMINISTFtATION
ENGINEERING    ECOWNOC       r NIERN         OSRCIOA T     TESTING        ~        ROAINDA
ENTEFIPRISES INDSCETITUTES   ENTENIPRIE  I'TERRSS       INSTITUTES            ENTERPRISE                   Oigcmizatiofls and 4nterpriues
L   JL INSTITU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J  L  J i......  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~   ~    ~   ~  ~   sparate from Road Funld but
IL                   ~~~~~~~~~~cooperating with it in the
execution of its duilie.
Iin C-isor   The! Road Fool, reports Lo tn.Scetra  for  ...nemy 01 - JOe  t 155 1  armput enref-a-i reto-trocts01; the-  fricbnsae  -r Sn  j-riod,e n-  of
for  a4onl offices  reporting  diretly  to , rt  Scretariat forEcro .  Tiara re  so parte  roa  -e,rOprisaSs for  ,.Ch of s,e,e,ettraeetr  eis
Is Slocrrjo The iR-S   Ford  cob-oe  al duties  oa  -1nt  tt-eYa , os  aey2c  jhOr  (plaisnia . lo1  f,n aci  coerI-tOl  nlrt---eII  ?rsrtcctt  c Zeo'cI
0lCi5Stra~cnl The frei set is  I  ce  0xee-tr-  sffre-r  There -ee  -:ra.t& ro,, eteprs  o  eazh cf at ~ ero  
March 1969                                                                                                                                            18RO-4339



V,    i/       i                    -         U S;  :'fld;Sfl D  ,  0  D-'ddiO'S fl1 _
ttstf  X-@ \U<--\  avEO/I' t ;           WliSAS AVMlHSIH
VAVMHOIHOflAS
34                    S ) N l  ont         C 
'-~~  ~~                    -S'O9A   t+ 
3rdoNs~~~~~~~~~~
*/   2,                   . iWt        f  ]  0-  i /-,D
V P/ 6 1 3 N~~~~          V  S0
V      JI  N  X WZ P  N   n 
- i @  '  '  T  ∞  v  i  d  @  2. % ,  |  |  a
VII
___________I __N                                        U w  ni~~y



