RESTRICTED
FILE      COPY                    Report No. P-702
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 15, 1969



REPORT AND RECOMMDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recormendation on a proposed lcan in
an amount in various currencies equivalent to US $30 million to Yugoslavia.
PART I - HISTORICAL       1
2.        The Bank has made twelve loans to Yugoslavia for a total amount of $347.2
million of which $302.0 million was outstanding as of April 30, 1969. The proposed
loan would be the third for highway construction. A loan of $35 million was made in
1963 to help finance construction of sections of the Central and Adriatic Highways.
The works under this project were carried out satisfactorily and traffic is above the
original estimates. The completion of the Adriatic Highway has been an important
factor in the rapid development of tourism in Yugoslavia in recent years. A second
loan was made in 1967 for the construction of the Zupanja-Opuzen highway. Work is
proceeding on schedule and expected to be completed by the Closing.Date, December 31,
1969.
3.        The loan now proposed would help finance the construction of three highway
sections which were included in a larger highway program submitted in September 1968
for consideration by the Bank. The three sections were selected in view of their
economic priority and advanced stage of preparation. Financing of a number of other
highways in the Yugoslav program is presently under consideration. Negotiations for
the proposed loan were held in Wadhington frra April 21 to May 8. The Yugoslav
delegation was headed by Mr. Ante Zelic, Deputy Federal Secretary for Finance, and
included further representatives from the Federal Government and representatives
from the Republics in which the project highways are located.
4.        Yugoslavia is a Part II member of IDA but has received no IDA credits.
It became a member of IFC on JulY 5, 1968.  The following is a summary statement of
Bank loans to Yugoslavia as of April 30, 1969:
Lo an                                                     Amount (US $ million)
Number   Year   Borrower                    Purpose      Amount       Undisbursed
Loans fully disbursed                            190.5            -
395-YU   1964   Yugoslav Investment Bank    Railways       70.0          35.6
485-YU   1967   Yugoslav Investment Bank    Roads          10.0            .4
504-YU   1967   Yugoslav Investment Bank    Industry       10.5            .
531-YU   1968   Yugoslav Investment Bank    Railways       50.0          46.3
554-YU   1968   Yugoslav Investment Bank    Industry       16.0          15.9
Total (less cancellations)                       347.0
of which has been repaid to Bank and others    _4_._
Total now outstanding                            304.9
Amount sold                  5.3
of which has been repaid   2.4                   2.9
Total now held by Bank                           _2_._
Total undisbursed                                              1C7. 6



- 2 -
5.        Ixecution of most of the projects has been satisfactory.  The railway
modernization project (395-YU) was delayed, mainly by cost increases and slow
awarding of contracts resulting largely from the 1965 foreign exchange reform
and by design modifications. The program of which this project forms a part
has been reduced in scope with the approval of the Bank and is now expected to
be substantially completed by the end of 1970.
6.        As mentioned above, the Bank is presently considering further lending
for highway construction.  In addition, projects in the fielcd of telecormunica-
tions, industry, tourism and a multipurpose water supply project are in various
stages of preparation. IFC is cnsidering helping to establish outside
Yugoslavia a financial institution to promote joint ventures and foreign
investment in Yugoslavia. Discussions are being held with a view to getting
together foreign private institutions, Yugoslav banks and IFC in a shareholding
group.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.        Borrower:           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Beneficiaries:      Socialist Republics of Croatia, Macedonia
and Slovenia
Amount:             Various currencies equivalent to US $30 million
Purpose:            To assist in the financing of the following
highways:
Zagreb-Karlovac in Croatia
Gostivar-Kicevo in Macedonia
Vrnhika-Postojna in Slovenia
Amortization:       In 25 years, including a 5-year period of grace,
through ser-annual installments beginning
September 1, 1974 and ending September 1, 199h.
Interest Rate:      6½ percent
Commitment Charge: 3/4 of 1 percent per annum
Relending Terms:    The proceeds of the loan will be relent by the
Borrower to the Beneficiarbs in local currency
on substantially the same cmditions regarding
repayment of principal and payment of interest
and other charges as those of the Bank loan.



- 3 -
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        A report entitled "Appraisal of the Third Highway Project - Yugoslavia"
(PTR-16a) is attached.
9.        Yugoslavia is beginning to encounter serious difficulties with its
himway network as the result of increasing congestion and heavier traffic loads;
recent traffic growth has exceeded 20 percent per year. Large investments in the
highway sector are therefore needed to meet the rapidly growing transport
requirements.  Yugoslavia's highways are particularly important for the development
of the tourist industry, which is a major convertible currency earner. Of the
23 million tourists visiting Yugoslavia in 1967, by far the largest number arrived
by car or bus.
10.       A reorganization of transport administration has posed certain problems
of transition with respect to co-ordination and planning in the highway sector.
The Federal Basic Law of 1967 has made the Republics and Autonomous Provinces
almost entirely responsible for the planning, design, construction, maintenance
and financing of the highways in their territories. The Yugoslav authorities on
the Federal as well as on the Republican level are aware of the need to ensure
sufficient co-ordination of investment in the various modes of transport and in
highways serving more than one Republic and among the different Road Funds and
Councils, which are the agencies responsible for highways in the Republics and
Autonomous Provinces. A number of measures to this end have been initiated or
are under consideration and it was agreed during negotiations that the Bank will
keep in close touch with the Yugoslav authorities on matters regarding co-ordination
in the transport sector.
11.       The purpose of the proposed project is to assist in the financing of
three highway sections. The first section is located in Croatia and consists of
a four-lane divided highway from Zagreb to Karlovac, about 45 km. long, with
access roads of 2.7 laa. to Karlovac and 2.5 km. to Zagreb. This section would be
part of European Highway E96 which connects Yugoslavia's principal port, Rijeka,
with the northern and eastern part of the country and with Budapest. The
proposed highway is estimated to yield a rate of return of about 13 percent, based
on savings in vehicle operating costs alone, The second section proposed for
financing would be part of the so-called Western Road between Skopje and the
Greek border in Macedonia. It consists of a two-lane highway from Gostivar to
Kicevo, about 46 km. long. Savings in vehicle operating costs are estimated to
yield a rate of return of 15 percent on the investment. The third section, a
four-lane divided highway of about 32 km. between Vrhnika and Postojna, is located
in Slovenia. It will be part of European Highway E93, and would serve a wide zone
of influence which includes the ports of Rijeka and Trieste. A rate of -return of
about 12 percent is expected. The highway sections in Croatia and Slovenia will
be toll roads. During negotiations assurances were obtained that tolls will be set
at such levels as to ensure the economic use of the toll roads and of alternative
routes or means of transportation. All project highways are important routes for
tourism.
12.       The cost of the project is estimated to total $75 million equivalent.
The proposed loan would ccntribute $30 million of this amount, and arrangements
have already been completed for providing the balance from various domestic sources.



The Federal Government and the Republics have also given assurances to
provide for any cost overruns. The proceeds from the Bank loan would be
relent by the Federal Government to the Republics on substantially the same
terms and conditions as those of the Bank loan.
13.       The project would be executed by the Road Funds of the three
Republics. The Federal Government would conclude subsidiary loan agree-
ments with the Republics which set forth their obligations for the imple-
mentation of the project. Construction would be carried out by contractors;
prequalification procedures have already been initiated. All contracts
would be awarded after international competitive bidding, and for bidding
purposes the project highways have been divided in sections of a size
which could make contracts attractive to foreign contractors. The total
cost of the project would be the sum of the construction contracts plus five
percent for the cost of supervision by the Republics' staff engineers or
consultants. The Bank loan would represent 40 percent of the estimated
total cost, but disbursements would be based on actual expenditures under
approved construction contracts, and cover 42 percent of each payment made
to contractors.
14.       The amount of the proposed Bank loan would roughly correspond to
the estimated foreign exchange expenditures if all contracts were awarded
to foreign contractors using their own equipment.  Although all contracts
will be open to international competition, past experience shows that they
are likely to be won by Yugoslav bidders. Since the foreign exchange costs
of domestic bidders are less than those of foreign bidders, part of the loan
is likely to finance domestic costs. In considering local expenditure
financing in Yugoslavia the following facts are relevant. The level of
investment in Yugoslavia is high, averaging some 35 percent of GNP in the
last two years. Most of the capital formation is financed by domestic
savings, and the savings gap has been less than 2 percent of GNP during
1967/68. However, foreign exchange earnings have been falling short of
expectations and the external debt service is high, calling for a substantial
gross capital inflow if the economic reforms instituted in 1965 are to be
fully implemented and at the same time the level of investments required to
modernize the economy maintained. The Bank is likely to remain for some
time the principal single source of long-term external capital, and if it
is to lend on an adequate scale for high-priority projects, it cannot
confine its lending merely to the financing of foreign exchange costs.
Some financing of local currency expenditures on the present project is
therefore justified.
15.       The highways are expected to come into service in about 31½ years,
but a grace period of five years has been proposed to contribute to easing
the heavy external debt service burden of Yugoslavia during the upcoming
years.



PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AlND AUTHORITY
16.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and a draft Resolution approving
the Loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft
Loan Agreement contains the usual provisions for highway projects taking into
account the fact that the three Republics will be responsible for the imple-
mentation of the project. Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement would stipulate
that the Borrower will enter into an appropriate Subsidiary Loan Agreement wTith
each Republic for the purpose of relending the loan proceeds. The substantive
undertakings of each Republic to be included in the respective Subsidiary Loan
Agreements are set forth in detail in Section 5.02 of the Loan Agreement. The
execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements will be a condition of effective-
ness of the Loan Agreement, and the failure of any Republic to carry out those
obligations under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement which are described in Section
5.02 of the draft Loan Agreement would entitle the Bank to suspend or cancel
the Loan.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
17.       An Economic Memorandum dated May 15, 1969 is attached.   It updates
a report on the Yugoslav economy circulated to the Executive Directors on
August 1, 1968.
18.       Government action to overcome a period of stagnation led to a revival
of economic activity in 1968.  Industrial production grew by 6½ percent.   The
output of other sectors such as construction, transport and some other services,
increased even faster, and only agricultural production was some 4 percent lower
than in 1967, due mainly to unfavorable weather and a decline of livestock
exports to the European Common Market. For the economy as a whole, gross
material product at constant prices rose by over 4 percent in 1968.
19.       The increase in production was partly induced by an expansion of
expenditure on private and public consumption. At the same time, there was
a sharp rise in fixed capital formation which at constant prices was 16 to
18 percent higher than in 1967. Domestic savings also increased fast, making
possible the financing of some 95 percent of investment from local resources.
20.       During 1968, producers!' prices for industrial goods rose only very
slightly while agricultural prices declined considerably. While over most of
the year prices as a whole remained fairly stable, they started to rise faster
in the fourth quarter of 1968 when the accelerated pace of economic growth
began to stretch production capacity. The authorities acted quickly. In
November, the minimum reserve requirements of commercial banks were increased
and repayments of credits from these banks to the central bank were accelerated.
At the same time, consumer credit was restricted. 'When price rises continued
at the beginning of 1969, more stringent monetary measures were taken. The



- 6 -
minimum reserve requirements were again raised in February anid March and the
repayment of commercial bank credits to the Central Bank was further
accelerated. These measures are expected to withdraw considerable liquidity
from the banking system and to reduce the volume of short-term credit by about
5 percent during the first half of 1969.
21.       The monetary restrictions are being suipported by a tight fiscal
policy. The government budgets - federal, republic and local - continue to
generate overall surpluses, and in 1968 these surpluses had been further
increased. The 1969 Federal budget originally envisaged revenues and expendi-
tures to be in balance, but in view of recent price trends the Government is
now considering measures aimed at producing a sizeable surplus. In addition,
a reduction in some custom duties is planned in order to increase import
competition and thus moderate domestic price rises.
22.       The foreign exchange situation continued to be difficult due to a
decline in agricultural exports. This decline was primarily caused by higher
protective duties of the European Common Market. Exports of industrial
products and services, on the other hand, rose by more than 10 percent, and
prospects for a fast increase of convertible exchange earnings are quite
favorable over the next few years.
23.       The burden of external debt of the Federation and the Republics and
the economic enterprises is high, amounting to about 25 percent of gross foreign
exchange earnings in recent years. In part, this is the result of an unfavorablE
debt structure with rather short average maturities. As long as only a minor
part of the country's total external capital requirements can be covered through
longer term loans, the debt service ratio is likely to remain high evlen if
exchange earnings expand fairly rapidly. However, the Yugoslav Government is
firmly committed to maintaining its international credit standing, md I consider
that Yugoslavia should be regarded as creditworthy for substantial additional
lending from the Bank.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH THE ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
24.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement.
PART VII - REC OENiDATION
25.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
Washington D.C.
May 15, 1969



