CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 608 YU
Loan Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
BETWEEN
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 5, 1969


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 608 YU
Loan Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
BETWEEN
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 5, 1969


﻿Exatt Agruntrut
AGREEMENT, dated June 5, 1969, between SOCIALIST
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of fhe Bank, dated Janu-
ary 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank being here-
inafter called the General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings set
forth therein and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a) the term "Republic" means any of the Socialist
Republics of Croatia, Macedonia and Slovenia;
(b) the term "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any
of the loan agreements between the Borrower and a
Republic to be executed pursuant to Section 5.01 of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
SECTION 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in this Loan Agreement set
forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).


﻿4
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Bank shall open a Loan Account
on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall credit
to such Account the amount of the Loan.
(b) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account as provided in, and subject to the rights of
cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Loan Agree-
ment and in accordance with the allocation of the proceeds
of the Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such allocation shall be modified from time to time pursuant
to the provisions of such Schedule or by further agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Loan Account, in respect of the reasonable
cost of construction (including supervision of construction)
of the highways included in the Project, forty-two per
cent (42%) of such amounts as shall have been paid (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, as shall be required to meet
payments to be made) to road construction contractors
employed for the purpose of carrying out the Project; pro-
vided, however, that if there shall be an increase in the
estimates of payments to be made for construction included
in any of the Categories I to III of the allocation of the
proceeds of the Loan referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Agreement, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower adjust
the percentage applicable to such Category as required in
order that withdrawals of the amount of the Loan then allo-
cated to such Category and not withdrawn may continue
pro rata with the payments remaining to be made for con-
struction included in such Category.
SECTION 2.04. It is hereby agreed, pursuant to Section
5.01 of the General Conditions, that withdrawals from the
Loan Account may be made on account of payments in the
currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or
services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.


﻿5
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (% of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the
rate of six and one-half per cent (6.%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be pay-
able semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each
year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower jhall repay the principal of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of Loan
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Loan to be applied in accordance with the provisions
of this Loan Agreement to expenditures on the Project,
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
(i) the goods and services to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan shall be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with the Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits, published by the Bank in February 1968, and in ac-
cordance with such other procedures supplementary thereto
as are set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement or as shall
be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, and (ii) con-
tracts for the procurement of such goods and services shall
be subject to the prior approval of the Bank.


﻿6
SECTION 3.03. The Borrower shall cause all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively in carrying out the Project, except as the Bank
may otherwise agree.
ARTICLE IV
Bonds
SECTION 4.01. If and as the Bank shall from time to time
request the Borrower shall execute and deliver Bonds rep-
resenting the principal amount of the Loan as provided
in Article VIII of the General Conditions.
SECTION 4.02. The Federal Secretary of Finance of the
Borrower and such other person or persons as he shall
appoint in writing are designated as authorized representa-
tives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 8.10 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Particular Covenants
SECTIoN 5.01. The Borrower shall enter into an appro-
priate Subsidiary Loan Agreement with each Republic pro-
viding inter alia for the relending to such Republic of the
proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
in respect of expenditures for the Part of the Project
located in the territory of such Republic as described in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
SECTIoN 5.02. (a) Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement
shall include adequate provisions which will enable the
Borrower to carry out its obligations under this Loan
Agreement and shall include without limitation the obliga-
tion on the part of the Republic which is a party to such
Subsidiary Loan Agreement:
(i) to carry out the Part of the Project located in its
territory with due diligence and efficiency and in accord-


﻿7
ance with sound engineering, administrative and finan-
cial practices under the supervision of competent engi-
neers or engineering organizations and to make available,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose;
(ii) to have such Part of the Project constructed in ac-
cordance with detailed designs based on the Federal De-
sign Standards of the Borrower (published in the Official
Gazette of the Borrower on March 20, 1969), reviewed
by competent engineers or engineering organizations and
approved by the Bank;
(iii) to have such Part of the Project constructed by
contractors acceptable to such Republic and the Bank
and employed upon such terms and conditions as shall
have been approved by the Bank, and to procure con-
tractors' services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan in accordance with the provisions set forth or
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(iv) to furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their prepa-
ration, the plans, specifications and construction sched-
ules for such Part of the Project and any material modi-
fications subsequently made therein, in such detail as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request;
(v) to maintain or to cause to be maintained records
adequate to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, to disclose the use thereof
in such Part of the Project, and to record the progress
of such Part of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and the receipts and expenditures and the financial con-
dition of the agencies of such Republic responsible for
the execution and maintenance of such Part of the
Project;
(vi) to enable the Bank's representatives to inspect such
Part of the Project, the operation thereof, and any rele-
vant records and documents and to furnish to the Bank
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request


﻿8
concerning such Part of the Project and the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to such Part of
the Project, the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the operations and financial
conditions of the agencies of such Republic responsible
for the execution and maintenance of such Part of the
Project and the performance by such Republic of its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(vii) to maintain and repair the highway included in the
Part of the Project located in its territory and roads
providing access to such highway (except minor roads
presently classified as Category IV public roads) in
accordance with sound engineering and financial prac-
tices and to provide promptly as needed the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose; and
(viii) to cooperate fully with the Bank to assure that
the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished, and from
time to time exchange views with the Bank, through their
respective representatives, with regard to matters relat-
ing to such Part of the Project and the performance by
such Republi of its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
(b) The Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Socialist
Republic of Croatia shall also contain the obligation of
such Republic: (i) to take or cause to be taken all appro-
priate actions in order to ensure that the roads providing
access to the highway included in Part A of the Project
shall be improved as reasonably required to permit the
optimum utilization of such highway upon its completion,
taking into account the cost of such improvements and the
benefits to be derived therefrom; and (ii) if any tolls shall
be imposed on the use of the highway included in Part A
of the Project, to set such tolls at such rates as shall ensure
an economic use of such highway and alternative routes or
means of transportation.


﻿9
(c) The Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Socialist
Republic of Slovenia shall also contain the obligation of
such Republic: (i) to take or cause to be taken all appro-
priate actions in order to ensure that the roads providing
access to the highway included in Part C of the Project
shall be improved as reasonably required to permit the
optimum utilization of such highway upon completion, tak-
ing into account the cost of such improvements and the
benefits to be derived therefrom; and (ii) if any tolls shall
be imposed on the use of the highway included in Part C
of the Project, to set such tolls at such rates as shall ensure
an economic use of such highway and alternative routes or
means of transportation.
SECTION 5.03. The Borrower shall promptly take all such
actions and exercise any such recourse available to it under
any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Bor-
rower and any Republic or otherwise in order to ensure
the punctual performance by such Republic of all such
obligations under the respective Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments as are referred to in Section 5.02 of this Agreement,
and shall take or cause to be taken all reasonable action
which shall be required on the part of the Borrower to
enable such Republic to perform such obligations.
SECTION 5.04. Without limitation or restriction on the
provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower
specifically undertakes, whenever there is cause to believe
that the funds available to any Republic will be inadequate
to meet the estimated expenditures required to carry out
the Part of the Project to be carried out by such Republic,
to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly
to provide such Republic or cause such Republic to be pro-
vided with such funds as are needed to meet such expendi-
tures.
SECTION 5.05. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will


﻿10
be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall furnish
to the other all such information as it shall reasonably
request with regard to the general status of the Loan. On
the part of the Borrower, such information shall include
information with respect to financial and economic condi-
tions in the territories of the Borrower, the international
balance of payments position of the Borrower and the per-
formance by each Republic of its obligations under the
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and the
maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of any condition which inter-
feres with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the
service thereof and the performance by any Republic of
its obligations under the respective Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Bank to visit any part
of the territories of the Borrower for purposes related to
the Loan.
SECTION 5.06. It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any
priority over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental
assets. To that end, the Borrower undertakes that, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any lien shall be cre-
ated on any assets of the Borrower as security for any
external debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and ratably
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds, and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made
to that effect; provided, however, that the foregoing pro-
visions of this Section shall not apply to: (i) any lien cre-


﻿11
ated on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.
The term "assets of the Borrower" as used in this Sec-
tion includes assets of the Borrower or of any agency of
the Borrower, including assets of the National Bank of
Yugoslavia or any other institution performing the func-
tions of a central bank for the Borrower.
If any lien shall be created on any assets of any of the
Borrowers political subdivisions or of any agency of any
such political subdivisions as security for any external debt,
the Borrower, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
shall give to the Bank an equivalent lien to secure the pay-
ment of the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan and the Bonds.
SECTION 5.07. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be paid without
deduction for, and free from, any taxes, and free from all
restrictions, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or
laws in effect in its territories; provided, however, that the
provisions of this Section shall not apply to taxes upon
payments under any Bond to a holder thereof other than
the Bank when such Bond is beneficially owned by an indi-
vidual or corporate resident of the Borrower.
SECTION 5.08. This Loan Agreement and the Bonds shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on
or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or regis-
tration thereof.
SECTION 5.09. The Borrower shall exercise its powers
and functions with respect to all public roads in its terri-


﻿12
tories (except minor roads presently classified as Category
IV public roads) so as to ensure: (i) the systematic collec-
tion and processing of data on the highway network and
traffic; (ii) the adequate maintenance of the road system;
and (iii) the proper planning, coordination and design of
improvements to existing roads or construction of new
roads in accordance with sound engineering and financial
standards.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
SECTION 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 6.02 of this Agree-
ment shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any,
therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the
continuance thereof, the Bank, at its option, may by notice
to the Borrower declare the principal of the Loan and of
all the Bonds then outstanding to be due and payable imme-
diately, together with the interest and other charges thereon
and upon any such declaration such principal, interest and
charges shall become due and payable immediately, any-
thing to the contrary in this Loan Agreement or in the
Bonds notwithstanding.
SECTION 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is speci-
fied:
A default shall occur on the part of a Republic in the
performance of any of such obligations under its Subsidiary
Loan Agreement as are referred to in Section 5.02 of this
Agreement and such default shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower.
SECTION 6.03. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is speci-
fied:


﻿13
A Republic shall have failed to perform any of such
obligations under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement as are
referred to in Section 5.02 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Loan Agree-
ment within the meaning of Section 11.01(c) of the General
Conditions:
The execution and delivery of each Subsidiary Loan
Agreemeit on behalf of the Borrower and the Republic
which is a party thereto shall have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
SECTION 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 11.02(c) of the Gen-
eral Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions
to be furnished to the Bank:
that each Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the Borrower and the Republic which is a party
thereto and constitutes a valid and binding obligation
of the Borrower and such Republic in accordance with
its terms.
SECTION 7.03. The date of September 30, 1969 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 11.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 8.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1972 or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.


﻿14
SECTION 8.02. The Federal Secretary of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 10.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 8.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Savezni Sekretarijat
za Finansije
Prvi Bulevar 104
Beograd, Yugoslavia
Alternative address for cables:
Savezni Sekretarijat
za Finansije
Prvi Bulevar 104
Beograd, Yugoslavia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective


﻿15
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC
OF YUGOSLAVIA
By /s/ BOGDAN CRNOBRNJA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Amounts Expressed
Category                                in Dollar Equivalent
I. Construction' of Part A of the Project
(highway Zagreb-Karlovac)                8,900,000
II. Construction' of Part B of the Project
(highway Gostivar-Kicevo)                3,100,000
III. Construction' of Part C of the Project
(highway Vrhnika-Postojna)              14,100,000
IV. Unallocated                              3,900,000
Total        30,000,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to III shall decrease, the amount of
the Loan then allocated to, and no longer required for,
such Category will be reallocated by the Bank to Cate-
gory IV.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to III shall increase, an amount equal
to 40% of such increase will be allocated by the Bank,
at the request of the Borrower, to such Category from
Category IV, subject, however, to the requirements for
contingencies, as determined by the Bank, in respect of
the cost of the items in the other Categories.
1 including 5% of the cost of construction for supervision of construction


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                      (expressed in dollars)*
September 1, 1974                            360,000
March 1, 1975                                370,000
September 1, 1975                            385,000
March 1, 1976                                395,000
September 1, 1976                            410,000
March 1, 1977                                420,000
September 1, 1977                            435,000
March 1, 1978                                450,000
September 1, 1978                            465,000
March 1, 1979                                480,000
September 1, 1979                            495,000
March 1, 1980                                510,000
September 1, 1980                            530,000
March 1, 1981                                545,000
September 1, 1981                            565,000
March 1, 1982                                580,000
September 1, 1982                            600,000
March 1, 1983                                620,000
September 1, 1983                            640,000
March 1, 1984                                660,000
September 1, 1984                            680,000
March 1, 1985                                705,000
September 1, 1985                            725,000
March 1, 1986                                750,000
September 1, 1986                            775,000
March 1, 1987                                800,000
September 1, 1987                            825,000
March 1, 1988                                855,000
September 1, 1988                            880,000
March 1, 1989                                910,000
September 1, 1989                            940,000
March 1, 1990                                970,000
September 1, 1990                          1,000,000
March 1, 1991                               1,035,000
September 1, 1991                          1,065,000
March 1, 1992                              1,100,000
September 1, 1992                          1,135,000
March 1, 1993                              1,175,000
September 1, 1993                          1,215,000
March 1, 1994                               1,250,000
September 1, 1994                          1,295,000
*To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency
other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in
this column represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of
withdrawal.


﻿18
Premiums on Prepayment and Redemption
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any por-
tion of the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.05(b) of the General Conditions or on the redemption
of any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Section 8.15
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment or Redemption       Premium
Not more than three years before maturity 1/2%
More than three years but not more than
six years before maturity ............. 114%
More than six years but not more than
eleven years before maturity .......... 21/4%
More than eleven years but not more than
sixteen years before maturity .......... 334%
More than sixteen years but not more than
twenty-one years before maturity ....... . 5%
More than twenty-one years but not more
than twenty-three years before maturity  6%
More than twenty-three years before
maturity ............................ 6/2 %


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Description of the Project
The Project consists of :
Part A. The construction in Croatia of a four-lane divided
highway (including toll facilities) from Zagreb to Kar-
lovac, about 45 Km long, together with access roads of
2.7 Km to Karlovac and 2.5 Km to Zagreb.
Part B. The construction in Macedonia of a two-lane high-
way from Gostivar to Kicevo, about 46 Km long.
Part C. The construction in Slovenia of a four-lane di-
vided highway (including toll facilities) from Vrhnika
to Postojna, about 32 Km long.
The Project is scheduled to be completed by June 30, 1972.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 4
Supplementary Procurement Procedures
The following supplementary procedures shall be fol-
lowed for road construction contracts to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan:
(a) Foreign contractors shall not be required to register
in Yugoslavia as a condition of bidding for a con-
tract. In the event that registration should be neces-
sary after a foreign contractor has been awarded the
contract, the Borrower shall facilitate the registra-
tion procedure.
(b) For the purposes of bidding, each of the three high-
ways included in the Project has been broken down
into appropriate sections. In respect of each highway
bids for all sections shall be called simultaneously.
Bidders shall have the opportunity to bid on one,
all, or any combination of sections, and the evalua-
tion of bids shall be made on the basis of the lowest
cumulative total bid or bids in respect of each high-
way.
(c) A period of at least 45 days shall be allowed for the
prequalification of bidders.
(d) Prior to the bids being invited a copy of the proposed
invitations to bid, specifications, conditions of con-
tract, and all other bidding documents, and a list of
prequalified contractors shall be submitted to the
Bank for comment.
(e) A period of at least 60 days shall be allowed for
submission of bids.
(f) Bid bonds or guarantees in the amount of at l.ast
3% of the bid value shall be required with the sub-
mission of bids.
(g) Before any contract is awarded, there shall be sent
to the Bank a copy of the minutes of the public open-


﻿21
ing of bids, an analysis of the bids and the employer's
recommendation for award, and the Bank shall be
afforded sufficient time for commenting thereon be-
fore any award is made.
(h) Each contract shall be on a unit-price basis and shall
include:
(i) a price escalation clause as described in para-
graph 4.4 of the " Guidelines ";
(ii) a provision for retention money in the amount
of at least 5%o of the contractor's monthly state-
ments; and
(iii) an obligation to provide a performance bond in
the amount of 100%/ of the contract value or
alternatively, at the contractor's option, a bank
guarantee in the amount of at least 10o of the
contract value.
As soon as a contract has been signed, a copy thereof
shall be sent to the Bank promptly after execution of any
such contract and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal, in respect of such
contract.


