C~~ I                                                                        IC''L  E U N T
CIRwLCULA<. "F2
TO BE RETURNED TO REPO>S DESK                                                    FbR
WYITI-ilN
ONE WEEK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION A-- tOElZPMi i
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION"
Not For Public Use
Report No. 159a-IN
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJEC
July 27, 1973
Urban Projects Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of February 28, 1973)
Currency unit     =    Rupee (Rs)
US$1.00           =    Rs 7.40 1/
Rs 1.00                 US$0.135
Rs 1 lakh (105} =    US$13,500
Rs 1 crore (10 ) =    US$1.35 million
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter               (mm)    =    0.04 inches           (in)
1 meter                    (m)     '    3.28 feet             (ft)
1 kilometer                (km)    =    0.62 miles            (mi)
1 square meter             (m2)    =   10.8 square feet       (sq ft)
1 hectare                  (ha)    =    10,000 square meters, or
2.47 acres     (ac)
1 square kilometer         (km2)   =    0.386 square miles  (sq mi)
1 foot                     (ft)    =    0.305 meters          (m)
1 mile                     (ml}    =    1.609 kilometers    (k)
1 square foot              (ft )   =    0.093 square meters (m )
1 gallon (Imp)             (gal)   =    1.20 US gallons       (gal)
1 gallon (Imp)per capita           =    4.546 liters          (1)
1 gallon (Imp) per day    (gpcd)  =    4.546 liters per capita
1 cubic foot per second (cfs)      =   28.320 liters per second
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOI     -   Government of India
GOWB    -   State Government of West Bengal
CMDA    -   Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority
CMPO    -   Calcutta Metropolitan Planning Organization
CNWSA   -   Calcutta Metropolitan Water and Sanitation Authority
CSTC    -   Calcutta State Transport Corporation
CTC     -   Calcutta Tramways Company            I
PHED    -   Public Health Engineering Directorate (West Bengal)
IWD     -   Irrigation and Waterways Directorate (West Bengal)
HUDCO   -   Housing and Urban Development Corporation
IDBI    -   Industrial Development Bank of India
LIC     -   Life Insurance Corporation
CMD     -   Calcutta Metropolitan District
BDP     -   Basic Development Plan
NMP     -   Net Metropolitan Product
cif     -   Cost, insurance, freight
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
1/   The actual rate fluctuates as the rupee is pegged to the I Sterling
which has been floating vis-a-vis the US$ since June 23, 1972. On
-July 13, 1973 the rate was US$1 = Rs 7.46.



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS        ....................              i-iii
I.      INTRODUCTION .................. ...                                 1
II.      BACKGROUND   ............................................           3
A.   Ur'ban Development ................................            3
B.   Studies and Proposals ..........................               5
C.   A New Phase .7...........................,                     7
D.   IDA Assistance ..............................                  8
III.      ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEME2NTS FOR THE CMDA
PROGRAM ...............................                         9
A.   Investment Programming and Implementation                      9
B. Operations and Maintenance .11
C. Finance .14
IV.   THE CHDA INVESTMENT PROGRAM .20
A. General Considerations .20
B. Program Components .22
V.      THE PROJECT ...........................................            25
A.   General Description ..............................            26
B.   Detailed Features ................................           27
C.   Cost Estimates ..................................            28
D. Amount of Proposed Credit .30
E. Implementation .31
F.   Procurement ................        .     . ........         32
G.   Disbursement .....................................           33
H.   Supervision ........        ..............................    33
VI.     ECONOMIC EVA;UJAION OF THE CMDA PROGRAM ...............            34
A.   Direct Impact on Service Levels ....         ..............   34
B.   Employment Effects ...........................               35
C.   Economic Rate of Return ..........................            36
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....         ............    37
This report was prepared by Messrs. K. Bohr, Mission Chief, R. Woodford
and S. Sandstrom (Urban Projects), on the basis of an appraisal mission
which visited Calcutta in November/December 1972. The mission also included
Messrs. G. Kottis (Development Economics), A. Ramadan (,Controllers),
L. Rasmusson (Asia Projects), A. Van Nimmen (Asia - New Delhi Office),
K. Willen (Asia II) and A. Holloway (engineering consultant).



TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Cont'd.)
ANNEXES AND APPENDICES
ANNEX 1:   Growth of Population in India, West Bengal and CMD, 1901-1971
2:   Comparison of Water Supply Levels in Nine Cities
3:   Comparison of Existing Sewerage Services in Four Cities
4:   Physical Characteristics of the Housing Situation in Seven Cities
5:   Motorized Travel in the Calcutta Metropolitan Center, 1971
6:   Organization and Staffing of CMDA
7:   The CMDA Program
8:   Implementation of the CMDA Program
9:   Finance of the CMDA Program
10:   The IDA Project
11:   Economic Evaluation of the CMDA Program
12:   Contracting Procedures
13:   Estimates Schedule of Disbursements
14:   Lorenz Curves for the Income Distribution of Families
in Durgapur, Calcutta and Urban India
15:   Distribution of CMD Population by Water Supply Levels, 1970/71
and 1981
16:   Lorenz Curves showing the Water Distribution of the CMD Population,
1970/71 and 1981
CHART:     CMDA Organization
MAPS
Map  10261   India - Eastern Region
10262   West Bengal - Population
10263   CMD Population Densities in 1971
10264   CMDA Water Supply Service Districts and Major Facilities
10507   CI1D Sewerage Zones and Major Facilities
10508   CMD Drainage Basins and Major Facilities
10509   Major Urban Transport Projects Initiated during 1969/70-73/74
10510   CMD Housing and Area Development Projects and Bustee Areas



SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.         The Association's first urban project in Calcutta is conceived
as the first of a possible series of operations to support a large program
of reconstruction and development being carried out by the Calcutta
Metropolitan Development Authority. It consists of selected components of
that program in the fields of water supply, sewerage and drainage, garbage
disposal, environmental hygiene, urban transport, slum redevelopment and
sites and services. It also includes related technical assistance. A
credit of US$35 million is proposed for the project.
ii.        The project is designed for the current state of the Calcutta
development effort in the perspective of long run support. It provides
assistance for a process of reconstruction and reform still in its early
stages. It focuses on strengthening the Calcutta Metropolitan Development
Authority whose performance at this stage is critical to the entire recon-
struction effort. It provides for the development of measures to improve
the operation and finance of urban services whose implementation will become
a condition for a subsequent credit. It includes finance for a broad range
of urban investments; it is designed to disburse quickly, and it is modest
in terms of the size of the Authority's program.
iii.       Many of metropolitan Calcutta's 8.3 million persons live under
appalling conditions. There are chronic deficiencies in sanitation, drain-
age, water supply, housing and transport throughout the Calcutta Metropolitan
District. A cholera epidemic in 1958 drew world attention to Calcutta's
plight. During the first half of the 1960's an elaborate planning effort
was carried out under the Calcutta Metropolitan Planning Organization with
strong support from abroad. Implementation did not start, however, until
1970. In that year the Central Government took the initiative in drawing
up a Rs 150 crore (US$200 million) investment program for the years 1970-74.
The program included practically the entire range of public investment in
urban infrastructure. The Center promised finance for the program and
established the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority to implement it.
This effort has been successful in increasing the annual level of investment
from Rs 3 crores (US$4 million) in 1970 to Rs 40 crores (US$54 million) in
the 1972/73.
iv.        The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority has demonstrated
it is capable of formulating and executing a metropolitan-wide program of
investment. Its capacity will be strengthened with the establishment of an
engineering management unit and the consolidation of responsibility for
executing projects in water supply, sewerage and drainage under its own
direct authority.



- ii -
v.         The operation and maintenance of the improved urban services is
the responsibility of various State agencies, the Calcutta Corporation and
a number of municipal governments. Studies of the organization and of the
maintenance and operating requirements for water supply, sewerage and drain-
age services, funded by the credit, can be expected to provide a basis for
actions to improve these services.
vi.        The State has a major role in financing the operating and main-
tenance of urban services, either directly through its departments or in-
directly through budget support to municipalities. As a first step towards
a necessary strengthening of finances the Government of West Bengal will draw
up a financial plan to cover the increased costs to State and local agencies
arising from the program. An agreement has been reached with the State on
the financial objectives of the plan; a recently appointed high level Center/
State Working Group will assist in working out the plan.
vii.       The investment program is largely based on the planning studies
carried out in the 1960's. The allocation of investment among projects and
sectors is generally based on an analysis of needs, modified to some extent
by the existing state of project preparation. Although preparation has been
generally of good quality, there is need to review and update the sector
plans and generally strengthen the planning support for the continuing program.
Technical assistance for this purpose is provided in the project.
viii.      The project includes the following elements of the Authority's
program:
(a)   water supply improvements including the construction and renovation
of transmission mains, primary and secondary distribution mains,
reservoirs and booster stations in Calcutta and south of the city
and small groundwater based systems in the fringe areas of the
metropolitan district;
(b)   sewerage and drainage improvements including renovation and con-
struction of storm drains, sewers, outfall canals and sluices
serving Calcutta, its northeastern suburban area and Howrah;
(c)   garbage collection and disposal improvements, including equipment,
serving Calcutta;
(d)   environmental hygiene improvements throughout the metropolitan
district consisting of conversion of service privies to sanitary
latrines;
(e)   urban transport improvements including extension and widening
of existing roads, traffic operations measures, construction of
a bus terminal and extension of street lighting in Calcutta;
(f)   area development improvements comprising a slum redevelopment
scheme in Calcutta and a sites and services scheme south of the
city.



- i~ii -
ix.        The total estimated cost of the project is US$97 million of which
US$18 million is for water supply, US$19 million for sewerage and drainage
and US$22 million for urban transport. The proposed credit of US$35 million
would finance 36% of project costs. The balance would be financed by the
Governments of India and West Bengal from earmarked central loans and State
Plan funds.
x.         The proposed credit would finance 40% of US$48.8 million in civil
works contracts accepted by the Association as appropriate for local bidding.
These contracts are individually small, the works are scattered and labor
intensive. The credit would also finance 40% of small material and equipment
contracts totalling US$14.5 million, tendered by local competitive bidding
acceptable to the Association; 100% of US$9.2 million of equipment purchases
subject to international competitive bidding and 100% of US$0.5 million of
consultant services contracted under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association. Most of the credit would be disbursed within three years.
xi.        The CMDA investment program is a major effort to improve urban
services and facilities in one of India's great and long neglected urban
centers.  Its full economic value cannot be calculated.  However, it can be
expected to make an impact on the conditions of life and the functioning of
the metropolis and, particularly, to benefit low income groups. Further-
more, because of the dominant role of Calcutta in eastern India the benefits
of the program can be expected to extend far beyond the borders of the
metropolitan district.
xii.       While  quantification of the full benefits of the program is not
possible, the direct benefits of the water supply, drainage and housing
sectors of the program have been estimated to yield a 10% return.
xiii.      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$35 million
equivalent.






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India has requested an IDA credit of US$35
million to help finance elements of a program to rehabilitate and augment
basic urban facilities in the Calcutta Metropolitan District (CMD) and
related technical assistance. The program has been developed to meet the
most urgent needs of the metropolitan area. It comprises projects in the
fields of water supply, sewerage and drainage, garbage disposal, environ-
mental hygiene, urban transport, housing and area development, health,
education and slum improvement. The IDA project consists of selected sub-
projects within the water supply, sewerage and drainage, garbage disposal,
environmental hygiene, urban transport and area development sectors of the
program and related equipment and services. Execution of the component
sub-projects is in progress or about to commence. IDA will finance disburse-
ments from the date of the credit agreements.
1.02      The program is formulated, financed and executed under the manage-
ment of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA). Under this
credit CMDA will act as project authority. The program receives substantial
financial and supervisory support from the Central Government which formally
reviews its progress quarterly. Investment expenditure during the Fourth
Plan period (1969/70-1973/74) is expected to reach Rs 150 crores (US$200
million) and the present annual rate of investment is about Rs 40 crores
(US$54 million). The projected Fifth Plan (1974/75-1978/79) expenditure is
substantially higher, over Rs 310 crores (US$420 million). The credit is
expected to disburse in about three years. During this period it will finance
about 15% of the total program.
1.03      The major parts of the program are supported by competent studies
of the metropolitan area's requirements and by project designs prepared with
local and foreign consultants' assistance during the 1960's. Recent local
planning efforts have augmented and updated the earlier studies.
1.04      The project is the Association's first urban project in India and
also the first urban project designed to support a broad program of urban
works financed and supervised by a single development agency. The project
components are treated as elements of an urban investment program rather
than as self-contained sub-projects.



-2-
1.05      The project is conceived as the first of a series of operations
to improve the physical environment of the Calcutta Metropolitan District
and the operation and finance of its urban services. The objectives of this
first project are to support the investment effort, strengthen the planning
and execution of the investment program, and assist in developing measures
to strengthen the operation and finance of services. Substantial progress
in implementation of these measures will be a prerequisite for a second
credit.
1.06      The report was prepared by Messrs. K. Bohr, R. Woodford and
S. Sandstrom (Urban Projects) based on the findings of an appraisal mission
which also included Messrs. G. Kottis (Development Economics), A. Ramadan
(Controllers), L. Rasmusson (Asia Projects), A. Van Nimmen (Asia - New Delhi
office), K. Willen (Asia II) and A. Holloway (consultant).



-3-
II. BACKGROUND
A. Urban Development
2.01      Calcutta was founded in 1690 by the East India Company on a narrow
strip of high land on the east bank of the Hooghly River about 200 km upstream
from the Bay of Bengal. Its site was bounded on the east by marshes and tidal
creeks and on the south by low-lying land flooded during monsoons. On this
constricted site the city grew and flourished to become the capital of British
India (1857-1911) and the second city of the Empire. At the time of Independence
(1947) it was the largest city, the leading port and the greatest industrial
center in India.
2.02      Calcutta grew in a haphazard manner.  Only the central part of the
city was planned to the urban standards of its day; the settlement around it
grew without structure, control or amenities. By 1914 the metropolitan popu-
lation exceeded two million. In the 1920's some efforts were made to improve
urban services and facilities in parts of the city but the impact of these
improvements was overwhelmed by population growth in the late 1930's and 1940's.
Between 1931 and 1951 the population of Calcutta and its surrounding urban area
more than doubled. During World War II Calcutta's population was swollen by its
role as allied base, in 1943 the Bengal famine drove thousands to the city in
search of food, and in 1947, when India became independent and Bengal was par-
titioned, Calcutta lost a major part of its hinterland and simultaneously began
to receive a flow of refugees from East Bengal (now Bangladesh) which has
continued to the present.
2.03      The increase in the metropolitan Calcutta population as a result of
partition and war was not accompanied by rapid economic growth as in Bombay
and Delhi, which also received large post-partition migrations. On the
contrary, partly because of the loss of East Bengal the relative economic
position of Calcutta and West Bengal have declined since Independence. Despite
large public investments in power and heavy industry, the manufacturing output
of the State has risen more slowly than the nation's output and considerably
more slowly than that of the more rapidly growing industrial areas. At the
same time, partly as a result of the silting of the Hooghly River, the Calcutta
port has lost its preeminence among Indian ports to Bombay. Its share of the
tonnage handled by the six major ports has dropped from over 40% to under 20%.
2.04      Since 1951 Calcutta has grown more slowly than any other major Indian
city. The urban population of West Bengal outside the Calcutta Metropolitan
District (CMD) is now growing at about twice the rate of the CMD. 1/ In spite
of this slow growth (2.3% 1951-61 and 2.1% 1961-71) investment in urban
infrastructure has not kept pace and the physical conditions of metropolitan
Calcutta have steadily worsened.
1/ A detailed analysis of recent population growth in the CMD is given in a
supplementary volume to this report, Calcutta Urban Development Project,
Background Studies of the Calcutta Metropolitan District, (hereafter
referred to as "Background Studies"), Part I, Demographic and Economic
Profile of the CMD.



-4-
2.05      The present Calcutta urban area is defined by the Calcutta
Metropolitan District (CMD).  The district has an unusual linear shape.  It
stretches north ar.d south along both sides of the Hooghly River for about
85 km. For most of this distance it forms a narrow corridor along the high
land close to the river. At the southern end it broadens and extends up to
28 km from the river. It is shaped like a ragged boot with its toe facing
west. The river bends to the west at the instep. Howrah is held in the
bend on the west bank and Calcutta city lies opposite along the outerside
of the bend on the east bank. The two sides of the river are linked by only
one road bridge, connecting Howrah and Calcutta, one road and rail bridge,
and a rail bridge well to the north (Map 10263).
2.06      The CMD covers an area of 1,270 km2 and had a 1971 population of
8.3 million, 6.2 million on the east bank and 2.1 million on the west bank.
Calcutta city itself has an area of 96 km2 and a population just over three
million. Six municipalities each with a population exceeding 100,000 are
contiguous to Calcutta on the east bank. Sixteen other municipalities lie
along the river north, east and south of the city. The population of Howrah,
opposite Calcutta, and of the ten municipalities and one corporation on the
west bank, totals 1.4 million.  1.7 million of CMD's 8.3 million population
live in densely populated semi-urban areas outside municipal boundaries
including the low-lying -astern and southern fringes of Calcutta itself
(Map 10263).
2.07      The limited area of high land and the press of population has
resulted in an extremely high residential population density, 33,000 persons
per km2 for the city as a whole and 45,000 for the most dense central part.
Similar densities are found in Bombay. Municipalities close to Calcutta with
very much lower levels of urban services have reached densities of 15 - 18,000
persons per km2. In contrast, the densities of Manhattan Island and the most
dense districts in Bangkok are 26,000 and 21,000 persons per km2 respectively.
2.08      The CMD is not an administrative unit.  Only the State and agencies
of the State have jurisdiction over the entire area. Local government is the
responsibility of the Calcutta Corporation, one other corporation, 33 munici-
palities, 37 towns and 544 semi-urban units. Most urban services are provided
directly by the State through its Directorates, boards or commercial under-
takings. These include roads and road maintenance, health services, education,
police, water supply for non-municipal areas, housing and public transport.
The State Government also provides substantial budget support for all local
units in the CMD. The level of local responsibility differs widely among the
units as do the resources available. The Calcutta Corporation provides a wider
range and higher standard of urban services per capita than other municipalities
and its revenue collections are several times greater. The fragmentation of
responsibility in the CMD has hindered large scale action on the areats problems.
Past attempts to reform the organization of government and of services have been
unsuccessful (paras. 2.12-2.14). A new attempt is underway (paras. 2.16-2.18).



- 5 -
2.09      The CMD is the dominant urban center in the Eastern Four-State
Region of India comprising the States of West Bengal, Assam, Bihar and
Orissa (Map 10261). The region has a population of 140 million (25% of
India's population).  It contains much of India's mineral resources - most
of its coal, half of its iron ore and a third of all its other mineral
resources, excepting oil. Almost all of India's iron and steel industry is
concentrated within 500 km from Calcutta.  The CMD accounts for 40% of the
urban population of the region.  Patna in Bihar is the second largest city
in the region; its 1971 population was 490,000 persons. Durgapur is second
in size in West Bengal, with 210,000 persons.
B. Studies and Proposals
2.10      The most recent and most thorough examination of the CND's problems
was sparked by the cholera epidemic of 1958. A WHO mission reported on the
extremely unsanitary conditions of the city and recommended a large program
of improvements. WHO then acted as executing agency for a three-year UNDP
study of the water supply, sewerage and drainage sectors.l/   In 1960 the
Bank expressed its concern when the mission reviewing India's Third Plan
called attention to the neglect of Calcutta as "one of the most dangerous
weaknesses of the Third Plan", and recommended that "the Central Government
accept a special financial responsibility for the improvement of conditions
in the city".
2.11      In 1961 the State Government established the Calcutta Metropolitan
Planning Organization (CMPO) to develop plans for the rehabilitation and
development of the CMD. Between 1961 and 1967 the CMPO, strongly supported
by the Ford Foundation, conducted or sponsored a series of studies. These
included a "Traffic and Transportation Plan for the CND, 1966-1986", plans
for the regional development of West Bengal, economic studies of the city and
the region, studies of administration, studies of the particular slum problems
of Calcutta, and studies of low cost housing. In 1966 the CNPO completed its
"Basic Development Plan for the Calcutta Metropolitan District 1966-1986"
which incorporated much of the earlier work, including the WHO study within a
context of metropolitan wide planning and development.2/
2.12      The Basic Development Plan (BDP) proposed a program of action to
arrest the deterioration of the city and provide for future growth, and it
recommended an elaborate reorganization of public administration in the CMD
1/   A "Master Plan for Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage - Calcutta
Metropolitan District, 1966-2001" was produced in 1966.
2/   For a detailed account of planning work, see Background Studies, Part V -
Plans & Planning for the Development of the CND.



-6-
to carry out the program and operate the improved services. The proposed
reorganization gave the responsibility for overall planning to a Planning
Authority with power to prepare and enforce plans and responsibility for
capital budgeting and project review. The responsibility for operating
major urban services was given to functional authorities.l/   The many local
government units were to be consolidated into ten corporations with respon-
sibility for minor urban services.'
2.13      The BDP reorganization plan was a rational approach to the
organization of the metropolis based on considetations of technical efficiency,
economies of scale and a distrust of local government. The plan was more
concerned with goals than with the problems of implementation. If the re-
organization had been put into effect as scheduled, the CMD would be today
one of the world's most extreme examples of metropolitan administration
through autonomous functional agencies.
2.14      The 'first attempts to implement the BDP reorganization proposals
were not successful. A Calcutta Metropolitan Water and Sanitation Authority
(CMWSA)'was established in 1966, but it has not been able to undertake any
of the 'functions assigned to it.  As recommended, the Authority was to be run
by a three-member Board with a 30-member Advisory Council. As enacted, it
has a five-member Board and a Council of 52 whose approval the Board requires
before it can take any important action. The Council has not agreed to give
up local control of water, sanitation and drainage to the Authority and impose
increased.charges and taxes for services.  The attempted reform has been
frustrated.  An attempt at consolidation of municipalities was also unsuccessful.
2.15      From 1966, when the Basic Development Plan was completed, until 1970,
very little was done to implement any of the programs recommended.  This was a
period of economic recession and political instability in West Bengal. The
State elections of 1967 and 1969 brought United Front governments into power.
In each case they were unable to govern successfully and were followed by a
period of President's Rule.2/  The political struggle was reflected in wide-
spread labor trouble, a deterioration of law and order, a decline in new
industrial investment, and the movement of business offices from Calcutta.
I/ A Water and Sanitation Authority would take over ownership and operation of
all facilities in its field with power to levy charges and taxes sufficient
to operate the whole on a financially viable basis. A Traffic and Trans-
portation Authority would plan, construct and maintain roads and highways,
and assume responsibility for traffic regulations, provision-for parking and
mass transportation.  Other authorities in fields of bustee (slum) improvement,
Hooghly River bridges, housing and primary education would either be modified
versions of existing agencies or policy making bodies which would implement
through existing agencies.  The Calcutta Improvement Trust and the Howrah
Improvement Trust were to remain as development authorities with their
jurisdictions extended to cover the east and west bank corporations respectively.
2/ The State Legislature is dismissed and the State is governed by the Governor
who acts as representative of the President of India.



-7-
C. A New Phase
2.16      In mid-1970, during the second period of the President's Rule,
the active intervention of the Central Government set in motion a new and
promising phase in the treatment of Calcutta's problems.  A Fourth Plan
program of Rs 150 crores (US$200 million) was drawn up for the CMD based
on projects identified in the BDP. The Center promised finance for the
*           enlarged program and established the Calcutta Metropolitan Development
Authority (CMDA) with power to implement it. It also introduced a tax on
the entry of goods into the CMD (octroi tax) to assist in financing the
program and the operations of the municipalities of the CMD.
2.17      The establishment of the CMDA was a major reform.   However, while
it embodied the metropolitan concept so strongly advocated in the BDP, it
represented a more pragmatic approach than the earlier attempts. The CMDA
was given some of the functions assigned to the Planning Authority proposed
by the BDP but was also made responsible for financing investments and
supervising their execution. Whereas the first priority of reform following
the original BDP proposals was given to the establishment of a functional
authority for water and sanitation to deal with that sector an isolation
from local and State governments, the first acts of the present phase were
to establish a development authority to implement projects in all fields
through the existing structure of State and local agencies, and to provide
the authority with funds to do so. As a result, the CMDA has been able to
increase annual investments in urban infrastructure in the CMD from a level
of Rs 3 crores (US$4 million) to the present level of about Rs 40 crores
(US$54 million) in a space of two years.
2.18      While the CMDA is primarily concerned with the execution of its
investment program, action to improve the operation and finance of urban
services is necessary if its efforts are to be ultimately successful. The
present approach has been deliberately focused on achieving widespread
physical improvements. Under the desperate circumstances of Calcutta in
1970, it was neither considered possible nor reasonable to attempt more.
Once the program was underway attention could then be turned to problems of
operations and finance and municipal reform. There seemed no doubt that
major reforms, such as that unsuccessfully attempted by the CMWSA, would
require broad local support. It was expected that the CMDA program itself
could help generate popular support and that measures of reform could be
undertaken in parallel with improvements in facilities and services.



-8-
2.19      The execution of the CMDA program has generated popular support,
but not as much as is expected when more projects are completed. On the
other hand it has also sharply pointed up the need to strengthen the system
of program execution and the systems for operating and financing services.
Some changes are clearly necessary in the immediate future to ensure the
program's success. Fortunately, studies of critical problems have been
carried out in parallel with CMDA's activities and proposals for action on
a number of important issues have been developed. l More important, in
May and June 1973 several decisions were taken to strengthen the systems
of program execution and finance./J
D. IDA Assistance
2.20      Any real improvement in the conditions and functioning of metro-
politan Calcutta will require a long sustained investment effort combined
with substantial improvements in the operation of urban services. This
project is conceived in the perspective of long-run assistance for this
process.
2.21      The project described in the following chapters is designed for
the current state of the Calcutta development effort in the perspective of
long-run support. It provides assistance for a process of reconstruction
and reform still in its early stages. It focuses on strengthening the
CMDA whose performance at this stage is critical to the entire reconstruc-
tion effort.  It provides for the development of measures to improve the
operation and finance of urban services whose implementation will become
a condition for a subsequent credit. It includes finance for a broad
range of urban investments and it is designed to disburse quickly. While
it is the Association's first urban project to support a broad program of
urban works supervised by an urban development authority, it is modest in
terms of the size of the authority's program.
1/ The impact of the CMDA program on the finance of municipalities of
the CMD has been studied and recommendations for improvement in the
system of finance and administration have been made by CMPO. A
reorganization of the CMD to create a metropolitan government with
responsibility for major services, and a second level of 23 boroughs
to replace the present municipal structure has been proposed by the
State Planning Board.
2/ The consolidation of executing responsibilities under CMDA (para. 3.07),
the establishment of an engineering management unit in CMDA (para. 3.06),
the establishment of a Center/State Working Group on the mobilization of
local resources in the CMD (para 3.19) and the decision of GOWB to develop
a plan for improving the financial performance of agencies and municipal-
ities of the CMD (para. 3.26).



-9-
III. ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE CMDA PROGRAM
3.01      The CMDA has been instrumental in developing a system for program-
ming and executing broad programs of investment in urban infrastructure. The
need to strengthen the present system is recognized and action to do so is
being taken (Section A). The operation, maintenance and finance of urban ser-
vices has received much less attention thus far.  However, recent GOWB decisions
to ensure the operation of new water service systems on a system basis and to
develop an improved financing plan for the new services created under the pro-
gram are important steps toward needed improvement (Sections C and D).
A. Investment Programming and Implementation
CMDA
3.02      CMDA is a statutory body of the State with authority to plan,
budget and expend funds and to execute or manage the execution of projects
within its program. Although not autonomous CMDA has more independence than
State Government departments, particularly with respect to expenditures and
staff recruitment. Its Board consists of three State officials and three
Municipal officials with the Chief Minister of the State or his designate as
Chairman (see Chart). The CMDA is presently organized into seven sectoral
program units, two special program units, a recently created planning unit
(see para. 4.05), and four common service units 1/ under its Secretary, the
chief executive (see Chart). Each program unit is headed by a special engineer
or program administrator concerned with the technical sanction and follow-up
of projects.
3.03      CMDA receives substantial development finance support from the Center
(see para. 3.20) and its investment policies and performance are reviewed
quarterly by representatives from the Central and State Governments. The review
team is led by the Secretary, Union Ministry of Works, Housing and Urban
Development and includes representatives from other union ministries concerned
with sectors included in the program, 2/ the Ministry of Finance and the
Planning Commission and the corresponding ministries of the State Government.
The review procedure constitutes a substantial innovation in government practice
in that individual ministries act jointly in approving projects as a part of a
program.
I/ Common service units exist for finance and accounts, purchase and stores,
land acquisition and information and public relations.
2/ This includes the Ministries of Transport, Railways, Irrigation and Power,
and Information and Broadcasting.



- 10 -
3.04       CMDA incorporates all of its projects within a consolidated annual
development plan and budget approved by the Central and State Governments
(see Annex 8). It does not, however, maintain a complete set of accounts and
does not prepare a balance sheet. Instead, it produces income and expense
statements which are submitted to Center and State during the quarterly review
meetings. Its annual statements are audited ex-post by the Accountant General
of West Bengal (see Annex 9). A pre-audit of claims for reimbursement on IDA
financed project components will be conducted by CMDA's internal audit unit
under the Controller of Finance and Accounts (see Chart).
Implementation
3.05       CMDA supervises more than 150 sub-projects executed by a total of
54 executing agencies 1/ whose activities are not under its direct control.
With access to funds and a combination of strong leadership, capable staff and
good relations with the executing agencies, CMDA has been able to increase the
annual rate of investment in urban works from about Rs 3 crores (US$4 million)
to the present level of over Rs 40 crores (US$54 million). However, the present
system is awkward and difficult to manage and CMDA has initiated steps designed
to improve its performance.
3.06       On the basis of advice sought from the Administrative Staff College,
Hyderabad, CMDA has initiated a system of physical progress reporting and
proposed the establishment of an engineering management unit within its organi-
zation.  The effectiveness of the credit has been made conditional on the
establishment of this unit. Along with its other functions, the management
unit would provide the Association with quarterly summaries of physical progress
of IDA assisted projects.
3.07       CMDA's control over the activities of independent executing agencies
is based on its powers of project approval and finance and payment of project
management fees. 2/ The performance of most of the key executing agencies under
these supervisory powers is adequate. However, there is need for better control
especially in the case of complex and interrelated groups of projects. This is
particularly the case in the closely related projects in the water supply,
sewerage and drainage sectors. In May 1973 the CMDA, with State Government
1/ Of the 54 executing agencies, nine are responsible for more than 80% of
the value of program works. The nine include State Government entities,
the Improvement Trusts in Calcutta and Howrah, the Calcutta Corporation
and CMDA itself (see Annex 8, Table 1).
2/  Project management fees computed on the basis of 12% of civil works
equipment and relocation costs.



- 11 -
concurrence, decided it should retain executing responsibility for all future
projects in the water supply, sewerage and drainage sectors and that the
responsibility for ongoing projects in these sectors should be reassigned to
it, subjectto a determination by GOWB of the feasibility of transfer in each
case. GOWB has agreed to submit a timetable by December 1973 indicating the
consolidation measures proposed and CMDA has given an assurance that it will
commence consolidation of ongoing projects in these sectors not later than
three months from the date of credit effectiveness and that it will provide
adequate staff for the executing tasks.
B. Operations and Maintenance
3.08       Responsibilities for urban services in the CMD are divided between
a large number of Central, State and local agencies (para. 2.08). Central
Government responsibilities include national highways and railways, inclu-
ding the suburban rail system and future Rapid Transit System. State direc-
torates develop and operate public health, education, irrigation, navigation
and flood control services throughout the CMD and water supply, sanitation
and roads in some municipal as well as non-municipal areas. The State Housing
Board develops and manages most housing and sites and services schemes.
Electricity, buses, tramways and gas are all State regulated and operated uti-
lities. Local government responsibilities are restricted to water supply,
sewerage and drainage, public cleansing, some public works including roads,
parks and footpaths, maintenance and lighting of streets, primary education,
and public health and administration. A more limited variety of services are
actually provided by most municipalities and apart from the Calcutta Corporation,
local authorities have not made significant infrastructure investments in the
recent past. The bulk of CMDA program investments is for services tradition-
ally provided by State agencies and the Calcutta Corporation.
3.09       The assignment to State and local entities of responsibilities for
operation and maintenance of facilities created as parts of the CMDA program
is within the powers of the State Government. It has already made assignments
of responsibilities for all projects completed or to be completed in CMDA's
next two fiscal years. Assurances were obtained that GOWB will make operating
assignments for projects to be completed after CMDA's next two fiscal years
sufficiently in advance to allow for staff and organizational preparation.
Water, Sewerage and Drainage
3.10       Water, sewerage and drainage districts in the CND derive from the
master plan study of the mid-1960's (see para. 2.10 and Maps 10264, 10507
and 10508) and are designed as integral operating units. Outside Calcutta
Corporation these areas do not correspond to the existing pattern of operating



- 12 -
responsibilities of state or local agencies or to political subdivisions.
The metropolitan agency recowmended by the BDP to operate and maintain the
facilities now being erected as part of the CMDA program, the CMSWA, has
failed to assume or perform any operating functions (see para. 2.14).  To
assure that new systems will be operated as systems the State Government
proposed in May 1973 that CMDA assume responsibility for operating the bulk
treatment and transmission facilities within the new water and sewer systems              a
being created outside Calcutta. Enabling legislation to implement this
decision will be required.
3.11      Water  -  Under present arrangements the Calcutta Corporation will
continue to operate its water supply services and the CMDA, State operating
agencies and Municipalities will operate services outside the Calcutta service
district.  About 20% of the current water supply investments are within the
Calcutta water system (see Map 10264). About 10% of the water progtam consists
of fringe area ground water schemes which will continue to be opetated by the
Public Health Engineering Directorate (PHED).  The Directorate may, where
appropriate reassign them to local agencies. The remaining 50% of the water
program consists of new ground and surface water facilities within each of
the three water service districts outside Calcutta. The ground water facilities
are being built for operation by existing municipalities and for eventual
incorporation into surface water systems designed to be operated as single
service district units.  It is for these systems that it is proposed CMDA will
initially operate the treatment plants and main transmission systems and supply
watet in bulk to local authorities. The first of these systems outside
Calcutta, Garden Reach, is scheduled to come into operation in 1977.
3.12      Sewerage and Drainage  - New facilities are designed within zone
and basin units connected directly to the Hooghly River or with canals and
outfalls to the Kulti River (see Maps 10507 and 10508). Future operating
assig.nments will provide for these facilities to be operated as systems.
About 34% of the current sewerage and drainage program consists of improve-
ments in the combined systems in Calcutta which the Calcutta Corporation will
continue to operate. About 35% of the sector program consists of improved
canals and outfalls to be operated by the Irrigation and Waterways Directorate
in cooperation with other authorities. Other sewerage and drainage works,
30% of the sector program, comprise bulk treatment and disposal facilities
which are proposed to be the responsibility of CMDA, and collector networks
which will be the responsibility of several municipalities.
3.13      Before major new facilities come into operation, there is time to
make improvements in the maintenance and operating capabilities of existing
agencies assigned to operate major improved water supply, sewerage and
drainage facilities and to determine the means by which CMDA7s proposed
operating role can be exercised most effectively. Finance for Consultant
assistance in these matters is included in the project.  During negotiations



- 13 -
the following scope of studies was agreed on with CMDA (see para. 5.07):
(i) organization, staffing, procedures and standards, equipment and
training requirements for operation and maintenance units of major operating
agencies in the water, sewerage and drainage sectors (e.g. the Calcutta
Corporation, the Public Health Engineering Directorate, the Irrigation and
Waterways Directorate, and CMA) and (ii) determination of the means by which
the organization to be developed by CMDA can best operate to provide the
economic and effective provision of water, sewerage and drainage services.
In addition the credit will include funds for updating the master plan for
water, sewerage and drainage.
Garbage Disposal
3.14      All CMDA garbage disposal projects are carried out with the benefitting
municipality assigned implementing and operating responsibility. IDA sub-
projects are within Calcutta and the Calcutta Corporation plans to reorganize
its garbage services into a single independent unit with responsibility for the
collection and disposal of garbage from the entire city and for the maintenance
of its own equipment. GOWB has given an assurance that by June 30, 1974 it will
cause the reorganization of garbage collection and disposal services in Calcutta
within a single unit.
Environmental Hygiene
3.15      The responsibility for the maintenance of the sanitary latrines
provided by the CMDA program belong to individual households. Sewers and septic
tanks are serviced by the relevant local agency (see para. 3.12).
Urban Transport
3.16      Assignments of responsibility for operation and maintenance of CMDA
projects including IDA sub-projects (see para. 5.03) follow the existing frag-
mented but workable division between the Public Works Department, Public Works
Department (Roads) and Calcutta Corporation. 1/ CurLrant road maintenance
procedures by all the relevant agencies are inadequate but as most of the new
and improved road facilities will not require significant maintenance in the
early years, this problem is not now critical. However, improved capabilities
in traffic operations and management, particularly during the construction of
1/ Background Studies, Part II, the CMD's Infrastructure - Past Development and
Present Situation.



- 14 -
the Rapid Transit System (RTS) is critical.  The operation and maintenance
of existing State operated bus and tram services and their coordination with
the operation of the RTS is also critical. The credit includes funds for
consultant assistance to CMDA in updating and revising the urban transport
plan for the CMD (see para. 5.07).
Housing and Area Development
3.17      The responsibility for the management of public housing and sites
and services schemes in the CND resides with the recently established State
Housing Board (formerly the State Housing Directorate), the Calcutta and
ilowrah Improvement Trusts, Calcutta Corporation and the CMDA. The Housing
Board and CMDA will share the major management responsibilities for those
schemes undertaken within the present program including selected IDA sub-
projects (see para. 5.03) and each has adequate capability for its task.
C. Finance
Existing Fiscal Pattern and Problems
3.18      The existing system for financing urban services in the CMD,
involving Center, State and local government units and public enterprises,
has not been capable of adequately funding even the quite low level of
services provided up to the present time. The Central and State Governments
have retained the more remunerative and elastic revenue sources and historically
there has been a net outflow of public resources from the CND. Even-before
the CMDA program the Center and State together made the bulk of direct expendi-
ture and investment in the CMD but allocations of funds from these higher
government levels have been subject to many competing demands and changing
priorities. The net outflow of resources from and unpredictability of sub-
ventions to the CMD has been reduced but not eliminated by the channeling of
Center and State funds into the CMDA program. Local bodies have increasingly
relied on current account and development grants-in-aid to supplement their
own property tax revenues, and make relatively small current account and
development expenditures. Existing prerogatives for resource mobilization
at the metropolitan and local level remain limited and the financial per-
formance of local government units continues to be disappointing.
3.19      The CNDA investment program is sufficiently large and extensive to
severely strain the existing fiscal arrangements. However, there are at least
three aspects of the situation which can be considered favorable to the develop-
ment of a more adequate system. First, significant increases in the operating
and debt service burden resulting from the program will not materialize for
two to three years.  CMDA has determined that operations and maintenance costs
of improved services will gradually increase from a negligible level at present
to about Rs 12 crores (US$16 million) by 1978/79, an estimate which includes



- 15 -
some capital or non-recurring costs. Second, the increase in public finance
resources generated by the program is estimated sufficient to cover the
increase in the cost of operating and maintaining the improved services.
Estimates made during the appraisal indicate that the annual increase in
public resources resulting from the CNDA program investments can be expected
to be Rs 17 crores (US$29 million) by 1978/79, under the present tax system.
Of this amount, about Rs 1.5 crores (US$2 million) will accrue to CMD munici-
palities, Rs 7.0 crores (US$9.5 million) to the State Government, Rs 2.0 crores
(US$2.7 million) to State operated utilities and Rs 6.5 crores (US$8.8 million)
to the Central Government. Finally, in May 1973 the Central Government has
constituted a high level Center/State Working Group to investigate and determine
solutions to the problems of mobilizing and channeling resources so as to
adequately and fairly allocate the burden for financing improvements of the
various urban services (see para. 3.25) and to rationalize financial arrange-
ments for the program which had previously evolved on a rather ad hoc basis.
Existing Arrangements for Program Finance
3.20      CMDA acts as the principal but subordinate agent of the State in
financial aspects of the program. Its primary financial function is to
administer a consolidated development fund for the program. The fund at present
has four main sources of finance: State Plan loans and grants, open market
borrowings, CMD octroi tax receipts and Central loans. Central Government
bustee improvement grants comprise a small transfer of earmarked funds through
CMDA. Borrowings from a number of other financial institutions, including
Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDCO), Life Insurance Corporation
(LIC) and Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI) may become future
sources of earmarked program finance for State undertakings or potentially
self-financing projects. Program inputs from existing sources through
September 1972 are shown below:
Rs crores     US$ million         %
Market loans                    22.0            29.7            35
State Plan funds                19.8            26.8            31
Central loans                   10.1            13.6            16
Octroi tax                       6.0             8.1            10
Bustee improvement grants        4.5             6.1             7
Miscellaneous                    0.4             0.5             1
62.8           84.8           100



- 16 -
CMDA's market borrowing has been allowed to expand rapidly to the limit
imposed by the servicing capacity of octroi tax receipts. It can be
expected to grow more slowly and decline in significance in the future.
Central loans for the program have been assured as residual financing after
receipt of funds from the other identified sources. These will become
increasingly important towards the end of the Fourth Plan period (March 1974).
The sources of inputs beyond that date will depend on Center and State
agreements on the Fifth Plan and the evolution of the program. It is antici-
pated that all Center and State inputs to the CMDA program in the Fifth Plan
period will comprise a single consolidated item within the West Bengal State
Plan.
3.21      CMDA's subordinate financial role to the State is clearly demon-
strated by existing arrangements for its acceptance, servicing and onlending
of program funds. The large increases in CMDA investment have been dictated
by Center and State decisions and not by the initiatives and financial
capabilities of local agencies - or the financial capabilities of CMDA itself.
With respect to Plan and Central Government funding, for which the State has
primary debt servicing responsibility, CNDA is obliged to accept funds on
terms not related to its own financial ability or its ability to pass on
obligations to others. Its assigned functions in this respect are to expedite
the rate of investment and preserve all debt obligations for the program which
might ultimately be transferred to existing local bodies or future metropolitan
agencies. Furthermore, it is predominantly other State agencies to which it
passes investment funds. About 75% of the CMDA program is being carried out
by State agencies, 20% by the Calcutta and Howrah Improvement Trusts and
Calcutta Corporation and less than 5% by other local bodies.
3.22      Pursuant to the State's concern with preserving debt obligations
for potentially revenue-earning facilities which could provide the basis for
onlending to successor operating agencies, CMDA's terms of onlending to
implementing and/or operating agencies have so far been more or less consistent
with the revenue earning potential of projects. About 45% has been passed on
as loans and 20% as grants. However, terms for nearly 35% of the cost of
projects to be undertaken in the Fourth Plan period have yet to be decided.
An approximate classification of investment outlays and incremental operating
and debt servicing burdens by type of service is shown below:



- 17 -
CMIDA Investment Projects.    Incremental Operation
Initiated during 1970-1979   and Debt Servicing Costsi/
US$      % of        (as of 1978/79)
Rs crores   million  Total           % of Total
Direct Revenue Earning
Public Transport           15        20       5                 23
Housing/Area Development  30         41      10                 13
Gas                         1         1       -                  1
46        62       15                37
Indirect Revenue Earning
Water                      64        86        20               20
Sewerage/Drainage/
Environ. Hygiene         82       111       26                 9
Garbage                     5         7        1                 4
151       204       47                33
Non-Revenue Earning
Education, Health,
Recreation               19        26        6                21
Roads                      87       117       28                 5
Bustee improvements        13        18         4                4
119       161       38                30
Total                316       427      100               100
3.23      The burden of servicing the debt for the above investments and the
incremental operating costs of the facilities will be distributed approximately
as indicated above. Nearly 40% of the increased recurrent cost is generated
by public transport, housing and gas services for which direct user charges are
already levied and over 30% by water, sewerage and drainage and garbage services
for which indirect property tax assessments predominate. At present there is
general State budget support for the costs of providing services in both of the
above groups as well as for the non-revenue earning services.
1/ Debt servicing based on current arrangements for onlending to operating
agencies.



- 18 -
3.24      The Association-is concerned that arrangements be made for:
(i)  supplemental budget support in the short term in lieu
of adjustments in the revenue formulae of State and
local operating agencies to offset possible deficits
in the operation and maintenance of CMDA program
improvements;  and
(ii)  revised Center, State and local fiscal measures to:
insure that in the long term the costs of operating
improved services in the CMD be, as far as possible,
borne by the ultimate beneficiaries.
Item (i) above is primarily a problem of adjusting State budgetary allocations
to its own directorate and to local government units. During negotiations
GOWB agreed to cover the costs of operating and maintaining the new CMDA
program facilities which cannot be met by other revenues of responsible State
agencies and local government agencies. To assist in planning this support
GOWB will compile annual budget forecasts of operating-and maintenance costs
for service systems incorporating CMDA projects. Item (ii) above is. a problem
of increasing and distributing the burden of resource mobilization which is
clearly necessary if the development program is eventually to attain viability.
With a continuation of existing revenue mechanisms, a significant portion of
the benefits of the program, net of taxes and charges, would accrue to a wide
group of indirect beneficiaries as well as users and direct beneficiaries.
Even allowing for possible increases in rates and charges, including direct
charges for water, increased transport charges and wider use of betterment
levies, and for improved collections, there would still be an important role
for general taxes in recouping the benefits of the program.
3J25      To assist in planning new financial arrangements for improved urban
services, an understanding on the following financial objectives was reached
wth the Government of West Bengal during negotiations:
(i) for services proided as a result of development program
investment for which costs and beneficiaries are clearly
identifiable (such as water, sewerage and housing):
(a)  imposition of specific beneficiary charges and
taxes including betterment levies, subject to
exemptions consistent with equity and social
objectives ;
(b)  maintenance of financial viability of services;
(ii) introduction of commercial accounting for new service systems
created under the development program;



- 19 -
(iii) improvement of financial performance of local authorities
in the CMD to better sustain the operation and maintenance
of facilities provided under the development program and
to mobilize additional resources for further development;
and
(iv) improvement of financial mechanisms of revenue sharing and/or
devolution of funds to achieve a balance between delegated
responsibilities for provision of services and delegated
revenue powers, and to encourage better financial performance
by local authorities in the CMD.
3.26      On the basis of the anticipated findings of the Center/State Working
Group for urban services in the CMD (para. 3.19) GOWB has also agreed to draw
up a plan within twelve months of the effective date of the credit for
eliminating the financial deficits of agencies and municipalities arising from
the CMDA program, utilizing means of improved taxation, charging, grants-in-
aid and/or revenue sharing formulae consistent with the above understanding.



- 20 -
IV. THE CMDA INVESTMENT PROGRAM
A. General Considerations
4.01      The GMDA program incorporates most of the major urban public
investments in the cm.lI  It includes improvements in water supply,
drainage, sanitation, urban transport, housing, health services and slum
amenities.  It is based on more than ten years of planning studies carried
out by Indian and foreign experts with financial assistance from UNDP and
the Ford Foundation.  These studies include investment programs for indi-
vidual sectors, analyses of special problems and the Basic Development Plan
itself (paras. 2.10-2.12). The planning process has been continuous and
important additions and refinements have been made recently. It is doubtful
whether the preparation for development in any metropolitan area in a
developing country has been as thorough as that for the CMD. 2/
4.02      The program as presently defined is large in relation to past
efforts but modest in relation to needs. Fourth Plan (1969/70-1973/74)
outlays are programmed to exceed Rs 165 crores (US$225 million) and the
proposed Fifth Plan outlays total about Rs 340 crores (US$460 million)
as shown below:
Programmed    Proposed
Fourth Plan  Fifth Plan         Total
Expenditure  Expenditure    Amount       Z
--------- (US$ million) --
Water Supply                        40          52            92        13
Sewerage and Drainage              55           96           151        22
Garbage Disposal and Environ-
mental Hygiene                    10          30            40         6
Urban Transport:
Roads & Traffic Improvement       47          98           145        21
Buses and Trams                   20          23            43         6
Housing & Area Development          24         103           132        19
Bustee Improvement                  13          27            40         6
Other Projects:
Gas                                1           4             5         1
Health                            11          13            24         4
Education                          2           5             7         1
Recreation                         2           4             6         1
Total CMDA Program      225          460          685       100
1/  The exceptions:  electric power, telephones, national highways, maijor
bridges, suburban railways and the proposed rail rapid transit.
2/ An account of the planning effort is contained in Background Studies,
Part V:  Plans and Planning for Development of Urban Services.



- 21 -
4.03      Both Fourth and Fifth Plan phases of the program concentrate on
extending minimum service standards to all areas of the CMD. This aim has
led to a distribution of investment favoring areas of greatest deficiency.
For example, a major portion of investment in water supply, sanitation, and
drainage is concentrated outside tho Calcutta Corporation area which is
relatively well supplied with these services. On the other hand, initial
urban transport improvements are concentrated in Calcutta where the immediate
needs in that sector are greatest. The aim to extend minimum standards has
also resulted in a large number of widely dispersed projects. Some are parts
of slow maturing programs, e.g. new sewerage systems, but many are relatively
small projects which will give quick returns. These include projects for
rehabilitation of existing water, sewerage and drainage facilities, road and
public transport rehabilitation, slum improvements, much of the sanitation
program and water supply systems in fringe area communities. Because of the
nature of services to be improved and the concentration on minimum service
standards, the low-income sections of the population are likely to benefit
most from the program. They will receive a major share of the improved
services and will also benefit from the employment effects of the labor-
intensive construction programs (para. 6.09).
4.04      The allocation of investments among projects and sectors for the
Fourth Plan reflects the present state of planning and project preparation.
The Fifth Plan program, not yet confirmed, reflects both a continuation of
the Fourth Plan programs in a number of sectors and a general assessment of
needs in other sectors, e.g. housing. It also reflects the fact that major
investments in bridges and public transport are being undertaken outside the
CMDA program. The investment allocation among projects over the next few years
is fairly well set and is generally consistent with infrastructure plan objec-
tives for the various sectors.
4.05      The short-term investment programming problems concern phasing and
scheduling so as to maximize the program's impact. CMDA's capabilities for
these tasks have recently been strengthened (paras. 3.06-3.07). In the
longer run the effectiveness of CMDA's investment programming will depend
on its ability to assess and adjust priorities among sectors and projects.
Until recently CMDA depended on past planning studies and current assistance
from CMPO. In late June 1973, the chairman of CMDA directed that the
Authority establish its own planning wing to take on many of the supporting
responsibilities previously assigned to CMPO. CMDA is in the process of
drawing up a work program and staffing requirements for its planning wing
and has been assured of State Government support in the transfer and recruit-
ment of needed staff and the approval of budget appropriations. Technical
assistance to CMDA in updating master plans for the water, sewerage and
drainage and urban transport sectors and in the analysis and programming
of community facilities and urban land development is to be financed as a
part of the project (para. 5.07). With these additional resources under
its direction, CMDA should be able to manage effectively the formulation of
its continuing investment program.



- 22 -
B. Program Components -
Water Supply
4.06      The problem of water supply in the CMD is characterized by gross
maldistribution, wastage and low sanitary standards. Excluding the Calcutta
Corporation area which receives about 37 gallons of filtered water per capita
per day (gpcd), the average supply for over five million people is about 8 gpcd.
More than two million people receive an average of 4 gpcd or less.  Large
sections of the population use polluted sources of surface water.
4.07      The sector plan for water supply has identified five service districts
and a "fringe" area.  (Map 10264).   A separate water supply system is proposed
for each district. Interconnection of the systems on a major scale is planned
in one case only, and then only in the final stage of the program. Emergency
groundwater projects, are being carried out to supply all parts of the CMD with
a minimum of 20 gpcd within two years. By 1981 it is planned to provide a
minimum of 40 gpcd to all areas with residential population densities greater
than 6,000 persons per km2 (Annex 11, Table 1).  As a result only about 20%
of the planned investment is for Calcutta (with 38% of the CMD population),
and most of this is for rehabilitation and improvement of existing facilities.
Sewerage and Drainage
4.08      Outside of Calcutta sewerage facilities serve only about 2% of the
five million population and drainage is in many areas provided by inadequate
natural water courses. The combined sewerage and drainage systems in Calcutta
serve only two-thirds of the city population and half the area (Annex 3) and
are grossly deficient due to underdesign and inadequate maintenance. During
the four-month monsoon period, storm water and sewerage overflow into
streets and buildings.
4.09      The sector plan identified 18 sewerage zones and 23 drainage basins
in the CMD (Maps 10507 and 10508). It proposed ithe construction of separate
drainage and water-borne sewerage systems in all densely populated portions
of the CMD not presently sewered, and a thorough renovation of the combined
systems in Calcutta.  These proposals are now being implemented by CMDA in
phase with water supply improvements and surface water removal priorities
by which the most densely populated areas with the greatest deficiencies are
being improved first.
1/ A more detailed description of the program is found in Annex 7;
a description of the existing development of infrastructure is
contained in Background&Studies, Part II - The CMDs Infrastructure -
Past Development and Present Situation.



- 23 -
Environmental Hygiene and Garbage Disposal
4.10      More than six million people in the CMD rely on 150,000 service
privies, 1/ or no sewerage facilities at all. The environmental hygiene
component will replace the service privies with sanitary latrines with con-
nections to sewers or septic tanks.  This component also includes provisions
for an assessment of the water quality in the Hooghly River, and its deter-
minants, as a basis for recommendations for the control of water pollution.
An air pollution survey is also included (Annex 7).
4.11      Large and persistent accumulations of garbage in close proximity
to residences and work places in the densely populated areas of the CMD have
resulted from inadequate equipment and methods for the collection and disposal
of solid waste material. The most obvious consequences have been the creation
of a serious health hazard and the obstructions of transport. A detailed
study of the garbage disposal problems of Calcutta has been undertaken by the
Central Public Health Engineering Research Institute. The CMDA program provides
for improvement of conditions on the dumping grounds, including roads within
the dumps and equipment for proper compacting and covering of the waste material
(sanitary land fill). Calcutta Corporation is reorganizing its collection
organization in accordance with recommendations in the aforementioned study
(para. 3.14).
Housing and Area Development
4.12      About one-third of the GMD population lives in squatter or slum
structures (Annex 4). The remainder live in permanently constructed (pucca)
housing but with serious overcrowding and poor services and sanitation. For
instance, less than 1% of the households in the lowest income groups has
access to their own water tap.
4.13      The bustee improvement component of the CMDA program (para. 4.08)
provides improvements in existing squatter and slum housing, whereas the
housing and area development component aims at increasing the supply of low-
cost permanent housing for the economically weaker segments of the CMD
population. At its outset, the CMDA Fourth Plan program envisaged public
construction of 40,000 dwelling units: 17,000 units for low-income households,
17,100 hire-purchase units for low- to middle- income households, 6,000 units
for rehousing of slum dwellers, and preparation of 400 acres of land mostly
for sites and services schemes. Delayed commencement and implementation prob-
lems have proved a significant obstacle to Fourth Plan performance and not
more than 50% of the above target, itself a reduction of the BDP guideline,
is likely to be achieved.
1/ Toilets with night soil containers which must be collected and
emptied manually.



- 24 -
Urban Transport
4.14      Transport in the CMD is characterized by heavy pedestrian
movements, a large proportion of public transit travel and a multitude
of transport means. These include not only cars, taxis, buses and trams,
but also rickshaws, cycle rickshaws, handcarts, bullock carts and bicycles.
Existing transport facilities are heavily overloaded and inadequately main-
tained, regulated and coordinated. Congestion and the relative shortage of
parking spaces in central Calcutta have a restraining influence on the use
of the few existing private cars, which account for less than 10% of persons
travelling by motor vehicles in the central parts of the CMD (Annex 5).
4.15      The aim of the CMDA program is to increase the effective capacity
of existing facilities through traffic operations and related means, to
improve the quality of services by better maintenance and replacement of
equipment and to create new transport capacity by the introduction of
additional facilities and services. Priority within the Fourth Plan has
been given to the improvement of existing road facilities, completion of
missing road links and the renovation and expansion of the publicly operated
surface transit system.



- 25 -
V. THE PROJECT
5.01      The IDA project consists of civil works, materials and
equipment, land and project management components of selected infra-
structure sub-projects within the CMDA program and related technical
assistance.   The project components were determined on the basis
of appraisal of the technical soundness and timeliness of the sector
plans, the adequacy of CMDA's technical review procedures and the merits
of individual sub-projects within the program.!!  The selected sub-projects
are in the sectors of water supply, sewerage, drainage, environmental-hygi-ene
(sanitary latrines), garbage disposal, urban transport and area development (slum
redevelopment and sites and services). During the three years July 1973-
June 1976 in which these sub-projects will be substantially completed
total disbursement against their civil works, materials and equipment and
land components will comprise about 31% of overall CMDA program investment
as showrn below:
CMDA Program                    IDA Project
(July 1973-June 1976)       (Infrastructure Components)
No. of                     No. of                       % of
sub-      Investmenta      sub-      Investmenth/      CMDA
projects  (US$ million)  p.rojects  (US$ million)   Progran
Water Supply                20          36              8          17.6           48.9
Sewerage and Drainage       50          50             17          19.5          38.8
Garbage Disposal             4          10              2           2.6           26.0
Environmental Hygiene       16           4              3           2.5           63.0
Urban Transport:
Roads & traffic
improvements             25          52             12         21.8           41.9
Buses and Trams            5          13              -           -              -
Housing & Area Development 20           40              2           6.7           16.8
Bustee Improvement           5          11              -           -              -
Other Projects:
Gas                        1           2              -           -             -
Health                     6           7              -
Education                  3           3              -           -              -
Recreation                 5           2              -           -             -
Total            160        230             44          70.7           30.7
/a   Excluding contingencies and project management.
/b   Excluding project management, technical assistance
and contingencies (para. 5.08).
1/  Selection of an individual sub-project was based on appraisal of its (a)
priority within the sector and/or program, (b) functional and/or geogra-
phic interrelation with other important sub-projects, (c) status of pre-
paration or execution, (d) procurement requirements, and (e) general
technical soundness.



- 26 -
5.02      The above phase of the CMDA program which forms a basis for the IDA
project comprises ongoing works on component sub-projects sanctioned to
commence in the Fourth Plan period (April 1969-March 1974), most of which will
continue into the Fifth Plan period (April 1974-March 1979), and sub-projects
to be sanctioned early in the Fifth Plan period. The IDA project comprises
only sub-projects to commence in the Fourth Plan period and includes civil
works for which contracts have been awarded (para. 5.16).
A.  General Description
5.03      The project consists of the following elements of the CMDA.program
and related activities:
(a) water supply improvements including the construction and
renovation of transmission mains, primary.and secondary
distribution mains, reservoirs and booster stations in
Calcutta and its southern suburban area and ground water
source and distribution facilities in the fringe areas of
the CMD comprised of eight sub-projects involving small
scale works at more than 40 sites and related equipment
installations;
(b) sewerage and drainage improvements including renovation
and construction of storm drains, sewers, outfall canals and
sluices serving Calcutta, its northeastern suburban area and
Howrah comprised of 17 sub-projects involving-small scale
works at more than 30 sites and related equipment installa-
tions;
(c) garbage collection and disposal improvements serving Calcutta,
comprised of two sub-projects involving small scale works at
one site and procurement of related equipment;
(d) environmental hygiene improvements consisting of conversion
of service privies to sanitary latrines in the CMD comprised
of three sub-projects involving manuracture and installation
of sanitary latrines;
(e) urban transport improvements including extension and widen-
ing of existing roads, traffic operations measures, construc-
tion of a bus terminal and extension of street lighting in
Calcutta comprised of 12 sub-projects involving small scale
works and installation of equipment at more than 15 sites;
(f) area development improvements comprising a slum redevelopment
scheme in Calcutta and a sites and services scheme southeast
of the city comprised of two sub-projects involving extensive
works at two sites;
(g) technical assistance in the operations and maintenance and
the organization of water, sewerage and drainage services in
the CMD, in updating sector plans and urban development
programmrirg.



- 27 -
B. Detailed Features
Civil Works
5.04      The principal civil works activities for the 44 selected sub-projects
consist of small scale, labor intensive works at more than 80 sites in the CMD
which are considered to be unattractive to foreign contractors. With the
exception of the force account activities for environmental hygiene sub-projects
outside Calcutta, all existing contracts for civil works are held by local
contractors, most of which are small labor contractors which rent construction
equipment from executing agencies. The civil works activities include construc-
tion of relocation housing within one of the sewerage sub-projects and three of
the urban transport sub-projects at six sites.
5.05      Plans for both of the area development components of the project are
presently undergoing revision. Finalization of detailed plans acceptable to
IDA is an additional condition of effectiveness for that portion of the
project.
Equipment and Materials
5.06      The equipment and materials included within the IDA project consist of:
(a) concrete and asbestos water and sewer pipes;
(b) traffic lighting and signalling equipment;
(c) steel plates and billet for a variety of construction purposes;
(d) major water supply equipment consisting of pumps, valves larger
than 42", meters, chlorine cylinders and monitoring equipment;
(e) sewerage and drainage equipment consisting of sewer cleansing
machinery, drainage pumps, and a cutter suction dredger; and
(f) garbage collection equipment including truck chassis, dump and
compactor bodies and disposal equipment including bulldozers.
Technical Assistance
5.07      Consultant assistance to CMDA is included in the project to:
(i) prepare a study of the organization, staffing, procedures and
standards, equipment and training requirements of the operations
and maintenance units of major operating agencies in the water,
sewerage and drainage sectors in the CMD (para. 3.13).



- 28 -
(ii) determine the means by which the water supply,
sewerage and drainage services in the CMD can
be most economically and effectively provided
(para. 3.12).
(iii) review, update, and modify as required the
existing plans for water supply, sewerage and
drainage, and urban transport and analyze and
formulate plans and programs of urban land
development and community facilities (para. 4.05).
CMDA has agreed to engage consultants for the above purposes under terms
of reference and conditions acceptable to IDA.  It is anticipated that
the technical assistance will be completed within 18 months of credit
effectiveness.
C. Cost Estimates
5.08      Project costs are estimated at Rs 71.80 crores (US$96.93
million) including civil works, materials and equipment, land acquisi-
tion, project management, technical assistance and contingencies. Foreign
exchange requirements of the project are estimated at Rs 15.21 crores
(US$20.53 million) or about 21% of the total cost. Project cost estimates
are summarized below.



- 29 -
Rs crores                US$ million           % of Total
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Project
Cost
Infrastructure
Water Supply
Civil Works                        6.38    1.42    7.80       8.61    1.92   10.53
Equipment and Material             2.53    2.61    5.14       3.42    3.52    6.94
Land                               0.10      -      0.10      0.13      -      0.13
Sub-total                     9.01    4.03   13.04    12.16    5.44   17.60         18.2
Sewerage and Drainage
Civil Works                        6.89    0.84    7.73       9.30    1.13   10.43
Equipment and Material             2.62    3.25    5.87       3.53    4.39    7.92
Relocation                         0.14    0.01    0.15       0.19    0.01    0.20
Land                               0.65      -      0.65      0.88      -      0.88
Sub-total                   10.30    4.10   14.40    13.90    5.53   19.43         20.0
Garbage Disposal
Civil Works                        0.27    0.12    0.39       0.35    0.17    0.52
Equipment and Material             0.89    0.67    1.56       1.21    0.90    2.11
Sub-total                    1.16    0.79    1.95       1.56    1.07    2.63         2.7
Environmental Hygiene
Civil Works                        1.53    0.31    1.84       2.07    0.42    2.49
Equipment and Material              -      0.02    0.02        -      0.02    0.02
Sub-total                    1.53    0.33    1.86       2.07    0.44    2.51         2.6
Urban Transport
Civil Works                        7.06    0.80    7.86       9.53    1.08   10.61
Equipment and Material             0.95    1.10    2.05       1.28    1.49    2.77
Relocation                         0.77    0.03    0.80       1.04    0.04    1.08
Land                               5.46      -      5.46      7.37      -      7.37
Sub-total                    14.24    1.93   16.17    19.22    2.61   21.83        22.5
Area Development
Civil Works                        3.09    0.40    3.49       4.17    0.54    4.71
Equipment and Material             0.16    0.25    0.41       0.22    0.34    0.56
Land                               1.06      -      1.06      1.43      -      1.43
auki-tqta                     4.31    0.65    4.96       5.82    0.88    6.70       6.9
lilb-AoU>l                  40.55   11.83   52.38    54.73   15.97   70.70
Project Management 1/                  5.42    -         5.42     7.32    -         7.32     7.6
Technical Assistance
Urban Planning                       0.08    0.03    0.11       0.11    0.04    0.15
Organization Study                   0.06    0.02    0.08       0.08    0.02    0.10
Operations & Maintenance Study       0.08    0.03    0.11       0.11    0.04    0.15
Sub-total                    0.22    0.08    0.30       0.30    0.10    0.40        0.4
Contingencies
Physical                             4.96    1.80    6.76       6.71    2.43    9.14
Price                                5.44    1.50    6.94       7.34    2.03    9.37
Sub-total                    10.40    3.30   13.70    14.05    4.46   18.51         19.1
Total                        56.59   15.21   71.80    76.40   20.53   96.93    100.0
1/  12% of civil works, equipment and material and relocation costs according to established
formulae between CMDA and its executing agencies (see para. 3.07).



- 30 -
5.09      The project costs estimated above are for works and services
performed and materials and equipment delivered and paid for from July 1,
1973 through the completion of each sub-project. Civil works, relocation,
equipment and land acquisition costs are derived from estimates based on
(a) preliminary designs for most of the sub-projects not yet under execu-
tion, and (b) detailed designs with costs, updated as of November 1972
by CMDA, for ongoing projects. Equipment costs are based on 1972 prices
compiled by executing agencies and CMDA from local and international prices
of similar items. The cost estimates include a 15% physical contingency
(excluding land) and a price contingency, averaging 6% per annum.
D. Amount of Proposed Credit
5.10      The IDA credit of US$35 million, equal to 36% of the project
cost of US$97 million, is to be allocated between disbursement categories
as follows:
Amount       % of Total    % of Total
Category                       (US$ million)  Cost of Item  Credit Amount
(i) Material and equipment procured
by international competitive
bidding, including contingencies        9.2        *   100             26.3
(ii)  Material and equipment procured
by local competitive bidding,
acceptable to IDA (excluding
truck chassis), including
contingencies                           5.8             40             16.6
(iii)  Civil works contracted by local
competitive bidding acceptable to
IDA (excluding land and project
management), including
contingencies                          19.5             40             55.7
(iv) Consultant services contracted
locally and/or internationally,
including contingencies                 0.5            100              1.4
Total IDA credit                  35.0             -             100.0



31 -
5.11      Credit disbursements are to be allocated between functional
components identified in the project description as follows:
Amount-/        % of Total
Component                          (US$ million)      Credit Amount
Water Supply                                    10.6                30.4
Sewerage and Drainage                           11.2               31.9
Garbage Disposal                                  1.2                3.6
Environmental Hygiene                             1.1                3.0
Urban Transport                                   7.5               21.5
Area Development                                  2.9                8.2
Technical Assistance                              0.5                1.4
Total                                 35.0              100.0
/a   Including contingencies.
5.12      The proceeds of the credit for reimbursement of costs incurred prior
to March 31, 1974 will be included as a part of GOI's supplemental Fourth Plan
lending to GOWB for the CMDA program, the present terms of which are 5% interest
repayable in 12 years including two years grace period. The balance of the
proceeds will be included as a part of GOIT's Fifth Plan funding to GOWB for the
CNDA program, the terms of which are yet to be determined. GOWB will relend
funds to CMDA on identical terms. As a condition of credit effectiveness, the
terms and conditions of onlending to CMDA will be comunicated to and accepted
by IDA. Further, both GOI and GOWB have agreed to onlend the proceeds of the
credit under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association thus allowing
for possible changes in the terms from time to time with IDA concurrence.
E. Implementation
5.13      The CMDA will  have overall responsibility for the execution of
the project as it has for the execution of its entire program and an agree-
ment was reached during negotiations designating CMDA as project authority.
CMDA now has direct executing responsibility for three of the selected water
supply infrastructure sub-projects amounting to Rs 2.7 crores (US$3.6 million)
excluding contingencies. With the consolidation of executing responsibilities
now under implementation, it could directly execute as many as five water
supply and four sewerage and drainage civil works sub-projects amounting to
Rs 10.5 crores (US$14.1 million) excluding contingencies or about 20% of the
value of the infrastructure components of the project. Land acquisition,
relocation, tendering and supervision of civil works for the remaining sub-
projects will be performed by six agencies already assigned that responsibi-
lity under the supervision of CMDA. With the establishment of an engineering
management unit in CMDA a condition of credit effectiveness, these arrange-
ments would be adequate (para. 3.06).



- 32 -
F. Procurement
5.14      CMDA is presently responsible for the central procurement and
distribution of locally purchased steel, pipe, cement, bricks and stone
chips and various items of equipment for sub-projects within its program.
It also acts in behalf of executing agencies to arrange procurement, by
a GOI-appointed canalizing agency,of steel plates and and billets acquired
abroad. CMDA will continue to perform these functions with respect to
the program as a whole.
5.15      Materials and equipment valued at US$9.2 million or 10% of  Ital
project costs, will be procured by CMDA on the basis of international-1  com-
petitive tenders in accordance with the Association's guidelines. Domestic
suppliers will be accorded a preferential margin equal to 15% of the c.i.f.
costs of competing imports, or the existing rate of duty, whi4chever is the
lower / paras. 5.06 and 5.10(i)/. Other materials valued at US$14.5 million,
unsuitable for international procurement consist of (a) concrete and asbestos
cement pipes (US$12.4 million) which because of their materials, weight and
fragility can generally be economically supplied only from fabrication plants
close to installation sites; (b) traffic lighting equipment (US$1.7 million)
which because of economies of standardization of equipment can best be sup-
plied locally and which in this case will be ordered under small "supply and
install" contracts to be let over a period of about 12 years in sequence with
the completion of specifications for individual segments of the lighting pro-
ject by CMDA; and (c) traffic signalling equipment (US$0.4 million) which also
because of the economies of standardization of equipment can best be supplied
locally. The above items are competitively available from local manufacturers
or representatives of foreign firms and will be purchased under small indivi-
dual contracts. Truck chassis with a total value of US$1.5 million included
in the project will be procured locally but will not be financed under the
credit.
5.16      Civil works construction and installation of sanitary latrines
amounting to US$1.8 million will be undertaken by force account (para. 5.04).
Civil works within the project include construction activities totalling about
US$15.0 million previously contracted on the basis of acceptable procedures
(paras. 5.04 and 5.10).  The inclusion within the project of ongoing works for
which contracts have already been let is necessary to achieve relatively quick
disbursement and broad sectoral coverage within the continuing CMDA program.
There will be no retroactive financing for these ongoing contracts or for expendi-
tures incurred for any other project components prior to the date of signing of
credit agreements. The remaining civil works components of the project totalling
US$32.0 million are unsuitable for international competitive bidding because of
their diverse nature, small size and scattered location and will be tendered on
the basis of local competitive bidding acceptable to the Association (paras.
5.04 and 5.10). The works involve rehabilitation, reconstruction, replacement
and new construction of a heterogeneous group of facilities within six separate
functional sectors. Individual works range in size from a value of less than
US$25,000 to about $2,000,000, with an average of less than US$500,000. The
works will be undertaken at more than 80 sites scattered over the 1,270 km2 of
the CMD. By established practice these works would be contracted locally by
1/ See Annex 10, Table 6 for listing of materials and equipment.



- 33 -
means of tenders issued for identifiable sub-components of each work and
individual contracts are therefore quite small. The average contract size
for future works will be less than US$50,000 and only about 1% of the contracts
representing 15% of the value of the works would be in the amount of US$150,000
or more. The resulting use of small contractors and labor intensive methods
creates much needed employment and has produced works of acceptable economy
and quality.
5.17       Consultants' services for which US$0.5 million is allocated, will
be contracted under terms of reference and conditions acceptable to the
Association (paras. 5.07 and 5.10 (iv)).
5.18       Assurances were obtained during negotiations (a) from CMDA that
bidding documentation for all tenders will be in a form acceptable to IDA, and
(b) from GOI that CMDA will Oe allowed to procure equipment specified for the
project through international competitive bidding and that all import licenses
required for the project will be authorized to meet project scheduling require-
ments.
G. Disbursement
5.19       The Association would disburse against (a) 100% of the c.i.f. cost
of import or of the ex-factory costs of local purchase of materials and equip-
ment procured after international competitive bidding; (b) 40% of ex-factory
costs of materials and equipment procured after local bidding (excluding truck
chassis);  (c) 40% of the costs of civil works (excluding land and project
management); and (d) 100% of the remuneration of expenses of consultants. Dis-
bursement on civil works would be based on certification of progress by ONDA's
technical officers subject to verification by CMDA's chief internal auditor.
The estimated disbursement schedule is shown as Annex 13. Any surplus arising
from the cancellation or completion at a lower than estimated cost (including
contingencies) of any project component would be utilized by adjustments in
the percentage of disbursement against remaining civil works.
H. Supervision
5.20       Because of the large number of discreet but interrelated project
components, the complexity of technical assistance and the importance of
anticipated government steps to improve operations and finance of urban ser-
vices, the project will require about 40 man-weeks per annum of IDA staff
supervision, nearly three times the average for urban projects. The demands
of supervision on GOI, GOWB and CMDA will also be greater than normal. As a
basic input to routine supervision activity CMDA would, on a timely basis,
provide:
(i)   documentation as to bidding procedures conducted and tenders
accepted for all contract awards greater than US$100,000 for
IDA review and concurrence; and
(ii)   detailed engineering or other reports which form the basis of
technical sanctioning for major projects within the program.



- 34 -
VI.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE CMDA PROGRAM
6.01      The need to improve urban services and facilities in the CMD is
obvious and well documented. The full economi:c value of making such
improvements cannot be calculated. A combination of circumstances has
created a possibility for the regeneration of this great urban center and
the CMDA program is an important part of the efforts to make this a reality.
If the efforts are successful and the CMD becomes able to function more
effectively and attract new investment, the benefits attributable to the
investment program would be enormous.  On the other hand, if the program
fails to -make a recognizable and widespread improvement in conditions
either because it is poorly executed or severely curtailed, its impact
would be limited and its benefits restricted to those directly related
to individual investments.
6.02      Although broad, the program is a clearly defined effort and it
is possible to examine it in terms of its structure and content, to judge
its suitability for the reconstruction task and to quantify some of its
benefits. Chapter IV described the program in terms of its general charac-
teristics and the approach it takes to the problems of the various sectors.
This chapter summarizes efforts made to quantify some of its effects.
A.  Direct Impact on Service Levels
6.03      Present levels of public service and facilities in the CMD;are
far below those of other major urban areas in India.- In raising these
levels the CMDA program will bring about an improvement in living and working
conditions for the CMD population including improvements in public health.
These improvements will also benefit a wider geographical area in Eastern
India because of its close interdependence with the economic and social
functioning of the CMD.
Water Supply
6.04      The program is designed to increase per capita water supply in the
,-'JMD from a present level of approximately 22 gpcd 1/ to 42 gpcd in 1981.
This is somewhat less than the 1981 supply planned for Greater Bombay, 47 gpcd.
More important, the program will virtually eliminate the present extreme in-
equality in water supply among the various parts of the CMD.  At present, 40%
of the population receives only 10% of the total water supplied; by 1981 the
same 40% will receive 35% of the supply (see Annexes 15 and 16). The supply
of filtered water in the Calcutta Corporation area will increase from the
present 37 gpcd to 42 gpcd in 1981, while the supply in the rest of the CMD
w4l1 increase from an average of 7 gpcd to 42 gpcd.
1/ Excluding a supply of approximately 10 gpcd of unfiltered water, which
will be eliminated.



- 35 -
Sewerage
6.05      Only 26% of the CMD population is presently served by water-borne
sewerage, as compared to 68% in Greater Bombay and 65% in Madras. Most of
the remainder of the CMD population, 6.2 million people, either lack sewerage
facilities completely or have to rely on the more than 150,000 service privies.
By 1981 the proportion of the CMD population served by water-borne sewerage
will have increased to about 70% and most of the service privies will have
been replaced by septic tanks, or connected to sewers. Sanitary conditions
will be greatly improved.
Drainage
6.06      Existing drainage facilities accommodate even average volumes of
runoff in the CMD. During the four-month monsoon period, large parts of the
CMD are regularly flooded. The program aims to reduce the flooding by 95%
by 1981 (see Annex 11, Appendix 1).
Housing, Area Development and Bustee Improvement
6.07      Thirty-four percent of the CMD population, about 2.8 million
persons, live in squatter and bustee (slum) settlements, compared to only
13% in Greater Bombay and 25% in Madras (See Annex 4). The CMDA program
is focussing on the improvement of conditions in the bustees to bring
immediate and substantial benefits to one million persons of the economically
weaker segments of the population at relatively low cost. The housing area
development sector of the CMDA program is concentrating on the development
and implementation of low cost construction, area development and financing
methods, including several sites and services schemes.
Urban Transport
6.08      Present efforts are intended to eliminate transport bottlenecks
and safety hazards and rehabilitate and augment the public transport system.
This will increase the capacity of already existing transport facilities at
a relatively low cost, substantially reduce accidents and improve public
transport services which account for some 75% of all motorized person trips
in the metropolitan center (see Annex 5). All major new road construction
projects are in outlying areas and aim at diverting traffic from the congested
central parts of the CMD and at furthering the growth of the designated growth
centers at Kalyani in the north and other locations (see Map 10509).
B. Employment Effects
6.09      The labor component of the CMDA program is large.  Labor costs
average 40% of total expenditures excluding land. In the sewerage and
drainage sector they exceed 50%. As a consequence the program will have
substantial effect on employment generation. The direct employment generated



- 36 -
in the CMD over the period 1970-81 has been estimated to average 105,000
jobs, of which 90,000 jobs are unskilled. In addition, the indirect employ-
ment effect is estimated to be some 75,000 jobs, 55,000 of them in the CMD.
The estimated employment created by the program would be sufficient to sig-
nificantly reduce the level of unemployment in the CMD.
C. Economic Rate of Return
6.10      No inclusive economic rate of return (ERR) can be estimated for
the CMDA program as a whole because of its many non-quantifiable effects.
However, an ERR has been estimated for a segment of the program for which
quantification is possible (see Annex 11). This segment aceounts for close
to 50% of the total CMDA investment through 1981 and includes the watet,
drainage and housing sectors. The ERR for this segment of the program is
at least 10%. This excludes substantial non-quantifiable direct and indirect
benefits, such as improvements in public health. The ERR for the other half
of the CMDA program is probably of similar magnitude but it is not possible
to support this with a satisfactory quantitative estimated.



- 37 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMYENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were received on the following
points:
(a) consolidation of implementing responsibilities for water,
sewerage and drainage sub-projects within CMDA (para. 3.07);
(b)  assignment of responsibility for operation and maintenance
of projects completed after CMDA's next two fiscal years
(para. 3.09);
(c) reorganization of the garbage services in Calcutta (para. 3.14);
(d) reimbursement by the State Government of the costs of opera-
ting and maintaining the new major urban service facilities
created under the CMDA program which cannot be met by other'
revenues of the responsible agencies and municipalities
(para. 3.24);
(e) compilation of annual forecasts of operating and maintenance
costs for service systems incorporating CMDA projects (para.
3.24);
(f)  preparation of a plan for improving the financial performance
of agencies and municipalities in the Metropolitan District
(para. 3.26);
(g) onlending of the IDA credit proceeds by GOWB to CMDA (para.
5.12);
(h) use and scope of consultants assistance for:
(i)  studies of the organizational and operations and
maintenance requirements in the water, sewerage
and drainage sectors (para. 3.13);
(ii) determination of means by which water supply, sewer-
age and drainage services in the CND can be most
economically and effectively provided (para. 3.13);
(iii) updating plans for water, sewerage, drainage,
traffic and transportation, and in the analysis
and programming of community facilities and
urban land development (para. 4.05).



- 38 -
7.02      During negotiations an understanding was reached with GOWB on the
operational and financial objectives for the future management of urban
services in the Metropolitan District (para. 3.25).
7.03      The following were made conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a)  establishment within CMDA of an engineering management unit
(para. 3.06);
(b)  determination of terms of onlending to CMDA acceptable to
IDA (para. 5.12>.
7.04      As an additional condition of credit effectiveness for the area
development project components, CMDA will provide final project reports
acceptable to IDA (para. 5.05).
7.05    'Subject to the assurances and fulfillment of conditions des-
cribed-above, the project provides a satisfactory basis for a develop-
ment credit of US$35,million equivalent to the Government of India.



ANNEXES AND APPENDICES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ANNEX 1:   Growth of Population in India, West Bengal and CMD,
1901-1971
ANNEX 2:   Comparison of Water Supply Levels in Nine Cities
ANNEX 3:   Comparison of Existing Sewerage Services in Four Cities
ANNEX 4:   Physical Characteristics of the Housing Situation in
Seven Cities
ANNEX 5:   Motorized Travel in the Calcutta Metropolitan Center, 1971
ANNEX 6:   Organization and Staffing of CMDA
ANNEX 7:   The CMDA Program
ANNEX 8:   Implementation of the CNDA Program
ANNEX 9:   Finance of the CMDA Program
ANNEX 10:  The IDA Project
ANNEX 11:  Economic Evaluation of the CMDA Program
ANNEX 12:  Contracting Procedures
ANNEX 13:  Estimates Schedule of Disbursements
ANNEX 14:  Lorenz Curves for the Income Distribution of Families
in Durgapur, Calcutta and Urban India
ANNEX 15:  Distribution of CND Population by Water Supply Levels,
1970/71 and 1981
ANNEX 16:  Lorenz Curves showing the Water Distribution of the CMD
Population, 1970/71 and 1981
CHART:     CMDA Organization






INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GROWTH OF POPULATION IN INDIA, WEST BENGAL, AND CMD, 1901-1971
Population (millions)           Relative shares (M)                        Annual growth rates- (%)
Year    India   West Bengal    CMD      West Bengal(3)    CMD (4)
India (2)     West Bengal (3)  Period    India    West Bengal    CMD
(1)      (2)       (3)         (4)          (5)          -  (6)            (7)       (8)         (9)        (10)
1901     238       16.9        2.0        7.10             11.8
1911     252       18.0        2.2         7.15            12.2         1901-11     0.5         0.6          1.0
1921     251       17.5        2.3        6.97             13.1         1911-21    -0.1        -0.2          0.4
1931     280       18.9        2.5        6.75             13.2         1921-31      1.1        0.8          0.8
1941     319       23.2        4.3        7.28             18.5         1931-41      1.3        2.1          5.6
1951     361       26.3        5.4         7.29            20.5         1941-51      1.3        1.3          2.3
1961     439       34.9        6.7         7.94            19.2         1951-61      2.0        2.9          2.3
1971     547       44.4        8.3        8.13             18.7         1961-71      2.2        2.5          2.1
1931-51     1.3        1.7          4.0
Source: Census of India



INDIA                               ANNEX 2
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COMPARISON OF WATER SUPPLY LEVELS IN NINE CITIES
Resident          Water
Population        Supply
(000's)         (gpcd)1'
(1)             (2)
Calcutta City (1971, 1970/71)2/                          3,141            42
CMD, corporations and municipalities
(1971, 1970/71)                                       6,653            27
CMD  (1971, 1970/71)                                     8,348            22
CMD  (1981, 1981)                                       9,879             42
Madras City  (1971, 1971) 3/                             2,470            19
Greater Bombay  (1971, 1971/72) 4/                       5,969            34
Greater Bombay  (1981, 1980/81) 4/                       7,800            47
Delhi Urban Agglomeration (1971, 1971)- 3/               3,630            48
Bangkok - Thonburi  (1971, 1968) 5I                      2,972            55
Greater London  (1970, 1969) 6/                          7,500            50
Tokyo City  (1970, 1969) 6/                              8,841            63
Paris City  (1970, 1969) 6/                              2,590            71
New York City (1970, 1967) 6/                            7,772           116
1/  Expressed in gallons (imperial) per resident person and day.
2/  The first year refers to the population figure in Column (1).
3/  Information on water supply furnished by the Department of Health, Ministry
of Health and Family Planning, Government of India.
4/  IBED, Appraisal of Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project, India, Report
No. 88-IN, Asia Projects Department, March 2, 1973; Annex 7, p. 1 and
Table 1. En route the industrial supply has been subtracted from total supply
but estimated leakage has been included to arrive at supply figures comparable
to those for Calcutta. For instance, for 1971/72: 34 = (13.6-0.6-2.2) * 24 *
3600/ (4.546 * 5.969 * 1,000). The data given by the Department of Health
(see note 3/) indicate a per capita supply of 37 gpcd in Greater Bombay.
5/ IBRD, Urbanization/Thailand/1971; Draft report prepared by James E. Bogle,
consultant, October 1971; p. 66.
6/ Tokyo Municipal Newsj Vol. 22, No. 7; Sept/Oct. 1972; p. 8.



INDIA
ANNEX 3
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COMPARISON OF EXISTING SEWERAGE SERVICES IN FOUR CITIES
Population                 Population
unserved or                served by
served by                  water borne
privies and                sewerage,
tanks, in %   Sewered      in % of
No. of         No. of    of total       area, in %  total
service        septic    population    of total    population
privies        tanks     in the area       area      in the area
(1)          (2)          (3)           (4)            (5)
Calcutta Corporation      42,000 1/       n.a.         34            54 1/          66 2/
Howrah                     23,500 3/      5,000 3/    100              0 1/           0
Rest of CMD 4/             86,350 3/    44,700 3/      98              1              2
CMD                      151,850        49,700         74             5             26
Bombay City 5/              1,000           100        22           n.aJ-/           78
Suburbs 5/                10,500        15,750         42           n.a.            58
Greater Bombay            11,500        15,850         32           n.a.            68
Madras City                 n.a.           n.a.       n.a.          n.a.            65 -
Delhi U.A.                 n.a.           n.a.        n.a.          n.a.            60 2/
1/  CMPO, Basic Development Plan;  op. cit., p. 17.  1964-65 figures.  (The number
of service privies was 39,000 on March 31, 1970, according to Corporation of
Calcutta Year Book 1971-72, p. 337).
2/  Estimates furnished by the Department of Health, Ministry of Health and
Family Planning, Government of India.
3/ CMPO,- Report on the Finances and Administration of the Municipalities of
the CMD, Appendix VI, 1964 figures.
4/  Data on the number of privies and tanks refer to municipalities only.
5/  IBRD,  Appraisal of Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project, India,
op. cit., and mission estimates.   Aqua privies have been classified
as septic tanks, and basket privies as service privies. In partly sewered
suburban areas it has been assumed that 50% of the population is served by
underground sewerage.
6/  The city area is said to be fully sewered with the exception of low-lying areas
where septic tanks are provided.



ANNEX 4
IhDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE HOUSING SITUATION IN SEVEN CITIES
Demand Side             TSu _pply Side                                              Market  CBaracteristics
Average              Roos               Units with      Householda   Persons                         Squatter and
N/ Number of   Household    Housing   per                Non-permanent       per         per      Persons    Sq. a.   Slur Population
Population    Households    Size         Units   Housing  Roons    walls, in %       Housing     Housing      Per       per      in % of total
(o000s)       (000's)   (Persons)    (000's)  Unit        (COW's) of all units        Unit       Unit      Room      Pers        population
(1)           (2)           (3)         (4)     (5)      (6)         (7)             (8)         (9)       (10)      (11)          (12)
Calcutta (1961)                   2,927           976         3.0          6v09    1.61      982       25.2           1.60        4.81       2.98        3.66         25
Rest of CMD (1961)                3,805         1,268         3.0          780    1.57     1,223        39.0          1.63         4.88      3.11                     41
3i             v~ ~ ~                                                                             12/
CMD (1961)                        6,732         2,244         3.0        1,389    1.59     2,205        33.0          1.61         4.85      3.05                     34
BombaY City (1968)                3,196'                                   594                                                     5.38
v                           V~~~~~~~6                                                                                  7/
Greater Bombay (1968)             5,384                                 1,023                                                      5.26                               137
Madras  City (1961)               1,729           351         4.9          279                          28.7          1.26         6.20                               25-
Durgapur (1966)                     178            42         4.2                             81                                             2.2
"Irb        ~~15/26
Urban India (1961)                                    6/         E                                                                           2.68/                        9/
ManlLa City (1965)                1,081           169         6.4                                                                                        5.8          40
Tokyo City (1970)                 8,833                                                                                                                 6.o
Greater Stockholm (1960)          1,150          422          2.7         427    3.09      1,320         0            0.99        2.7        o.84                      0
1/  Including institutional and houseless population which is not known for all cities,in order to mane the market cixarcteristics more comparable.
In the CM0D the institutional population was about 366,000 persons in 1961, while the honeless population amounted to zone 30,000 persons.
2/ CMPO, Technica-l Supplement to the Basic Development Plan, p. 75.
G. Thomas Kingsley and Frank S. Kristor, A Housing Policy ror Metropolitan Calcutta, A Recomaendation to the Ford FOUndation Advisory
Planning Group with the CMPO, mimeo., Calcutta, M<rch 1971, Table 4.  (The small size is said to be a reflection of the low female to male
ratio and the predominance of single-member male households. The same average size is assumed throughout the CMD).
State Statistical Bureau, Government of West Bengal, Survey of Housing Coditions in Calcutta Corporation Area 1963, Calcutta, 1967, Table 1.03.
5/ The year after the name of the area refers to the year to which nest of the data applies.
6/  IERD, Report on BMbaY, Special Projects Department, March, 1971, Annex I, Table 1.2.
7/&
12)Information furnished by the Department of Health, Ministry of Health and Family Planning, Government of India.
8/)
9/ ) Rural Development and Local Administration Department, Governoment of Tamil Nadu, Madras Metropolitan Plan 1971-1991, January 1971.
8// ) : P. 5; 9/: P. 68; 29/: p. 69, (Kutcha structures only); 2/: p. 69.
L3/ CMPO, Basic Development Plan, p. 91.
/ Asansol Planning Organization, et. al., A Perspective Structure Plan for Durgapur, pp. 5-6.
15/ Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, India, A Reference Annual, 1971-72; p. 475.
16/ )
'/ ) City of Mthila, Manila, Its Needs and Resources;  1967. 1/: p. 20; 17/: p. 21;  I/: p. 172.
L2/ Aprodicio A. Laquian, Slums and Squatters in Six Philippine Cities, mineo., International Development Research Centre, Ottawa, Canada;
March 1972, p. 38;  (nly total squatter and  lum population given, so dates or total city population. 1970 city population has been
used in arriving at the figure 40t.)
20/ Tokyo for the People, Tokyo, March 1972, p. 26.
L/  Stockholmtraktens regionplanekontor,  Skiss 1966 til regionplan for Stockholmstralten,  Stockholm 1967.



ANNEX 5
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MOTORIZED TRAVEL IN THE CALCUTTA METROPOLITAN CENTER, 1971
Person Trips                  Percent of
Transport Mode                      (OO0's/day)                      Total
Road Transport
Bus  - Private                     2,800                          50
Bus  - State                         750                         13
Tram                                 700                         12
Sub-total             4,250                          75
Car                                  440                          8
Taxi                                 220                          4
Motorcycle                            60                          1
Sub-total               720                          13
Sub-total Road Transport           4,970
Rail Transport
Suburban Rail                        700                         12
TOTAL                 5,670                         100
Source:   Mission estimate based on recent travel data.






ANNEX 6
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND STAFFING OF THE CMDA
1.        CMDA was established in 1970 during a period of President's rule
in West Bengal and has subsequently gained further sanctions by means of the
Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority Act, 1972, one of the first
acts of the present elected State Legislature. Under Section 15 of the Act,
CMDA is made responsible for:
(a) the formulation, subject to the approval of the State Government,
of plans for the development of the Calcutta Metropolitan District
or such part thereof as it may think fit;
(b) the coordination of the execution of plans, approved by the State
Government, for the development of any area within the Calcutta
Metropolitan District;
(c) the supervision of the execution of any project for the develop-
ment of any area within the Calcutta Metropolitan District, the
expenses of the whole or any part of which are met from its funds;
and
(d) the financing and execution of any project in any plan for the
development of the Calcutta Metropolitan District or any part
thereof.
The organizational structure of CMDA is shown in the Chart.
2.   The powers of the Authority are vested in a Board consisting of three
State officials and three municipal officials with the Chief Minister of the
State as chairman. The principal executive officer is the Secretary who
reports to the Board. The State officials are the Financial Commissioner,
the Commissioner, Development and Planning, and the Commissioner, Town and
Country Planning who is also vice-chairman. The municipal officials are
selected from a West Bank municipality, from an East Bank municipality and
from the Calcutta Corporation. The Town and Country Planning Branch of the
Development and Planning Development is the administrative agency for the
CMDA (as well as for the Calcutta Metropolitan Planning Organization (CNPO)).



ANNEX 6
Page 2
3.        CMDA's present form of organization was devised by the Administrative
Staff College, Hyderabad. Under the Secretary, the principal executives are:
- seven program coordination units, one for each sector and each
headed by a special engineer or program administrator; 1/
- the bustee improvement organization for the program carried out
directly by the CMDA;
- the municipal and anchal development wing for CMDA schemes in
the municipal areas;
- common service units, finance and accounts, purchase and stores,
land acquisition and information and public relations.
4.        The program coordination units are concerned with the sanction and
follow-up of projects, the bustee organization and municipal and anchal
development wing with execution of projects and the common service units with
service for the entire program.  The CMDA purchases and stores unit is concerned
with central bulk procurement of construction materials required for the program.
It operates its own terminals and warehouses, it employs a staff of expediters
and has aggressively sought new sources of supply for gravel, bricks and
crushed stone. The land acquisition unit follows up on actions initiated by
implementing agencies. !he information and public relations unit seeks to in-
form the public through radio, film and press of the efforts being made to
improve the CMD and to gain and maintain public support for that effort.
5.        The Secretary of the CMDA and the chief of the Bustee Improvement
Organization are members of Indian Administrative Service. The functionally
defined program coordination units are headed by Special Engineers or Program
Administrators, who are usually of the rank of Senior Superintending Engineer.
Under them are Chief Engineers responsible for monitoring ongoing projects.
The common service units such as finance and accounts, purchase and stores,
land acquisition, and information and public affairs are each headed by a
senior and experienced officer. Assistance in project evaluation is given
by a Technical Adviser and by two former chief engineers engaged on a part-
time basis.
6.        Altogether CMDA has an executive corps of fewer than thirty pro-
fessionals. Many of them have received training outside of India through Ford
Foundation support.  As the investment program proceeds, CMDA will require
additional personnel and will undoubtedly encounter difficulty in finding more
professionals of the same quality as those originally hired. Executing and
operating agencies will be in a similar situation. CMDA has recognized the need
for training and has prepared a pilot scheme for its own internal training with
Ford Foundation backing.  It has also supported a proposal for the training of
middle and higher level professionals in all urban planning, executing and opera-
ting agencies in the CMD within an urban development institute.
1/   Water supply, sanitation and drainage, housing, urban transport, health,
schools and parks, and playgrounds.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
THE CMDA PROGRAM
A. Background
1.         In 1966 the CMO drew upon its completed studies in the fields of
water supply, drainage, sewerage and traffic and transportation to produce
the Basic Development Plan for the Calcutta Metropolitan Distrct 1966-1986,
(BDP) (Annex 5). The BDP identified massive deficiencies in the CMD infra-
structure (see Annex 2) and incorporated the 1965 Memorandum - a document
submitted to the Central Government identifying priority projects totalling
Rs 100 crores to be taken up during the 4th Plan, then scheduled for 1966/69-
1970/71. Difficulties were encountered in completing the 3rd Plan targets
and the start of the 4th Plan was subsequently delayed two years until 1969/70.
2.         The West Bengal portion of the current 4th Plan amounts to Rs 322
crores, of which projects in the CMD total nearly Rs 43 crores. The CMD
share is broken down as follows:
Sector                   Number of            Fourth 5-Year Plan
Projects                Total Outlay
(Rs crores)
Water Supply                     14                       10.76
Sewerage and Drainage            16                      15.95
Urban Transport                  14                      10.22
Garbage Disposal                  1                       2.03
Housing/Area Development          2                        3.66
Other Schemes                     1                         .27
Total           48                       42.89
The Rs 43 crores Plan allocation marked the first instance in which a specific
urban development fund for the CMD was separated from the sectoral budgets
for the state as a whole.
3.         At the end of the first year of the 4th Plan (1969/70) about 20
projects were under execution and expenditure had amounted to only Rs 3.14
crores. The initial rate of disbursement was well below the targeted rate
and it became increasingly clear that even the successful execution of the
entire Rs 43 crores 4th Plan program would not be enough to arrest deteri-
oration in vital services or to make significant improvements. In mid-1970
the Prime Minister decided to take action and directed the Union Cabinet
Secretary to seek agreement with State and local officials on a broad develop-
ment program. The Center's initiative resulted in a Rs 150 crores 4th Plan
program for the CMD and the creation of CMDA.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
4.         CMDA's continually evolving investment program is based on the
initial Rs 43 crore 4th Plan program supplemented by projects included on
the basis of the BDP and related sector plan recommendations, further plan-
ning and practical expediency. Project priorities to date have been largely
based on the stage of project preparation before the CMDA program or the
ease of completion of preparation. Nevertheless, by CMDA's own planning
initiative in the fields of bustee improvements, housing, environmental
hygiene and others, new programs have been added, old ones modified, and
general recommendations have been projectized, resulting in important broad-
ening and refinement of program content.
5.         With only one year of the Plan period remaining almost all of
CMDA's Rs 150 crore 4th Plan program has been projectized, project preparation
completed and execution well advanced. Proposals for the 5th Plan including
carry over from projects initiated in the 4th Plan period have already been
prepared. In most sectors the new projects to be taken up in the 5th Plan
period are already relatively well defined but a number will be incomplete
with respect to technical, organizational or financial preparation until
their scheduled time of execution approaches. For this reason the "program"
analyzed with respect to financial and implementation arrangements in Annexes
7 and 8 consists only of the projects initiated in the 4th Plan period. This
annex, however, describes the cost and functionalcontent of the total 4th and
proposed 5th Plan programs which have already been well defined even for the
new 5th Plan projects.
The 4th and 5th Plan Programs
6.         Projects in seven different fields are included in the 4th and 5th
Plan programs. The four most important, urban transport, sewerage and drainage,
water supply and housing/area development, together account for about three-
fourths of the total planned investment in 4th Plan and four-fifths in the 5th
Plan (see Table 1). The other fields are slum improvement, garbage disposal
and environmental hygiene and special projects (health and education, and
miscellaneous). Total programmed investment during the 4th Plan period is
Rs 167 crores distributed as shown in Table 1. Actual investment is expected
to be less, probably about Rs 150 crores, on the basis of a firmly established
budget ceiling which is probably somewhat lower than constraints on implement-
ing capacity and materials would otherwise impose. The rate of investment
reached Rs 33 crores in 1971/72 and a total of Rs 39 crores from the beginning
of the 4th Plan. Investment reaching the level of Rs 60 crores per annum is
scheduled for each of the last two years of the Plan period.  The CMDA proposals
for Rs 340 crores expenditures during the 5th Plan reflect a much higher total
level of investment but annual rates not much greater than that programmed for
the final years of the 4th Plan period (see Table 1).
7.         The CMD program comprises the bulk of total public investment effort
in the CMD in many of the sectors of urban development but not in all, e.g.
urban transport. The two major urban transport projects to be implemented out-
side the C.MDA program, the Princep Ghat Bridge and the Rapid Transit System, are
also shown in Table 1.  The two projects may account for about Rs 30 crores of
nvestment in the 4th Plan period and Rs 140 crores in the 5th Plan period.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Comparison with Urban Investment in Bombay
8.        The attempt has been made to compare the identifiable urban invest-
ment program in the CMD (as presented in Table 1) with that for other metro-
politan areas in India. The only comparison which could be made with readily
available data was with the Bombay Metropolitan Region (see Table 2). The
comparison made is not based on an exhaustive analysis of data and should
therefore be interpreted with caution. The major qualifications that must be
made are that the relative completeness of data coverage of actual total urban
investment in Bombay and Calcutta is unknown, differences in the existing
service levels for comparable services which are the starting points for the
two investment programs are incomplete,the relative population growth during
the investment periods will not be the same (that in Bombay is likely to be
higher than that in Calcutta, which would imply that more investments should
be needed in Bombay per 1971 inhabitant just to maintain current service
levels) and operating cost differentials are not considered (trade-offs between
investment and operating costs are important when only a short time period is
compared). Nevertheless, it is possible to conclude that the overall rate of
investment in Calcutta is lower than in Bombay. In particular, water supply
investment in Calcutta appears to be substantially lower than in Bombay,
while the opposite seems to be the case for transport investment. If the Rapid
Transit System is excluded from the Calcutta figures, then total investment,
as well as transport investment, will be substantially lower in Calcutta than
in Bombay. RTS investment would represent about 25% of total identified public
investment in the CMD during the mid-70's.
9.        The lower rate of investment in the CMD must also be considered in
the light of local resource mobilization in West Bengal that has been much
lower than that in Maharashtra in the Fourth Plan period and which is likely
to remain lower in the Fifth Plan period even with improved performance.
The Program and Urban Development
10.       The CMDA Program and other large public investment projects are
parts of a large scale governmental effort to improve conditions and promote
development in the CMD. The projects and priorities are derived from detailed
sector plans most of which were prepared in the mid-1960's and brought together
in the Basic Development Plan (BDP) (see Annex 5).   The BDP provided a unify-
ing mechanism for the separate sector plans and also outlined the fundamental
complementarity between recommended projects in the various sectors and other
governmental actions in achieving several broad development aims beyond the
objective of improving the standard of'Livability" in the urbanized area which
was the basis of the sector plans. The strategic development goals of the BDP
were to stimulate private investment and economic activity and to guide both
economic and spatial development. The BDP has, however, remained a static
document and few of the strategic policies it proposed have been adopted or
put into effect. Neither have the sector studies and other planning investi-
gations which followed the BDP (mass transport, housing, bustee improvement,
etc.) produced any clear development policies.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
11.       The CMDA and the CMDA Program are primarily concerned with the
provision of service facilities and not with the broader development and
operating policies to which they relate.  By its involvement in project
execution in several sectors in many parts of the CMD, however, CMDA has
observed gaps and conflicts in projects within and between sectors and has
been able to adjust its program to reduce such occurrences. It is also
increasinglyconcerned with coordinating its own project efforts in individ-
ual areas.   By such means the program is beginning to have a fairly broad
scale impact on livability in already populated areas which have been
deficient in one or more basic urban services (see Annex 11).
12.       The lag in providing development policy guidelines has signifi-
cantly limited CMDA's ability to gear its program to the achievement of the
other more strategic goals of the BDP; stimulating and guiding development.
The deficiencies in the present planning guidelines are felt particularly
strongly in programming of improvements for those locations in the CMD which
because of the introduction or improvement in one or more services or exogen-
ous factors become potential but not completely serviced development areas.
Without continuous planning, implementation and promotion, development cannot
be effectively stimulated and guided and the CMDA program cannot be said to
address more than the second of these activities. Ongoing planning of develop-
ment areas is one of the functions of CMPO for which staff and financial
resources are to be reviewed (see Annex 5) but promotion is not a direct func-
tion of any existing agcncy.
13.       In the following sections each of the major CMDA program sectors
is described in terms of its content and relation to basic development policies.
B. Water Supply
14.       Investment in water supply projects undertaken early in the 4th
Plan period was consistent with the Master Plan for Water Supply (see Annex 5)
although at a lower level than recommended. The PHED began construction of
small groundwater systems which would provide 20 gpcd in localities with no
water services and the Calcutta Corporation began expansion of the Palta
Treatment Plant and drilled a number of wells to augment supplies in specific
parts of its system. These and other initial 4th Plan projects totalling
nearly Rs 11 crores were absorbed into the CMDA Program and served as the
start of CMDA's Rs 30 crore 4th Plan program. Due to the initial delays in
implementation the Interim and Intermediate phases of the Master Plan proposals
have been consolidated within CMDA's program to meet the 1981 Master Plan goals
and targets.
15.       The total estimated cost of water supply projects presently
identified in CMDA's 4th and 5th Plan program is about Rs 63 crores
(US$82   million) (see Table 1).   i ;New projects are scheduled to begin in
the 5th Plan period and the amount programmed for the period includes pro-
visions for extension and revision of presently identified projects which makes
it greater than the direct spillover from the 4th Plan.



ANN'EX 7
Page 5
16.       In conformity with the Master Plan, CMDA has centered its present
program in three of the five service districts; Calcutta, Garden Reach and
Howrah (see Map 4). These service districts contain the CYD's greatest
concentration of population and economic activity. The Garden Reach Service
District has an added need in that its present groundwater supplies are high
in iron content wnich necessitates additional treatment and more frequent
replacement of wells due to accrustation.
17.       The total estimated cost of identified water supply projects of
about Rs 63 crores is concentrated in the service districts outside Calcutta.
Investment in the permanent surface water system in the Calcutta Service
District totals about Rs 13 crores or about Rs 40 per 1981 inhabitant (see
Table 3). The planned expenditure of about Rs 31 crores for Dermanent surface
water systems and Rs 13 crores for interim systems in other service districts
represents a total expenditure of more than Rs 70 per 1981 inhabitant (see
Tables 4 and 5), Excluding the portion of investment in interim facilities
not recoverable in the permanent systems, programmed investment in the other
service districts is about Rs 60 per 1981 inhabitant. Expenditures of about
Rs 6 crores in the fringe areas (see Table 5) represent an investment of about
Rs 25 per 1981 inhabitant.
18.       The allocation of expenditures between plant, transmission and distri-
bution in Calcutta and the combined service districts outside are shown in
Tables 3 and 4. About one-fourth of expenditure s in Calcutta are for plant
compares to about one-half in the other service districts. This allocation
is seen to provide a reasonable balance between source and distribution capacity
by the end of the 5th Plan period, 1979.
19.       The general description of the projects and progress to date will be
discussed by Service District.
20.       The Calcutta Service District of the Calcutta Corporation is the
major implementing agency for CMDA water supply projects in the District. CMWSA,
CMPO and CMDA are responsible for single projects in the District. As mentioned
in para. 14, the Corporation had started a number of projects which were later
incorporated into the CMDA Program. These projects included the augmentation
and renovation of the Palta Treatment Plant, the repair and partial replace-
ment of a 60" transmission main from Palta to the Tallah Pumping Station in
Calcutta and the drilling of wells to relieve shortages in specific areas of
its distribution system.
21.       Work at Palta is well advanced.  A new rapid sand filter plant
complete with intakes, raw water pumping works, clarifiers, filters and high
service pumps is now in operation. This facility produces an additional 60 Mgd
of filtered water. This was carried out under project WS/001 and is now com-
plete except for final clean up.   The improvement of the slow sand filter
operations has also been undertaken. The raw water storage reservoir and
settling tanks serving the slow sand filters have been cleaned and renovated
and are now functioning satisfactorily. The slow sand filters are in the
process of renovation and are at present nearing a production rate of 90 Mgd
The improvement works have included the provision of new sand washing equip-
ment which will greatly facilitate maintenance. When renovation is completed
in mid-1973 the filters are expected to provide 90 Mg4 under normal operations



ANNEX 7
Page 6
and 100 Mgd during emergencies of short duration. At that time the capacity
of the Palta plant will be as follows:
New rapid sand filters                  60 Mgd
Old rapid sand filters                  18 Mgd
Slow sand filters                      90 Mgd
168 Mgd
22.-    The pumping facilities at the Palta plant for both raw water and
high service, are adequate in capacity for the 168 Mgd but in need of repair
and renovation. They include some steam units which must be replaced in the
near future. Renovation of some units is underway but the complete renovation
including the replacement of the steam units with electrical units is still
in the planning stage.
23.       The transmission facilities from the Palta plant to the Tallah pump-
ing works consist of four parallel mains:
Size           Material            Capacity
42"'           Cast Iron             6 Mgd
48"            Cast Iton            24 Mgd
60"            Steel                56 Mgd
712"           Steel                90 Mgd
176 Mgd
All of the mains are in good condition except the 60" main which is now in
the process of renovation.  A portion of the main is being encased in con-
crete under Project WS,/007 and approximately 7 miles will be replaced by a
new steel main under Project WS/017. The section being incased in concrete
is nearing completion and the steel plate for the new pipe has been received.
Work on the installation of the new section is scheduled to start immediately.
Until the completion of its renovation in March 1974, the 60" main cannot be
considered as a reliable facility and thus the present total dependable trans-
mission capacity is 120 Mgd. When renovation is complete the 42" cast iron main
will be transferred to the Palta service district as a component of its
primary grid leaving a total transmission capacity from Palta to Tallah of 170 Mgd.
As additional transmission capacity is required in the future, it is planned
to increase the pressure in the existing mains rather than instal additional
mains.
24.       Over 25 Mgd of additional ground water has been provided by more
than 100 deep wells located throughout the service district.  These supplies
are needed to provide water at specific locations where distribution in the
filtered water system is inadequate.
25.       At the completion of projects now underway, around March 1974, the
water available to the Calcutta Service District will be:
Filtered water (Palta)             168 Mgd
New groundwater source              25 Mgd
Old groundwater source              24 Mgd
217 Mgd



ANNEX 7
Page 7
26.       The maximum daily demand of the 1981 population of 3.23 million
has been calculated at 202 Mgd 1/ without allowance for industrial use which
is estimated to be 25 Mgd. The industrial demand was not added to the
maximum day domestic demand to determine plant capacities for systems in the
Intermediate Phase of the Master Plan.  This supply appears adequate for the
Intermediate Phase requirement but it is planned to retire a part of the
inefficient groundwater sources before 1981. In any case the major supply
constraints in the Calcutta District until 1981 are in the distribution sys-
tem not at the source.
27.       The Tallah Pumping Works is in the process of renovation which in-
cludes the replacement of the steam powered pumps with electric unit. (Project
WS/007).   With the completion of the renovation the works will be capable of
providing water to the distribution system as needed for the 1981 demands.
28.       Renovation and strengthening of the filtered water distribution
system is underway (Project WS/007) . Lines are being repaired, particularly
large steel mains which have been attacked by corrosion. New lines to augment
weaker sections of the system are being laid.  The system is being extended
in the Manicktala,  Topsia and Tangra areas (Project WS/019).   Booster
stations are to be installed at two locations to improve pressures in the central
and southern parts of the city where conditions are most critical. At one site
an existing reservoir will be used and at the second a new reservoir will be
constructed. This project, WS/004, will provide more uniform pressures through-
out the system and probably the most important project in the Calcutta Service
District.
29.       The majority of the projects now underway in the Calcutta Service
District will be completed during the 4th Plan period. However, there may be a
minor carryover particularly in projects WS/004, WS/007 and WS/017.   With the
completion of the projects now in progress, the critical problems of the system
will be principally in the distribution system. Substantial renovation and
strengthening remain to be done and the unfiltered systems must be incorporated
into the filtered system before the distribution of water will be satisfactory.
Cathodic protection of the mains (Project WS/018) is not expected to be well
underway until the 5th Plan. It is intended to start new sub-projects during
the 5th Plan which would provide for renovation and electrification of the
pumping works at Palta, additional renovations at Tallah, extensive renovation
strengthening and extension of the distribution system and the incorporation
of the unfiltered system into the filtered water system.   Expenditures will
approximate those during the 4th Plan period.
1/ Average daily demand 3.23 million persons x 50 gcd x 1.25 (peak load
factor) = 202 Mgd.



ANNEX 7
Page 8
30.       The CMDA program does not now include a project for waste abate-
ment. Nevertheless, wastage of water in the Calcutta Service District is
substantial, a large portion of the wastage apparently resulting from the
overflow from ground and roof tanks, open taps, etc. The Calcutta Corporation
maintains that leakage in the distrib-ution grids is negligible, however,
actual field tests have not been undertaken. A waste survey followed by a
waste elimination program is urgently required and is proposed as part of the
IDA project.
31.       The Garden Reach Service District is located on the east bank of
the Hooghly River south of the City of Calcutta and includes some areas irk
the soutern part of the city itself. The District includes several
municipalities and a substantial unincorporated area. There is no local
government with jurisdiction over the entire District.
32.       Interim water supplies providing 20 ged through systems consisting
of deep wells, small reservoirs and limited distribution systems have been
installed in most of the District under Projects WS/008, WS/009, WS!012 and
WS/016. The quality of ground water in the area is poor. Most of the supplies
are provided with simple iron removal facilities but the water remains below
acceptable standard. In addition the well strainers become encrusted in short
period requiring frequent repairs or replacement. Work is underway to increase
the capacity of the interim system in the South Suburban area to 40 gcd. As
in the case of the interi-m system the distribution piping will be incorporated
into the future filtered water system. This is being carried out under Project
WS/011.
33.       Due primarily to the poor quality of ground water with the high cost
of maintaining wells in the District the Garden Reach Treatment Plant (WS/020)
was given priority in the CNDA program. There is also an increasing population
and a growing industrial demand for water.
34.       The intake of the Garden Reach plant will be in the Hooghly River at
a location selected with the assistance of the consulting engineers during
the preparation of the Master Plan. The intake will consist of a pier
supporting the suction pipes and a pumping station which will deliver the
water to the treatment plant site located some distance from the river. The
treatment facilities will include a pre-settling basin, chemical precipitation
facilities, rapid sand filters, chlorination and high service pumps. Two 4.2
million gallon ground level storage reservoirs will be located at strategic
points in the system with booster pumping facilities. The major distribution
grid will be of prestressed concrete pressure pipe and in accordance with the
network design of the Master Plan. Although the final design has not been
completed preliminary work has started in the intake structure and treatment
plant foundations. The completion of the 60 Mgd system is scheduled for 1978
well within the 5th Plan period.



ANNEX 7
Page 9
35.       The Howrah Service District is the southern portion of the west
bank of the Hooghly River. The District includes the municipalities of
Howrah and Bally and a number of both urban and rural non-municipal areas.
Prior to 1966 the District had a total supply of less than 9 Mgd. This
supply has been increased by the installation of interim systems consisting
of deep wells, pumping facilities, a small reservoir and a limited distri-
bution network under Project WS/021. The present supply is around 40 Mgd.
36.       Designs have been completed and construction started on a 40 Mgd
water treatment plant which will include an intake,suction piping and raw
water pumps on the Hooghly. The treatment will include chemical precipitation,
rapid sand filtration and chlorination.  This work is being carried out under
Project WS/021. A primary grid of prestressed concrete pressure pipe will be
installed under Project WS/026.   Secondary grids and the incorporation of
the existing small systems into the District system will be carried out as a
part of WS/011. A 4.2 mg concrete ground level storage reservoir with booster
pumping facilities will complete the system. This project will be completed
during the 5th Five Year Plan.
37.       The Palta Service District is on the east bank of the Hooghly River
north of the city of Calcutta and includes a number of municipalities plus
both urban and rural non-municipal areas. There is no local governmental unit
with jurisdiction over the entire District.
38.       Most of the District has been covered by interim systems provided
under emergency water supply projects WS/008, WS/009, WS/013, WS/014 and
WS/015. These systems consisting of wells, pumping works, a small reservoir
and a limited distribution system are designed to provide 20 gcd. Interim
supplies in the higher demand areas of the District are being augmented to
provide 40 gcd, under Project WS/IOI which covers the CMD outside Calcutta.
Parts of these systems, principally the distribution piping will eventually
be incorporated into the permanent system.
39.       A 60 Mgd treatment plant is provided for in Project WS/022.  However,
this project is still in the design stage and only limited physical work is
expected to be undertaken in the 4th Plan period. The project is scheduled
for completion during the 5th Plan period.
40.       The primary grid which will tie the interim systems together will
be undertaken during the 5th Plan period to coincide with the completion of
the water treatment plant. This grid will include the existing 42" cast
iron main now used for transmission between Palta and Tallah and additional
prestressed concrete pressure mains.
41.       The Serampore Service District is located on the northern portion
of the west bank of the Hooghly River. The District includes several muni-
cipalities, an urban non-municipal area and substantial semi-rural areas.
There is no local government with jurisdiction over the entire District.



ANNEX 7
Page 10
42.       In 1966 the Serampore District had several small ground and surface
water systems providing about 9 Mgd of water. Since 1966 this supply has
been increased to about 17 Mgd through small interim ground water systems.
Ground water of good quality is available at a fairly shallow depth. There-
fore some of these systems will be upgraded to meet Intermediate Phase require-
ments and remain in service permanently.
43.       During the 5th Year Plan a 25 Mgd treated water system will be in-
stalled which will include intake, raw water pumps, chemical precipitation,
rapid sand filters and chlorination under Project WS1025. Primary grids for.
the system are to be built under Project WS/026 and the system will be aug-
mented and the small systems incorporated under Project WS/011. This work
is still in the planning stage but is scheduled for completion near the end
of the 5th Five Year Plan.
44.       The Fringe Area consists of rural and semi-rural areas on the
periphery of the CMD which will not be incorporated into Service Districts
in the forseeable future.  These areas at present have no public water supplies.
The population relies on private wells, tanks, ponds, ditches and other
polluted or questionable sources of water.
45.       Project WS/l00 will provide water to these areas through small sys-
tems consisting of deep tube wells, pumping works, a reservoir and distri-
bution systems. Complete design reports are prepared for each project includ-
ing detailed specification. The project will continue throughout the 5th Five
Year Plan until the entire population of the Fringe Area is provided with 20 gcd
of water.
46.       All water will be sold on the basis of metered consumption.  There
:ill be no public standpipes. It is intended that arrangements will be made
between neighbors fo-r the use of connection by two or more households and
water will. be sold by the container to those without connections.
C. Sewerage and Drainage
The Master Plan for Sewerage and Drainage is the basis for the CMDA
program in that sector. As with water, the implementation of the Plan was
delayed but a substantial amount of work was underway in Calcutta Corporation
area and in Howrah.  These projects were absorbed into the CMDA program and
served as nuclei for the sector. The listing of sewerage and drainage project is
S!ow  1n Annex ?. Table 3.  Most of these projects are confined to individual
Sewerage Zones or Drainage Basins; however, a number include both sewerage
and drainage and others include more than one zone or basin. The CMDA program
an'A '_ie Master Plan  has given greater priority to storm drainage than sewerage
on the basis of the health and economic costs of frequent flooding. The areas
of the combined systems, ManiAkktala, Tallygunj and Dum Dum on the east bank
and Howrah on the west bank of the Hooghly have received early attention.
This is partial'y accounted for by the substantial number of projects under-
way at the inception of the program and the critical need for drainage in
these densely populated zones where the water must be removed by underground
drains.  (See Annex 11).



ANNEX 7
Page 11
48.       The Calcutta Combined Systems.  There are no plans to separate
the sewerage and storm drainage in the major portion of either the Town
or Suburban Systems.                               However, in a number of
locations where extensive new drainage is required, separate storm drains
are being installed which will drain to Tolly's Nullah and other tributaries
of the Hooghly thus relieving the lcads on the pumping stations and the out-
fall channel. The sanitary sewers in these areas continue to flow into the
combined system. The combined system is not being expanded into new areas.
Areas outside of the original 15 square mile system are included in other
sewerage zones and drainage basins.
49.       Work is progressing under Project SD/001, SD/002,SD/003 and
SD/007 in repairing or replacing faulty sections of sewers, adding new mains
in overloaded sections and providing combined drains in pockets within the
system which are unsewered. Badly needed sewer cleaning equipment is now on
order and upon arrival extensive cleaning of the heavily silted mains will
be undertaken under ProJect SD/002A. Repairs of mains will be carried out
at the same time as the cleaning operations. These projects will continue
well into the 5th Plan period, by which time CMA intends to have both the
Town and Suburban collection systems in satisfactory operating order and
the frequent flooding of the area under control.
50.       The steam pumps at the Ballygunge Pumping Station have been
replaced by electric units under Project SD/002B. In addition the inter-
connecting piping has been re-arranged for more effective operations and worn
out appurtenances replaced. Work continues on improvement to the inlet
structure and screens. This work is scheduled for completion in 1973 and the
station is expected to handle the full load delivered to it during the 1973
wet season. Five new electric powered pumps are on tender for the Palmer's
Bridge pumping station under Project SD/002B. Renovation of existing piping,
screens and other appurtenances is underway. It is expected that this station
will be in full operation in 1974. Intermediate pumping stations at Topsia,
Tangra, Belgachia, Manicktala and Mominpur are being renovated and their
capacities augmented from a total capacity of 3.2 Mgd to 8.5 Mgd. Pumps have
arrived and their installation is underway. Work is scheduled for completion
in 1973.
51.       The Calcutta drainage outfall system has been remodelled to increase
its capacity from 2000 cfs to nearly 5000 cfs. This has required increasing
the width of the drainage channel from 100 ft. to 150-164 ft. and increasing
the effective depth from 10 ft. to 11.50-12.30 ft. The existing sluices at
the outfall into the Kulti River have been renovated and an additional 20 vent
sluice has been added, including 5 vents for the dry weather flow channel
which has been extended to the Kulti River. The outfall system is now capable
of discharging the full flow delivered to it from the Suburban and Town combined
systems as well as that from Chowkhaga Channel and other contributing flows
en route. Work remaining on the outfall consists of lining, completion of the
channel bank road, drainage inlets from areas en route, bridge repairs and
the establishment of maintenance facilities. The channel itself is fully
operable.



ANNEX 7
Page 12
52.       Sewerage Outside Calcutta.   Separate sewers with eventual complete
treatment are planned for all sewerage zones other than the Town and Suburban
combined sewers. Planning is underway and 11 sewerage projects are to
commence during the 4th Plan and continue into the 5th Plan period.
53.       Projects in the Howrah and Dum Dum sewerage zones are well advanced.
The foundations for the Howrah treatment plant are nearly complete and work
started on the tank walls. Piping for its collector system is also in progress.
The plant and major collection system is scheduled to go into operation during
1975.
54.       A small project providing additional collector mains and a lift
station in the Dum Dum sewerage zone is near completion. Other projects which
include collector systems and treatment plants are not started. However,
work on several including urgently needed facilities in the Tollygunj sewer-
age zone are expected to be started during 1973.
55.       Drainage Outside the Combined Systems.  As mentioned previously,
drainage has been given priority. There has also been concentration of work
in the heavily populated areas on either side of the Calcutta combined system
and in Howrah. Drainage in these areas in nearly all cases required'under-
ground conduits as the area is congested and space for open channels is not
available. Drains of up to 60" are of reinforcedconcrete and larger sizes
are of concrete and masonry constructed insitu. The installation of these
lines is complicated by very narrow winding streets with structures on both
sides. Despite these problems, progress has been good and very little damage
has been suffered by buildings adjoining the alignment. With the exception
of manual winches to lower the larger pipe, concrete mixers and vibrators,
work is carried out by manual methods geared to abundantlabor supply in the
CMD  (see Annex 11).
56.       The projects located around Calcutta are in the Tollygunj,  Manicktala
and Tolly's Nullah Basins. WiLh the exception of Tolly's Nullah all drainage
flows into the Calcutta outfall channel. Tolly's Nullah drains directly into
the Hooghly. The Tollv's Nullah channel has been realigned and the sections
subject to excessive damage are being lined.
57.       In addition to the installation of mains within the collector sys-
tem, the main channels draining the Howrah Basin are being renovated and new
sluice gates installed to prevent tide locking of the channel. The remodeling
of the Bagjola Canal which serves as a main drain to the Kulti River from the
area just north of the Calcutta town system is underway. This project includes
increasing the capacity of the present channel and installing a 2000 cfs sluice
at the Kulti River. Work is scheduled for completion in 1974. Projects to
provide drainage to the other priority basins are established and designs
prepared. However, the work to date has been limited.



ANNEX 7
Page 13
D. Garbage
58.       Projects GD/OOland GD/002 are directed toward improving the garbage
collection and disposal in the Calcutta Corporation area. A study of the
garbage collection and disposal problems by the Central Public Health
Engineering Institute and the recommendations of the report serve as the basis
for these projects.
59.       The projects provide for improvement of conditions on the dumping
grounds including roads within the dumps. Tractors and other equipment for
spreading, compacting and covering the waste material are included. There
is provision for 120 trucks, 20 of which will be equipped with compactor
bodies for the collection and transport of solid waste. Also much needed
maintenance facilities are included.
60.       Project GD/003 provides for improvement of the garbage collection
and disposal in Howrah. The project provides equipment such as tractors,
trailers, and rollers and provides for the collection of garbage during the
life of the project. Project GD/004 provides for similar activities in other
municipalities.
E. Environmental HvRiene
61.       The installation of prefabricated sanitary latrines to replace
service privies 1/ is provided for by Project EH/001 in the Calcutta Corporation
area, EH/002 in Howrah and EH/003 in other areas of the CMD. The latrines
are fabricated insitu and are provided with a vitrified china water seal bowl.
They are all of the squat slab type but are water flushed. These latrines
are cast in flat slabs in small casting yards and assembled on the site by
erection crews.
62.       In areas with sewers the latrines are directly connected to the
sewers. In areas without sewers a septic tank also of prefabricated slabs
is placed under the latrine for the collection and digestion of solids. Both
types are regarded as sanitary methods of excreta disposal and will also relieve
the work load of the conservancy workers.
63.       EH/002 and EH/003 provides for urinals and latrines for public use
in parks, markets and other public places. These projects are not as yet
underway.
64.       Project EH/007 provides for an assessment of the water quality in
the estuary of the Hooghly River through a baseline survey. The principal
sources of pollution from domestic, industrial and commercial sources will
be located and recommendations will be made in regard to the control of
pollution. The baseline survey has been started and the identification of
major sources of pollution is in progress.
65.       Project EH/006 is to survey the extent of air pollution in the CMD
by the establishment of monitoring stations. Major emission points will be
identified and recommendations made in regard to the control of air pollution.
It should be noted that the air pollution in Calcutta is a major problem and
as serious as that in most urban centers in developed countries.
1/ Service privies are privies from which night soil must be collected by
conservancy personnel.



ANNEX 7
Page 14
F. Transportation
66.       The CMDA investment program and the other major transport
projects now underway are not strictly coordinated but are derived
from a more or less consistent set of sector studies (see Annex 5). The
CMDA 4th Plan program of about Rs 50  crores (US$65 million). (Table 1).
investment in the transport sector subsumed a very much smaller State
Plan transport investment package of only about Rs 10 crores (US$13 million).
Although the initial 4th Plan transport investment package comprised
nearly one-fourth of the total State Plan program for the CMD it was
only about one-sixth of that recommended in the CMPO sector study
(see Annex 5) and gave even less relative emphasis to the construction
of major new roads and bridges. The additional CMDA funds increased the
4th Plan investment target to a level approaching that envisioned in the
CMPO sector study but two-thirds of the increase was allocated for essen-
tial remedial purposes given little or no budgetary consideration in the
recommendations of the earlier study: repair and lighting of existing
arterial roads (Rs 13 crores) and renovation and replacement of bus and
tram rolling stock and equipment (Rs 13 crores) (see Table 6). Significant
expenditure on major new roads and bridges in the CMDA program was deferred
until the 5th Plan period.
67.       The recently revised total estimated cost of urban transport
projects identified in CMDA's 4th Plan program is Rs 102 crores (US$133
million) (Table 1). With an anticipated 4th Plan disbursement of Rs 40 crores
a spillover to the 5th Plan of at least Rs 52 crores is indicated. However,
the programmed carry over shown in Table 1, which has not been revised to
take into account recently computed cost increases in 4th Plan projects, is
only Rs 31 crores. The total of programmed carry over plus new project
outlays for the 5th Plan is nevertheless an indicator of the total amount
to be budgeted for urban transport in the period.  Increased expenditure on
the 4th Plan projects is likely to be largely offset by deferred outlays for
new 5th Plan projects.
68.       The tentative CMDA program for transport investment in the 5th Plan
period (1974/75 -. 1978/79) totals Rs 89 crores (US$116 million), nearly twice
the current 4th Plan level (see TabIe 1). The major allocations are for the
continuing bus and tram renewal programs as well as several new priority
areas: road redevelopment and widening (particularly in and around the
center), road extensions and connections and major road and bridge
construction.
69.       The acceleration of planned 4th and 5th Plan transport investment
was not confined to additional CMDA inputs but also included the formulation
and funding of the two major transport projects outside the program: the
Princep Ghat Bridge and the Rapid Transit. System. Together these projects
may account for about Rs 30 crores of investment in the 4th Plan period and
RS 140 crores in the 5th Plan period (see Table 6). Together with other
lesser transport investments outside the CMDA program these projects would
bring total CMD transport investment to more than RS 80 crores (US$104
million) in the 4th Plan period and more than Rs 230 crores (US$299 million)
in the 5th Plan period, making it the CMD's largest infrastructure investment
sector.



- ANNEX 7
Page 15
70.       The urban transport projects within the CMDA program are largely
directed towards increasing transport capacity through repair and better
utilization of existing facilities and provision of new facilities. The
Princep Ghat Bridge and RTS projects will also increase capacity. Important
as these projects are they are incomplete responses to the major transport
problems in the CMD which are also products of deficits and omissions in
transport policies, regulations and administration.  Calcutta may be able to
derive more substantial and sustained benefit from increased transport capa-
city than most urban areas but the use of this capacity will certainly be
inefficient until transport policies are updated (see Annex 10).
71       The CMDA and related transport projects are consistent with the
CMPO sector plan and the BDP which called for increases in transport capa-
city in the metropolitan cznter Nap 10263) and the extension of major road
links from the metropolitan center to peripheral parts of the CMD, espe-
cially to the designated growth role in Kalyani. To this extent the trans-
port projects may be seen to be furthering a desired development pattern
in the C1D but as pointed out in para 10, the BDP has not served as an effec-
tive guide for development policies and in the absence of any commitment to
a particular development strategy it is difficult to assess the broad land
use and transport implications of the new transport facilities.11 It is
also true that the staging of the RTS is considerably in advance of that
envisioned in the sector plan and BDP and that the progress in revising and
coordinating transport policies is considerably less than that foreseen.
Thus the assumptions of those plans are now less relevant for the transport
sector than for the other basic sectors and the need for updating and deve-
lopment and transport policies more urgent (see Annex 10).
7 Z       The CMDA 4th Plan program contains 26 projects for the improvement
of roads, bridges and related works and two for the renovation and augmenta-
tion of bus and train rolling stock. The individual projects, grouped
according to implementing agency, are shown in Table    in Annex B.
1/ By itself the RTS will certainly encourage greater centralization in
office employment and tertiary activity and together with new road
links from the metropolitan center to the periphery of the CMD will
encourage further residential dispersal, adding further to transport
requirements. From a strictly transport point of view these imports
are certainly undesirable and, in the absence of a land use strategy
which could capitalize on these effects, should be viewed with concern.
Additional road capacity by itself is not likely to encourage greatly
increased private vehicle use, due to fairly severe restrictions on
vehicle ownerhip, but without positive means to utilize increased capa-
city for public transport use, the projects may not increase access to
the extent envisioned in the sector plan or now seen as desirable.



ANNEX 7
Page 16
73.       The geographic distribution of the costs of CMDA urban transport
projects initiated in the 4th Plan period is shown in Table 7. More than
one-third of the total investment is accounted for by improvements in
facilities and services in the Calcutta Corporation area.  About two-thirds
of the Calcutta total is for rationalization of the existing arterial road
network and related works and the balance for transit improvements. More
than one-quarter of the total investment is in the Calcutta suburban area,
one-quarter in Howrah and one-eighth in the balance of the CMDA. About
three-fifths of the investment in these areas is for construction of new
expressways, two-fifths for arterial roads and only a minor amount for
transit improvements. It should be noted that substantial investment in
rolling stock has been made in the recent past by private bus operators
who serve the suburban and outer areas of the CMD.
74.       The largest single project in the CMDA program, TT023, is the
Eastern Metropolitan By-pass which is estimated to cost Rs 16 crores
(US$21   million).  The other four expressways in the program, Central
Howrah, Kona, Barrackpore/Kalyani (with the Kalyani Bridge) are also amongst
the largest projects. The total cost of these expressways is estimated to
be Rs 36 crores or more than one-third of the 4th Plan projects. No new
expressways will be initiated in the 5th Plan although the bulk of expendi-
ture on those started in the 4th Plan period will occur in that period, and
almost nothing has been disbursed to date. The 5th Plan will include sub-
stantial investments in secondary roads, in part, to improve access to new
expressways.
75.       The second largest project in the CMDA program, TTO21, amounts
to Rs 11 crores and consists of a large number of local street repair and
rebuilding subprojects undertaken by the Corporation, municipalities and
other local agencies.  Many subprojects provide funding for long deferred
maintenance and have been quickly implemented.  Project funds are about
50% disbursed. The balance of improvement projects for arterial roads and
related facilities amounting to Rs 40 crores are about 20% complete, the
traffic operations schemes being the most advanced and the road widening
projects the least.
76.       The tram improvement project, TT/OS 001, consisting of renovation
and renewal of track, overhead and sub-station equipment and rolling stock
totals Rs 7 crores and is about 50% complete. The bus improvement project,
TT/OS 002, consisting of augmentation of the bus fleet and ancillary works,
is about 35% complete.
G. Housing
77.       The original 4th Plan allocation for the CMD provided for a
total expenditure of about Rs 4 crores (US$5.2 million) for housing, new
area development, slum modernization, relocation and improvement. The
slum or "bustee" improvement portion of the program concerned with the
betterment of services external to the housing structure has since become



ANNEX 7
Page 17
a separate program within the CMDA as a result of separate earmarked
central funding and distinct organizational requirements. The bustee
program is discussed in Section H.
78.       The total estimated cost of housing projects initiated within
CMDA's 4th Plan program is about Rs 30 crores (US$39   million) and the
initially anticipated 4th Plan expenditures were about Rs 18 crores
(see Table 1). However, because of delayed commencement of the housing
program and the time required for implementing agencies to start work on
the program CMDA has assessed that it    will not be feasible to attain
more than 50% of the 4th Plan target. The carry over programmed for the
5th Plan period (Rs 24 crores) includes a portion of the anticipated
slippage from the 4th Plan.  The balance of 5th Plan expenditures on new
projects taken up in the period are estimated to be Rs 56 crores, a total
5th Plan expenditure of Rs 80 crores (US$104 million). Housing is thus
the largest single sector of CMDA's program aside from transport.
79.       In conformity with its own housing study which has updated the
recommendations of the BDP and subsequent CMPO investigations (see Annex 5),
CMDA has geared its present program to available resources which are much
less than what would be necessary to eliminate housing shortages and
deficiencies in the foreseeable future.  The program originally anticipated
the construction of 40,000 units and development of 400 acres during the
4th Plan period as follows:
(i) 17,000 units of subsidized housing for the economically
handicapped sections of the population (up to an income
level of about Rs 450 per month);
(ii) 17,000 units of hire/purchase housing for households in
the income range between Rs 450 and up to Rs 1,500 per
month;
(iii) 6,000 units for the rehousing of slum dwellers displaced
by other development projects or resettled witnin slum
"modernization" schemes; and
(iv) acquisition and preparation of 400 acres of land for
housing and sites and services projects -- "new area"
development.
The originally anticipated 4th Plan expenditure and the actual expenditure
through September 1972 are distributed as follows:



ANNEX 7
Page 18-
Total                Actual to
4th Plan                10-72
(Rs crores)
(i)  Subsidized and
hire/purchase housing           10.76                   2.55
(ii)   Slum rehousing/modernization      3.34                     .35
(iii)  Land acquisition and
preparation -- new area
development                      3.48                     .93
Total               17.58                   3.83
Subsidized Housing
80.       Rental tIn-fill':  These are schemes located in various parts of
the CMD in pockets where lands are available in the vicinity of the existing
employment centers. Currently, five schemes covering 2,500 dwelling units
are in progress at Baranogore, Kamarhati and Cossipore in the North and on
Budge Budge Road in the South at a total estimated cost of about Rs 2.15
crores. Lands for 2nd phase construction have also been acquired at four
sites which would accommodate further about 3,000 dwelling units of the same
category. The Housing Department is the implementing agency.
81.       Experimental-cum-Demonstration Scheme at Manicktala:  The Manick-
tala project aims at providing a work-cum-living center with work spaces
in conjunction with low cost housing. The objective is to undertake
experimental housing with reduced space standards, employment of prefabri-
cated elements and cheaper methods of constriiction, substitution of conven-
tional materials etc.  In all 890 dwelling units have been planned, out of
which 50 dwelling units have been jointly sponsored by the National Buildings
Organization and the CMDA -e the rest are being financed by the CMDA. The
construction of the 1st phase consisting of 450 units is in progress. The
total cost of this scheme is estimated at Rs 95.00 lakhs. The Calcutta
Metropolitan Planning Organisation is the implementing agency.
82.       Rental "Bulk" on Developed Lands:  A total area of about 1,500
acres has already been reclaimed and developed in the Salt Lake area. A
further 930 acres have already been reclaimed and development is in pro-
gress,  while about 900 acres of the developed lands have been allotted to
individuals and about 600 acres are available for integrated housing
activities. The planning and development policy in regard to a 930-acre
site is also being finalized. The land resource of about 1,500 acres in
the other areas can be effectively utilized for public housing. It is
proposed to utilize a major part of the land for subsidized rental housing.



ANNEX 7
Page 19
Hire Purchase Housing
83.       Core/skeletal housing on lands being/to be developed:  This type
of housing is principally intended to serve the economically weaker sections
of the population who normally are not in a position to amortize even the
minimal dwellings at the present day prices. It is proposed to provide the
core or skeleton with planned environments and services at prices ranging
between Rs 5,000 and Rs 8,000 per unit. Given liberal financing
and amortization terms, it should be possible for people earning about
Rs 250 per month to own these houses and make them fit for living by
doing the residual works at their cost with possibility for improving or
extending in future as and when their economic status improves. The success
of this scheme would contribute to major progress in development of a feasible
program for housing the urban poor.
84.       Composite 'In-fill':   These are housing schemes located in selected
pockets where lands are available within growing residential areas. The
schemes are composed of suitable mixture of different types of housing for
different income categories with an element of 25% or more for the economi-
cally weaker sections. The adoption of a suitable mix of different house
types and pricing formula permits transfer from the higher income categories
for being appropriated towards providing relief to the price structure of
the houses meant for the low income and economically weaker sections within
the said scheme. Three schemes of this nature comprising 746 dwelling units
at an estimated cost of Rs 109 lakhs located at Baranagar, Paikpara and
Tollygunjeare currently under implementation by the Housing Department. Two
schemes of this nature at Manichtala and Paikpara comprising 1,424 dwelling
units at a total estimated cost of Rs 286 lakhs have recently been sanctioned
by the Housing & Urban Development Corporation. The Housing Department will
be entrusted with their execution. Planning for another scheme at Tangra
is in progress.
85.       Composite 'Bulk' on developed lands:  The planning and pricing
philosophy for these schemes is the same as that of composite 'in-fill'
schemes. The vast land resources at Salt Lake and Kalyani are proposed to
be utilized for this purpose. As a beginning, CMDA has acquired about
70 acres of developed land in Salt Lake for providing about 4,000 dwelling
units in five categories for people in the income range between
Rs 400 and Rs 1,500 per month. This activity is proposed to be
enlarged and extended to bring the economically weaker sections within
the fold of the potential housing market and to provide the required boost
for investments in housing by private individuals. Similar public action
on a limited dose is also called for towards inducing private individuals
to invest in housing at Kalyani.
86.       Composite 'Bulk' on lands being/to be developed:  These are
schemes identical in nature to the foregoing ones designed mainly with the
-object of exploiting the potential housing market and fostering effective



ANNEX 7
Page-20
demands.  It is expected that these schemes would also create the appropriate
climate for the private sector to invest in housing. These would further
enhance the marketability of the developed lands and induce private indivi-
duals to invest-in housing, apart from easing the immense overcrowding and
intolerable housing situation.
Slum Rehousing/Modernization
87.       Rehousing schemes for persons displaced by other major CMDA schemes
like bridges, road widening etc. and incapable of building houses on their
own at alternative sites:  Such rehousing facilities are currently being
provided at several locations viz., Chetla, Kasba, Jadaypur, Tollygunj,
Beliaghata and Manicktala, comprising 886 dwelling units with shops, commu-
nity facilities etc., at a total estimated cost of Rs 94 lakhs. The second
batch of rehousing sites on the Kasba side of the Tollygunj-Kasba overbridge
project is being acquired and rehousing schemes for the remaining persons to
be displaced by the Kasba approach of the overbridge have been prepared. The
Calcutta Improvement Trust is the implementing agency.
88.       Slum clearance and redevelopment-cum-renewal schemes popularly
designated as 'slum-modernization' schemes envisage restructuring of some
of the city's slums in selected areas. These are initially intended to be
taken up as demonstration schemes to test the adequacy of the provisions
made in the West Bengal Slum Areas (Improvement and Clearance) Act, 1971.
The basic planning and pricing philosophy envisages rehousing slum dwellers
in multi-storeyed blocks within the respective slum areas, with improved
environments, community and vocational facilities, releasing surplus land
for being put to. high return commercial and other uses and appropriating
a part of the surplus towards bringing down the rent structure of the
rehousing tenements within the paying capacity of the slum dwellers thus
rehoused. It has been estimated that the net investment per capita
would be between Rs 750 and Rs 850 as compared to Rs 130 on
an average spent on environmental improvements of slums under the bustee
improvement program. In the former case, the slum dwellers pay for the
investments, while in the latter case, they depend heavily on Government
grants. These could be "self-generating" schemes and with future refine-
ments, operations of a revolving fund seem feasible.
Land Preparation
89.       Sites and Services:  While the principal thrust of the housing
activities should be directed towards utilization of the vast land resources
developed at public expense in Salt Lake and Kalyani, a second wave of land
development has to proceed simultaneously to maintain supply of lands at
reasonable prices. The Basic Development Plan has identified the population
distribution pattern in the Calcutta Metropolitan District by 1976 as
follows:
Metropolitan Center       -    6,837,000
Kalyani and Bansberia    -       836,000
Rest of the CMD           -    2,065,000



ANNEX 7
Page 21
The distribution of the 2,065,000 in the rest of the Calcutta Metropolitan
District would be 1,468,000 in the area between the northern center and
metro center; 470,000 in the Uluberia-Budge Budge area; and 127,000 in the
Rajpur-Baruipur area.
90.       Two land development schemes -- one in the Andul Road Howrah
(10 hectares) and the other in Kalidaha (15 hectares) on Jessore Road
(financed by the Housing & Urban Development Corporation) -- are currently
under execution by the Housing Department. Two more schemes -- one at
Patuli (130 hectares) south of Jadaypur and the other at Rajarhat (420
hectares) south of Duum Dum airport -- have been drawn up by the Housing
Department. Publicly developed lands at these potential locations will
offer opportunities for the fastly growing population to be distributed
over the CMD in an organized manner.  Public housing within the developed
lands is al 7 expected Lo provide the required boost for private investment
in housing.-
H. Bustee Iarovement
91.       Bustee improvement concerns the development of services external
to the housing structure such as water supply, communal taps and baths,
sewerage, storm drainage, sanitary latrines connected to existing sewers or
septic tanks, hard surfacing, and lighting of footpaths in the crowded
settlements of one-storey huts built of temporary materials which house at
least one-quarter of CMD's population (see Annex 2). A common characteristic
of many of these slum areas is a three-tiered system of land ownership, hut
ownership and tenancy. The landlord owns only the land; the structure is
owned by a middleman holding the land leasehold known as a "thika-tenant
and the structure is rented by a tenant/occupant (see Annex 2). The bustee
improvement measures leave the tenancy and leasehold arrangements as well
as the house or hut structure intact.
92.       When the CMDA was created, a target budget was drawn up with
Rs 10 crores for bustee improvement. The bustee budget was based on a
rough determination that minimum bustee improvements would cost Rs 100
per inhabitant (subsequently increased to Rs 135, then to Rs 146 per inha-
bitant in 1972) and using the 1966 figure of 1 million bustee dwellers in
Calcutta and Howrah. The CMDA asked the center for Rs 10 crores, and in
late 1970 the center provided a special grant of Rs 8 crores to be spent
on a bustee program for the entire CMD area. The CMDA estimates that by
the end of the 4th Plan, about Rs 12 crores will have been spent on bustee
improvement, and Rs 6 crores will spill over into the 5th Plan period. An
additional Rs 14 crores will be required for the 5th Plan, making the total
5th Plan outlay Rs 20 crores.
1/ The table and description of the projects were supplied to us by
Mr. M. S. Maitra, Special Engineer, CMDA.



ANNEX 7
Page 22
93.       In 1970, it was decided to start the program in 1,000 to 1,500
bustees on an emergency basis and to set up a special cell for the work
(see Annex 8). At the beginning, the program was to have a coverage of
550,000 bustee dwellers in the Cossipore-Paikpara-Belgachia zone,
Kidderpore-Tollygunj zone, Howrah zone, and Baranagar-Makarhati-
Rishra-Champdani zone (see Table 8). An earlier scheme for bustee improve-
ments within the Calcutta Corporation was incorporated in the overall
program. Since then the program has been extended to cover nearly 1 million
bustee dwellers.
94.       Despite its wide coverage the bustee improvement program does not
touch at least 1,200,000 bustee dwellers of whom, over 700,000 live in bustees
in the various municipal areas of the CMD. Many of these bustees are as old
and unhealthy (such as the bustees of Titagarh or Garden Reach) as the bustees
in Calcutta or Howrah. The only reason why they were not included in the pro-
gram was the cost factor. The slum population figures as assessed by the CMPO
in 1971 are indicated in the following Table 3.1/  There is an apparent
need for a broader coverage.
Social Development Programs
95.       From the inception of the bustee program, the CMDA has supported
the view that this should not be restricted to engineering works but should
cover also socio-economic development which must aim at the involvement of
the bustee dwellers themselves. This was also recognized by the CMPO which
outlined the objectives of a "social management program" as follows:
(i)  to secure the willing consent, cooperation and participation
of the bustee-dwellers themselves, to the maximum extent
possible, in the implementation of this program of bustee
improvement;
(ii) to achieve, through the individual response and collective
responsibility of the bustee-dwellers, the most effective
use and maintenance of physical improvements installed;
(iii) to supplement physical improvement with an intensive
program of health education (including a campaign for
mass immunization);
(iv) to organize and encourage through voluntary leadership
a concerted effort toward community welfare and deve-
lopment within the improved bustees.l/
1/ CMPO, Bustee Improvement Programme, pp. 24-25.



ANNEX 7
Page 23
96.       At first, CMPO had suggested the creation of "social management
units" in the following bustee groups which contained the bustees originally
selected for improvement: Cossipore Rajabazar, Sealdah, Entally, Tangra,
Kalighat/Chetla, and Kidderpore._ On the basis of the proposal, the
organization was expected to consist of one Chief Community Development
Officer, seven Community Development Officers in charge of management units,
and twenty Community Organizers-  with the emphasis on specialists in health
education). This was going to give one trained and specialist officer for
approximately each 14,000 of the bustee population at an anticipated total
annual cost of Rs 400,000 or one rupee per capita since the program was
expected to cover 400,000 bustee-dwellers.
97.       The present management units are based on volunteer groups super-
vised by CMDA. The arrangements are described in Annex 8.
I. Other Projects
98.       This sector comprises the following components:
(i) augmentation of gas generation and distribution system;
(ii) augmentation of health facilities;
(iii)  development of primary education facilities; and
(iv) development of parks, playgrounds and recreational
facilities.
Gas
99.       During the 4th Plan period, a provision of Rs .84 crores has
been made to expand the existing gas distribution system. To further
expand distribution network and augment production capacity to meet peak-
load and emergency demands, a provision of about Rs 3 crores has been
budgeted for the 5th Plan period.
Health
100.      The program for health facilities initiated during the 4th Plan
period envisages the provision of 4,300 additional beds in the existing hos-
pitals and new hospitals to be set up in the metropolitan district. A net-
work of 80 outdoor clinics and 16 "poly-clinics" supplemented by 40 mobile
1/  GMPO, Bustee Improvement Programme, pp. 24-25.



ANNEX 7
Page 24
clinics is also envisaged.  During the 4th Plan, the provision made
initially is Rs 8.80 crores. However, due to the delayed start of the
program, a substantial part of the expenditure will spill over into the
5th Plan period. Furthermore, considerable escalation in 4th Plan project
costs will also carry over to the 5th Plan. The outlay budgeted for this
program during the 5th Plan is Rs 10 crores.
Education
101.      The program for development of primary education facilities
includes:
(i)  construction of 500 new schools to meet the
deficit in school premises now estimated as
equal to 600 new schools; and
(ii)  grants-in-aid to the existing recognized schools
for essential repairs and renovations with a view
to arrest their obsolescence and conserve the
existing stock.
102.      During the 4th Plan the provision for the program is Rs 2.20
crores, and allowing spill over and the requirement during the 5th Plan
period the outlay during the 5th Plan period is budgeted to total
Rs 4 crores.
Recreation
103.      The program for parks, playgrounds and recreational facilities
initiated during the 4th Plan period envisages improvement to the existing
facilities and creation of new ones. The provision of Rs 1.2 crores made
during the 4th Plan is likely to be utilized. The budgeted outlay for the
5th Plan period is Rs 3 crores.



INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVEWPMEDT PROJECT
THE CMDA PROGRAM DURING THE 4TH PLAN PERIOD, 1969/70 - 1973/74 AND 5TH PLAN PERIOD, 1974/75 - 1978/79
(Rupees in crores)
4th Plan                                                                       5th Plan
No. of   Total   Expenditure   Estimated         4th Plan     Estimated     Balance          Projects carried over                     Total    Cost
Sector                      Projects    Cost    prior to        Total       Expenditure   Expenditure  Expenditure           from 4th Plan          New Projects      Cost per year
j      4th Plan      4th Plan          thru        1972/73      1973/74           No. of   Programmed      No. of Total    5th       5th
Expenditure      1971/72                                     Projects      Cost g     Projects  Cost    Plan    Plan
Water Supply                   26      63.37        9.11        29.83           8.48         10.25         11.10             9         13.00         N.A.    25.50  38.50    7.7
Sewerage and Drainage          53      77.02       2.54         40.78          12.80         11.64         16.34            35         38.45          25      32.10  70.55   14.11
Garbage Disposal and
Environmental Hygiene         11       9.92         -           7.15           1.72          2.41          3.02             9         19.65         N.A.      2.50  22.15    4.43
Urban Transport:
Roads and bridges            26      87.08        2.54        35.05           2.29         13.99         18.77            13         31.00          14      41.80  72.80   14.56
Buses and trams               2      14.69         .10        14.69           5.20          5.35          4.14             -           -           N.-A.    16.50  16.50    3.30
Housing and Area
Development                   21      30.34         .11        17.58           3.02          5.88          8.68             6         24.00         N.A.    56.00  80.00   16.00
Bustee Improvement              5      13.00         -          10.00           3.73         3.79           2.48             -          6.oo         N.A.    14.00  20.00    4.00
Other Projects:
Gas                           1       0.82         -           0.82           0.13         o.45           0.24              -                      N.A.      3.00   3.00    o.60
Health                        7      15.39         .           8.00           1.15         2.75           4.10             -          1.80         N.A.      8.20  10.00    2.00
Education                     3       2.20         -           1.70           0.01         0.80           0.89             -          0.50         N.A.      3.50   4.00    0.80
Recreation                    5       1.50         -           1.20           0.03          0.35          0.82             _           -           N.A.      3.00   3.00    o.60
Total CMDA Program          160    315.65        14.40       166,80          38.56         57.66         70.58              _       134.40           -     206.10 340.50   68.10
Princep Ghat Bridge             1      30.00         -          10.00            -             -          10.00              1         20.00          -         -    20.00    4.00
Rapid Transit System            1     140.00         -          20.00            -             -          20.00               1       120.00           -        -   120.00   24.00
Total Major CMD Urban
Projects                  162    485.65        14.40       196.80          38.56         57.66       100.58           _           274.40           -     206.10 480.50   96.10
j Revised project costs as of November 1972.
Includes costs of direct spillover, project modification and redesign and cost escalation completed as of July 1971, later revisions not included.
Source:  CNDA



INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COMPARISON. BETWEEN INVESTMENT PLANS FOR BOMBAY AND CALCUTTA
(Rs. in crores)
BOMBAY                                         CALCUTTA
Investment                               Investment       (
Investment   per year &                  Investment   per year &        (3)
April 1972-      per year,    million         1972/73-    per year,    million
March 1976        (1)/4        persons        1978/79       (4)/7        persons
1971 pop.                                  1971 pop.
(2)/5.97                                   (5)/813
(1)              (2)          (3)           (4)            (5)           (6)         (7)
Water Supply                          97.99            24.50         4.10          59.65          8.52          1.03        0.25
Land Reclamation, Area Drainage,
Garbage and Sewerage Disposal,
Environmental Hygiene               74.78            18.70         3.13         144.65         20.66          2.49        0.79
Transport (buses, terminus, bus
depots, sheds, roads, bridges,
railways included for Bombay;
bridge and RTS included for
Calcutta)                           96.95            24.24         4.07         302.99         43.28          5.22        1.28
Public Housing and
Land Development                    76.89            19.22         3.22          97.41         13.92          1.68        0.52
Health                                 8.03             2.01         0.34          15.85          2.26          0.27        0.80
Education                              9.25             2.31         0.39           5.69          0.81          0.10        0.26
Recreation                             4.23             1.06         0.18           4.17          0.60          0.07        0.39
Total           368.12            92.03        15.43         630.41         90.05         10.86        0.70
Source:  Bombay - CIDCO, "Study of Investment Proposals and Resources in the Bombay Metropolitan Region",
August, 1972
Calcutta -  CMDA, see Table 1.



ANNEX 7
Page 27
Table 3
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBA,I DEVELOPMPi'JT PROJECT
The CIADA Water Supply Program - Permanent Improvements in Calcutta System
Service       Total
Project No.         Description                     District        Cost       Complete
ect No-        Description                      District    (Rs lakhs) (as of Oct. 72)
WS-OO1         Water Supply Augmentation
Scheme, Calcutta City               Calcutta       234.68         95
MS-002         Installation of pre-treatment
unit at Palta                       Calcutta        80.00         85
XS-003         Improvement of slow sand
filters at Palta                     Calcutta       27.00         60
WS-004 *       Reorientation of Water
Distribution System in
Calcutta                            Calcutta       1 55.0         25
wS-006         Scheme for clearance of silt
at Falta water works                Calcutta         5.30        100
WS-007 *       New water supply projects in
Calcutta Corporation area           Calcutta       300.00         70
1S-017 *        Remodelling of 60" diameter
Tallah-Palta pipe line              Calcutta       293.00         10
WS-018          Cathodic protection to water
mains in Calcutta City               Calcutta      100.00          5
'S-01 9        Extension of water distribution
system in Calcutta (Muanicktolla,
Topsia and Tangra)                   Calcutta      104.00         90
TOTAL                                   1,298.98
Functional Allocation:
Plant                                              346.98         26
Transmission                                       293.00         23
Distribution                                       659o00         51
TOTAL                                   1,298.98       100
Source: CMDA



INDIA                           ANNEX 7
Page 28
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT              Table 4
The CMDA Water Supply Program -
?ermanent Ii2rovements in Service Districts Outside Calcutta
Service       Total          %
Project IHo.          Description                   Tistrict       cost       ConVlete
(Rs lakhs) (as of Oct. 72)
Garden
'B-020         Garden Reach Water System            Reach         530.00         10
W-021          Eowrah WVater Wbrks                  i,iowrah       700.00        10
,oB-023        Resilting Horah                      Howrah         10.22         90
1S-022         Baranagar Water Wdorks               Palta         431.Q0          0
-WS-025        Saraapur Wlater Works                Sarampur      300.00          0
i 1-011        SecondFxy Grid                       All above     450.00          0
hS-026         Primary Grid                         All above     700.00          0
TOTAL                                     3,121.22
Functional Allocation:
Plant                                            1,971.22        52
Transmission                                       700.00        19
Distribution:  Above            450.00
From interim
systems         700.00           1,100.00         29
(Table 5) 
3,771.22       100
Source: CMDA



ANNEX 7
INDIA                         Page 29
Table 5
CALCIJTTA URBAN  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The CMDA Water Supply Program -
Emergency (Interim and Fringe Area Water Supplies
Service       Total          %
Project N'.To.     Description                     District       Cost        Complete
(Rs lakhs) (as of Oct. 72)
WS-005         Short term scheme for sinking
deep wells                          Calcutta       23.20         95
Ws-008         Emergency water supply               All except
municipal areas                     Calcutta      916.16         95
WS-009          aaergency water supply scheme       All except
non-mnnicipal areas                 Calcutta       96.00         70
WS-012         Garden Reach, Holisahar,             Palta and
Bhatpara and south suburban         Garden
water supply scheme                 Reach          54.00         95
WS-013         Water Supply Scheme in
South Dum Dum                       Palta          20.60        100
-S-01 4        Installation of 8" diam. power
driven pump at East Belghoria       Palta           1.00        100
iS-15          Water Supply Scheme in North
DLum Dum                            P alta          2.00        100
7tIS-016       Emergency Water Supply Scheme 1    Garden
municipal area                      Reach         200.00         95
TwIs-024       Sinking and descending of
-9' wells                           Ho-wrah         4.25         95
a/
Sub-total                                      1,317.21
NS-010         Fringe Area Water Supply             Fringe
Area         600.00          10
TOTAL                                      1,917.21
Source: CMDA
a/ About Rs 700 lakhs represent distribution grid usable in permanent surface
water systems.



INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Allocation of 4th and 5th Plan Transport Investments in the CMD
(Rk. crores)
Roads, Bridees and Related Works                                Mass Transoort    Total
Repairs   Recon-   Redevel-    Minor    Traffic   Second- Major  Major    Sub-   Buses  Rapid  Sub-
&    struction  opment &  Extension Operations   ary   Roads Bridges  Total            &    Tran- Total  Total
Lighting            Widening         &                  Roads                            Trains   sit
Connection
Initial 4th Plan                                          3.86      2.54                2.32           8.72      1.50          1.50  10.22
Addt'l CMDA 4th Plan   13.37        2.00    6.91                     1.71               1.34  1.00   26.33    13.19           13.19  39.52
Total CMDA 4th Plan    13.37        2.00    6.91           3.86     4.25_               3.66  1.00   35.05    14.69    _  14.69  49.74
Princep Ghat Bridge                                                                           10.00   10.00                           10.00
Rapid Transit System               __               __                                          _               _       20.0 20.00  20.00
Total 4th Plan         13.37      2.00    6.91          3.86      4.25                3.66 11.00   45.05    14.69  20.0 34.69  79.74
CMDA 5th Plan                       4.30   17.45          14.50      6.60     10.00   17.95  2.00   72.80    16.50            16.50  89.30
Princep Ghat Bridge                                                                           20.00   20.00                           20.00
Rapid Transit System               __                            _              _        ___                           120.0 12a00 120.00
Total 5th Plan                    4.30   17.45          14.50      6.60     10.00   17.95 22.00   92.80    16.50 120.0 136.00 229.30
Source:  CMDA, Mass Transit Project (Railways)
z  
rD X 



ANNEX 7
Page, 31
Table 7
I.JIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPEiEJT PROJECT
Geographic Distribution of CMDA Urban Transport Projects
Tniti;nted in the hth P1an Period
(Rupees in crores)
Location
Calcutta               Outer
Type of Investment              Calcutta    Suburban    Howrah       CmI)      Total
Inprovement of Existing
Arterial Road System                25.25        11.4o        8.87       5.13     50.65
Provision of New Expressways           -          16.00       13.34       7.08     36.42
Sub-total                   25.25       27.40        22.21     12.21      87.07
Ifprovement of Buses and Trams       11.63         1.53        1.53        -       14.69
TOTAL                       36.88       28.93        23.74     12.21    101.76
X                           36          29           23        12        100
Source:  CMDA and mission estimates
1/ Tram improvements allocated 100% to Calcutta, bus improvements arbitrarily
allocated 60% to Calcutta, 20% to Calcutta Suburban and 20% to Howrah.



ANNEX 7
INDIA                     Page 32
Table 8
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COVERAGE OF BUSTEE IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Total
Total popula-      estimated
tion as per        bustee          Covered      Balance
Area                     _    '71 Census         population       so far     Uncovered
A.  Calcutta City              3,100,000          1,000,000       639,000      361,000
B.  Howrah                       740,662            250,000       250,000        -
C.  East Bank
1. Kanchrapara                79,019             10,000         -          10,000
2. Halisahar                  68,997             10,000         -          10,000
3. Naihati                    81,782             30,000         -          30,000
4. Bhatpara                  205,303             80,000         -          80,000
5. Garulia                    44,403)            2
5A Ichapur Defence Estate    10,134)             209000                    20,000
(non-municipal)
6. Barrackpore                97,169             10,000         -          10,000
7. Titagarh                   88,318             60,000         -          60,000
8. Khardah                    32,493              5,000         -           5,000
9. Panihati                  148,121             30,000         -          30,000
10. Kamarhati                 204,205             68,000        43,000      25,000
11. Baranagar                 131,431             30,000        13,500      16,500
12. Dum Dum                    31,232              5,000         -           5,000
13. South Dum Dum             174,538             30,000         -          30,000
14. South Suburban            273,762             30,000         -          30,000
15. Garden Reach              155,520             80,000         -          80,000
16. Budge Budge                63,748             20,000         -          20,000
17. Nangi (non-municipal)      47,872              5,000         -           5,0G0
D.  West Bank
1. Bansberia                  61,601              5,000         -           5,000
2. Hooghly-Chinsurah         105,341              5,000         -           5,000
3. Bhadreswar                 45,018             15,000         -          15,000
4. Champdani                  58,425             30,000        30,000        -
5. Chandernagar               75,960             10,000         -          10,000
6. Baidyabati                 54,455              5,000         -           5,000
7. Serampur                 191,597              15,000         -          15,000
8. Rishra                     63,582             30,000        23,000       7,000
9. Konnagar                   34,455              5,000         -           5,000
10. Uttarpara-Kotrung          69,315              5,000         -           5,000
11. Bauria (urban
agglomeration)             32,977             20,000        -           20,000
12. Uluberia (do)              26,539             10,000         -          10,000
6,442,475          1,928,000       998,500     929,500
N.B.  This statement does not cover those municipalities and non-municipal urban areas
within the Metropolitan District which do not have regular bustees as such.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CMDA PROGRAM
1.        Implementation of the CMDA program involves four distinct phases
of activity; annual plan and budget formulation, project preparation,
project sanction and project execution. The various steps and agencies
involved in these phases of activity are described in this annex. Details
of the tendering procedures are described in Annex 12. CMDA's project and
materials management procedure are described in Annex 6.
A. Background
2.        CMDA's project funding through executing agencies has required
a change in the normal operating procedures of all agencies involved with
respect to the CMDA projects as the pre-existing codes governing public works
were not geared to the actions of a supervisory, fund-distributing organization
such as CMDA. After an initial experience operating within the pre-existing
procedures CMDA consulted with the executing agencies and the State and Central
Governments, and formulated a procedure for the preparation, sanction and
execution of CMDA projects designed to provide for:
(i) participation of both the State and Central Governments in deter-
mining the CMDA annual program;
(ii) assessment of projects submitted to the Authority for sanction
for conformity with the standards and objectives of the Basic
Development Plan;
(iii) assessment of the state of project readiness prior to execution;
and,
(iv) increased powers of CNDA engineering officers in matters of tender
invitations and acceptance, and substitution of the CMDA for the
State Government in dealing with cases of exception and variation.
Because many parts of the State Government's administration were involved with.
CMDA projects and the bulk of the program was to be executed by state entities
(see para. 13), the revised procedure was issued as a State Government Order.
3.        The implementation activities described below reflect these revised
procedures instituted in March 1972. Actual compliance with these procedures
is not complete and reflects the practical difficulties of CMDA's supervisory
role over independent state and local entities. Nevertheless, the procedures
are significantly simplying CMDA's project management tasks.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
B. Annual Plan and Budget Formulation
4.        CHDA is required to make an annual plan in support of its annual
budget. To enable the CMDA to prepare an annual plan, the State Government
departments, local and statutory bodies acting as executing agencies for
CMDA projects are asked to submit by the first week of December their
proposals for the following fiscal year (April 1 through March 31) indicating
the amount of capital and recurring expenditure for the main components of
continuing and new projects.  Each project proposal is to be accompanied  y 
supporting material including information on targets, expenditure, achieve-
ments, relevant work load factors and comparative performance in past years.
5.        After obtaining the view of CMPO on the desirability and feasibility
of the proposed projects, their inter-sectoral priority and consistency with
the Basic Development Plan, a financial and physical appraisal of proposals
is carried out through a CMDA planning group comprising the representatives
from the CMDA, CMPO, Town and Country Planning Department, Finance, Planning
and Development Department, Administrative Department and the executing
agencies concerned.  The planning group conducts a wide ranging review based
on the information provided by executing agencies and CMPO.  It is particu-
larly concerned with prior execution performance for continuing schemes,prio-
rity of new schemes and the financial implications for the state budget of
capital and recurring expenditures for both continuing and new schemes.  The
group formulates sectoral recommendations of project activity for the up-
coming year.
6.        The annual plan recommendations of CNDA's planning group Are dis-
cussed with the Government of India review team (see Annex 7), the State
Government and the executing agencies.  The project outlays agreed in these
discussions are incorporated into CMDA's budget estimate for the ensuing
year, a document sufficiently detailed to indicate the funds allocated to and
the executing agency entrusted with the execution of each project. The budget
estimate, when adopted, becomes CMDA's approved annual budget.
C. Project Preparation
7.        When an executing agency is assigned a project the general charac-
teristics of the scheme have in most cases been previously defined in one
of the sector studies and/or the Basic Development Plan.  Where the definition
provided in the sector plan or BDP is not specific or no longer entirely rele-
vant the agency may be requested to consult with either of the two relevant
planning activities, CMPO or CMDA, to obtain an updated and detailed design
brief as a guide for project preparation. Such a brief would normally include
major design standards, specifications, indication of layout and design of
principal components, etc. The agency then assumes the major responsibility
for preparing preliminary engineering and economic feasibility investigations
which are reviewed prior to the issuance of administrative authority and
financial sanction and for preparing detailed engineering prior to technical
sanction and issuance of bid invitations (see Section D).



MTNEX 8
Page 3
8.        Despite a general understanding of the scope of technical review
made prior to the granting of administrative authority and financial sanc-
tion, the approach and criteria followed in project preparation vary con-
siderably between agencies and sectors and there seems to have been only
limited involvement by CMDA to ensure that minimum standards of content
and consistency are observed. Even in some cases in which a specific de-
sign brief should have been followed none was observed either because none
had been provided or because the agency had disregarded the brief in favor
of its own design concept. In many such cases the design and costing of
the project must be rejected at the sanctioning review stage with resultant
delay and cost penalties.
D. Project Sanction
9.        The project proposals prepared by executing agencies are first
subjected to a technical review concerned with the accuracy and adequacy
of the engineering data and cost rates and with the technical viability and
economic feasibility of the design. The breadth of the technical review is
dependent on the size of the project. Proposals for projects costing up to
Rs 10 lakhs (US$13,500) are reviewed only by the relevant special engineer,
CMDA.  Those costing between Rs 10 lakhs and Rs 50 lakhs (US$13,500 -
US$67,500) are in addition examined by a representative of CMPO and the chief
engineer of the implementing agency. Those exceeding Rs 50 lakhs (US$67,500)
may in addition be examined by a technical expert appointed by CMDA. Specific
technical points or differences of opinion may be referred to CMDA's technical
advisor.
10.       On the basis of the review and recommendations of the technical
authorities referred to above, a project report for each project is prepared
and submitted to the CMDA for administrative approval and financial sanction.
Once approved by CMDA, detailed estimates are prepared and technically sanc-
tioned by the competent authority of each executing agency prior to invitation
of tenders. In some cases provisional administrative approval and financial
sanction is issued by CMDA on the basis of only a lump sum cost estimate.  In
such an instance technical sanction of detail estimates must also be obtained
by an implementing agency before invitation of tenders.
11.       Copies of the technically sanctioned estimates exceeding Rs 10 lakhs
in value are sent to the Technical Wing in CMDA for information. All tender
documents in respect of projects costing more than Rs 50 lakhs are to be sub-
mitted to the CMDA for vetting before release for advertisement.   Further
details of tendering procedures are described in Annex 12.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
E. Project Execution
12.       When the CMDA and the CMDA program were established in 1970 about
one-eighth of the 4th Plan projects were already in progress under the
supervision of a number of state and local agencies. Though empowered to
execute directly any or all of its projects, CMDA has, as a matter of nec-
essity, delegated the executing responsibilities for those initial projects
and most of the newly undertaken projects to other existing agencies with
available staff and facilities. At present there are 54 executing agencies
including CMDA itself, yet the bulk of the work is highly centralized. More
than 80% of the value of projects works are concentrated in the hands of nine
agencies (see Table 1).
13.       State Government entities, including CMDA itself, perform the
major executing roles for the CMDA program, accounting for nearly 75% of
the 4th Plan project effort (see Table 1). Outside of the State entities
only the Improvement Trusts in Calcutta and Howrah and the Calcutta Corp-
oration are significant executing agencies with a total of over 20% of the
project total. Although the bulk of the work is in the hands of state agen-
cies which are directly affected by the State Government Order prescribing
procedures relative to the CMDA program (see para. 2) effective control
over executing activities is in practice very difficult (see para. 18).
14.       Under the existing arrangements an executing agency provides all
the professional, technical and supporting staff, office space, equipment
and incidental materials in connection with project supervision in return
for a 12% administrative fee,(9.5% for administration, 1.5% for tools and
equipment and 1% for auditing and accounting), which is capitalized as part
of the project cost. Scheduling of work, reporting of physical
and financial progress, and other engineering management functions are
carried out by each executing agency for the projects which it is assigned,
according to procedures agreed between it and CMDA. Other administrative
services (land acquisition, accounting, office services, tendering, etc.)
are carried out by each executing agency in accordance with its own rules
and procedures. Tendering procedures are, with minor exceptions, the same
for all agencies and there is a common CMDA tendering board to deal with
the award of sizable and/or exceptional tenders (see Annex 12).
15.       The existing pattern of executing assignments was made by CMDA
as a practical expedient to obtain immediate output. The success of CMDA's
approach is evidenced by the substantial increase in the rate of investment
achieved since its inception (from Rs 3.14 crores in 1969/70 to Rs 37.83
crores) in 1971/72 and a programmed Rs 50.67 crores in 1972/73). While the
arrangement has proved workable and effective in increasing overall invest-
ment, it has proved to be less effective as a means of integrating a diverse
development effort.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
16.       Part of the present implementation problem stems from the availability
and effectivess of executing agency staff relative to the needs of the CMDA
program. The engineering personnel assigned to the projects by the imple-
menting agencies are, in nearly all cases, well qualified, experienced men
and their individual performances have been more than satisfactory. However,
there is evidence of personnel shortages and the diversion of key personnel
to other work at the expense of CMDA projects. Personnel have been recruited
specifically for CMDA projects in many of the agencies and additional per-
sonnel must be recruited to carry out the expanding program. There appears
to be some reluctance on the part of the executing agencies to expand their
engineering staffs on a project-by-project basis as the absorption of these
personnel into the permanent organization would be difficult, if not impossible.
As with the professional staff, the executing agencies are also not augmenting
their supporting staffs or facilities to carry out the CMDA projects. It is
clear as well that professional and supporting staff are not always used
efficiently by the executing agencies and that antiquated procedures contribute
to the relative shortage of manpower.
17.       Another basic implementation problem is the lack of adequate pro-
gramming procedures within the executing agencies and of an engineering manage-
ment system within CMDA which would allow it to program and monitor works in
progress and to schedule related procurement of materials. Present project
reporting is done on financial rather than physical progress and is on a lump
sum basis. A revised set of reporting forms including physical progress data
has been prepared by CMDA for various types of projects and provided to the
executing agencies. These forms, if properly and promptly completed by
implementing agencies, would help relieve the present reporting problems.
CMDA has also proposed that works programming officers be added to its staff
to manage the new reporting system.
18.       A common element of both the personnel and programming problems
cited above is CNDA's essential lack of control over activites in the execu-
ting agencies. Even equipped with improved management information tools to
anticipate personnel and programming problems, CMDA has limited powers over
the agencies. Administrative fees are not performance related and it would
probably be difficult to get agencies to agree to take on projects on such a
basis even if it were possible to devise a practical incentive formula. The
only means available to CMDA to obtain full reporting and control, over
executing activities is for it to take on direct executing responsibility.
19.       The need for consolidation of the execution arrangements for the
program to achieve control is particularly important as the projects within
the program are, in many cases, related to others and benefits of one project
depend on the completion of others. However, at present CMDA does not have
the personnel or facilities to carry out the projects assigned to other
agencies. CMDA has proposed that it start taking over responsibility for the
most highly interdependent projects by recruitment of new personnel and
acquisition of facilities, or preferably by the absorption of personnel and
facilities now assigned to these projects by the executing agencies. The
CMDA's proposal to the State Government and the GOI review team is for a
major consolidation including the absorption by CMDA of the responsibilities
of a number of agencies implementing water supply, sewerage and drainage
projects. The State and GOI have agreed in principle that an improved



ANNEX 8
Page 6
management system and reorganization and consolidation of operations are
necessary. However, there is some hesitancy about the timing and extent of
changes particularly with regard to possible reassignment of staff as well
as projects from executing agencies to the CMDA.
20.       The CMDA  proposals for engineering management, reporting and
consolidation of executing authority appear to be sufficiently comprehensive
to provide the basis for the development of integrated project execution and
engineering management appropriate for the forseeable future (see Annex 10).
Water Supply
21.       The executing agency responsibilities for CMDA water supply projects
are shown in Table 2. Seven executing agencies are involved. The five State
and autonomous agencies including CMDA, have responsibility for more than
80% of the project total and slightly more than 70% of the investment effort
in FY1972/73.  The Public Health Engineering Directorate (PIED) and CMPO have
the largest responsibilities, each claiming roughly 30% of the program and
of current investment activity. CMDA's responsibilities are for future pro-
jects on which there is no significant present expenditure. CHWSA accounts
for less than 10% of the program and current investment activity but is
involved in Calcutta where present project activity is greatest. Calcutta
Corporation, the only local government agency with a major role in water
supply execution is responsible for a significant share of the priority
schemes already underway in Calcutta and it accounts for nearly 25% of
present investment outlays in the sector. The project execution activities
of the Corporation (as well as those of the Calcutta Improvement Trust and
Howrah Municipality) will, however, be virtually complete by the end of the
4th Plan period.
22.       During the 5th Plan period water supply investments totalling nearly
Rs 39 crores or about 11% of the total program are scheduled; Rs 13 crores
carryover for projects initiated by PHED, CMPO and CMWSA and Rs 26 crores
for new projects not yet reassigned by CMDA (see Annex 6, Table 1). Most of
the work will be concerned with the construction of treatment plants and
distribution grids in the four service districts outside Calcutta.
23.       The CMDA has recently focused its attention on the executing
effectiveness of PHED, CMPO and CMWSA for water supply projects as these
are the agencies which have significant responsibilities extending into the
5th Plan period. In the case of all three it has noted substantial short
falls in financial performance, lack of adequate staffing and failure to
perform essential programming tasks. It views the prospects for improvement
to be limited, due to the restrictiveness of recruiting procedures imposed
on these agencies and the difficulty of instituting changes in management
procedure and judges these to be serious impediments to the successful
completion of the increasingly complex executing tasks involved in comple-
ting the new surface water systems. Accordingly, CMDA has proposed the
consolidation of the executing responsibilities in the water supply sector
into its own organization which because of less time consuming recruitment



ANNEX 8
Page 7
methods, and more adaptable management procedures and centralized admini-
stration can better execute these critical projects.   This proposal has
been accepted by the GOWB and is being put into effect (see Chapter III,
para. 3.07).
Sewerage and Drainage
24.       The executing agency responsibilities for CMDA sewerage and drain-
age projects are shown in Table 2. Seven executing agencies are involved,
six of which are state and autonomous agencies. Nearly 35% of the project
total and 50% of present investment activity is being carried out by the
Irrigation and Waterways Directorate (IWD). The executing task of the IWD,
which is mainly concerned with drainage outfall schemes, will continue to
be sizable until completed within the first two years of the 5th Plan period.
Nearly 30% of the total project and 20% of present investment is accounted
for by expenditures on projects assigned to CMe1SA, which will also have a
large continuing role in the 5th Plan period. Other projects are distri-
buted between PHED, CMPO, Calcutta Corporation and the Howrah and Calcutta
Improvement Trusts.
25.       During the 5th Plan period sewerage and drainage investments tot-
alling nearly Rs 71 crores or about 21% of the total program are scheduled;
Rs 39 crores carry over for 4th Plan projects primarily under the aegis of
CMWSA, IWD, CMPO and PHED and Rs 32 crores for new projects not yet re-
assigned by CMDA (see Annex 6, Table 1).
26.       As indicated above, the role of the IWD will end early in the 5th
Plan period. Thus, as in the water supply sector, the critical agencies
in the 5th Plan period will be the CMWSA, CMPO and PHED. CMDA's analysis
of performance and proposal for consolidation of activities of these agencies
included the sewerage and drainage as well as water supply sector. The
consolidation is now being carried out (see Chapter III, para. 3.07).
Garbage
27.       Garbage collection and disposal is the responsibility of the
municipalities in the CMD. Thus the Calcutta Corporation and the various
municipalities are executing agents for projects in their jurisdictions (see
Table 4). However, CMDA is providing substantial assistance in the tendering
and purchasing of equipment for these projects.
Environmental Hygiene
28.       As with garbage collection, excreta disposal is a municipal res-
ponsibility and is carried out as a part of their conservancy operations.
The responsibility for the latrine programs in the Calcutta Corporation and
Howrah Municipality are assigned to them. However, in other parts of the
CND the prefabricated privies are manufactured and erected by CMDA from central
plants although the municipalities are technically considered to have
executing authority (see Table 4). The air and water pollution studies are
being carried out by contractual arrangements between CNDA and the Central
Public Health Engineering Institute which has staff and facilities for these
studies.



ANNEX 8
Page 8
Urban Transport
29.       The executing responsibilities for CNDA urban transport projects
are shown in Table 5. Eleven major executing agencies, a large number of
municipalities and Zila Parishad are involved and the responsibility is
more widely distributed than in the other major sectors of the CMDA program.
The Public Works (Roads) Directorate is charged with nearly 35% of the pro-
ject total, but its current investment expenditures account for only about
11% of the total for FY 1972/73. This is explained by the fact that the
large expressway projects for which the agency is responsible (totalling
more than Rs 28 crores or 80% of the value of its projects) will not become
active until the 5th Plan period. On the basis of currently active projects
and current expenditure the dominant agencies are the Calcutta Improvement
Trust engaged in road improvements and connections in Calcutta, the Calcutta
State Transport Corporation, engaged in bus purchase and renovation, the
Calcutta Tramways Company engaged in tram and tramway renovation and the group
of smaller municipalities engaged in road repairs. Each of these entities
account for about 15% of present expenditure outlay.
30.       During the 5th Plan urban transport investments totalling nearly
Rs 90 crores or about 25% of the total program are scheduled; Rs 31 crores
carry over for road projects mainly within the projects of the Public Works
(Roads) Directorate and the Calcutta Improvement Trust mentioned in para. 29,
and Rs 42 crores for new road projects and Rs 17 crores for new transit
improvement projects (see Annex 6, Table 1). During the 5th Plan the execu-
ting responsibilities will continue to be widely spread with the same agencies
exercising major responsibilities.
31.       The crucial problems of execution during the 5th Plan period will
be the need to coordinate several of the major expressway projects with the
construction phasing of the second Hooghly Bridge undertaken outside the CMA
program and of as yet unidentified secondary road improvements which will
provide access to the expressways. The disruption of road traffic by the
construction of the Rapid Transit System will also create coordination prob-
lems. The competition for scarce materials between the bridge, RTS and CMDA
projects may also create executing problems for many of CMDA's projects.
Housing and Area Development
32.       The executing agency responsibilities for CMA housing and area
development projects are shown in Table 6. Five executing agencies are
involved, four of which are state and autonomous agencies. Nearly 65% of
the project total and 30Z of present investment activity is being carried
out by CMDA. The executing task of CMDA in the housing and areadevelopment
sector will continue to be sizable throughout the 4th and 5th Plan periods.
About 30% of the total project and 50% of present investment is accounted for
by expenditures on housing projects assigned to the Housing Directorate, which
will also have a large continuing role in the 5th Plan period. Other projects
are distributed between CMPO, Calcutta Corporation and the Calcutta Improvement
Trust.



ANNEX 8
Page 9
33.       During the 5th Plan period housing and area development investments
totalling Rs 80 crores or about 23% of the total program are scheduled; Rs 24
crores carry over for 4th Plan projects primarily under the aegis of CMDA and
Rs 56 crores for new projects not yet reassigned by CMDA (see Annex 6, Table 1).
The critical agencies in the 5th Plan period will continue to be CMDA and the
Housing Directorate.
Bustee Improvement
34.       The Calcutta Improvement Trust, the Calcutta Corporation, and the
Housing Directorate had been involved in slum removal and slum re-housing
before the CMDA was created. However, CMDA decided to set up its own bustee
improvement organization as a self-contained wing of the CMDA. The wing has
its own engineering capacity and internal administration. It adopted the
basic operational unit of the "cluster" of about 5,000 inhabitants, grouped
3 or 4 clusters into a "squad", and placed 4 or 5 squads into a "zone" headed
by an engineer. The CMDA now has 23 social workers assigned to the zonal
officers. The zones are under the purview of an executing agency such as
the CMPO, HIT, CPWD, the Calcutta Corporation, or the CMDA directly. The
chief engineer in the bustee improvement organization coordinates the work of
these agencies and of the social workers assigned to each zone by the CMDA.
35.       A total of Rs 13 crores is programmed for bustee improvement during
the 4th Plan period (see Table 7) and Rs 20 crores for the 5th Plan period
(see Annex 6, Table 1).
Other Projects
36.       The improvements to the gas distribution system in Calcutta are
executed by the Oriental Gas Company. They total Rs 0.8 in the 4th Plan
period (see Table 8) and Rs 3 crores in the 5th Plan period.
37.       The primary executing agencies for the health program are the
Public Works Directorate which is involved with the hospital construction
program amounting to Rs 11 crores, the Health Directorate which provides equip-
ment and funding for clinics amounting to Rs 3 crores and CMDA which provides
mobile clinics amounting to Rs 1 crore (see Table 8). The total 4th Plan
program amounts to Rs 8 crores and the 5th Plan 10 crores.
38.       The education program consists of primary schools constructed under
the Construction Board and Calcutta Corporation and equipment provided through
CMDA (see Table 8). The total 4th Plan program amounts to nearly Rs 2 crores,
the 5th Plan program Rs 4 crores.
39.       More than 60 park and playground improvement schemes have been
initiated in the 4th Plan by a large number of local authorities as implement-
ing agencies (see Table 8). The total expenditure in the 4th Plan period is
expected to be Rs 1.5 crores and the 5th Plan expenditure Rs 3 crores.






A; rEX 8
?age 10
Table 1
IZiIA
CALCUTTA URBAk%, DiVELOPME. T PROJECT
Ececuting Agency Responsibilities for CMDA Projects
Total
Project             % of
Agency                                                Cost  I'          Total
(Rs Crores)
State Directorates
Public Virrks (Roads) Directorate                          34.14
Public Health Engineering Directorate                      29.34
Irrigation and 1Jaterways Directorate                      27.02
Public Works Directorate                                   20.06
Fousing Directorate                                         6.65
Health Directorate                                          3.12
Forest Directorate                                         015
Sub-total                              120,48              38.2
State Autonomous Agencies
CMDA                                                       42.28
GWP0                                                       25.96
CMWSA                                                      25.58
Calcutta Port Commtissioners                                1.95
Sub-total                               95.77              30.4
State Operated Utilities
Calcutta State Transport Corporation                        7.65
Calcutta Tramways Company                                   7.58
Oriental Gas                                                0.82
Sub-total                               16.05               5.1
Sub-total State Entities               232.30              73.7
Local Autonomous Agencies
Calcutta Improvement Trust                                 30.52
Howrah Improvement Trust                                   11.25
Sub-total                               41.77              13.2
Corporations/Municipalities
Calcutta Corporation                                       27.93
Howrah Municipality                                         2.33
Other Munaicipalities                                       6.70
Sub-total                               36.96              11.7
Other Agencies                                              3.98               1.2
Unassigned                                                  0.64               0.2
TOTAL                                  315.65             100.0
1/  Total estimated cost of CMDA Projects to be initiated in the 4th Plan Period.
lource: CNDA



AlJ.'EX 8
Page 11.
Table
IhDIA
CALCUTTA URBAa DEVELOPME..T PROJECT
Executing Agency Responsibilities for CMDA Projects - Water
Total      Programmed
Project                                         Project     Corpletion
Agency                .-jumber            Description                   cost 1/        Pate
(Rs lakhs)
Pablic Health          WS 008   Interim Ground Water System             916.16
Engineering            WS 009                                            96.00
ilLrectorate           WS 010   Fringe Area Water Supply                600.00
US 011   Minor Grids                             450.00
WS 012   Interim Ground Water System              54.00
WS 013   Interim Ground Water System              20.60
iS 014   Interim Ground Water System               1 .00
WS 015   Interim Ground Water System               2.00
Sub-total             2,139.76
CNPO                  WS 019   Distribution System, Calcutta            104.00
WS 020   Garden Reach Water Plant                530.0Q
WS 021   Howrah Water Plant                      700.40
,IS 022   Baranagar Water Plant                  431.00
Sub-total             1,765.00
CMDA                  WS 025   Serampore Water Plant                    300.00
WS 026   Serampore Primary Grid                  700.00
Sub-total             1,000.00
CMWSA                 WS 017   60" Palta Talhah Main                    293.0O
ES 018   Cathodic Protection                     1QO.00
Sub-total               393,00
Calcutta Corporation  WS 001   Palta Treatment Plant                    234.68
WS 002   Palta Treatment Plant                    80.00
WS 003   Palta Treatment Plant                    27.00
WS 004A  Mallick Reservoir                        60.00
WS oo4B  Auckland Reservoir                       95.00
WS 005   Interim                                  23.20
WS 006   Palta Treatment Plant                     5.30
WS 007   Calcutta Distribution System            300.00
Sub-total               825.18
Calcutta Improvement
Trust                 WS 016   Interim Ground Water .fystem             200.00.
Sub-total               200.00
Howrah  Municipality  TA 023   Desilting at Howrah 'Water Plant          10.22
v6 024 Interim Ground Water Sources 4.25
Sub-total                14.47
TOTAL                6,337.41
1/ Total estimated cost of CMDA Projects to be initiated in the 4th Plan Pariod
Source:  CMDA



ANNI( 8
ap_ 1?
Table 3
INDIA
CALCUTTA UR1A . DEVELOPM1E  PROJECT
Eecuting Agency Responsibilities for CNA Projects - Sewerage and Drainage
Total      Programmed
Project                                       Project    Completion
Agency           NIwbler           Description                  Cost i        Date
(Re lakdhs)
Irrigation and        SD 029   Tollygunge Drainage                    95.00         1973
Waterways Directorate SD 030   Manikhali, Kbardah, Keorapukur
Boinchitola Drainage                141.47         1974
SD 031   Calcutta Outfall                      395.00         1975
SD 032   Calcutta Outfall                      450.00         1975
SD 033   Howrah Outfall                         84.37
SD 034   Howrah Outfall                         23.00
SD 035   Kristopur-Bhangar Bata Khal            63.39         1973
SD 036     It h1             I                  71.00         1973
SD 037   Tolly's Nullah                         63.50         1973
SD 038  iNavigation Route Kultigang to Hooghly  82.00         1973
SD 039   Xhardah Basin Drainage                 63.00         1975
SD 040   Chunial Basin Drainage                185.00         5th Plan
SD 041   Bagor Xhal                             24.70         1974
SD 042  Pumps at Chowbhaga                      78.oo         1973
SD 043   Monikhbai Drainage                     84.00         1974
SD 0t44   Sluice at Chitpar                     59.00         1975
SD 045   Pumps at Uttarbhag                     26.40         1974
SD 046   Protection to Banks of Hooghly River   55.00         1974
SD 047  Ichapur Basin Drainage                  66.oo         1974
SD 048   Re-excavation of Adi-Ganga            103.00         5th Plan
SD 049   Re-excavation of Bally-Xhal            65.00         1974
SD 050   Protection to Banks of Hooghly River  45.00          1974
SD 051   Drainage Canal Roads                   70-00         1974
SD 053   Ulubria Drainage                       85.00
SD 054   Renovation Circular oanal              35,00         1974
SD 055   Lining Tolly's a  ullab                85.00         1973
SD 056   Drainage Bagiola Basin                 90.00         1974
Sub-total            2,687.83
CMSA                  SD 007   Combined System                       104.00         5th Plan
SD 008   TlIlygunge Sewerage                   552.00         5th Plan
SD 009   Tollygunge Drainage                   304.00         5th Plan
SD 010   Manicktala Drainage                    90.00         5th Plan
SD 011   Gossipore Sewerage & Drainage         557,00         6th Plan
SD 012   Tollygunge Drainage                   227.00         5th Plan
SD 013   Combined Systemi                       30.88         1973
SD 01SB  Howrah Drainage                       300.00         5th Plan
Sub-total            2,164.88
Public Health         SD 021   Dum Dum Sewerage                       95.00          1973
iagineering           SD 022   Patipkur Sewerage                      28.00          1973
Directorate           SD 023   Uttarpara Sewerage                     20.00          1974
SD 024   Konnagar Drainage                     106.00         5th Plan
SD 025   Bhatpara & Titagarth Sewerage         108.30         1974
SD 026   Seraimpore Sewerage                    30.00         1975
SD 027   Chandernagore Sewerage                207.00         5th Plan
SD 028   Dum Dum Sewerage                      200.00         5th Plan
Sub-total              794,30
CMPO                  SD 020   Baranagar Drainage                    610.00         5th Plan
Sub-total              60o.oo
Calcutta Corporat:.on  SD 001   Combined Syatem                      196.00         5th Plan
SD 002A  Combined 2yatem                       284.00         5th Plan
SD 002B  Combined System                       144,00         1974
SD 003   Combined System                       131.00         1974
Sab-total              755.00
Howrah Improvement   SD 014   Howrah Sewerage                        212.00         5th Plan
Trust                 SD 015A  Howrah Drnage                          57-60         1974
SD 106   Howrah Sewerage                       259.00         1974
Sub-total              528.60
Calcutta Improvement SD 006   Manicktala Drainage                    161.00          5th Plan
Trust
Sub-total              161.00
TOTAL                7,701.61
1/ Total estimated cost of CMDA ProJects to be initiated in the 4th Plan Period
Source: CMA



ANNEX 8
Page 13
INDrA                            Table 4
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Executing Agency Responsibilities for CMDA Projects -
Garbage Disppsal and 'Enirn mental Hygiene
Total      Programmed
Project                                         Project     Completion
Agency                 I&umber          Description                     Cost Y        Date
(Rs lakhs)
Garbage isposal:
Calcutta Corporation  GD 001   Removal Equipment                        300.00
GD 002    isposal Site Improvements              100*00
,sub-total              400.00
Howrah                 GD 003   Remval Equipment                         65.00
Sub-total                65.00
Other Municipalities  GD 004   Removal Equipment                         20.0Q
Sab-total                20.00
Sub-total              485.00
Environmental Hygiene:
Calcutta Corporation  ER 001   Sanitary Latrine Conversion              200,00
ER 002   Public Conveniences                      10.00
Sub-total              210.00
Howrah Mmnicipality   EH 003   Sanitary Latrine Conversion               0O.O
EH oo4   Public Conveniences                     io.o
ub-total               50*Q0
Other Municipalities  EH 005   Sanitary Latrine Conversion             240.00
Sub-total              240.00
Central Public
Health Engineering    EH 006   Air Pollution Survey                      4.o40
Research Institute    EH 007   Water Pollution Survey                    2.75
Sub-total                 7.15
Sub-total              507.15
TOTAL                  992.15
1/ Total estimated cost of CMDA Projects to be initiated in the 4th Plan Period.
Source: CMDA



ANNEX 8
Page 14
Table 5
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Executing Agency Responsibilities for CMDA ProJects - Urban Transport
Total    Programned
Project                                           Project   Cosmpletion
Agency           Number                 Description                 Cost /1       Date
(Rs lakhs)
Public Works (Roads) TT 001      Howrah Station improvement             195.00
Directorate          TT 002      Dum Dum Expressway                     199.85
TT 003      Jessore Road Link Road                  19.38
TT 004      Banamali Naskar Link Road                2.71
TT 005      Thakurpukur Link Road                   22.00
TT 017      Central Howrah Expressway              422.00
TT 020B     Traffic Operations Schemes              24.61
TT 021B     Road Repairs, Lighting                 108.14
TT 0231     Eastern Metropolitan Bypass (Part)    800.00
TT 024      Kona Expressway                        912.00
TT 025      Barrackpore-Kalyana Expressway         407.00
TT 026      Kalyana Bridge and Approaches          301.00
Sub-total     3,413.69
Public Works
Directorate          TT 006      Diamond Harbor Road Bypass              133.00
TT 007      Lighting, Dum Dtm Expressway            16.00
TT 008      Diamond Harbor Road                    368.33
TT 020A     Traffic Operations  Schemes            175.04
TT 020H iii, iv,
ix(a)    Acharya Road                           100.00
TT 021A     Road Repairs, Lighting                 145.10
Sub-total       937.47
Calcutta State
Transport            TT/OS  002  Bus Purchases, Repair                  764.71
Corporation                                             Sub-total        764.71
Calcutta Trmamys    TT 020G      Traffic Operations Schemes              32.25
Company              TT 021E     Right-of-way Repairs                    21.05
TT/OS 001   Tram, Track Renovation                 704.50
Sub-total       757.80
Calcutta Port        TT 020C     Bradbourne Road Flyover                195.00
Comissioners                                            Sub-total       195.00
CNDA                 TT 020H (Pt.) Traffic Operations Schemes            50.00
TT 021      Road Repairs, Non-Municipal Areas      125.00
Sub-total       175.00
Irrigation and Waterways
Directorate          TT 020D     Kalighat Bridge                         14.65
Sub-total        14.65
Calcutta Ivprovement TT 009      Chetla Bridge                           43.33
Trust                TT 010      Ballygunge-Kasba Bypass                372.00
TT 011      Mullick Road                            86.93
TT 012      Anwar Shah Road                        659.00
TT 013      Manichtala Road                        144.00
TT 014      Ultadanja Road                         145.r)n
TT 015      Deshpran Sasnal Road                   283.88
Tr 020E     Traffic Operations Schemes               6.20
TT 021G     Road Repairs, Lighting                   7.50
TT 0231     Eastern Metropolitan Bypass (Part)    800.00
Sub-total     2,547.84
HEorah Improvement  TT 016        Grand Trunk Road Bypass                112.50
Trust                TT 018      Buckland Bridge Reconstruction          419.00
TT 021F     Road Repairs                             7.18
Sub-total       538.68
Calcutta Corporation TT 020F     Five-Point Crossing                     54.00
TT 021C     Road Repairs and Lighting              200.00
Sub-total       254.00
Bovrab Municipality  TT 021D     Road Repairs                            103.85
Sub-total       103.85
Other Municipalities TT O2lHa    Road Repairs                            395.00
Sub-total       395.00
Zila Parisad         TT 021Hb    Road Repairs                             15.00
Sub-total        15.00
Not assigned         TT 019      Reconstruction of Bridge                  3.72
TT 020      Traffic Operations Schemes              60.00
Sub-total        63.72
Total    10.176. 41
fl Total estimated cost of CMDA projects to be initiated in the Fourth Plan period.
Source:  aCl4



AfI~EX 8
.
Page 15
Table 6
IiNDIA
CAALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
E&ecuting Agency Responsibilities for CDA. Projects -
Housing and Area Development
Total      progranmed
Project                                        Project      Completion-L
Agency           Number             Description                                 Date
Date
'Rs lakhs)
CNDA                  HG 001C                                          800.00
HG 003B                                       1,200.00
Sub-total            2,000.00
Housing Directorate   HG 001A                                          547.48
HG 002C                              .46.30
HG 003A                                          70.85
sub-total              664.63
CMPO                  HG 001B                                          100.60
HG 002A                                          75.00
Sub.-total             175.60
Calcutta Corporation  HG 002D                                           28.60
Sub-total               98.60
Calcutta Improvement
Trust                 HG 002B                                           93.54
Sub-total               93.54
TOTAL                3,032.37
1/ Total estimated cost of CMDA Projects to be initiated in the 4th Plan Period
Source: CDaM 



AM'IEX 8
Page 16
Table 7
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOEIPMT PROJECT
Executing Agency Responsibilities for CMDA Projects - Bustee Imrovements
Total      Programaed
Project                                         Projece      Completion
Agency            Nu.mber            D~ scription                  cost2.   _    Date
(Rs lakhs)
CMDA                   BI 005    Bustee Improvements                    853.00
Sub-total               853.00
Central Public
WOrks Directorate      BI 0014    Bustee Improvements                  245,00
Sub-total               245.00
Ca-lcutta Corporation  BI 001    Bustee Improvements                    180.00
Sub-total               180.00
CMPO                   BI 002    Bustee Improvements                     45.50
Sub-total                45.00
Howrah Improvement
Trust                  BI 003    Bustee Improvements                     10.68
Sub-total                10.68
TOTAL                 1;334.18
_/  Total estimated cost of CMDA Projects to be initiated in the 4th Plan Period.
Source:  CMDA



AiNnEx 8
Table; -6
CALGTiTTA URbAN DEVELOPTEhT PROJECT
Executing Agency Responsibilities for CMDA Projects - Other Projects
Total     Programmed
Project                                         Projec81   Completion
Agency            Number            Description                    Cost -       Date
Gas:                                                                  (Rs lakhs)
Oriental Gas Company  SPG 001    Gaa Distribution Improvements           81.75
Sub-total                81.75
Health:
Public Works           SPH OO2Aj. Hospital Construction                 406.72
Directorate            SPE OO2Bii Land for Hospitals                     53.00
SPH 002E   Hospital Construction                 608.62
Sub-total             1,068.34
Health Directorate    SPH 002Bi  Hospital Equipment/Ambulances          182.00
SPH 002S   Equipment, miscellaneous              130.00
Sub-total               312.00
CMDA                   SPH 002D   Mobile Clinics                        132.00
Sub-total               132.00
Howrah Improvement    SPH 002AUi Hospital Construction                   27.00
Trust
Sub-total                27.00
Sub-total             1,539.34
Education:
G'NUA                  SPS 0030   Primary School Repairs                 60.50
Sub-total                60.50
Sonstruction Board    SPS 003B   Primary School Construction             20.60
Sub-total                20.60
Calcutta Corporation  SPS 003A   Primary School Construction             20.00
$ub-total                20.00
Xot assigned                                                            118.9o
Sub-total               220.00
Foereation:
Calcutta Corporation  SPP 0d4A   Parks and Playgrounds                   50.00
Sub-total                50.00
Calcutta Isprovement
Trust                  SPO O04B   Parks and Playgrounds                  50.00
Sub-total                50.00
Hourah Improvement
Trust                  SPP 0o4C   Parks and Playgrounds                  20.00
Sub-total                20.00
Forest Ddrectorate    SPP 0014)  Park                                    15.00
Sab-total                15.00
Nhnicipalities         SP? OC4E   Parks and Playgrounds                  15.00
Sub-total                15.00
Sub-Total               150.00
TOTAL                1,991.09
1/  Total estimated cost of CMDA Projects to be initiated in the 4th Plan Period
Source: CNDA



ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCE OF THE CMDA PROGRAM
1.        The CMDA program is the largest, centrally administered urban
development effort in India. CMDA has been created to plan, budget, expend
and on-lend funds as well as to execute and manage the execution of projects
within the program. CMDA and the central and State Governments have provided
most of the finance of the program; State and local agencies are the primary
recipients.
A. Financial Role of CMDA
2.        The CMDA is a multi-function development agency of the State
Government which acts on the latter's behalf in formulating and executing a
program for development of the Calcutta Metropolitan District. It coordinates
and supervises the execution of its program, it raises and arranges program
finance, and it passes on to local agencies funds and terms of finance origina-
ting with the Center or the State. From the financial point of view CMDA is a
hybrid institution, being neither equivalent to a State Government department
nor financially autonomous.
3.        Unlike State Government departments CMDA prepares and adopts its
own annual budget which is submitted to both the State and Central Governments
for approval. In addition, the execution of the CMDA program is evaluated
and overall guidelines for its financial management are decided quarterly by
a joint State and Center review team. The involvement of the Central Govern-
ment is extra-constitutional and is allowed for by the State Government on
the basis of the considerable central support for the program and the desire
to expedite the financial sanctioning of CMDA activities. Given these periodic
State-Central reviews, CMDA is empowered to make expenditures without reference
to the Finance Department approval, a normal and time consuming sanctioning
procedure for State Government departments. CMDA also functions differently
than State departments. It receives a direct revenue allocation from the
octroi law, it has borrowing powers and it passes on funds and negotiates on-
lending terms with other agencies.
4.        Unlike autonomous bodies, however, CNDA does not keep a complete
set of accounts. It does not have a balance sheet but instead produces income
and expense statements which are submitted to Center and State during the
above-mentioned review meetings and which are audited ex-post by the auditor
of West Bengal. Neither does CMDA have actual financial autonomy because,
apart from the limited receipts from the octroi tax, it has no sources of
revenue of its own yet it is obliged to accept on-lending of funds from the
State on more stringent terms than it can expect to pass on to State agencies
and local bodies.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
5.        CMDA's rather unorthodox financial role and character have been
devised to suit the needs of launching a large development program under the
particular fiscal conditions existing in the CMD. It is clear that its adop-
tion of a more conventional development authority role will depend on a
further strengthening and rationalization of public finance in the CMD. In
the meantime it will remain a subordinate agent of the State with important
but limited prerogatives for development finance.
B. Sources of Funds
6.        At present the CMDA has five sources of funds:  State Plan funds,
central bustee improvement grants, octroi tax receipts, open market borrowings
and central loans, but the Authority has been in contact with a number of
other financial institutions, including HUDCO, LIC and IDBI, as possible sources
of finance in the future. The terms of these inputs are described in Table 1.
Plan Funds
7.        West Bengal's Fourth Five-Year Plan (1969-74) contained a total
programmed outlay of Rs 323 crores, of which Rs 241 crores, or 75%, are now
expected to have been spent by the end of the Plan's fourth year. Total
expenditures over the five-year period are thus likely to fall somewhat short
of that originally programmed. Although CMDA did not exist yet when the State's
Fourth Plan was drawn up, West Bengal's plan already contained    infrastructure
improvements totalling Rs 42.88 crores for the Calcutta Metropolitan District
and this was incorporated in the overall CMDA program for the Fourth Plan period.
Before CMDA started its operations in late 1970, Rs 3.14 crores had been dis-
bursed on the projects, later incorporated within the program.  Another ks 36.92
crores are expected to be disbursed through CMDA, leaving an unexpended amount
of approximately Rs 2.82 crores of the original plan alloca-tion.
8.        As explained in Annex 4, State plans are financed with funds origina-
ting from a variety of sources, both from within the State and from the Center.
The latter category of assistance has for a number of years been provided as
"block aid", 30% as grant and 70% as loan. Because none of the financial
resources entering a State plan are earmarked for specific outlays, it is not
possible to identify the source of the State plan funds which are channelled
into the CMDA program. In principle, their financial cost to the State should
correspond to the average financial cost of the State plan.  In practice, these
State plan funds have been passed on to CMDA on an unspecified basis, and all
financial charges resulting from the financing of the plan are for the moment
carried by the State budget.
Bustee Improvement Grants
9.        Central Government grants are being provided to finance a comprehensive
program of bustee rehabilitation, including the replacement of service privies
by sanitary latrines, the provision of potable water, the paving of pathways
and the construction of surface and underground drains.    The original outlay
programmed for the Fourth Plan period was Rs 10 crores, to be financed through
a Rs 8 crores grants from the Center and Rs 2 crores financial assistance from
the State. In the meantime, however, the Center has decided to enlarge the
program and to forego the State's sare in the financing. By the end of March



ANNEX 9
Page 3
1973, the Center will have provided Rs 8 crores on a grant basis, and State
authorities now expect that the program for 1973-74 will be in the order of
Rs 4.5 crores, also entirely provided by the Center.
10.       CMDA has set up a separate administrative unit for the bustee
program and the organizational expenses which it incurs in this respect are
also covered by the Central grant assistance. CMDA's role in the program,
both financially and administratively, normally ends with the termination of
the improvement works, but pending a permanent solution to the problem of
financing and execution of maintenance, CMDA has been requested by the
Central Government to supervise the maintenance of facilities erected within
the bustee scheme. Funds for these maintenance costs are also covered by the
Central grant assistance. (See para. 28).
Octroi Tax Receipts
11.       In November 1970, the State of West Bengal introduced a new tax
(octroi) to be levied on goods entering the Calcutta Metropolitan Area (see
Annex 4) to proVide an additional source of revenue for financing of the
development of the Calcutta Metropolitan District. CMDA has been allotted
half of the net proceeds of this tax, mainly to permit the Authority to borrow
from the open market. Because it takes some time to finalize the accounts
relating to the actual receipts of this tax, CMDA receives advances on the
expected returns. In 1970-71, for the period covering the first 4 1/2 months
after the introduction of tax, these advances totalled Rs 1 crores. CMDA's
receipts in 1972-73 have been estimated to be Rs 6 crores and in 1973-74, they
are estimated to reach Rs 7 crores.
Open Market Borrowings
12.       On the basis of these octroi receipts, the Authority has been
entitled to borrow funds on the open market. CMDA bonds are issued with State
Government guarantee, but f1l outside the borrowing ceiling allotted to West
Bengal. Under present market conditions the bonds, which are redeemable after
12 years, carry an interest rate of 6%. Principal subscribers are banks, pro-
vident funds and insurance companies. Gross borrowing, which has been influ-
enced favorably by the high liquidity of the banking system has increased from
Rs 7.15 crores in 1970-71 to Rs 15.4 crores in 1972-73, each issue having
been oversubscribed. State authorities have indicated that market borrowing
in 1973-74 can be expected to be in the same order of magnitude as in 1972-73.
13.       Because of this rapid expansion of CMDA's open market borrowing, the
Authority's debt service burden has risen sharply. Interest payments alone
increased from Rs 0.43 crores in 1971-72 to Rs 1.12 crores in 1972-73,
representing in this latter year double the amount of outlay on organizational
expenses. Up to the end of 1972 the Authority had omitted fulfilling its sink-
ing fund payments, part of which are overdue.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
Central Loans
14.       Soon after CMDA began operations it became obvious that the State
Plan provision for CMDA would be insufficient to cover the Authority's rapidly
expanding needs. Even after making allowance for the bustee improvement
grants, the receipts from the octroi tax, and the proceeds from open market
borrowing, additional financial resources would still be required. It is to
fill this residual financial gap that the Central Government has pledged
residual loan finance to the State of West Bengal for exclusive use of the
CMDA Program. These loans totalled approximately Rs 4 crores in both 1970-71
aiLd 1971-72. In the first half of 1972-73 Rs 2 crores were received, and Rs 3
crores more can be expected with reasonable certainty in the second half of
the year.  However, if the CMDA program is executed at the anticipated pace
another Rs 14.5 crores will be required to fill the remaining gap. In any
event, because these funds are considered as a residual source of finance, a
decision by the Central Government on this matter will only be taken towards
the end of the fiscal year, in the light of CMDA's disbursement requirements.
15.       Although these are all the existing sources of funds, CMDA may
somewhat diversify these sources in the future. The Authority has approached
HUDCO, LIC and IDBI with respect to lending for designated projects.  Discussions
with HUDCO seem to be most advanced and may lead to a first line of credit for
two housing schemes with a total cost of Rs 2.36 crores. At least 25% of the
housing units financed under these two schemes would be for economically weaker
sections of the population and, consequently, the schemes will benefit from
HUDCO's loan assistance at 6 1/2%, with State guarantee. Nevertheless, all
housing projects financed by HUDCO must be financially viable. The housing
units financed under these programs will, therefore, be sold or rented out on
a commercial basis by CMDA or by the Housing Board, depending on who will
ultimately be appointed as implementing agency. The loan will be repayable in
10 years out of the rental or sale proceeds.  Disbursements on these two
schemes should amount to Rs 0.15 crores in 1972-73 and Rs 1.01 crore in 1973-74.
16.       LIC has been approached by CMDA for finance of eight water supply projects
and four sewerage and drainage projects with a total cost of Rs 17.68 crores.
Total financial assistance requested amounts to Rs 11.36 crores, but LIC has
indicated to the Authority that any project assistance by LIC would come in
lieu of its present subscription to CMDA market loans.  Finally, CMDA has also
approached IDBI for the financing of Rs 5.77 crores for bus purchases by the
CSTC. In this case CMDA will act only as financial intermediary.
C. Destination of Funds
17.       CMDA's program of identified projects total Rs 316 crores.  The
sectoral distribution of this program as well as actual disbursement by sector
in the three and a half year period from April 1, 1969 to September 1972 is shown
below:



ANNEX 9
Page 5
Disbursements
Sectors                   Total Program        (April 1969 - Sept. 1972)
Rs crores       %           Rs crores        %
Urban and Transport                101.8         32.6           18.6         31.0
Sewerage and Drainage                77.0        24.4           18.0         29.9
Water Supply                         63.4        20.1           10.3         16.9
Housing and New Area Development   30.3           9.6            3.8          6.3
Other Projects 1/                   19.9          5.9            2.2          3.7
Bustee Improvement                   13.3         4.3            5.4          8.9
Garbage Disposal and Environ-
mental Hygiene                    9.9          3.1            2.0          3.3
Total        315.6        100.0           6043        100.0
1/   Include hospitals,schools and parks.
18.       Apart from its program outlays, CMDA also has a budget for its
organizational expenses (see Table 2). Because of the increased level of
activity, CMDA's overhead expenses are increasing rapidly; from Rs 34 lakhs
in 1971-72 they are expected to rise to Rs 56 lakhs in 1972-73. The estimated
amount for 1973-74 is Rs 75 lakhs. Wages and salaries account for 28% of
the total. Organizational expenses of the CMPO had been charged to the CMDA
budget during the first two years of the latter's existence, but in 1972-73
this practice was discontinued and CMPO 's expenses are now carried by the State
Budget.
19.       CMDA funds are also required to provide a revolving fund for the
materials used in the execution of its projects. The executing agencies
associated with the CMDA program are reimbursed for the full cost of projects
they are executing (including an overhead commission), but have to refund
CMDA for the cost of the centrally procured materials included in their
projects. The time elapsed between the moment CMDA acquires the materials
and their reimbursement has been quite considerable. In the first 2 1/2 years
of its existence CMDA had purchased Rs 9.36 crores worth of such materials,
billed executing agencies for Rs 3.89 crores, but had been repaid only Rs 2.49
crores (see Table 3). CMDA had thus immobilized a total working capital of
Rs 6.87 crores in this operation. Central Government authorities have indicated
that they would be reluctant to provide any more funds as working capital and
have urged CMDA to accelerate its billing procedure and to control its recovery
rate. CMDA is making efforts in that direction and hopes to recover Rs 2.51
crores from the oustanding amount in the second half of 1972-73. Total
immobilized capital should then be stabilized at Rs 4.41 crores.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
C. Financial Flows
20.       Program inputs from existing sources through September 1972 are
shown below:
Amount        -_%
(Rs crores)
Market loans                        22.0           35
State Plan funds                   19.8            31
Central loans                      10.1            16
Octroi tax                           6.0           10
Bustee improvement grants            4.5            7
Miscellaneous                        0.4            1
62.8          100
CNDA's market borrowing has been allowed to expand rapidly to the limit
provided by octroi tax servicing capacity and will grow more slowly and
have relatively less significance in the future (see para. 29). Central
loans earmarked for the program have been assured to provide residual financ-
ing after receipt of funds from the other identified sources. These will
become increasingly important towards the end of the 4th Plan Period (March
1974).  The distribution of inputs beyond that date will depend on Center
and State agreements on the 5th Plan and the evolution of the program but it
is intended to incorporate all inputs designated at the beginning of the plan,
expect market borrowings, within plan allocations.
21.       CMDA's annual cash flow for the years 1970-71 through 1973-74
(forecast) are shown in Table 4. Receipts through September 1972 totalled
Rs 62.8 crores as indicated above.. Total CMDA disbursements in the same
period, including Rs 60.3 crores of direct program outlays (para. 17), totalled
Rs 61.9 crores, leaving a closing cash balance of Rs 0.9 crores. In the first
year of CMDA's operations, its advances to the implementing agencies were well
in excess of actual scheme disbursements, with the result that considerable
cash balances accumulated with the agencies. In 1971-72 however, scheme
disbursements exceeded CMDA advances and cash balances with the implementing
agencies were drawn down:from Rs 8.2 crores-to Rs 2.2 crores. .In the first
half of 1972-73 the situation reversed itself, with the implementing agencies
disbursing more than the advances which they had received from CMDA. At-the
end of September 1972, these excess expenditures, financed through recourse
by the agencies to the State exchequer, totalled Rs 4.4 crores.
1/   At the end of 1971-72 CMDA's cash balance actually turned negative for
a short period of time. Overdraft advances of Rs 1.5 crores were made
to CMDA by one of its bankers..



ANNEX 9
Page 7
22.       Forecasts for CMDA's fiscal year 1972-73 indicate that program
disbursements may total Rs 49.4 crores, 1/ organizational expenses Rs 0.56
crores and debt service charges Rs 4.0 crores; or a total disbursement of
around Rs 54 crores. Total financial inputs for the year identified at the
time of appraisal totalled Rs 38.7 crores, including central loans of only
Rs 5.0 crores. If expenditure reaches the level anticipated, total central
loans for the year may have to be as high as Rs 19.6 crores. 2/ Clearly,
whether this will materialize will entirely depend on the ability of the
implementing agencies to handle a level of activity 42% higher than the previous
year.
23.       State authorities have recently decided to limit overall CMDA
spending in the Fourth Plan period to Rs 159.3 crores, including Rs 150 crores
of program expenditure and Rs 9.3 crores of debt service payments. Assuming
that total organizational expenses in the period will amount to Rs 6.82 crores,
this would leave Rs 143.18 crores for expenditures on scheme development proper.
If, furthermore, scheme disbursements in 1972-73 will reach the anticipated
level of Rs 49.44 crores, this would leave Rs 48.18 crores for program outlays
during CMDA's FY 1973-74. Total expenditures in that year would then amount
to Rs 53.79 crores.    Financial inputs totalling this amount can be provided
with increased centralloans. Assuming that in 1973-74 market borrowings will
be of the same magnitude as in the preceding year and that plan funds avail-
able for CMDA will total Rs 12.65 crores remaining in the Fourth Plan period the
balance of Rs 12.98 crores would have to be bridged through additional central
loans.
E. CMDA Onlending
24.       As mentioned earlier, CMDA has responsibility for the repayment
of central loans, although in practice the debt service on these loans has
up to now been assumed by the State budget. The only manner in which CMDA can
be expected to actually take on these repayment obligations in the future, is
by recovering a larger share from the funds which it passes on to its imple-
menting agencies. Therefore, an analysis of this onlending pattern and an
assessment regarding the chances of recovery is necessary.
25.       The terms at which CMDA program funds have been passed on to imple-
menting and/or operating agencies have so far been relatively consistent with
the revenue earning potential of the facilities thereby created, Nevertheless,
there are some anomalies in the five basic categories of onlending which have
emerged.
1/    This would imply that disbursements on schemes would rise from Rs 14.7
crores in the first half of the year to Rs 34.7 crores in the second
half. In view of the seasonal character of construction work in Calcutta,
such a sharp increase is not a priori unlikely; in 1971-72 disbursements
increased from Rs 8.7 crores in the first half of the year to Rs 24.4
crores in the second half, a proportionate increase which is even some-
what larger than the one anticipated for 1972-73.
2/    Assuming that the opening cash balance with CMDA and the implementing
agencies (Rs 0.7 crores) will be entirely drawn down during the period.



ANNEX 9
Page 8
(a)  for the bustee improvement schemes, and for hospital project
funds are simply passed on to the implementing agency as
grants;
(b)  for sanitary latrine schemes the grant assistance
covers three-fourths of the project cost and is to be supple-
mented for one-fourth by a contribution from the owners of the
premises;
(c)  for water supply projects handled by the Public Health Engineering
Directorate, and for most transport schemes executed by the
Calcutta Improvement Trust the funds are given on a part grant/
part loan basis (mostly in the proportion 2 to 1);
(d)  for most projects handled by the Calcutta Corporation and Howrah
Municipality, for housing projects executed by the Housing Board,
as well as for almost all schemes executed by public sector under-
takings, funds are passed on entirely as loans (usually at the same
terms and conditions as the central loans received by CMDA). This
pattern is, however, also adopted for transport Projects implemented
by the two public works directorates;
(e)  finally, in a number of instances the terms and conditions of the
onlending are left to be negotiated at a later date.
Total
Project                            Owner's         Not
Costs      Loans      Grants   Contribution   Decided
Government Direc-
torates            121.4       56.8       29.2          -            35.4
Government Agencies   96.8         28.7      11.8          -            56.3
Improvement Trusts    41.7         17.6      15.6          -             8.5
Calcutta Corporation  27.9         22.4       3.3         0.5            1.7
Other Municipalities   9.1          2.8       5.5         0.7            0.1
Public Sector
Undertakings        16.0        15.5        -           -             0.5
Other                   2.3          -        1.4          -             0.9
315.2      143.8       66.8         1.2         103.4
%          100          46         21           -            33



ANNEX 9
Page 9
D. Fifth Plan Finance
27.       It is too early to outline with any degree of precision the financing
pattern for the Fifth Plan period. CMDA authorities are presently thinking
in terms of a Fifth Five Year Plan program amounting to nearly Rs 350 crores.
This program would consist of carryover from the Fourth Plan, new Fifth Plan
projects, organizational expenses, and debt service payments. The financing
pattern of this program would to a large extent depend on the share of CMDA
activities which will be included in West Bengal's next five year plan. The
larger this share, the smaller the size of required market borrowing and
additional central loans.
State Plan Finance
28.       As indicated in Annex 4, West Bengal's Fourth plan was very small,
both compared to the State's needs and relative to the size of plan expendi-
tures in other States. For the next plan period State planning authorities
have prepared a public sector investment outlay almost three times the size
of the investment in the previous plan. The feasibility of such a level of
public investment spending will have to be assessed by the Central Planning
Commission, in view of the expected overall level of resource availability
in the next five years. The extent to which the CMDA program will find its
place in the State plan proper (as opposed to a place in the State's non-
plan public investment) wrill depend on the central policy with regard to
urban development programs. The more emphasis the Center will place on
urban development as a national priority, the less CMDA will depend on State
Plan resources for the financing of its program. Because the debt service
burden of the latter funds falls squarely on the State budget, whereas central
loans have, in principle at least, to be repaid -by CMDA, this distinction
between plan and non-plan funds is not without importance for the future
financial policy of CMDA.
Market Borrowings
29.       Future limitations exist on CMDA's borrowing capacity, namely
with respect to open market loans. Table 5 shows CMDA's debt service on
existing market loans as well as on future market loans, under the assumption
that the share of financing through market borrowing would remain constant
in the next six years. From this table it appears that debt service on such
loans would rise from Rs 2.86 crores in 1973-74 to Rs 15.5 crores in 1978-79.
Assuming that CMDA's share in the net proceeds from the octroi tax will con-
tinue to be 50%, and under the likely hypothesis that the revenue from octroi
tax will increase by 10% a year, CMDA's revenue from the tax would only amount
to Rs 9.7 crores in 1978-79. Clearly, unless CMDA is given other sources of
revenue, this would put a severe damper on the Authority's ability to borrow
in the open market. In fact the project octroi receipts, even if entirely
devoted to servicing open market borrowing, would only suffice to service
the debt burden resulting from the borrowing program until the end of 1974-75.
From then onwards open market borrowing would have to be limited to about Rs 7
crores a year.



ANNEX 9
Page 10
Maintenance Costs
30.       Maintenance and operation charges for the assets created under the
CMDA program will increase very sharply in the years ahead. By a rough
estimate, CMDA has calculated that such charges would rise from Rs 0.68
crores in 1972-73 to Rs 10.46 crores in 1978-79.  Although these costs
cannot and should not be supported by CMDA, it has general supervisory
responsibilities for the program which include the definition of resources
for these critical functions.   CMDA has already consulted State and Center
officials on the matter, and the following decisions have been taken:
(a)  Maintenance of the bustee improvement schemes will eventually
be transferred to either the State Government or to local bodies,
but pending a decision in this area, bustee schemes maintenance
will be financed out of the central grants for the remainder of
the Fourth Plan period.
(b)  As far as maintenance of the other schemes is concerned, the
State Government has taken the view that from the Fifth Plan
period onwards it will be responsible for the maintenance of
projects executed by StKate Directorates under the Fourth Plan
period. Provisions to that extent have been included by the
State authorities in the projected budgets submitted to the
Sixth Finance Commission. Schemes not executed by State
Government Directorates should, in the view of the West Bengal
Government, be maintained and operated by the local bodies or
implementing agencies in charge.  Nevertheless, for both cate-
gories of schemes, it has been agreed to include maintenance
charges in project cost during the whole period of the ongoing
Five Year plan.



INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sources of CMDA Funds
Composition
Funds                        Source              Borrower     Guarantor         of Funds             Terms
Existing Funds
Bustee improvement grants   Center                                 -           100% grant
Plan funds                   Center               State            -            30% grant    5% interest
70% loan     repayable in 15 years
Central loans                Center               State           -            100% grant    5% interest
repayable in 11 years including
one year grace period
Octroi tax                   State                                 -           100% grant
Market loans                 Banks                CMDA          State          100% loan      6% interest
Provident Fund                                                   repayable after 12 years
Insurance cos.                                                  with sinking fund
Possible Future Funds
Housing                      HUDCO                CMDA          State          100% loan      6% interest
repayable in 10 years
Project assistance           LIC                  CMDA          State          100% loan      7% interest repayable
in 25 years including
3 year grace period
Project assistance           IDBI                 CSTC          State          100% loan      8% interest
repayable in 5 years
Source: CMDA
E2 i"'I



CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Breakdown of CMDA Organizational Epenses -
( in Rs lakhs )
1972-73
1st half  2nd half   1972-73    1973-74
1970-71  1971-72   actuals   forecast   forecast   forecast
I. REVUE BUDGET
A. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES                                     1.03    11.35       13.11       16,00       29.11        37.00
of which:  pay of establishment                            (0.46)   (6.55)    (6.99)        (9.50)     (16.49)     (21.00)
contingencies                                  (0.57)    (4.38)     (2.88)      (3.50)     ( 6.38)     ( 8.00)
consultant fees and professional fees          ( -  )   (0.42)      (3.24)      (3.00)     ( 6.24)     ( 8.00)
B. SPECIFIC OVERHEADS                                           -        4.16       3.39         -           3.39       10.50
of which:  municipal and anchal development                ( -  )   (4.16)    (0.84        )            (0.84)    ( 2.50)
health cell                                    ( -       (-  )    (2.55)        (-  )       (2.55)     ( 8.00)
C. OTHER EXPENSES                                              8.14      8.77       5.26       14.01       19.27       21.50
of which:  publicity                                       (2.39)   (5.35)    (2.49)        (3.51)      (6.00)     ( 8.00)
discount on bond issue                         (1.79)   (2.06)      (1.65)      (2.20)      (3.85)     ( 4.00)
brokerage and underwriting commission          (3.58)   (4.12)      ( -  )      (8.00)      (8.00)    ( 8.00)
deposits                                       (0.36)    ( -  )    (0.81)       (0.15)      (0.96)     ( 1.00)
advances (net)                                 (0.02)   ( -  )    (0.31)        (0.15)      (0.46)     ( 0.50)
less:       amounts held back as security deposit          ( -  )  (-2.76)    ( -  )        ( -  )      ( -  )    (  -  )
II. CAPITAL BUDGET                                                  3.53     9.85        3.02        1.00        4.02        6.00
of which:  vehicles                                        (2.12)   (3.42)      (0.36)      (0.25)      (0.51)      (1.25)
office equipment                               (0.70)   (0.88)      (0.39)      (0.20)      (0.59)      (0.75)
furniture and fixtures                         (0.39)   (3.05)      (1.35)      (0.27)      (1.62)      (1.25)
electric installation                          (0.32)   (0.51)      (0.30)      (0.08)      (0.38)      (0.50)
tools and plants                               (-  )   (0.01)       ( -  )      (-  )       ( -  )
construction of store yard                     ( -  )   (1.02)    (0.50)        (0.10)      (0.60)      (1.50) & Al
office building                                ( _  )   (0.67)    (0.06)        ( -  )      (0.06)      (0.25) X 1  A
duplicators and typewriters                    ( -  )   (0.29)    (0.06)        (0.10)      (0.16)      (0.45) M 
III. TOTAL                                                          12,jQ    34.13       24.78       31.01       55.79       75.00
a/  Excluding debt service payments               Source:  CMDA



ANNEX 9
Page 13
Table 3
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CMDA - Purchase of Scarce Materials
(in Rs lakhs)
1970-71     1971-72      1972-73
(6 months)
Purchase of scarce materials           77.36      523.33       341.67
Bills to implementing agencies           -        234.00       154.70
Recoveries                               -        158.91        90.26
Net amount outstanding                 77.36      364.42       251.41
Source: CMDA



CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cash Flow - CMDA
__(in Rs crores)
1972-73           1972-73
1st half  2nd half        year        1973-74
1970-71   1971-72    actuals   forecast        forecast      forecast
I. RECEIPTS
Bustee improvement grant                          1.38       3.12        -         3.50          3.50          4.50
Plan funds                                        6.24      9.54        4.00       4.49          8.49         12.65
Central loans                                     4.12      4.00        2.00      17.59J/       19.59?!       12.98_!
Octroi tax                                        1.00      4.00        1.00       5.00          6.00          7.00
Market loans                                      7.15       8.25       6.60       8.80         15.40         15.40
HUDCO loans                                        -         -           -         0.15          0.15          1.01
Miscellaneous receipts                            0.01       0.24       0.11       0.10          0.21          0.25
Total receipts                                   19.90     29.15       13.71      39.63         53.34         53.79
Previous cash balance                              -         1.12      -1.55       0.89         -1.55           -
Total cash inflow                                19.90     30.27       12.16      40.52         51.79         53.79
==_==  =====  =-===  ===-w--=======
II. DISBURSEMENTS
Disbursements to implementing agencies           17.46     27.00        8.05      39.15         47.20         48.18
Organizational expenses                           0.61       1.18       0.25       0.31          0.56          0.75
of which:  CMDA  1/                           (0.26)    (0.83)      (0.25)    (0.31)         (0.56)        (0.75)
CMPO                              (0.35)    (0.35)      (_)    (_)               (-)           (_)
Debt service                                       -         0.43       0.46       3.57          4.03          4.86
Purchase of scarce materials (net)                0.71       3.64       2.51      -2.51           -             -
Total disbursements                              18.78     31.82       11.27      40.52         51.79         53.79
Closing cash balance                                       -1.55        0.89        -             -             -
Total cash outflow                               19:.90    30.27       12.16      40,52         51.79         53.79
1/  Includes organizational expenses incurred by CNDA on behalf of the Bustee improvement scheme.                           @ I 
2/ Central loans assumed to fill residual receipts
Source:   CMDA
*1                                                                             .



INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CMDA Liabilities on Account of Market Loans
(in Rs Lakhs)
Year        Loans       1970-71    1971-72    1972-73    1973-74    1974-75    1975-76    1976-77    1977-78    1978-79
(ncroreg)   I    SF    I    SF    I    SF    I    SF    I    SF    I    SF    I    SF    I    SF    I    SF
1970-71      7.15        -    39  42.9   39   42.9   39  42.9   39  42.9   39  42.9   39  42.9   39  42.9   39  42.9   39
(actual)
1971-72      8.25                    -    45   49.5   45  49.5   45  49.5   45  49.5   45  49.5   45  49.5   45  49.5   45
(actual)
1972-73    15.40                                19.8   84  92.4   84  92.4   84  92.4   84  92.4   84  92.4   84  92.4   84
(actual)
1973-74    15.40                                            49.5   84  92.4   84  92.4   84  92.4   84  92.4   84  92.4   84
(projected)
1974-75    18.50                                                        27.75 101 111.0  101 111.0  101 111.0  101 111.0  101
(projected)
1975-76    18.50                                                                   27.75  101 111.0  101 111.0  101 111.0  101
(projected)
1976-77    20.00                                                                                 30.0  109 120.0  109 120.0  109
(proj ected)
1977-78    20.00                                                                                             30.0  109 120.0  109
(projected)
1978-79    20.00                                                                                                         30.0  109
(projected)
-    39  42.9  84   112.2 168  234.3 252  304.95 353 415.95 454 529.2  563 649.2  672 769.2  781
I   =  interest payment                                                                                                e
SF   =  sinking fund provision
1/   Future market borrowing is projected on the assumption that the share of CMDA's overall
expenditures financed through market loans will remain the same as in 1972-73 (29%).
Source: CNDA and Mission estimates.






ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE IDA PROJECT
1.        This annex contains a listing (Table 1) and detailed description
of the CMDA program components and related equipment which together with
technical assistance elements comprise the Calcutta Urban Development Project.
The criteria employed in selection of project components are stated in
para. 6.01.
A. Water Supple
The Calcutta Service District
2.        Priority has been assigned to works in Calcutta due to the high
population density and the extremely poor service in some parts of the system.
A number of program components are underway in the District and substantial
progress has been made. There are also components in other sectors where
benefits combined with those of the water supply sector should provide a
multiplier effect. The following components were determined to be suitable
for inclusion in the IDA project.
3.        WS004A and WS004B consist of (i) the construction of a booster
pumping station at Mallick Square using an existing reservoir as a pumping
well, (ii) the construction of a pumping station and 15 mg storage reservoir
at Auckland Square, and (i1j) augmentation of the distribution system to
accommodate the booster stations. Designs for the components have been pre-
pared but some re-design of the Auckland Square Reservoir has been necessitated
by unfavorable foundation conditions. Work is underway at the Mallick Square
station and will start soon at Auckland Square. Upon completion of these
components it will be possible to provide water under adequate pressure to
the central and southern portions of the district where present service is
extremely unsatisfactory. It should be noted that a large number of consumers
in these areas are not at present charged water mtez due to the poor services.
4.        WS 007 consists of a number of items including renovation of badly
corroded steel mains, additional mains in critical parts of the system, replace-
ment of faulty valves, lighting and residences for employees at Palta. Most
of the work has been completed or nearing completion. However, one large item,
the replacement of a large steam pump at the Tallah Pumping Works has not been
undertaken. The existing pump is old and in very poor condition and cannot be
relied upon to provide service when needed. Further this is the last steam
unit at Tallah. The project includes an electric powered unit to replace this
pump. The pump will be procured under ICB procedures. As this will phase out
the steam operations at Tallah it should provide substantial economies and
increase reliability.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
5.        WS 017 has been selected as its completion will make it possible
to deliver the entire production of the Palta Treatment Plant to the Tallah
Pumping Works for distribution. At present the transmission facilities can
only be depended on to deliver 120 Mgd of the available 168 Mgd. The steel
plate for this line has been procured and is now available for fabrication.
The plates will be rolled at local factories. The installation will be
carried out by hand labor methods through relatively congested areas. The
work is scheduled to start immediately and completion is scheduled for early
1974.
6.        WS 026B will provide for laying of additional primary grid of pre-
stressed concrete pipe in accordance with master plan designs. The concrete
pipe is to be provided by a local firm from a plant to be installed in the
CMD. However, final arrangements have not been completed for the purchase
and installation of the plant and the present construction schedule may have
to be revised.
The Garden Reach Service District
7.        The Garden Reach Service District has high priority due to its
geographic proximity to the Calcutta District and its critical need for a
filtered water service. Parts of the district have dense and rapidly growing
populations and the ground water in the district has high iron content. Most
of the ground water supplies now in use have iron removal facilities but the
water quality is still less than satisfactory and encrustation of the well
screens requires constant maintenance and substantially shortens the life of
the wells. The CMDA program includes a complete surface water system for the
Garden Reach Water Service District. The raw water pumping works, treatment
plant and high service pumps are a part of WS 020, excluded from the IDA
project.
8.        The major grid and storage facilities of this system are to be built
as a part of program sub-component WS 026A included in the project. The grids
will be of prestressed concrete pipe in accordance with the design of the master
plan (see para. 5). The two 4.2 mg reservoirs and booster pumping station will
be in accordance with the master plan with detailed designs and specifications
prepared by local consultants.
9.        Program component WS OllA will tie the existing groundwater distri-
bution system into the filtered water system and augment it to provide 40 gpcd
to the population of the service district. This system will use cement asbestos
pipe to be procured locally.
Fringe Areas
10.       The areas outside the defined service districts have great priority
as these areas are virtually without safe, dependable water supplies.  Program
component WS 010 is a continuing project to provide small groundwater distri-
bution systems in lightly populated areas. Activity under this component will
likely extend through the 4th, 5th and 6th Plan periods. However, as the com-
ponent consists of a number of completely separate systems the project is
easily divided into sub-components. It is proposed that the present loan pro-
vide only for those sub-components which are scheduled for completion during
the period 1973-75.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
11.       Equipment required for CMDA water supply components including
those selected for the IDA project includes several items which must be
imported. Some items of equipment such as chlorine cylinders are needed
as soon as possible and in other cases such as large valves delivery may
be expected to be slow. The procurement by ICB of the following equip-
ment is included in the project:
Cost
(US$ million)
(a) Chlorine Cylinders                                      0.11
(b) Special valves for water
treatment plants                                       0.33
(c) Water plant metering equipment                          0.14
(d) Chlorination equipment                                  0.23
(e) Large valves for primary grid                           0.21
(f) Pump accessories                                        0.13
1.15
B. Sewerage and Drainage
The Calcutta Combined System
12.       The Calcutta system received attention prior to the formation
of CMDA and a number of ongoing activities were absorbed into the CMDA
program. A number of these early activities have been completed or are
nearing completion but there are others which will continue for some time.
Program components in the Calcutta area which would be active during the
period 1973-75 were the basis of selection for the IDA project.
13.       SD 001, SD 002A and SD 003 are a cluster of components directed
toward the upgrading and augmentation of the Suburban Combined System and
consist of cleaning and repairing existing mains and construction of new
trunk branches and laterals for areas subject to water logging. Mechanical
sluice cleaning equipment is on order and the much needed cleaning operations
will be intensified on its arrival. These components are scheduled for com-
pletion in late 1975 at which time the storm flooding in the suburban system
will be under reasonable control.
14.       SD 002B provides for the renovation and augmentation of the main
pumping stations at Palmers Bridge and Ballygunge. It is more than 50%
complete and has already provided substantial benefits, particularly through
improved performance of Ballygunge Pumping Works. Work remaining consists
of completion of improvements of the intake and screens at Ballygunge, the
installation of new pumps now on order for Palmers Bridge and the provision
of service for some unserviced pockets in the system. The component is
scheduled for completion in 1974 at which time it will be possible to lift
the entire storm load of the uncombined systems to the outfall channels'.
1/ At present chlorine is purchased in containers owned by the manufacturers
who make a rental charge for the cylinders nearly equal to the cost of the
chlorine. These cylinders will reduce the cost of chlorine and will
expedite deliveries.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
15.       SD 007 provides for renovation and augmentation of the town
system covering the greatest concentrations of population and of com-
mercial and industrial enterprises in the CMD. The component includes
a 54,000 foot system of storm drains (no domestic sewerage) emptying
into the Hooghly River which will give substantial relief in the very
pongested area. In addition, the entire system will be reinforced with
new lines and several mains in very poor condition will be replaced.
The component is scheduled for completion in 1975.
16.       SD 031 and SD 032 are directed toward the renovation and aug-
mentation of the Calcutta District Outfall. The capacity of the channel
has been increased from 2,200 cfs to nearly 5,200 cfs and is now fully
operable. The work remaining consists of lining portions of the channel
where excessive erosion takes place, completing the canal bank roads and
renovating sluices controlling the flow from areas along the channel
route. Also remaining is the important task of providing maintenance
facilities and a maintenance program. The component is scheduled for
completion in 1975.
17.       SD 054 provides for the protection of the tanks of the Circular
Canal from excessive erosion. This canal serves as a principal storm water
drain and its protection is most desirable.
.18.       With the completion of the above projects in 1975 it is expected
that the major storm flooding problems in the heavily populated area served
by the Town and Suburban Combined Systems will be under reasonable control.
Initial benefits will accrue during the monsoons of 1973 and 1974. The work
which will remain will be mainly maintenance and the extension of sanitary
sewerage branches into unserviced areas.  The benefits of these projects
are described in Annex 11.
The Manichtala Sewerage Zone and the Manichtala Drainage Basin
19.       This zone and basin cover the same area inside the Calcutta Corporation
on the northeast edge of the Town Combined System.  The area contains industries
and is heavily populated. Although within the Corporation area the sanitary sewers
and storm drains will be completely separate systems, there are existing
sewers in the area which will be incorporated into the storm drainage system.
20.       SD 006 provides for the installation of a sanitary sewer system
which will be discharged through the Ohapa Lock Pumping Station to the
Central Lake Channel. SD 010 provides for the installation of a storm
drainage system for the basin which will incorporate the existing combined
sewer,
The Tollygunge Drainage Basin
21.       This basin is located to the southeast of the Suburban Combined
System. The area is growing and with a substantial reduction in flooding
it is projected to grow at one of the highest rates in the CMD.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
22.       SD 009 and SD 012 are directed toward providing storm drains in
the area. These components include approximately 50 miles of underground
conduits and approximately 12 miles of open drains in accordance with the
master plan for this area. Drainage of a part of the basin adjacent to Tolly's
Nullah will drain those, but the bulk of the drainage will be to the Calcutta
outfall through the existing Panchannagram Channel.
The Bagjala Drainage Basin
23.       This basin is located north of the Calcutta Town Combined System
and the Manichtala Drainage Basin. It is a large basin which is heavily
populated and contains substantial industry. The International Airport is
in this area. At present the storm flow from this basin flows through the
Bagjala Channel to the Kulti River. This channel which is being renovated
under component SD 056 will not have the capacity to completely drain the
basin.
24.       SD 044 will reduce the load on the Bagjala Channel by 980 cfs
directing flow from the canal through a short tunnel to the new sluice and
the Hooghly River. This diversion with the channel will be capable of hand-
ling full storm load from the Bagjala Basin.
25.       With the completion of the components included in the IDA project
the flooding in the most densely populated areas of CMD will be reasonably
well under control. This includes the Calcutta, Bagjala, Tollygunge and
Manichtala Basins (see Map 10508).
The Howrah Sewerage Zone and Drainage Basin
26.       The zone and basin cover largely the same area which includes all
of the municipality of Howrah as well as immediately adjoining areas to the
south, west and north (see Maps 1057/8). The area is heavily populated and con-
tains a high concentration of small scale industries. No sewerage facilities
presently exist in the area and drainage flows through a limited number of
natural channels to the Hooghly River.
27.       SD 014 and SD 016 respectively provide for outfall and intercepting
sewers to proposed preliminary sewerage treatment plant and the corresponding
reticulation system.
The Khardah Sewerage Zone
28.       SD 025A provides for the renovation of the existing sewerage treat-
ment plant, pumping station and machinery.
The Bhatpara Sewerage Zone
29.       SD025B provides for the renovation of the existing sewerage treat-
ment plant and outfall.



ANNEX 10
Page 6
30.       Equipment required for CMDA sewerage and drainage components
including those selected for the IDA project includes several items which
must be imported.  The procurement by ICB of the following equipment is
included in the project:
Description                    Number       Cost
(US$ million)
(a)  Gullypit cleansing machine              20           .81
(b) High pressure water jetting machine
and equipment, vehicle mounted with
spares                                   2           .08
(c)  Drainage pumps (125 cusec)               4           .54
(d)  Cutter suction dredger, portable type
6/8' diameter, double barrel, 30',
including pipeline and accessories       1           .27
1.70
C.  Garbage Disposal
31.       GD 001 was selected as (i) it will provide substantial benefits
both in economies of operation and improvements in service; (ii) it serves
the most densely populated area of the CMD where the need for garbage services
is most acute; and (iii) it is an area where projects from other sectors are
being undertaken.  The component consists of improvements in the approaches to
the dump and in dump roads, which should reduce the maintenance requirement of
the garbage trucks, and provides for the purchase of equipment such as bull-
dozers, scrapers, 120 trucks including 20 with compactor bodies and mainte-
nance shop equipment. Equipment requirements have been based on a study of
garbage disposal conducted by the Central Public Health Engineering Research
Institute, Nagpur.!/  The equipment items include:
Description               Number       Cost
(US$ million)
Truck chassis                   120         1.21
Compactor bodies                 20          .40
Dozers, scrapers                  6           .20
1.81
The 120 truck chassis will be procured locally and will not be financed by
the credit (see Para 5.15).
1/  "Feasibility Studies for Alternate Methods of Garbage Disposal for Calcutta
City," Central Public Health Engineering Research Institute, Nagpur, 1970.



ANNEX 10
Page 7
D. Environmental Hygiene
32.       EH 001, 003 and 005 provide for the elimination of service privies
in all parts of the CMD. These components are imported as service privies
pose a serious public nuisance and health hazard for the public and a
major collection problem for local governments. The component consists of
the fabrication and installation of prefabricated concrete sanitary latrines
with a direct connection to a sewer where possible or equipped with a pre-
fabricated septic tank below the privies where sewers are not available. The
prefabrication is carried out in small plants with a maximum capacity of six
latrines per day. The latrines are provided to any householder who is willing
to pay Rs 400 of the total installatioa cost of Rs 1.600. Prefabrication and
installation are performed by force account for areas outside the Calcutta
Corporation area.
E. Urban Transport
33.       Urban transport components included in the IDA project are primarily
concerned with the rationalization and imnrovement of roads and road equipment
in and around Calcutta.
34.       TT 008, 011 and 012 (see Table 1)  are all concerned with the widening
and frontage development of arterial roads south of Calcutta.   TT 006 involves
the conversion of an abandoned railway line to a local collector street. The
combined effect of these components and the traffic operations scheme TT 020A ii
will be to increase access from Calcutta to the rapidly growing southern sub-
urban. areas.
35.       TT 013 and 014 are intended to widen the roadway and increase the
height restriction of a railway underpass for an existing main road and to
extend an existing arterial road over a canal and under the same railway line
to areas in eastern Calcutta with access seriously restricted by canals and
rail lines (see Map 10509). The former project will for the first time allow
double deck bus services to be extended to areas east of the main railway lines
to Sealdah Station. The latter will allow buses previously terminating at the
Circular Canal to continue several kilometers to the eastern edges of the city.
36.       TT 020A iii involves the widening of the main Barrackpore Trunk Road
from Calcutta to the northern settlements along the Hooghly River. It is
being done in connection with the laying of water and sanitation trunk mains.
37.       TT 020A iv provides for the relocation and reconstruction of a sur-
face level bus terminal in Central Calcutta.
38.       TT 020C and 020H iii, iv, xi (a) involve improved access connection
to Calcutta's two bridges; the former to the existing Hooghly Bridge, the
latter to the new Princep Ghat Bridge.
39.       TT 020 (Part) provides for the extension of street lighting improve-
ments in Central Calcutta.



ANNEX 10
Page 8
F.  Housing
40.       HG 002B i is a slum modernization scheme for the Chetla bustee
with an estimated population of 6,000 persons (approximately 1200 families)
and an area of about 4 hectares ( 9 acres). The bustee is located in an
area with high land development potential and has some vacant land to allow
the construction of either temporary or permanent structure for re-housing
slum dwellers from areas to be cleared and reconstructed. Adjacent to the
bustee is an urban health center which is providing services to the bustee
population and a primary school is being erected nearby.
41.       The Chetla bustee now consists of huts and other dilapidated one-
storey structures, including small shops and cottage-type industries. The
people living in the bustee are craftsmen, washermen, small traders, factory
workers, house-servants, etc. The redeveloped land will be utilized as
indicated below:
Hectares  -___
(a)  Rehousing structures
(1,406 housing units, 56 shops and 28
workshops in 5 storey structures)            0.7       17.5
(b)  New housing                                     0.3         7.5
(c) Commercial facilities
(shopping center, theatre etc.)               1.5       37.5
(d) Community facilities
(roads, playground, park and primary
school)                                      1.5       37.5
4.0      100.0
The new structures will accommodate all those presently living and working
in the bustee as well as 800 additional residents and the additional commer-
cial and community facilities.
42.       Present residential rents range from Rs 12 to Rs 25 per month for
areas of 60 to 100 ft.    The proposed rents for dwelling units with areas
of 100, 120 and 150 ft. , some with attached bath, are to be Rs 12, 18 and 22
per month respectively. The rents for rehoused bustee tenants have been
computed on the basis of an estimate that as much as two-thirds of the total
cost of the scheme will be recovered from the sale of the surplus land for
additional commercial and residential uses and a fixed formula which assumes
that 50% of the remaining net cost of the dwelling (including land cost) will
be subsidized. The tenant is charged with interest cost for the balance at
9%, an annual corporation tax equal to 18% of the annual valuation and main-
tenance and management costs.



ANNEX 10
Page 9
43.       The proposal provides for the construction of the buildings and the
rehousing of the bustee dwellers in three phases totalling 18 to 24 months.
After land for commercial uses is sold the proceeds will be used for construction
of roads, parks, primary school, permanent sewerage, water supply, drainage, etc.
44.       The Chetla scheme is important in that it will provide the first test
case for a new State land acquisition law and as one of the first attempts at
nominal subsidy slum redevelopment. Some revisions of the scheme are presently
being made and the final project report will be subject to review by IDA.
45.       HG 003A ii, the Baishnabghata-Patuli scheme, is a sites and services
project which will ultimately accommodate 30,000 residents and commercial,
industrial and other activities on about 130 hectares (320 acres) on land located
in the southeastern section of the CMD about 10 km from the center of Calcutta.
The site is accessible by a major arterial road, Mullick Road, which presently
is being widened (IDA prcject component TT 011, para. 34). The site is 1 km
from a suburban railway station and near to existing employment concentrations.
The site will also be served by major drainage and water supply infrastructure
schemes undertaken within the CMDA program which are likely to be commissioned
by 1975.
46.       The scheme envisages the acquisition of undeveloped land in the above
area and the development of the site with provision of modern amenities. The
development will include reclamation, supply of filtered water to individual
plots, drainage and sanitation, underground sewerage, street lighting connec-
tions and communal facilities, including a primary school and a health center
constructed within the CMDA program, and shopping and other facilities.
47.       The land to be developed will be utilized as follows:
Hectares       %
(a) Plots for sale to individuals (middle income
families, low income families and economically
weaker families)                                        26.3       20.2
(b)  Hire purchase core-skeletal housing                      8.8        6.7
(c) Composite hire-purchase housing (for high, middle,
and low income families and economically weaker
families)                                               10.6        8.1
(d) Subsidized rental housing (for low income families
and economically weaker families)                       10.3        6.1
(e)  Commercial and industrial                                4.1         3.1
(f)  Institutional                                            7.6         6.1
(g)  Community facilities                                     1.5         1.2
(h)  Roads, pathways                                         28.7        22.3
(i)  Utilities and public services                           17.0       13.0
(j)  Recreational, parks and open spaces                     17.1       13.1
Total         130.0       100.0



ANNEX 10
Page 10
Overall the project is expected to be self-supporting with profits from the
sale of land to middle and upper income groups providing internal subsidies
for the economically weaker residents. For example, about two-thirds of the
land development costs for the core/skeletal units may be covered by the
surplus expected from the sale of the plots to high and middle income pro-
cedures, the balance to be paid by the purchasers of core/skeletal units.
48.       Credit proceeds are to finance a part of the land and infrastructure
development costs for the entire scheme as well as the construction cost of
core/skeletal housing for low income families, item (b) above. The construction
costs of items (c), (d) and (e) listed above may be financed by HUDCO. HUDCO
has expressed interest in those items as well as on the related community
facilities. Also, certain services may be financed by CMDA.
49.       The scheme is important as a prototype of a large scale, self-
financing sites and services project which could form the basis of larger
efforts to increase the supply of housing for the economically disadvantaged.
Some revisions of the scheme are presently being made and the final project
report will be subject to IDA review.



ANNEX 10
Page 11
Table 1
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1/
CHDA Sub-Projects Included in the IDA Project
Sector              Sub-Project                        Description
Water Supply             WS 004A         Mallick Reservoir, Calcutta Service District
Total Projects - 8          004B         Auckland Reservoir, Calcutta Service District
007         New Water Project, Calcutta Service District
010         Fringe Area Supply, Fringe Area
011         Secondary Grid, Garden Reach Service District
017         60" Main, Calcutta Service District
026A        Primary Grid, Garden Reach Service District
026B        Primary Grid, Calcutta Service District
Sewerage/Drainage        SP 001          Waterlogging, Calcutta Drainage Basin
Total Projects - 17         002A         New S/D Project, Calcutta Drainage Basin
002B        New S/D Project, Calcutta Drainage Basin
003         Unsewered Pockets, Calcutta Drainage Basin
006         Manichtala S!D, Manichtala Drainage Basin
007         Waterlogging, Calcutta Drainage Basin
009         Tollygunge Drainage, Tollygunge Drainage
Basin
010         Manichtala S/D, Manichtala Drainage Basin
012         N.E. Tollygunge Drainage, Tollygunge
Drainage Basin
014         Arterial Sewerage, Howrah Sewerage Zone
016         Reticulation Sewerage, Howrah Sewerage Zone
025A        Plant Renovation, Khardah Sewerage Zone
025B        Plant Renovation, Bhatpara Sewerage Zone
031         Drainage Outfall I, Calcutta Drainage Basin
032         Drainage Outfall II, Calcutta Drainage Basin
044         Sluice, Chitpur Drainage Basin
054         Circular Canal, Bagjala Drainage Basin
Garbage                  CD 001          Garbage, Calcutta
Total Projects - 2          002          Garbage, Calcutta
Environmental Hygiene   EH 001           Conversion, Calcutta
Total Projects - 3          003          Conversion, Howrah
005         Conversion, balance of CMD
Traffic and Transportation
Total Projects - 12      TT 006          Diamond Harbor Bypass
008         Diamond Habor Road
01l         Mullick Road
012         Anwar Shah Road
013         Manichtala Road
014         Ultadanga Road
020A ii     Netaji Subhas Road
020A iii    Barrackpore Trunk-Road
020A iv     Bus Terminal Esplanade
020C        Bradbourne Road Flyover
020H iii,
iv,
xi(a)  Acharya Road
021 (Part)  Street Lighting, Calcutta
Housing/Area Development
Total Projects - 2       HG 002B i       Chetla
HG 003A ii     Bishnabghata-Patuli
1/ Excluding CMDA sub-projects for which minor equipment items only are
included in the project. See equipment descriptions in text and tables.



INDIA                           ANNEX 10
Page 12
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPNENT PROJECT             Table 2
Detailed Project Cost Estimates - Water Supply
CMDA Sub-                                               Rs crores               US$ million
Project No..           Item                        Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
WS 004A    Mallick Boosting Station, Calcutta
Civil Works                           0.15    0.03    0.18    0.20    0.04    0.24
Equipment and Material                0.03    0.02    0.05    0.04    0.03    0.07
Sub-total                           0.18    0.05    0.23    0.24    0.07    0.31
WS 004B    Auckland Reservoir, Calcutta
Civil Works                           0.45    0.08    0.53    0.61    0.11    0.72
Equipment and Material                0.04    0.05    0.09    0.05    0.07    0.12
Sub-total                           0.49    0.13    0.62    0.66    0.18    0.84
WS 007     New Water Project, Calcutta
Civil Works                           0.54    0.05    0.59    0.73    0.07    0.80
Equipment and Material                0.03    0.22    0.25    0.04    0.30    0.34
Sub-total                           0.57    0.27    0.84    0.77    0.37    1.14
WS 010     Fringe Area Supply
Civil Works                           2.86    0.65    3.51    3.86    0.88    4.74
Equipment and Material                0.28    0.23    0.51    0.38    0.31    0.69
Land                                  0.05     -       0.05    0.07     -       0.07
Sub-total                           3.19    0.88    4.07    4.31    1.19    5.50
WS 011     Secondary Grid, Garden Reach
Civil Works                           1.20    0.32    1.52    1.62    0.43    2.05
Equipment and Material                1.15    0.62    1.77    1.55    0.84    2.39
Land                                  0.05     -       0.05    0.07     -       0.07
Sub-total                           2.40    0.94    3.34    3.24    1.27    4.51
WS 017     60" Main, Calcutta
Civil Works                           0.31    0.07    0.38    0.42    0.09    0.51
Equipment and Material                0.05    0.35    0.40    0.07    0.47    0.54
Sub-total                           0.36    0.42    0.78    0.49    0.56    1.05
WS 026A    Primary Grid, Garden Rea:ch
Civil Works                           0.71    0.18    0.89    0.96    0.24    1.20
Equipment and Material                0.70    0.41    1.11    0.94    0.56    1.50
Sub-total                           1.41    0.59    2.00    1.90    0.80    2.70
WS 026B    Primary Grid, Calcutta
Civil Works                           0.16    0.04    0.20    0.22    0.05    0.27
Equipment and Material                0.15    0.11    0.26    0.20    0.15    0.35
Sub-total                           0.31    0.15    0.46    0.42    0.20    0.62
-       Various
Equipment                             0.10    0.60    0.70    0.13    0.81    0.94
-       Totals - Civil.Works                    6.38    1.42    7.80    8.61    1.92   10.53
- Equipment and Material         2.53    2.61    5.14    3.42    3.52    6.94
- Land                           0.10     -      0.10    0.13      -      013
Total             9.01    4.03   13.04   12.16   .744   17.60



INDIA                           ANMEX 10
Page 13
CALCUT'a uMgAN DIfVELOPMENT PROJECT             Table 3
Detailed Project Ceat Ratio,ates - Sewerage and Drainage
CMD4 Sub-                                                Rs crores                 uS$ million
Project No.                  Item                   Lo'.al Poreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
SD 001     Remn val of Waterlogging, Calcutta
Civil Works                           0.62    0.07    0.69    0.84    0.09    0.93
Equipment and Material               0.45    0.35    0.80    0.60    0.48    1.08
Sub-total                          1.07    0.42    1.49    1.44    0.57    2.01
SD 002A    Nev Severage/Drainage Project I, Calcutta
Civil Works                          0.38    0.08    0.46    0.51    0.11    0.62
Equipment and Material                0.16    0.72    0.88    0.22    0.97    1.19
Sub-total                          0.54    0.80    134    0.73    1.08    1.81
SD 0028    Nev  Sewerage/Drainage Project II, Calcutta
Civil Works                           0.16    0.02    0.18    0.22    0.02    0.24
Equipment and Material                0.07    0.39    0.46    0.09    0.53    0.62
Sub-total                          0.23    0.41    0.64    0. 31    0.5 5    0. 86
SD 003     Rem 1val of Unsevered Pockets, Calcutta
Civil Works                           0.46    0.11    0.57    0.62    0.15    0.77
Equipment and Material                0.05    0.04    0.09    0.07    0.05    0.12
Sub-total                          O.1   0.15    0.66    0.69    0.20    0.89
SD 006    lManicktala Sewerage/Drainage 1, Manicktala
Civil Works                           0.20    0.04    0.24    0.27    0.05    0.32
Equipment and Material                0.23    0.14    0.39    0.34    0.19    0.53
Relocation                           0.14    0.01    0.15    0.19    0.01    0.20
Sub-total                          0.59    0.19    0.78    0.80    0.25    1.05
SD 007     Removal of WaterX,gging, Calcutta
Civil Works                           0.21    0.06    0.27    0.28    0.08    0.36
Equipment and Material                0.17    0.11    0.28    0.23    0.15    0.38
Sub-total                          0.38    0.17    0.55    0.51    0.23    0.74
SD 009     Tollysunge Drainage, Tollygunge
Civil Vorks                           0.70    0.08    0.78    0.94    0.11    1.05
Equipment and Material                0.25    0.17    0.42    0.34    0.23    0.57
Land                                  0.23     -      0.23    0.31      -       0.31
Sub-total                           t.18    0.25    3.43    1.59    0.34    1.93
SD 010     lanicktala Sewerage/Dralmage II, Kanicktala
Civil Works                           0.20    0.02    0.22    0.27    0.03    0,30
Equipment and Material                0.15    0.09    0.24    0.20    0.12    0.32
Land                                  0.03     -       0.03    0.04     -       0.04
Sub-total                          0.38    0.11    0.49    0.51    0.15     0.66
SD 012     North-East Tollygunige Drainage, Tollygunge
Civil Worka                           0.75    0.10    0.85    1.01    0.14    1.15
Equipment and Material                0.26    0.11    0.37    0.35    0.15    0.50
Sub-total                           1.01    0.21    1.22    1.36    0.29    1.65
SD 014     Arterial Sewerage, Hawrah
Civil Works                           0.52    0.06    0.58    0.70    0.08       .78
Equipment and Material                0.52    0.35    0.85    0.68    0.47    1.15
Sub-total                           1.02    0.41    1.43    1.38    0.55    1.93
SD 016     Reticulation Sewerage, Powrah
Civil Works                           0.28    0.04    0.32    0.38    0.05    0.43
Equipment and Material                0.31    0.15    0.46    0.43    0.20    0.63
Sub-total                           0.59    0. 19    0. 78    0. 81    0. 25    1. 06
SD 025A    Plant Renovation, Khardah
Civil Works                           0.09    0.01    0.10    0.11    0.02    0.13
Equipment and Material                0.02    0.03    0.05    0.03    0.04    0.07
Sub-total                           0.11     . 0.4    0.15    0 .14    T 0.6    0. 20
SD 025B    Plant Renovation, Bhatpara
Civil Works                           0.38    0.06    0.44    0.52    0.08    0.60
Equipment and Material                0.11    0.13.  0.24    0.14    0.18    0.32
Sub-total                          0.-49    0.19    0.68    0.6-6  0.2-6   0.92
SD 031     Drainage outfall I, Calcutta
Civil Works                           0.56    0.02    0.58    0.76    0.02    0.78
Land                                  0.03     -      0.03    0.04      -       0.04
Sub-total                          0.59    0.02    0. 61    0.80    0.02    0. 82
SD 032     Drainage Outfall II, Calcutta
Civil Works                           1.08    0.02    1.10    1.45    0.03    1.48
land                                  0.36     -      0.36    0.49      -       0.49
Sub-total                          1.44    0.02    1.46    1.34    0.03    1.97
SD 044     Sluice, Chltpur
Civil Works                           0.21    0.03    0.24    0.28    0.04    0.32
Equipment and Material                0.07    0.04    0.11    0.10    0.05    0.15
Sub-total                          02-8   0.07    0. 35    0.3-8   T0.09    0.47
SD 054     Circular Canal, Bagjala
Civil Works                           0.09    0.02    0.11    0.12    0.03    0.15
Sub-total                          0.09    0.02    0.11    0.12    0.03    0.15
-       Various
Equipment              .0.03    0.20    0.23    0.04    0.27    0.31
Sub-total                          0.03      . 20    0.23    0.04    0-.27    0.31
-       Totals
Civil Works                           6.89    0.84    7.73    9.30    1.13   10.43
Equipment and Material                2.62    3.25    5.87    3.53    4.39    7.92
Relocation                            0.14    0.01    0.15    0.19    0.01    0.20
Land                                  0.65     -       0.65    0.88     -      _0.88
Total                   10.30    4.10   14.40   13.90    3.53   19.43



INDIA                           ANNEX 10
Page 14
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT              Table 4
Detailed Project Cost Estimates - Urban Transport
CMDA Sub-                                              Rs crores               US$ million
Project No.                     Item             Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total
TT 006     Diamond Harbor Bypass
Civil Works                           0.53    0.05    0.58    0.71    0.07   0.78
Equipment and Material                0.01    0.05    0.06    0.01    0.07   0.08
Land                                  0.16     -       0.16    0.22      -     0.22
Sub-total                           0.70    0.10    0.80    0.94    0.14   1.08
TT 008     Diamond Harbor Road
Civil Works                           1.63    0.16    1.79    2.20    0.22   2.42
Equipment and Material                0.02    0.13    0.15    0.03    0.17   0.20
Land                                  1.64     -       1.64    2.21      -     2.21
Sub-total                           3.29    0.29    3.58    4.44    0.39   4.83
TT 011     Nullick Road
Civil Works                           0.33    0.04    0.37    0.45    0.05   0.50
Equipment and Material                0.00    0.02    0.02    o.n0    0.03   0.03
Relocation                            0.19    0.01    0.20    0.26    0.01   0.27
Land                                  0.09     -       0.09    0.12      -     0.12
Sub-total                           0.61    0.07    0.68    0.83    0.09   0.92
TT 012     Anwar Shah Road
Civil Works                           1.33    0.20    1.53    1.80    0.27   2.07
Equipment and Material                0.02    0.10    0.12    0.03    0.13   0.16
Relocation                            0.39    0.01    0.40    0.53    0.01   0.54
Land                                  3.30     -       3.30    4.44      -     4.44
Sub-total                           5.04    0.31    5.35    6.80    0.41   7.21
TT 013     Manicktala Road
Civil Works                           0.30    0.04    0.34    0.41    0.05   0.46
Equipment and Material                0.02    0.10    0.12    0.03    0.13   0.16
Relocation                            0.19    0.01    0.20    0.26    0.01   0.27
Land                                  0.27     -       0.27    0.36      -     0.36
Sub-total                           0.78    0.15    0.93    1.06    0.19   1.25
TT 014     Ultadanga Road
Civil Works                           0.69    0.04    0.73    0.93    0.05   0.98
Equipment and Material                0.01    0.06    0.07    0.01    0.08   0.09
Sub-total                           0.70    0.10    0.80    0.94    0.13   1.07
TT 02OAii  Netaji Subhas Road
Civil Works                           0.30    0.02    0.32    0.40    0.03   0.43
Equipment and Material                0.00    0.02    0.02    0.00    0.03   0.03
Sub-total                           0.30    0.04    0.34    0.40    0.06   0.46
TT 02OAiii Barrackpore Trunk Road
Civil Works                           0.24    0.03    0.27    0.32    0.04   0.36
Equipment and Material                0.00    0.02    0.02    0.00    0.03   0.03
Sub-total                           0.24    0.05    0.29    0.32    0.07   0.39
TT 02OAiv Bus Terminal at Esplanade
Civil Works                           0.48    0.06    0.54    0.65    0.08    0.73
Equipment and Material                0.00    0.03    0.03    0.00    0.04    0.04
Sub-total                          0.48    0.09    0.57    0.65    0.12    0.77
TT 020C    Bradbourne Road Flyover
Civil Works                           0.76    0.10    0.86    1.03    0.13    1.16
Equipment and Material                0.02    0.13    0.15    0.02    0.18    0.20
Sub-total                          0.78    0.23    1.01    1.05    0.31    1.36
TT 02OHiii,Acharya Road
iv,xi(a)  Civil Works                           0.47    0.06    0.53    0.64    0.08    0.72
Equipment and Material                0.15    0.14    0.29    0.20    0.19    0.39
Sub-total                           0.62    0.20    0.82    0.84    0.27    1.11
TT 021     Street Lighting
(Part)     Equipment and Material                0.70    0.30    1.00    0.95    0.40    1.35
Sub-total                          0.700   0.30    1.00    0.95    0.40    1.35
-       Totals
Civil Works                           7.06    0.80    7.86    9.53    1.08   10.61
Equipment and Material                0.95    1.10    2.05    1.28    1.49    2.77
Relocation                            0.77    0.03    0.80    1.04    0.04    1.08
Land                                  5.46     -       5.46    7.37     -       7.37
Total                    14.24    1.93   16.17   19.22    2.61   21.83



ANNEX 10
Page 15
Table 5
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates - Area Development
CMDA Sub-                                              Rs crores               US$ million
Project No.                   Item                Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
HG 002Bi   Chetla Slum Modernization
Civil Works                          1.13    0.12    1.25    1.53    0.16    1.69
Equipment and Material               0.02    0.05    0.07    0.03    0.07    0.10
Land                                 0.50      -      0.50    0.67      -       0.67
Sub-total                          1.65    0.17    1.82    2.23    0.23    2.46
HG 003Aii Baishnabghata-Patuli, Sites and Services
Civil Works                          1.96    0.28    2.24    2.64    0.38    3.02
Equipment and Material               0.i4    0.20    0.34    0.19    0.27    0.46
Land                                  0.56     -      0.56    0.76      -       0.76
Sub-total                          2.66    0.48    3.14    3.59    0.65    4.24
Totals
Civil Works.                         3.09    0.40    3.49    4.17    0.54    4.71
Equipment and Material               0.16    0.25    0.41    0.22    0.34    0.56
Land                                  1.06     -      1.06    1.43      -       1.43
Total                    4.31    0.65    4.96    5.82    0.88    6.70



CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Material and Equipm'ent Sutmary
Water  Sewerage &  Garbage   Environmental        Urban          Area               Total including
Supply   Drainage   Disposal       Hygiene       Transport   Development   Total    Contingencies
Materials and equipment to be financed under the credit:
International Procurement
Steel                   1.38       0.85       0.30           0.02          1.13         0.29          3.97        4.92
Pumps & accessories    0.13        0.54        -                                         -             0.67       0.83
Chlorination equipment 0.34         -                 -              -                   -            0.34        0.42
Valves & meters         0.68        -                         -             -            -     -      0.68        0.84
Sewer cleaning equip-                                                   .                     .
ment                   -         0.89                                                                           1.10
Dredger                  -         0.27                -                    -            -             0.27        0.34
Compactor bodies, bull-                                                                                0  :
dozers and scrapers   -                      .:60           -                                       0.60        0.75
/2
Sub-total             2.53       2.55        .90           0.02         :1.13         0.29          7.42        9.20
Local Procurement
Concrete pipes          4.41       5.37               -                     -           0.27         10.05       12.47
Street lighting
- equipment            -          -          -              -            1.35          -             1.35        1.67
Traffic signalling
equipment              -                                                 0.29                       0.29        0.36
SUb                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/2
Sub-total             4.41       5.37               -                    1.64         0.27         11.69       14.50
Materials and equipment to be excluded from the credit:
Local Procurement                                                                                                             - I'd
Truck chassis              -                   1.21                                    -_1.21                       1.50    1 m
Sub-total               -                    1.21                                                     1.21        1.50
Total                  6.94       7.92       2.11           0.02          2.7         o0.56          20.32       25.20
/1    See para. 5.08                 /2      See para. 5.10



ANNEX 11
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE CMDA PROGRAM
Table of Contents
Page No.
A.   Justification for Additional Infrastructure
Investment in the CMD                           1
B.   Direct Impact on Service Levels                    2
C.   Economic Rate of Return                            4
D.   Minimum Cost Aspects                               5
Appendix 1: Economic Rate of Return Estimation for
the Drainage Sector in the CMDA Program






ANNEX 11
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE CMDA PROGRAM
1.        No single measure can capture the true value of the CMDA program
with its complexity, its many dimensions and its many non-quantifiable
benefits. This evaluation reflects this. The following approach has been
taken.  Firstly, the currez& situation was examined in order to relate the
probable effect of the investment program to it. "This examinatiorn is contained
in the background studies .arried out by the appraisal mission not included in
this volume.  l/  Secondly,an attempt was made to make a general justification
for additional infrastructure investment in the C1D.  This is shown in Section A
below. Thirdly, an attempt was made to evaluate the program in terms of its
service level goals, their spatial distribution, and various other effects.
The results are given in Sections B and C. Finally, some aspects of the costs
of achieving the planned service levels are presented in Section D.
A. Justification for Additional Infrastructure
Investment in the CMD
2.        Present infrastructure standards in the CMD are far below the stan-
dards in other major centers in India. Per capita water supply in the CMD is
only 22 gpcd, 2/ compared to 34 gpcd in Greater Bombay, 19 gpcd in Madras City
and 48 gpcd in Delhi Urban Agglomeration (see Annex 2). Only 26% of the CMD
population is served by water-borne sewerage, compared to 68% in Greater Bombay,
65% in Madras City and 60% in Delhi U.A. (Annex 3). Thirty-four percent of the
CMD population live under squatter and slum conditions; corresponding figures
for Greater Bombay and Madras City are 13% and 25%, respectively (Annex 4). In
short, available data indicate that the CMD is more poorly provided with basic
urban services and facilities than other major Indian cities.
3.        In terms of economic criteria infrastructure should be provided up to
the level where marginal benefits equal marginal costs but this decision rule
is not very helpful in practical cases. If one could assume that marginal costs
were about equal in different cities, equalization of service levels would be
a reasonable decision rule and would support substantial investments in the CMD.
(It must, of course, also be assumed that the actual benefits derived from a
particular service level are similar in the various cities). No analysis of
marginal costs and their variation between different Indian cities have been
made but there are indications that at least in the case of water supply the
marginal cost in the CMD may be on the low side when compared with the situ.ation
in cities such as Bombay which must bring new supplies from a distance (see
Section D).
1/ Calcutta Urban Development Project, Background Studies of the Calcutta
Metropolitan District, Urban Projects Department, May 4, 1973.
2/ Gallons per capita per day.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
4.        In the extreme Calcutta situation physical infrastructure improve-
ments can be considered to be a prerequisite for improved functioning and
economic development. The impact and benefits of arresting and reversing
the present trend of deterioration could be substantial.  Furthermore, they
could effect not only the CMD but also the Eastern Region of India in which
the CMD is the dominant urban center.  The development of the many small
urban centers in this region is linked to the vitality of the CMD and its
institutions perform important regional functions.
B. Direct Impact on Service Levels
Water Supply
5.        Table 1 presents the planned domestic water supply. in the years
1981 and 2001. The resident population figures have been adjusted to take
into account the effects on per capita water supply of the difference between
daytime and resident population. The program goal is to increase average
per capita water supply in the CMD from a present level of approximately 22
gpcd to 42 gpcd by 1981. This is somewhat less than the planned 1981 supply
in Greater Bombay, 47 gpcd, and less than the present supply of 48 gpcd in
Delhi Urban Agglomeration (Annex 2). These figures include an allowance for
leakage and for commercial use but exclude industrial use.
6.        More important perhaps than the increase in average water supply is
the distribution of this increase within the CMD. The program is designed to
virtually eliminate the present extreme inequality in water supply among the
various parts of the CMD, as shown graphically in Annexes 15 and 16. At
present, 40% of the population share 10% of the total water supply; by 1981
the same 40% should receive 35% of the supply. Although the supply of filtered
water in the city of Calcutta is planned to increase from 37 gpcd at the pre-
sent to 42 gpcd by 1981, the supply in the rest of the CMD is planned to in-
crease from 7-8 gpcd to 42 gpcd.
7.        Studies of domestic water demand (requirements), undertaken in
connection with the Master Plan, showed that a 1966 supply of 40 gpcd exclu-
ding leakage, would be sufficient for consumers living in dwellings containing
a variety of plumbing fixtures, while for other consumers a supply of 20 gpcd
would be sufficient. The present investment program aims at satisfying this
requirement by 1981.
8.        In addition to supplying water for domestic use, the new and expanded
water systems will provide water for industrial consumers which now rely almost
totally on their own groundwater sources. Out of a total 1981 municipal water
supply of 543.2 Mgd approximately 24% (131.6 Mgd) will be available for indus-
trial use.    Industrial requirements were determined from a detailed analysis
of the industries in the CMD, divided into four major categories; engineering,
chemical, jute and textile, and other industries. 1/ It was assumed that by
1981 industries will take 67% of their requirements from municipal sources in
areas where the groundwater is of poor quality, and 33% in other parts of the CMD.
I/  CMPO, Master Plan for Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage, op. cit., Chapter
4, which is based on H. Banerjee, The Socio-Economic Plan Frame, mimeo.,
CNPO, July 1964.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
Sewerage
9.        The program aims to increase the proportion of the CND population
served by water-borne sewerage from the present level of 26% to about 70%
in 1981. Also, by that time most of the service privies will be replaced
by septic tanks, or public convenience facilities connected to sewers. The
sewerage system has been designed to handle 80% of the water supply, 50% of
total industrial water consumption (80% in areas with combined sewers), and
an infiltration of 1,700 gallons per acre per day in areas with separate sewers.
Drainag&e
10.       The improved and new drainage systems in the CMD have been designed
for a 2-month frequency sfiorm, i.e. the systems will be overloaded on the
average about six times per year. With the present service level the systems
are overloaded more than rwelve times per year, and for much longer periods
than will be the case in the future. A cautious estimate of the reduction in
flooding indicates that by 1981 much of the CND may be flooded for a total of
1-2 hours per year, as compared to a present total of some 40 hours per year
(see Appendix 1).
11.       The effects of the improvements in the drainage systems on the CMD
economy are substantiaL and it can be estimated that the economic rate of
return on the CMDA investments in this sector is approximately 14% (see
Section C and Appendix 1) considering only the direct impact on the economy.
This does not include benefits from improved sanitary and living conditions.
Housing, Area Development and Bustee Improvement
12.       The CMDA approach to the housing problems of the CMD recognizes two
distinct and major housing market segments, bustee housing and pucca housing
(permanent structures), and takes into account the social and economic char-
acteristics of these segments, their complementarity, and their respective
roles in the CND economy.
13.       With only 7.5% of the CMD households able to afford the economic
rent of new pucca housing, the CMDA program accepts the continued existence
of bustees and focuses on the improvement of their sanitary, social and gen-
eral living conditions. As a result, immediate and substantial benefits
will accrue to the economically weaker segments of the population at relatively
low cost and without disruption of the bustees as close knit socio-economic
entities. In the case of housing and area development the CMDA program is
innovative and progressive. The CMDA is attempting to find and develop cost
reducing construction and financing methods. As an example, several low-cost
sites and services schemes are included in the program.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
Urban Transport
14.       The CMDA transport program is consistent with the CMPO sector plan
and the BDP. Present efforts are being directed toward elimination of trans-
port bottlenecks and safety hazards and the rehabilitation and augmentation
of public transport systems.  This approach will greatly enhance the capacity
of already existing transport facilities at a relatively low cost, substantially
reduce accidents, and improve public transport services, which account for some
75% of all motorized person trips in the metropolitan center.  1/  The major
new road construction projects are located in outlying areas and aim at divert-
ing traffic from the congested central parts of the CMD and at furthering the
growth of the designated growth centers at Kalyani in the north and other
locations.
C. -Economic Rate of Return
15.       It is not possible to quantify the benefits attributable to the
whole CMDA program in any satisfactory way. It can be shown, however, that
direct benefits narrowly conceived and crudely estimated attributable to about
half the program will probably yield an economic rate of return (ERR) of 10%.
16.       Benefits directly attributable to the program investments in the
following sector have been estimated: (i) water supply (para. 17), (ii) drain-
age (para. 18), and (iii) housing (para. 19). These three sectors account for
close to 50% of the (undiscounted) investment cost of the CMDA program through
1981.
17.       A value of Rs 1 per 1,000 gallons has been used to approximate the
value of piped filtered water. This is the rate currently used by Calcutta
Corporation for domestic water supply and for water sales to other municipal-
ities. An equally low rate is currently charged in Greater Bombay but is
scheduled to be increased substantially in 1973/74. 2/ It is safe to assume
that this rate will not over-estimate the value of water to consumers. The
CHDA has estimated the cost of operating and maintaining new water systems
in the CMD will be approximately Rs 0.36 per 1,000 gallons, leaving Rs 0.64
per 1,000 gallons as an indicator of the benefit of the CMDA investment in
the water sector. Since total increase in water supply will be 372.4 Mgd
(million gallons per day) by 1981, the total yearly benefit by this time will
be Rs 8.7 crores.
18.       The investment in the drainage sector will virtually eliminate flood-
ing in the CMD, and thereby reduce the present disruption of economic activities
and the physical damage to roads, buildings, utility systems and other property.
The net benefits (after subtracting costs of operations and maintenance) will
reach Rs 3.6 crores per year by 1982 (see Appendix 1, Table 3).
1/    See Annex 5.
2/    IBRD, Appraisal of Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project, India,
Report No. 88a-IN, Asia Project Department, April 30, 1973, p. 20.



ANNEX 11
Page 5
19.       About 59,000 housing units are scheduled to be built under the
CMDA program up to 1978/79. In addition about 450 hectares of land will be
developed for sites and services schemes. The average net rent in 1970 is
estimated to Rs 940 per housing unit per year. 1/ On this basis benefits
of at least Rs 5.6 crores per year by 1979 can be estimated.
20.       About 85% of the workers diractly employed in the execution of
the CMDA program are unsklled and come from the segment of the labor force
with the highest unemployment rate. In addition unemployment in the CMD
is substantially higher than in other parts of India. The opportunity
(shadow) 4Pst of labor can therefore be assumed to be lower than the wage
rate. A chadow cost of labor equal to 50% of the wage rate has been assumed
in calculating the ERR.
21,       With the above assumptions the ERR for the water supply, drainage
and housing segments of the CMDA program is approximately 10% (14% for
water supply and drainage and 5% for housing) if benefit and cost streams
are considered up till year 2020. Rzising the planning horizon to year
Bo!
.                 . 
2/
3/   S
L/      ''.port
N i .                            -ril 3U,                   able 1, give
thk                          -a .~dpply = 10.1 m3/Sec; Annex 4, p.2 gives the
inc                 _Lj  million, with Rs 1 crore   $1.3 maillion.



INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPNENT PRIJECT
Estimates of Domestic Water Supply Levels in Calcutta, liowrah and the rest of C.4D, 1981 and 2001
1981                                             2001
Per Capita Water
Total   Resident    Atjusted, Per Capita   Total          Resident   Aljustedl/ Per Capita  Supply if only
Water   Population  Population    Water        Water   Population  Populatioff'  Wiater           resident
Supply                              Supply     Supply                               Supply       population
(000's                            (gallons    (000's                              (gallons    is considered
gallons)   (000's)      (000's)    per day)   gallons)   (000's)        (000's)    per day)  (gallons per day)
(1)       (2)          (3)         (4)        (5)         (6)          (7)        (8)       1981       2001
(9.)     ( 0)
Calcutta            161,550     3,231        3,877         42      2044,060    3,401        4,251         48         50        60
Howrah               32,050        641         756         42        48,120      802          986         49         50        60
Rest of OM-    2 
high density areas 193,540      4,786        4,180         46       483,220    9,664        8,720         55         40         50
Rest of CMD -
low density areas   24,430      1,221        1,066         23        18,420      921          831         22         20         20
CiD                E 1411,570   9,879        9,879         42      753,820   14,788        14,788         51         42         51
CMD - BDP
projection_/                   10,965                     38                                                        38
Source:  Col. (1), (2), (5), (6):  OMPO, Master Plan for. Water                              nage,
Volume I, Table 4-3.
1/  Daytime to resident population ratios of 1.40 (1981) and 1.50 (2001) for Calcutta, 1.35 (1981) and
1.45 (2001) for Howrah, and 0.75 (1981) and 0.80 (2001) for the rest of CMD have been assumed.                             X
Assuming further that one daytime resident equals one-half full time resident in terms of water                          - m
consumption, the following factors have been used to adjust Columns (2) and.(6) respectively:                                x
1.20 and 1.25 for Calcutta,  1.18 and 1.23 for Hlowrah, and 0.87 and 0.90 for the rest of CMD.
2/  Municipalities and densely populated non-municipal urban units with the majority of the population
living in houses with pluTmbing facilities.
3/  CMPO, Basic Development Plan, p. 69.



INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Labor Cost Ratios and Wage Levels, by Skill and Sector, for the CGNA Program
Labor cost, as % of total                   Wage levels in Re/innth
Land cost           cost, excluding land                 corresponding to Cols. (2)
as % of
total cost   Technical Skilled  Unskilled  Total        Technical  Skilled  Unskilled  Total
(1)           (2)        (3)      (4)      (5)          (6)        (7)       (8)       (9)
Water                          5 .2          7.8        9.0     18.0       3418        600        350        170      240
Se-werage and Drainage        4.2            2.9        9.0     39@7       51.6        530        300       150       170
1/
Transportation                31.2          11.2        2.3     14.5       28.0        600        200       120       185
2/
Hou6i-ng            3         18.0          10.0       10.0     30.0       50.0        600        350        170      1145
Rest of CMDA Program          15.0           8.0        7.6     25.5      41.1         580        300       150       197
4/
CMDA ProgramC           16.o            7.6        7.1     25.3      40.0         589        305       149       194
1/  Estimated from information provided by CMDA.
2/  Col. (1):  estimated from information provided by CMDA.
Col. (4)-  Estimate for low standard housing made by H. Lubell, Urban Develont:.
(5):  The Pro2pects for Calcutta,  World ,ployment Programme, WEP 2-19-Interim Draft, IA,
Geneva, October 1972.
Col. (6)-  Wage levels are assumed to be the same as in the water supply sector.
(8):
3/ Col. (1)-(M)
and  (6)-(8):  Estimates arrived at by taking the unweighted average of the four sectors for which estimates exist.
4/ Col. (1)-(4)
and  (6)-(8); Estimates of the averages have been derived using the total 4th Plan expenditures (excluding
land acquisition expenditures) for each sector as weights.
I'3



INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimates of CMDA Program Expenditures 1970-81, By Year,
Sector and Land/Labor/Non-Labor Expenditures
(In Rs crores)
Water               Sewerage, Drainage           Transportation                Housing            Rest of the Program                Program
Excl.                      Excl.                     Excl.                      Exel.                     Excl.                      Excl.
Total    land    Labor    Total    land   Labor    Total    land   Labor    Total    land   Labor    Total    land   Labor    Total    land   Labor
exp.    acquis.  exp.      exp.    acquis. exp.      exp.    acquis. exp.       exp.    acquis. exp.      exp.    acquis. exp.       exp.    acquis. exp.
(1)      (2)      (3)      (4)      (5)    (6)       (7)       (8)    (9)       (10)    (11)    (12)      (13)    (14)    (15)       (16)    (17)    (18)
1970     0.99      0.94    0.33      3.13     3.00   1.55      2.03      1.40  0.39      0.12    0.10    0.05       2.76     2.35   0.97      9.03    7.79       3.29
1971     5.69      5.39    1.88     8.68      8.32   4.29      7.23      4.97  1.39      2.86    2.35    1.18       1.70     1.44   0.59    26.16   22.47        9.33
1972    10.25      9.72    3.38    11.64    11.15   5.75    19.34       13.31  3.73      5.88    4.82    2.41       9.89     8.41   3.46    57.00   47.41    18.73
1973    11.10    10.52    3.66    16.34    15.65   8.08    24.36        16.76  4.69      8.68    7.12    3.56    11.36       9.66   3.97    71.84   59.71    23.96
1974     8.51      8.07    2.81    15.69    14.94   7.71    19.74       13.58  3.80    14.48   11.87    5.93    13.74    11.68   4.80    72.06   60.14    25.05
1975     8.08      7.66    2.67    14.81    14.19   7.32    18.75       12.90  3.61    15.20   12.46    6.23    13.05    11.09   4.56    69.89   58.30    24.39
1976     7.68      7.28    2.53    14.07      13.48  6.96    17.81      12.25  3.43    15.96   13.09    6.55    12.40    10,54   4.33    67.92   56.64    23.80
1977     7.29      6.91    2.40    13.37    12.81   6.61    16.92       11.64  3.26    16.76   13.74    6,87    11.78    10.01   4.11    66.12   55.11    23.25
1978     6.93      6.57    2,29-   12.70    12.17   6.28    16.08       11.06  3,10    17.60   14.43    7.22    11.19        9,51   3.91    64.50   53.74    22.80
1979     6.24      5.92    2.06    11.43    10.95   5.65    14.47         9.96  2.79    18.48   15.15    7.58    10.07        8.56   3.52    60.69   50.54    21.60
1980     5.61      5.32    1.85    10.29      9.86   5.09    13,02        8.96  2.51    19.40   15.91    7.96       90o6      7.70   3.16    57.38   47.75    20.57
1981     5.05      4.79    1.67      9.26     8.87   4.58    11.72        8.06  2.26    20.37   16.70    8.35       8.16      6.94   2.85    54.56   45.36    19.71
TOTAL   83.42    79.08   27.52   141.31   135.37  69.85   181.47    124.85 34.96   155.79  127.75   63.88   115.16    97.89  40.23   677.15  564.96   236.48
Total expenditure columns:
-  The information in Table 1 , Annex 6 , was used, except that the 4th Plan expenditures through 1971/72 were taken from Statement No. 9, CMDA's
12th Review Meeting.
-  Total 5th Plan expenditures were allocated over time assuming a 5% decrease per year, except in housing where it was assumed that the expenditures
would increase by 5% per year.
-  The 1979-81 expenditures were estimated by assuming a decrease from the 1978 level of 10% per year, except in housing w4ere a 5% increase per year  H
Columns on 'Expenditures excluding land acquisition' and 'Labor expenditures':                                                                                       x
- The percentages in Table 1, Col. (1) respective (5), have been used.,
Total Program expenditures, Col. (16) - (18):
-  Estimated through summation over Col. (1) - (15)



AN NEX 1 1
A   n
Appendix 1
Page 1
IIDIA
CALCUTTA URBAIN DEIVLOPNKT PIRJECT
&onorniic Rate of Return Estimation for the Drainage Sector in the CMIIA Program
1.        Before the CMA program was started drainage throughout most of
the CMD was by means of open ditches and canals. Drainage systems existed
orly in the Calcutta Corporation area and in Kalyani, in the form of combined
and partly combined systeems. Up to 1981 about Rs 45 crores ($61 million)
will be invested in drainage systems in the CHDA area according to the GMA
program and the Master Plan. 1/ An attempt is., in this Appendix, made to
estimate an economic rate of return on this investmennt.
A. Physical Performance
2.        First, is there a direct way of meaBuring the physical performance
of the drainage system? The design criterion used in the past for runoff
from intensely developed areas in the CMD has been that the drainage system
should be able to handle a constant average rainfall intensity rate of i-inch
per hour. Even a 1-mnth frequency storm 2/ in this area produces runoff
substantially in excess of this rate. Calculations made in the Master Plan
suggest that during the four-month monsoon period, when about 70% of flood
produeing rains occur, a drainage system designed in accordance with the
-inch per hour criterion would be overloaded and the area would be flooded:
more than 8 times for periods exceeding 100 Dinutes;
of which more than 4 occurrences would exceed 150 minutes;
of which nearly 3 occurrences would exceed 3 hours.
This information has been used to draw curve B in Figure 1. The extensions
of the curve on each side of the interval 3 to 8 floods have been made in
such a wa;y that the extent of flooding is likely to have been under-estimated,
3.        The design criterion used in the Master Plan is the 2-mnth frequency
storm and the CMDA progrm aims at achieving this standard by 1981 in the
currently built-up parts of the CMD. Then flooding will occur:
nearlY 3 times for periods exceeding 20 minutes;
of which more than one occurrence would exceed 45 minutes.
Carve A in Figure 1 depicts this situation.
1/ CMPO., Master Plan for Water Sup                              Calcutta
Metropolitan District 1966 2001, Calcutta, August 1966
2/ A 1-month frequency storm is a storm which (on the average over a long
time) is equalled or exceeded in terms of intensity and/or duration twelve
times a year. In the same way a 2-month frequency storm is equalled or
exceeded six times a year.



ANNEX 11
Appendix 1
Page 2
4.        From curve B it can be estimated that during the monsoon period
flooding in the past occurred for a total of 1,600 minutes, or 2,300 minutes
per year if we assume that 70% of the flood producing rains fall during the
four-month monsoon period. The corresponding figures for curve A, after 1981,
are 70 and 100 minutes, so a crude physical measure of the improvement in
drainage affected by the CMDA program is that yearly flooding will be reduced
by approximately 2,200 minutes, or 37 hours.
5.        The above measure does not apply to all of the CMD however.  As
mentioned earlier, the old 4inch per hour standard had been used for the
more intensely developed areas, while many other parts of the CMD in effect
had other standards, determined by natural drainage and degree of development.
It has been estimated that on the average about 40% of the activities in the
metropolitan area used to be affected by flooding when it occurs, and it will
here be assumed that the same figure will hold after 1981 also.
B. Benefits
6.        What are the actual benefits of the investments in the drainage
sector, and can the relationship between any of these benefits and the
physical performance measures derived above be quantified?
7.        First there are employment effects and indirect economic benefits
(see Appendix 1). Second, public health benefits are evident but difficult
to quantify. For instance, flooding results in the spreading of fecal
material (from the sewerage system and from service privies) in the streets
and in residential areas but very little is known about the direct public
health ixpact. A third, and obvious but intangible, type of benefit of
drainage investments is the inprovement of the general living conditions in
the CMD. Fourth, improved drainage wil reduce the cost of physical damage
to roads, cars, buildings (the walls of many buildings dissolve during
flooding periods),, utility systems, etc., which are judged to be quite sub-
stantial; a cautious estimate of these cost savings is Rs 0.5 crores per
year and will be included below.
8.        Fifth, a major consequence of flooding is the disruption of
economic activities that it cauases and in the following paragraphs an attempt
will be made to estimate the cost thereof, measured as the loss of production
(value added) per hour of flooding.
9.        CMPO has estimated net (of depreciation) value added by sector-
in the CND in 1961 (see Col. (1) in Table 1). Col. (3) in the same table
gives net value added for the State as a whole in 1960/1961. According to
1/ Primary sector: agriculture and mining. Secondary sector: manufacturing
and construction. Tertiary sector: transport, communication, trrade,
commerce and services.



ANNEX 11
Appendix 
Page 3
these figures net value added in the secondary sector was higher in the CmD
than in the State as a whole and it is not clear whether the CND figure is
too high or the State figure too low. A 1962 CM4PO census of manufacturing
in the CO) seems to indicate that the State figure of RS 248.7 crores is too
low. 1/
10.       In order to arrive at production estimates for the 01D0, which are
likely to be too low rather than too high, the State figures for 1960/61
were used and it was assumed that the CM's share was equal to its share of
the State employment, by sector. The enployment figures are given in Table 2,
and the resulting prodction estimates for the COD are shown in Col. (2),
Table 1. One notices that the estimate for the tertiary sector is very close
to the original CMP figuia; Rs 190 crores versuls RB 206 crores.
11.       Viployment figires from the 1971 census are not yet available.
F,timates of CMID production figures for 1970 were therefore derived from the
1961 estimates discussed above under the assu$ntion that the economic growth
rate (in current terms) in the OND and in the State was directly proportional
to the rate of population growth with the same porportionality factor for
both the CM and the State. The 1961-1971 population growth rate was 2723%
for the State and 24s.0% for the CGMD. 1970/71 production figures for the
State are given in Col. (4), Table 1, while the resulting estimates for the
C01D are shown in Col. (5).
12.       Assuming 250 working days per year and 8 hours per da;y, hourly
production can be estimated at Rs 0.99 mi-llion in the secondary sector and
Rs 1 .4l4 million in the tertiary sector. 2/7As mentioned before (para. 5)
it has been estimated that about 40% of the activities in the 0MD used to be
affected by flooding, when it occurs, giving the estimates that the production
(measured in net value added) of RS 0.40 million per hour in the secondary
sector and RS 0.58 million per hour in the tertiary sector is affected.
Furthermore, it has been estimated that affected njans that about 95% of the
production in the secondary sector will be foregone while the percentage is
about 60% in the tertiary sector. The final estimates of the hourly costs
of flooding (as directly reflected in the economic system) are therefore
Rs 0.38 million in the secondary sector and RS 0.35 million in the tertiary
sector, when measured as net value added. Expressed as gross value added
the estimates are approximately Rs 0.40 milion and RS 0.37 million,
respectively.
1/  A.N. Bose, Implications of Capacity Utilization: A Study of the Calcutta
Metropolitan Dstrict, Das Gapta, Calcutta, 19b%, pp. 17-18
2/  It is assumed that the primary sector will not derive any benefits from
the drainage investme-nts and it will therefore not be discussed any further.



ANNEX 1 1
Appendix
Page 4
13.       All flooding does not occur during working hours, but on the other
hand there are substantial after effects of a flood. Assuming that 50% of
the flooding occurs daring working hours and that the after effects last for
a time equal to the length of the flood itself, one can directly apply the
earlier estimate that the CM1DA program will reduce yearly flooding by 37 hours
(para. 4) to the production figures above, giving the result that the direct
economic benefits would have been Rs 2.9 crores (plus Rs 0.5 crores for
reduced physical damage, para. 7) per year in 1970 if the planned 1981 drainage
system could have been installed that year. This potential benefit will
increase over time because of increased economic activity and it is assumed
that this increase will be 1% per year. Col. (5) in Table 3 shows the potential
benefits by year. In para. 15 the time pattern in which the potential yearly
benefits will be achieved between 1970 and 1981 are discussed.
C. C3osts
14.       Col. (1) in Table 3 presents estimates of yearly investment costs
for the drainage sector of the CMDA program, in 1970 prices. The 1970 figure
inlcudes an estimate of the 1967-69 investment. 1970-73 estimates were
derived directly from ONDA's investment program for the Fourth Five-Year Plan,
while the 1974-78 figures were estimated from the total investment planned
for the Fifth Five-Year Plan,s/ distributed over the five years under the
assumption of a 20% reduction each year in the investments. The Master Plan
supplied estimates for 1979-81. In cases where C)DA data was given for
drainage and sewerage together more detailed Master Plan data for the same
period was used to estimate the ratio of drainage to sewerage investments.
Operation and maintenance costs for the drainage systems were estimated under
the assungtion that they are equal to 0.5% of the cumulative investment (see
Table 3).
D. Time Pattern of the Benefit Stream
15.       The actual benefits of the drainage investment are about zero at
the beginning of 1970 and will in 1982 be equal to the potential benefits
that year. The increase in actual benefits between 1970 and 1981, measured
as a percentage of potential benefits, can be estimated from the time pattern
of the investments (see Figure 2). The execution of the drainage projects is
being scheduled in such a way that the ones with the greatest impact, usually
in densely developed areas, are executed first, and the time pattern of the
increase in actual benefits will therefore deviate from the time pattern of
the investments. Curve B in Figure 2 indicates the assumptions that have been
made; for instance, it has been assumed that 50% of the potential benefits
were realized at the end of 1971, with about 15% of the investment program
1/  CHDA Programe Approach to Fifth Five-Year Plan, 1974-75 to 1978-79
CMDA; July 1971.



ANNEX 1 1
Appedi  i
Page 5
comqpleted at that tim. The actual benefits (see Table 3) can now be esti-
mated by xmltiplying the potential benefits by the corresponding percentage
figures given by curve B in Figure 2
E. Economic Rate of Return
16.       Table 4 summarizes a set of ERR calculations under various
assumptions. With the basic assumptions presented above and in Table 3 the
ERR is about 9.6%. Even if the benefits were over-estimated by 25% the ERR
would still be 6.6%. Changing the assumed time pattern for achievement of
the potential benefits from curve B in Figure 2 to curve Dl (assuming that
50% of the potential benefits would be achieved at the end of 1973 rather
than 1971) would only reduace the ERR to 8.9%. Assuming that the shadiw cost
of labor is S0% of the wage rate (see Appendix 17 para. 14t) increases the
ER to about 14%.
F. Conclusions
17.       The drainage program seems to be viable even when the evaluation
is limited to its effects on economic activities, The ERR of 9.6% refers
to costs and benefits from 1970 on, rather than from the present, i.e. the
drainage progran has been viewed as indivisible.  This may not be quite
correct, but it is difficult to establish a base point after 1970 for the
evaluation, partly because there is no daua available on the physical per-
formance of the drainage system between 1970 and 1981. The later part of
the 1970-81 investment program may not be justifia:ble on a purely economic
basis, particularly not if the benefits are being realized according to
curve B in Figure 2, but other benefits (see para. 7) are important enough
to justify that part of the program by itself.
18.       The analysis done above shows that the investment program in the
drainage sector is justifiable, wi:th the 2-month frequency storm used as the
design criterion. But is this criterion the optimal one? According to the
Master Plan,
(i)  the cost of providing for a I -mwnth storm is 70% of the
cost of providing for a 2-month storm; and
(ii) the cost of providing for a 3-month storm is 170% of the
cost of providing for a 2-month storm.
The costs increase rapidly When the design standard is raised above the 2-month
storm and considering the fact that already this storm provides reasonably good
protection one can conclude that the chosen design standard is close to the
optimal one.
19.       It should be noted that the Master Plan used the same design criterion,
the 2-month frequency storm, for all parts of the  MD. At first, it seems that
higher standards should have been used in more densely developed parts where



ANNEX 11
Appendix 1
Page6
the marginal benefits are greater than in less developed parts, for a given
standard. However, for a given standard the marginal cost of raising the
standard is also likely to be much higher in the more densely developed
parts, because of higher construction costs, for instance, so it may well be
that marginal benefits equal marginal costs all over the CMD at one and the
same standard.



INDIA                                                         ANEX 11
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                      ANNendix
EXTENT OF FLOODING IN THE CMD DURING THE MONSOON PERIOD,
Page 7
Durao offlod         BEFORE (B) AND AFTER (A) THE CMDA PROGRAM.                                                    Figure 1
Duration of fiooding,
\ Y minutes
240
210
,80 .!--
B
1 50  ---------------------
120
tOO   ----------- ---- ---- i------------------_>
90   _.                           ,'                                  s
60   .,                           ,'                                                   s
45                                                              '      
30
20    ....., - - - - - - - - - - 5;,    * 
l~~~~~~~ I                            , I       I      I       g      |       |      !      i       t     '
0      1      2      3       4      5       6              8      9      10      11     12    13       14     15      16
No. of floods with a duration of more than Y minutes
World Bank-7559



INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                ANNEX 11
TIME PATTERN OF THE COST AND BENEFIT                               Appendix 1
STREAMS IN THE DRAINAGE SECTOR 
% of total 1970-81 investment (CJ                                          Figure  2
% of potential benefits realized (B)
100  -- - - - - - - - - - - -   --- - - - -  -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -
90
80
70                              B
60  -                /C
a~~~~
40   .
20       / t<g                    ',
1970    71    72    73       74    75     76    77    78    79        80     81  Year
World Bank-7560



ANNEX 1 1
Appendix 1
Page 9
TaSle 1
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMERT PROJECT
Net Value Aided by Sector, CHD and West Bengal
(Rs crores)
cDm        CMD       W1st Bengal    West Bengal          cmO
1961       1961        1960/61           1970/71       1970/71
cMPO     Estimate
(1__ _ __ ___2                              ) (3)4)   _
Primary         8.0         4            441.6         1,73.6             10
Secondary     281.4       129            248.7           433.8           197
Tertiary      206.0       190            40.4           694.4           288
TOTAL       495.4       323          1,090.7         2,301.8           495
Sources:   Col. (1): H. Banerjee, The Socio-Econonic Plan Frame, COIPO,
July 1 964
Col. (3)
and  (4): Government of West Bengal, Economic Review Year 1 971-72,
Calcutta, 1972;  p. 68.
Col. (2)
and (5): Estimate, see text.



(~~~~~~~
.                         ~~~~~~~~~ANNE2 11
Appendix 2
Page 1 0
Table 2
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
)ployment by Sector, CMD and West Bengal, 1961
(1000's)
CmD        West Bengal
Primary                      (1)             (2)
Primary                       60           6,809
Secondary                    977           1, 957
Tertiary                   1,329           2,8141.-
TOTAL             2,366           11,58o
Source: Registrar General, Census of India, 1961, Vol. WI
Part II-A, General. Poplation Tables.



ANiE 1 1
Appendix 1
Page 1 1
Table 3
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPENT PRJECT
Partial Cost and Benefit Streams in the Drainage Sector
(Rs crores)
Cumulative  Maintenance  Total Potential   Actual         Net
Year  Investment Invest.ent         costs     Costs  Benefits   Benefits  Benrefits
()(2        (3)         4)     (5)         (6)        (7)
1970      2.2           2.2         00        2.2      3.4j        0.5      -1.7
71      4.0           6.2          0,0       4.0      3.4 1h4              -2.6
72      5.6          11.8          0.1       5.7      3.5         1.9      -3.8
73      7.8          19.6          0.1       7.9      3.5         2,1      -5,8
74      6.2          25.8          0.1       6.3      3.5         2.3      -4.0
75      5.0          30.8          0.2       5.2      3.6         2.5      -2.7
76     4L0           34.8          0.2       4.2      3.6         2.8      -1.4
77      3.2          38.0          0.2       3.4      3.6         3.0      -O 4
78      1.8          39.8          0.2       2.0      3.7         3.2       1.2
79      1.8          41.6          0.2       2.0      3.7         3A4       1.4
80      1.8          43.4          0.2       2.0      3.8         3.6       1.6
81      1.8          45h2          0.2       2.0      3.8        3.7        1e7
82      0            45.2          0.2       0.2      3.8        3.8        3.6
1983-2020                L5.2         0.2        0.2     3.9-5.5    3.9-5.5   3.7-5.3



ANNEX 1 1
Appendix 1
_ge 12
Table 4
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVEOPNENT PRDJECT
Economic Rates of Return for the Drainage Sector
under Various Assumptions
A.  Basic assumptions, according to Table 3
and the text                                       9.6%
Variations from the basic assumptions:
B.  Benefit stream, Col. (6) in Table 3,
increased by 25%                                   12.7%
C.  Banefit stream reduced by 25%                          6.6%
D.  Planning horizon lowered from year 2020
to year 2010                                        9.2%
E.  Planning horizon lowered from year 2020
to year 2000                                        8.2%
F.  Time pattern for achievement of potential
benefits changed from curve B to
curve B1 in Figure 2.                               8.9%
G.  Shadow cost of labor equal to 50% of the
wage rate                                          13.7%



ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTRACTING PROCEDURES
1.        The procedures involved in project preparation and project sanction
which precede  tendering of CMDA projects are described in Annex 8.  This
annex concerns contracting procedures.
Bid Preparation and Clearance
2.        After CMDA issues administrative approval and financial sanction
for a project and before tenders are invited for civil works or equipment
procurement, detailed estimates are prepared and technically sanctioned by
the competent authority of the executing agency concerned. However, in
cases where administrative approval and financial sanction were issued on
a lump sum basis such detailed estimates will also be furnished to CMDA
before inviting tenders. Further more, copies of the technically sanctioned
estimates exceeding Rs 10 lakhs ($130,000) are sent to CMDA technical wings
for information and all tender documents for schemes above Rs 50 lakhs ($650,000)
are sent to CMDA for vetting befoie release for advertisement.
Invitation to Bid
3.        Tenders are normally invited by the relevant executing agency through
open advertisement in newspapers and circulation through public works offices
as all the executing agencies are so empowered to invite tenders. In particular
cases, however, where it is considered expeditious or advantageious, CMDA may
arrange to circulate the bid invitations in behalf of the executing agency.
Normally, a period of not less than three weeks is allowed between date of
publication or circulation and the last date of receiving tenders.
4.        In some cases a form of prequalification or prelisting of contractors
exists with respect to tenders, the value of which is Rs 200,000 lakhs ($26,000)
or less quotations are requested only from listed small contractors after circu-
lation. The invitation for tenders for larger amounts within other specified
limits may be restricted to qualified contractors graded according to executing
agency criteria, approved by CMDA. Furthermore, in case of a single contract
requiring specialized skill i.e. bridges, hydraulic structures, etc., restricted
tenders may, with prior approval of CMDA, be invited only from certain qualified
contractors and engineering firms listed with the executing agency and approved
by CMDA. In the case of works certified as emergent by the CMDA's Chairman,
Vice-Chairman or Secretary, bids and spot quotations may be obtained from listed
contractors regardless of the volume of works involved and without resorting
to open advertisement.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
5.        No grouping of related contracts is practiced by executing agencies
as the capacity of the contractors available is rather limited and the
competition in case of large contracts is considered to be too limited.
6.        Low tenders for CNDA works within an excess of 5% of the estimated
cost based on current schedule of rates may be accepted by the executing
agency's authorized officer for contracts of up to Rs 50 lakhs (US$650,000)
without reference to CMDA's Standing Tender Committee. The CMDA Board should
be advised of contracts not awarded to the lowest bidder supported with reasons
of such action. Tenders greater than the 5% excess on current rates must be
referred to CMDA's Standing Committee for approval.



ANNEX 13
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD/IDA                  Cumulative Disbursements
Fiscal Year                    at end of Quarter
and Quarter                      (US$ Million)
1973/74
December 31, 1973                       0.5
March 31, 1974                           6.0
June 30, 1974                           9.5
1974/75
September 30, 1974                     10.5
December 31, 1974                      16.0
March 31, 1975                          21.0
June 30, 1975                          25.5
1975/76
September 30, 1975                     26.0
December 31, 1975                      29.0
March 31, 1976                          33.0
June 30, 1976                          34.0
1976/77
September 30, 1976                     34.2
December 31, 1976                      34.3
March 31, 1977                          34.6
June 30, 1977                          34.8
1977/78
September 30, 1977                     34.9
December 31, 1977                      35.0



INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LORENZ CURVES FOR THE INCOME DISTRIBUTION OF FAMILIES IN DURGAPUR,  ANNEX 14
CALCUTTA, AND URBAN INDIA
Cumulative percentage
of total income
100
90
80
70-
60-
/ /
50
40                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Durgapur-r .
*4,5              ~~~~~Calcutta
Urban India
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
10          20           30          40  44       50  54       60           70          80           90          100
Cumulative percentage of
ramilies
World Bank-7556



INDIA                                                             ANNEX  15
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF CMD POPULATION BY WATER SUPPLY LEVELS, 1970/71 AND 1981
%of CMD Population
60
1970/71:
1981:    --.-,
50
46.9
,   . ..  . ..
45.1
42.3
40
30
26.9
20
10
0  5         ~~10        15         20        25          30         35        40         45         50
(Gallons per capita and day)
1970/71                                   1981
Average                                   Average
World Bank-7557



INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                 ANNEX 16
LORENZ CURVES SHOWING THE WATER DISTRIBU-TION Of THE CMD POPULATION,
Cumulative percentage of total                          1970//l AND  1981
Water Supply
100
90
1970/71:-
1981:    ..n.......
80
70                          109C
60
50
40                                                                 C
20
10 G20                       30            40            50             60            70            80            90            100
Cumulative percentage of
CMD population
World Bank-7558



INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
C .M.D.A
Chief Minister
or
State nominee
as
Chairman - C.M.D.A
Fin. Commr. - Member
Dev. Comsr. - Member
T&CP Comm. - Member
and Vice-Chairman
Three Non-officials
(One from West Bank and one
from East Bank Municipalities
and one from Calcutta Corp.
l                 ~~~~~~SECrETARY: CM1)A
_L_    _   ~(functions as principal Executive_ 
COMMONSRICUIT                                                                Officer & Secrtr  to the Board)
CONTROLLER FIN. AND    {                                                                     ,                                                                       BUSTEE          MUNICIPAL AND
AC COUNT S                                                                                                                                                           IMPROVEMENT    ANCHAL DEVELOP-         PLANNING
CONTROLLER OF PURCHASE   1.SPECIAL ENGINEER  2.SPECIAL ENGINEER  3.SPECIAL ENGINEER  4.SPECIAL ENGINEER  5.PROGRAM              6. PROGRAM        7.PROGRAM         ORGANIZATION   MENT WING,
AND STORES                   (water supply        (sanitation and      (housing)            (traffic snd         ADMINISTRATOR    ADMINISTRATOR  ADMINISTRATOR                       SPECIAL ENGINEER         WING
SPECIAL OFFICER LAND         and environment-   drainage)                                    transportation)    (health)           (schools)       (parks, play-
ACQUISITION                  al hygiene)                                                                                           (proposed)       grounds,
INFORM,4ATION AND PUBLIC                                                                                                                            recreation
RELATIONS                                                                                                                                           facilitiesf)
(proposed)
(sector-wise program and project co-ordin1tion, progress control, reporLing liaison and release of funds)
IMPLEMENTING ORGANIZATIONS
(Execute projects either initiated by or allotted to them)
A. STATE GOVT. DIRECTORATES                                        B. STATUTORY AUTIHORITIES
1. PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTORATE                                       1. CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT TRUST
(for Roads & Buildings)                                           (mainly road widening and bridge projects
2. PUBLIC WORKS (ROADS) DIR.                                           in Calcutta City)
(for major roads, highways & bridges)                          2. NOWRAH IMPROVEMENT TRUST
3. PUBLIC WORKS (SPL. ROADS) DIR.                                     (for road, bridge and sewerage project
(for Howrah Station Improvement)                                   in Howrah)
I. PUBLIC WORKS (CONSTRUCTION BOARD) DIRECTORATE                  3. CALCUTTA METROPOLITAN WATER SUPPLY
(school buildings)                                                & SANITATION AUTHORITY
Common se  ices                    5. PUBLIC HEALTH ENGINEERING DIRECTORATE                              (drainage & water supply projects in
rendered t                            (for water supply and sewerage projects outside Calcutta)           Calcutta and outlying municipalities)
irnplemeoti g                      6. IRRIGATION & WATERWAYS DIRECTORATE                              4. CALCUTTA STATE TRANSPORTATION CORPORATION
agencies                              (for drainage outfall channels and links)                       5. CALCUTTA TRAMWAYS COMPANY
7. C.M.P.O. MUNICIPAL ENGINEERING WING                             6. ORIENTAL GAS UNDERTAKING
(for selected water supply and other projects)
8. HRALTH DIRECTORATE                                              C. LOCAL AUTHORITIES
(hospital facilities                                           1. CALCUTTA CORPORATION
9. EDUCATION DIRECTORATE                                           2. HOWRAH MUNICIPALITY
10. HOUSING DIRECTORATE                                             3. CHANDERNAGAR CORPORATION
(construction of housing units)                                4. 33 MUNICIPALITIES
5. 37 NON-MUNICIPAL URBAN UNITS






MAPs
TABLE OF CONTENTS
MAP 10261    India - Eastern Region
MAP 10262    West Bengal - Population
MAP 10263    CMD Population Densities in 1971
MAP 10264    CMDA Water Supply Service Districts and
Major Facilities
MAP 10507    CMD Sewerage Zones and Major Facilities
MAP 10508    CMD Drainage Basins and Major Facilities
MAP 10509    Major Urban Transport Projects Initiated
during 1969/70-1973/74
NAP 10510    CMD Housing and Area Development Projects
and Bustee Areas






I BRD -10261
JUNE   1973
C H IiN A
(T IBET) 
N E P A;     L 5   EASTERN  REG101                                                             C
LI T A R~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEJA                                                                     .
EASTERN REGIO D                                                                   (BUMH
A-. ~ ~ ~
_  )1   w .         * ~~~~Calcutta Metropolitan District    o    Towns and Cifies                    w                   f  Beos V I H
gf   f   w--              ~~~~Major Roads                  -    -State and Union Territory Boundaries       v                 ofBnl
</,     |- -+--i- Railway lines                 -*- nternational Boundaries                          a( i
.  . . rn/pt~~iliy  nndwhn n.Oh As,np loi noiroOonii       iii7  '  SRif LANKA.
~~O  I                                                   YOUrS lOok aid iii otfi Olin.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q






________ ____C;-N A_  __ __o__SI_                                                                                                                              IBRD  10262
. C                                  .                                                               S  K P                                                   JUNE    1973
CHINA                                                                     S I KK I AA
(Tibet)                                                            \-aretn5
/  '~~.        BHUTAN                                                                                                         B       U       A
NE  PAL 
CAlCUTTA N     URBANA    D               O                  P-
PERSONS PER Sq. Km.                                            -m.  L:
~~ngat~ ~ ~                                                            (j-                                                 ____s  t 
__ 7
-- orLess than 23000                                                                                                >
INDIA~~~~~~~~~~~ A Enls)h!h                             j
PESONSe PEdRie S. K.. D
Moe0 ha 2,000k
-    - 501-  700                                                    -     --
301 i    500                                             -
-    Less thon 300Z
@  District Copitals                                                   u r~C)
0      Main Centers
Calcutta Metropolitan District Boundaries
District Boundaries                      ~
Slate Boundaries
-     nternational Boundaries 
Risers
MILES                                       =             ,-'---
40                              Es                20
MSdupr I l






*0 10~~~~~~
INIDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                            -
CMD POPULATION DENSITIES IN 1971                                                            -          . 
PERSONS /SQ. KMW 
More than 40,000
77l30,001  -40,000
20,001  -  30,000
ilL    to,>ool     20,000
5,001  -10,000
Less than   5,000
BuSit-up Areas                                          J           -
-   Major Roads                                                                I~            ' Jy        ''
Other Roods
Railways
Corporation and Municipality Boundories         .1 /
---  Kolyoni- Bansberia Boundaries
Metropolitan Center Boundories                           |=
- -   - Calcutta Metropolitan District Boundaries
International Boundaries
5  244    6         0
4               5       ~ OA>   ann trjur
M ILES5r 
r                                           i
Jcf  J    rk       ~~~~~(TIBET)                                                     5-           t .5
uCAcurnu21Pv',,A                                                                                 C'
I N D IlA    a          Rs
~~~~~
w  . |   ,    w    T:                                          ,to;|    2 %~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u
X   h=  -; *- ge - e  ==                                                   ebJ 15ia






INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                          A'-' 
CMD WATER SUPPLY SERVICE DISTRICTS
AND MAJOR FACILITIES
_   Urbon Area with Ground Water Supply
,......  Service District Boundaries
0      Existing Treatment Plant and Major Pumping Station
Exisrng Transmission Main
Proposed Treatment Plants
Canals, Channels
Built-up Areas
Major Roads                                              -,                 ,                 f    l>,     "'5
____Other Roods
Railways
Corporaton and Municipality Boundaries
___-_Kolyani -Bansberia  Boundaries
-.  - _Metropolitan Center Boundaries
-  __ Colcutta Metropolitan District Boundories
- -_  International Boundaries
i            s               5               15
KiLOMsEnEts
INDIA AitS 
r'L N4
. .    ..... -.   ,__                                                                               _    _
C4 H ^ N- A 
9'%     /             i~~~~~~~TIBET)..    
I N  D IA                M-i  
:='L_S <: fE;i_',:e rA






INEDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CMD SEWERAGE ZONES AND MAJOR FACILITIESI 
Proposed  Sewerage Zones
Proposed  Pumping  Stations
Proposed  Sewerage  Treatment Plants
*     Enisting  Pumping  Stations
Channels, Canals
- i BuIlt - up Areasj
-       AltMajor Roads                                     r
Other Roads
-   Roilwoys                                                                   ru
Corporation and Municipality Boundaries
Kalyani- Bonsberro  Boundories                           -
-        Metropolitan Center Boundaries                                 A  uwa
----.-.- Calcutta Metropolitan District Boundaries _
-        International Boundaries
X   ( P.0 S: ,,\s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
0       5              to~~~~~~~1      to
uM  A;       ES  2  n                                                                      '0R2 
J It                   4          6 H       8                              
'4r\.          I    A>>    7 >vsAAIE t
A ~ ~      ~       ~       ~       ~       A5
Th                                                                           C0
<;                                j:.Z/J                   ,.;   v,,,  .1,,. KA  






INEDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CMD DRAINAGE BASINS AND MAJOR FACLITIES                                                                                       8
Basin Boundaries
*     Existing Punmping Stotion
*     Proposed Pumping Station
-Channels, Canals
Bu Ilt -up Areas
Major Roads
_______   Other Roads
RalWays
Corporation and Municipality Bourdar es
       ___- Kalyani- Bonsberia  Boundaries
_ _   - Metropolitan Center Boundaries
- -    - Calcutta Metropolitan District Boundaries
-  -.-  InternaOtion   Boundaries
1
tJt    I N  DL              I                  I > M 
Si~~~~~~~iE
0,5
'KL
x x(/.     .. /. ........ Ze , 
of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
Bengol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.... . ... ... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~0~
RI LA-                                                                                                     o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                 ;4
MAJOR URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECTS
INITIATED DURING 1969/70-73/74
EXISTING  FEATURES
~Major Roads
Other Roads
Railways
CMDA  PROJECTS
e    Area Circulation Scheme
.      I Road Widening/Traffic Operation Scheme /
)zr    Br.dge/Underposs
Roads
OTHER PROJECTS
Bridge
-Road
Rapid Transit System
Built-up Areas
Corporcton and Municipality Boundaries             J-
-____   Kalyoni- Bcnsberio  Boundaries
-. - -   Metropolitan Center Boundaries
-  _._ CaIcutto Metropolitan District Boundaries
-_ -  -International Boundaries
0               5
i(LiMrrr
5             2< 4.                6         5 TIBET )                             se                    L 
>57rmorwsr-~     r                                                               I                     r    . H   I N   A
.LI
CAM
I ND   ALbu~c                                                                                                           






CALCUTTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CMD HOUSING AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS                                            s
AND BUSTEE AREAS
O    Slum Rehousing Schemes                                        5 /        fcS
Sites and Services Schemes                                 / /
A    Land Development Scheme                                    ( /                                    - 
o     Hire Purchase Schemes
O     Subsidised Public Housing Schemes                     / J3
Bustee Areas(CClcutta and Howrah Only)                1uivs 
=    Built-up Areas
Major Roads                                           /                                          1v       uiA
Other Roads                                            /ANu                   /
-       Raclways                                               /                  -franc
Corporation and Municipolity Boundaries              /
----- Kalyani-Bansber,a  Boundaries
- --   Metropolitan Center Boundaries                                    n swan
-  --- Calcutta Metropolitan District Bovindaries
-     International Boundaries                         ) 'Li =
iuvuNuI        una1            5   -
/   / <:MEI,lr  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~15
2              2       4          6 )J
2+>    aL5        U          or  7     S   l                                                                 -
.o.>0.,   r L                 J 7enuu
_~ r         J =       B=  =D .2e on .al                                                             n  -
== _=  \  ,  :=   '  =  _  =,  =  =  .. ",  K.:  Z ;  '  "E 1.; .1 .... _
=g  = _ ; t J _ T = o



