CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 427 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Calcutta Urban Development Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 12, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 427 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Calcutta Urban Development Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 12, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 1973, between INDIA, acting by its
President  (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the State of West Bengal, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called West Bengal),
West Bengal has agreed inter alia to assist the Calcutta Metropolitan Development
Authority in the carrying out of the said Project;
(C)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, said Authority has agreed to
undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project; and
(D)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter, in the project agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and the Authority, and in the West Bengal Agreement
of even date herewith between West Bengal and the Association;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h);


﻿4                                           0
(c)   Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"5.  The term 'Borrower' means India, acting by its President."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreeffient, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "West Bengal" means the State of West Bengal, acting by its Governor,
a state of India or any successor thereof.
(b)   "Act" means the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority Act,
1972.
(c)   "Authority" means the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority,
a statutory body established under the Act.
(d)   "Calcutta" means the city area defined in Calcutta Municipal Act,
1951, as amended from time to time.
(e)   "CMD" means Calcutta Metropolitan District, comprising of the area
described as such in the Schedule to the West Bengal Act XIV of 1965;
(f)   "West Bengal Agreement"     means the agreement between the
Association and West Bengal of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time; and
(g)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the Authority of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as


﻿5
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to
in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
(b)   When, with respect to any contract for the goods described in
paragraph (a) above, the lowest evaluated bid falls under Group C (as defined in
paragraph B(2)(a) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement), the Borrower shall
immediately grant permission to import the goods covered by the contract, and
no reviews of such permission to import shall be made by the Borrower or by
any of its agencies, and all foreign exchange required therefor shall be promptly
made available. When, with respect to any contract, Lhe lowest evaluated bid falls
under Group A or under Group B (as defined in paragraph B(2)(a) of Schedule
1 to the Project Agreement), the Borrower shall (i) promptly upon receipt of the
appropriate applications, issue, or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall
be required to implement the contract; (ii) make available, or cause to be made
available, promptly as needed, all foreign exchange which shall be required therefor;
and (iii) with respect to locally produced materials which are subject to allocation,
make, or cause to be made, allocations of such materials promptly and in such
quantities as shall be required for such contract.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 3 1, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Seection 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15
and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
October 15, 1983 and ending April 15, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2


﻿6
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
West Bengal and the Authority to perform in accordance with the provisions of
the West Bengal Agreement and the Project Agreement respectively, all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable West Bengal and the Authority to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to West
Bengal for relending to the Authority under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by West Bengal of its obligations under the West Bengal
Agreement and the performance by the Authority of its obligations under the
Project Agreement, the administra -ion, operations, resources and expenditures of
the Authority and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such


﻿7
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of the
Authority.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by West Bengal and the Authority of their
obligations under the West Bengal Agreement and the Project Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement, the West Bengal
Agreement and the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in
connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,


﻿8
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of ,he Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with th . service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   A default shall occur in performance of any obligation on the part
of West Bengal under the West Bengal Agreement.
(b)   A default shall occur in performance of any obligation on the part
of the Authority under the Project Agreement.
(c)   West Bengal shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of the Authority.
(d)   West Bengal shall have taken any action to amend, suspend or abrogate
the Act in such a way as to materially or adversely affect the ability of the
Authority to carry out its obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.
(e)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that West Bengal will be able to perform its obligations under the West
Bengal Agreement or the Authority under the Project Agreement.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)  Any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower, West Bengal
and the Authority.
(b) Any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(1b) of the General Conditions:


﻿9
(a)   the execution and delivery of the West Bengal Agreement on behalf
of West Bengal have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of the
Authority have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(c)   the terms and conditions of relending the proceeds of the Credit to
the Authority have been communicated to and accepted by the Association; and
(d)   the engineering management unit referred to in Section 3.02 of the
Project Agreement has been established.
Section 7.02. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement with respect to the portion
of the Credit allocated under Categories 11(b) and 111(b) of the table set out in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, namely, that the Association has
reviewed and approved the project reports for the area development schemes
included in Part F of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 7.03. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the West Bengal Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, West Bengal, and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of West Bengal in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Authority, and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of the Authority in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.04. The date January 11, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary or
Director/Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿10
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below    sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            %0 Of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
I.   Equipment and                  9,200,000          100% of foreign
Materials pro-                                   expenditures; or
cured by Inter-                                  100% of local
national Com-                                    expenditures
petition                                         (ex-factory)
II.  Locally manufac-                                  40% of local
tured equipment                                  expenditures
and materials                                    (ex-factory)
F rocured by
ocal bidding
(a)   for arts A,              5,500,000
B,C, D and
E of the
Project
(b)   for part F of             300,000
the Project
III.  Civil works (ex-                                 40% of local
cluding expendi-                                 expenditures
tures on land
and project
management
fees)
(a)   for parts A,            17,200,000
B, C, D and
E of the
Project
(b)  for pKart F               2,300,000
of te
Project
IV.  Consultants                      500,000          100% of total
Services                                         expenditures
TOTAL        35,000,000


﻿12
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the proceeds of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  If the estimate of the expenditures under any of the Categories 1, 11
or IV shall decrease, the amount of the proceeds of the Credit then allocated
to such Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by the
Association (subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined
by the Association), by increasing correspondingly the amount allocated to Category
III and the Association may, at the request of the Borrower increase correspondingly
(up to a maximum of 100% net of taxes) the percentage applicable to Category
III.
(b)  If the Association   shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association


﻿13
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
set out in paragraph I above, if the estimate of local expenditures under Category
II or III shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under any such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of Borrower's program to rehabilitate and augment basic
urban facilities in the CMD and comprises the following parts:
Part A:     Water Supply
Construction and renovation of transmission mains, primary and
secondary distribution mains, reservoirs and booster stations in Calcutta
and its southern suburban area, and improvement of ground water
source and distribution facilities in the fringe areas of the CMD
comprised of eight sub-projects involving small scale works at about
40 sites and related equipment installations.
Part B:     Sewerage and Drainage
Renovation and construction of storm drains, sewers, outfall canals
and sluices serving Calcutta, its northeastern suburban area and Howrah
comprised of 17 sub-projects involving small scale works at about 30
sites and related equipment installations.
Part C.     Garbage Disposal
Improvement of garbage collection and disposal services in Calcutta,
comprised of two sub-projects involving small scale works at one site,
and acquisition and utilization of related equipment,
Part D:     Environmental Hygiene
Conversion of service privies to sanitary latrines in the CMD comprised
of three sub-projects involving centralized force account manufature
and installation of prefabricated sanitary latrines.
Part E:     Urban Transport
Extension and widening of existing roads, improvement of traffic
operation measures, construction of a bus terminal, and extension of
street lighting in the CMD comprised of 12 sub-projects involving small
scale work and installation of equipment at about 15 sites.


﻿15
Part F:     Area Development
Redevelopment of slums in Calcutta and development of sites and
services southeast of Calcutta comprised of two sub-projects involving
extensive works at two sites.
Part G:     Consultants' Services
(i)         Use of consultant assistance by the Authority for a study of
the organization, staffing, procedures and standards, equipment
and training requirements of the operations and maintenance
units of major operating agencies in the water, sewerage and
drainage sectors in the CMD.
(ii)        Use of consultant assistance by the Authority to determine the
means by which the water supply, sewerage and drainage services
in the CMD can be most economically and effectively provided.
(iii)       Use of consultant assistance by the Authority for reviewing,
updating and modifying as required the existing plans for water
supply, sewerage and drainage, traffic and transportation, and
in the analysis and formulation of plans and programs of urban
land development and community facilities.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1976.


