CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 427 IN
Project Agreement
(Calcutta Urban Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
CALCUTTA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
DATED SEPTEMBER 12, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 427 IN
Project Agreement
(Calcutta Urban Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
CALCUTTA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
DATED SEPTEMBER 12, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and the
Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (hereinafter called the Authority).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between INDIA, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that the Authority agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the Borrower has agreed to relend to the State of West Bengal
the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and West Bengal, West Bengal has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect
of assisting the Authority in carrying out the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement are to be relent by West Bengal to the Authority under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association; and
WHEREAS the Authority, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Authority shall carry out the Project or cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Authority in carrying out the Project,
the Authority shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. In carrying out civil works to be financed under the Project,
the Authority shall, after the date of this Agreement, employ or cause to be
employed contractors upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed under Category I of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement,
shall be procured on the basis of international competition under procedures
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972 as revised in October 1972 and in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule I to this
Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) The Authority undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by West Bengal, against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Authority shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to
it by West Bengal to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) The Authority shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project and the
plans and specifications for other major facilities included in the Authority's
development program, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto,
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿5
(b)   The Authority: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by West Bengal,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Authority
Section 3.01. The Authority shall take out and maintain or cause to be
taken out and maintained with responsible insurers, or make other provisions
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. The Authority shall establish an engineering management unit
within the Authority to administer a project reporting system based on report
formats already established by the Authority, and shall provide the Association
with quarterly summaries of physical progress of and financial expenditures under
the Project.
Section 3.03. With reference to the consolidation referred to in Section 2.07
of the West Bengal Agreement, the Authority shall, not later than three months
from  the Effective Date, commence consolidation of the responsibilities for
implementing projects in the water, sewerage and drainage sectors, and shall appoint
adequate staff to discharge the responsibilities resulting from said consolidation.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Authority shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. The Authority shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each


﻿6
fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Authority and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and the Authority shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Association and the Authority shall from time to time, at the request of eithter
party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to the performance
of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration and
operations of the Authority and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and the Authority shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Authority shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of the Authority
and any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of the Authority thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two
dates:


﻿7
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify the Authority of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified ar--:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿8
For the Authority:
The Secretary
Calcutta Metropolitan
Development Authority
3-A Auckland Place
Calcutta - 17, West Bengal
India
Cable address:
Calcutta Metropolitan
Development Authority
Calcutta - 17
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the Authority may be taken or executed by the Secretary or such other person
or persons as the Authority shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. The Authority shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of the Authority, take any action or execute any
documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the Authority pursuant
to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill        Regional Vice President
Asia
CALCUTTA METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY
By /s / T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines
1.    With respect to any contract for equipment or materials, to be financed
under Category I of the table set out in paragraph I of Schedule I to the
Development Credit Agreement estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Authority shall (which, for
the purposes of this Schedule, includes any canalizing agency appointed by the
Borrower), before qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the
procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together
with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of
any applicant for prequalification, shall be furnished by the Authority to the
Association for its comments before the applicants are notified and the Authority
shall make such additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b)   Except if the Authority and the Association shall otherwise agree, such
standard conditions of contract shall be used in inviting bids as shall be agreed
upon between the Authority and the Association.
(c)   Before bids are invited, the Authority shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(d)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Authority shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Authority and the Borrower, and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿10
(e)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(f)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for equipment or materials to be financed
under Category I and estimated to cost less than $100,000, the Authority shall
furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Association of the -irst application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request.
3.    Identical or similar items of machinery, equipment or materials shall, to the
extent possible, be consolidated in a single invitation for the purposes of bidding
by each participant.
4.    The Authority may procure equipment and materials required unr.er Category
II of Table 1 of Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreeme;Xt without the
process of international competitive bidding, provided that the terms and conditions
of the purchases so made shall be satisfactory to the Association.
5.    Civil works for the Project shall be carried out through contracts awarded
on the basis of local competitive bidding under procedures satisfactory to the
Association and through Force Accounts for Part D of the Project.
B.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
supplied goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided. Bidders
shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for locally manufactured goods. The cost to the
Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in the
evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.
2.    For goods included in Category I of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, the Authority may grant a


﻿11
margin of preference to goods manufactured in India in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in India, if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in India equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: bids offering goods manufactured in India, other
than bids classified in Group A.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(b)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes in goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied locally, to determine
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group
shall then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from Group A or Group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes
of award.
(c)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (b) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest bid from Group A, as determined under paragraph (b) above, after adding
to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each Group C bid, for
the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to the smaller of
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of goods offered in such Group
C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the Group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes of award;
if not, the lowest bid from Group C, as determined under paragraph (b) above,
shall be selected for purposes of award.
3.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted, the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


