Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6611-EG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
April 24, 1987
Western Africa Projects Department
Education Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 1987)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00 = CFAF 314
CFAF 1 million = US$3,185
MEASURES
lm = 1.09 yd.
1m2 = 10.76 sq. ft.
I km2 = 0.38 sq. mi.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB    - African Development Bank
BEAC    - Bank of Central African States/Banco de los Estados de Africa
Central
CENAFOD - National Center for the In-Service Training of Teachers/Centro
Nacional para la Formacion de Docentes
CLUSA   - Cooperative League of the United States of America
FERE    - Federation of Educational Religious Communities/Federacion de
Educadores Religiosos Espa;oles
MOE     - Ministry of Education and Sports
PIU     - Project Implementation Unit
USAID   - United States Agency for International Development
UNDP    - United Nations Development Program
USP     - Project Monitoring Unit of MOE/Unidad de Seguimiento de Proyectos
FISCAL YEAR                           SCHOOL YEAR                          U
January 1 - December 31                  September - June



FOR OFCIL US ONLY
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
d
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE ....................           iii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .......... .. . . . .. . . . .. .  ..............  iv-vi
I. INTRODUCTION ....,      .....................................       1
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR .................... ..............            1
4. Sectoral Context ..........     ...................... ...       1
B. Issues in Primary Education         ........................    3
1. Access and Equity ....       ...........................     3
2. Quality and Effectiveness .......................            3
3. Planning and Management         .........................    4
4. Financial Constraints ..................*0........           5
C. The Government's Strategy         ..........................    6
D. The Bank Group's Role         ..............................    6
III. THE PROJECT ................................7
A.' Project Objectives and Description .................           7
1. Improving Primary School Teaching .............t..           8
2. Expanding and Improving Physical
Facilities .......      .............................,     10
3. Reinforcing the Planning and Implementation
Capabilities of the Ministry of EdvLcation ......          11
B. Project Costs and Financing Plan ......4.............          12
C. Project Administration         .............................   14
1. Preparation, Management and Implementation  ......          14
2. Procurement        ....................................     16
3. Disbursement .......                                        17
4. Special Account   9................                         18
5. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting ...                      18
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS * 9        9 9        99..............  9      18
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AIMD RECOMMENDATIONS ................           19
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission that visited
Equatorial Guinea in June-July 1986. The mission consisted of Ms. H.
Martinez (educator, mission leader), Mr. L. Secco (architect, consultant),
Mr. R. Sanjurjo (community development expert, consultant) and Ms. C. Hoppy
(editor, who aided in drafting the report). Mr. A. Papineau (architect)
assisted in revising the report. Ms. A. Joseph assisted in its processing.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonme
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authodrzatn.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
c
ANNES
1-1 Basic Data Sheet
1-2 Comparative Education Indicators
2-1 Organization Chart of the Ministry of Education
2-2 Educational System: Existing Structure
2-3 Educational System: According to Educational Law of 1981
2-4 Budgetary Allocations for the Ministry of Education, 1980-1986
2-5  Basic Enrollment Data
2-6 Primary School Enrollment (1980/81-1984/85)
2-7 Primary Schools' Examination Results (1982-1983)
2-8 Teachers' Salaries (1985)
2-9  Projected Enrollments and Student-Teacher Ratios, 1985-1995
2-10 Projected Ministry of Education Budget, 1986-1992
3-1 Costs of Printing Educational Materials
3-2 Local Training
3-3 List of Equipment and Materials for Curriculum Unit and Schools
3-4 Consultant Services
3-5 School Programs to be Implemented in Project Schools
3-6 Classrooms to be Constructed in Project Schools
3-7 Classroom Distribution According to Rural Population by District
3-8 Basic Standards for School Buildings
3-9 Standard School of Two Classrooms and Teachers' Houses
3-10 Detailed School Construction Costs
3-11 Unit Construction Costs
3-12 Construction Implementation Scheme
3-13 Education Planning and Improvements in Project Implementation
Practices
3-14 Organizational Chart of the Project Unit and Functional Relations
3-15 Terms of Reference for Project Implementation Unit Staff
3-16 Equipment. and Operating Expenditures for the Project Unit
3-17 Outline of Project Monitoring Indicators
3-18 Project Costs:  Summary Accounts and Cost Tables
3-19 Implementation Schedule
3-20 Procurement Procedures
M
MAP: IBRD 20025



- iii -
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
Ref. No.                    Documents                          Docuaent Code
1.    Ley General de Educacion de la Republica de             D00509
Guinea Ecuatorial (Decreto Ley No. 11/19/1981
de fecha 9 de Julio).
2.     Equatorial Guinea:  An Introductory Economic            N/A
Report, World Bank, June 15, 1983.
3.    Requirements Study for Primary and Teacher Edu-         D00508
cation Project in Equatorial Guinea, African
Development Bank and Action Programs Inter-
national (API), Tippetts-Abbett-McCarthy-
Stratton (TAMS), February 1984.
4.     GUINEA ECUATORIAL:  Propuestas para la recon-          D00507
struccion y el desarrollo de la educacion,
Unesco, September 1984.
5.     Proyecto de un Prototipo de Escuela Rural y            D00510
Mobiliario Basico para la Enseeanza Primaria.
Miguel Cangiano-Informe Fin&l, Feb. 1986.
6.     Proyecto de Rehabilitacion de la Educacion             D00506
Primaria, Unesco, March 1986. (Project
Preparation Document.)



- iv -
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
t
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Government of Equatorial Guinea
Beneficiary:        Ministry of Education and Sports
IDA Credit
Amount:             SDR 4.1 million (US$5.1 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Project
Description:        The objective of the project is to assist the development
of primary education by supporting the Government's
efforts for reorganizing and expanding primary schools
and strengthening the Ministry of Education. Speci-
fically the project would:
1.   Improve primary school instruction by:
(a) providing instructional materials through
revising, printing and distributing textbooks
for all primary school children in the country
and through training supervisors and teachers
in the use of these books;
(b) improving classroom management practices
through the implementation of: double shifts
(in some of the larger rural communities);
multigrade teaching (in areas where there are
few school-age children); and a special pilot
program for pre-school children ("parvulos");
and
(c)  decreasing the student-teacher ref-io from 80:1           v
in 1987 to 66:1 in 1992 through provision of
250 new teaching positions.
2.   Expand and improve physical facilities in rural
schools by assisting local communities in the
construction and furnishing of 100 cost-efficient
classrooms and teachers' houses; and
3.   Reinforce the planning and implementation capabi-
lities of the Ministry of Education by strengthening
the Ministry's planning division and establishing a
project implementation unit.



- v -
Summary of Project Cost Estimates
(net of taxes and duties)
(in US$'000)
Local     Foreign      Total
1. Improvements in Primary School
Instruction
(a) Provision of Instructional
Materials and Training of Teachers     122.3     1*366.3   19488.6
(b) Improvements in Classroom Manage-
ment Practices                          69.2       209.6      278.8
(c) Decreasing Student/Teacher Ratios
Through Provision of 250 New
Teaching Positions                     573.2           0      573.2
2. Expansion and Improvement of Rural
Schools                                    670.2    1r563.9    2,234.1
3. Reinforcement of Planning and Imple-
mentation Capabilities of the MOE          392.5       483.6      876.1
Total base costs                            1,827.4    3,623.4   5,450.8
Physical contingencies                        251.0       493.1      744.1
Price contingencies                           112.6       133.7      246.3
Total Project Costs                         2,191.0    4,250.2   6,441.2
Financing Plan-(in US$ million)
IDA                                             1.9         3.2        5.1
UNDP/UNESCO                                     0.2         0.8        1.0
Government                                      0.3         0.0        0.3
Total                                      2.4         4.0        6.4
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
(in US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year
1988     1989     1990     1991     1992      1993
Amount Disbursed         0.2      0.5      1.2      1.2      1.2       0.8
Cumulative Amount        0.2      0.7      1.9      3.1      4.3       5.1
Percentage of Total      4.0    14.0    37.0    61.0    84.0    100.0
Economic Rate
of Return:          Not applicable.



- vi -
ProJect Benefits
and flikst          The project would increase the efficiency and quality of
primary education and it would increase access to schools
In rural communities. It would also assist the Govern-
ment in its efforts to strengthen the Ministry of Educa-
tion's planning and management capabilities and to
address the financial constraints faced by the educa-
tion sector. By the end of the project Equatorial Guinea
should attain school enrollment ratios that were in
existence prior to independence. In addition, the
psoject should benefit the rural population by providing
a greater distribution of social services, making small
communities better organized to participate in develop-
ment projects and the communities and the Government more
experienced in community participation schemes. Two
major risks are envisaged: (a) the weak management capa-
city of the NOE; and (b) the lack of Government resources
needed to cover the recurrent costs of an expanded and
more equitable educational system. These risks are being
addressed through appropriate strengthening of the MOE,
including technical assistance and staff training, and
through specific agreements with the Government to:
(i) increase the present budgetary allocations to the
education sector to cover the annual increments in
teachers' salaries, school maintenance and supplies;
(ii) hold an annual meeting with all sector donors in
which project implementation would be revised and targets
for annual activities would be established; and
(iii) prepare an education sector davelopment plan for
1990-1995 in conjunction with its investment plan and to
discuss it with IDA and other donors. Subject to these
conditions, risks would be minimized and the proposed
project would constitute a suitable basis for investment
and the first step in the establishment of the institu-
tional framework and financial structure needed for
future improvements in the education sector.
WAPED
April 1)87



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       The Government of Equatorial Guinea has requested IDA assistance
in financing a project to ald the development of primary education by
providing textbooks, additional teaching staff and teacher training, as
well as improving classroom management practices, expanding physical
facilities and strengthening the planning capabilities of the Ministry of
Education and Sports (MOK). Total project costs are estimated at US$6.4
million equivalent (net of taxes and duties), with a foreign exchange
component of US$4.3 million. The Government would contribute about US$0.3
million and US$1.0 million is expected to be provided through cofinancing
arrangements with UNDP and UNESCO. The remainder, US$5.1 million, would be
financed by an IDA Credit.
1.2       The project would be the Bank Group's first contribution to the
education sector in Equatorial Guinea, and a continuation of UNDP-UNESCO
efforts to strengthen and improve the training of teachers. Long term
development progress in the country is dependent on the development of a
literate population capable of absorbing and adopting modern technological
packages, skills and attitudes. In addition to producing qualified workers
to meet the manpower requirements of the economy, educational attainment,
particularly at the primary level, is crucial to the success of efforts
directed toward agricultural development and improved health standards.
Thus, primary education, as the principal means by which a widely literate
population may be developed, emerges as a main priority of the national
development efforts. The Basic Data Sheet is in Annex 1-1. Comparative
Education Indicators are in Annex 1-2.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A. Sectoral Context
2.1       Prior to gaining independence in 1968 Equatorial Guinea had one
of the most developed educational systems in Sub-Saharan Africa, with an
estimated primary enrollment ratio of about 90X. The subsequent destruc-
tive eleven-year regime of Macias Nguema led to a virtual breakdown of most
Government structures, including the education system. During this period
teachers, as well as other professionals, were persecuted and killed or
fled the country, and during the regime's last six years schools remained
closed. The current Government, installed in 1979, established rehabili-
tation of the education sector as a priority. One of the first orders of
business was the passage of a comprehensive education reform law (Law No.
11 of July 1981). This law established long-term targets for reorganizing
the sector and for restructuring the education system from its colonial
structure, which was cumbersome and incomplete, to one which includes eight
years of basic education followed by three years of secondary education,



-2-
one year of pre-university and five years of higher education, with the
possibility of following technical education courses after completing the
basic education cycle. 1/ Implementation of the law is expected to take
several years, due to existing managerial and budgetary constraints. In
the short term priority is given to reorganizing the primary education
cycle, which is to be compulsory and free for all children between the ages
of 6 and 14. Annex 2-1 provides an organigram of the Ministry of
Education. A description of the present education system appears in
Annex 2-2, and Annex 2-3 provides -n organization chart of the proposed
education system.
2.2       Between 1980 and 1986 the Government has been active in reopening
primary and secondary schools. Enrollment has grown at about 10% annually
at the primary level, which is a substantial achievement in a short time
period. However, the net enrollment rate is only 73%, way below the 90%
rate that the country had before independence. Enrollment in secondary
schools has more than doubled, increasing irom about 3,000 students in 1980
to 8,000 in 1986, and reaching an enrollment level of about 25% of the
corresponding age cohort, one of the highest secondary school enrollment
ratios in Sub-Saharan Africa. General secondary education has received
substantial assistance from Spain. Each of the seven provinces in the
country now has a secondary school, staffed mainly with Spanish teachers.
Vocational and agricultural schools were built through African Development
Bank (AfDB) loans and have a capacity for about 2,000 students. At the
university level students either go abroad or follow the distance education
courses offered through Spain's Distance University System. 2/ About 400
students have received scholarships to study abroad, while some 300 follow
the distance education courses in Malabo.
2.3       For the immediate future, the Government correctly views its
efforts in education as a task of expanding and improving primary educa-
tion. With UNESCO assistance the Government has developed a new curriculum
and provided in-service training to primary teachers. Efforts have also
been made to expand the physical capacity by utilizing abandoned buildings
as schools and by establishing a double-shift system. Further progress has
nct been possible due to financial constraints.  The Government has been
allocating a small percentage of its budget to education (about 3.8AZ in
1985 and 1986). Spain contributes about US$1.5 million per year for
secondary school teachers, for teacher training schools and for the
distance uriversity courses.  Spain's contribution is almost twice the
amount spent by the Government. Also, parents contribute about 25% of
total education costs, an indication of the high priority they place on
education.  The overriding issue is the fact that Government allocations to
the education sector have decreased substantially in recent years and are
I/   This structure of 8 (5 + 3) primary + 3 secondary + 1 pre-university
years replaces the earlier structure of 5 primary + 3 lower secondary +
3 upper secondary + 1 pre-university.
2/   Audio visual materials prepared in Spain are used by students in
Equatorial Guinea, assisted by tutors. Exams are given every semester
and graded in Spain.



- 3 -
far below the amounts spent by other West African governments. 'While
Equatorial Guinea allocates 3.8% of its budget to education, other Sub-
Saharan countries allocate between 15% and 20%. Including Spanish aid, per
pupil expenditures are unreasonably low: US$14 per primary school student
and US$137 per secondary school student, while the comparable figures for
West Africa average US$48 and US$223 respectively. The estimated
expenditures per student enrolled in the distance university courses is
also low, at about US$550 per year.  The Ministry of Education's budgetary
allocations, an analysis of the Government's 1986 education budget and
estimates of Spanish contributions are provided in hnnex 2-4.
B.   Issues in Primary Education
2.4       There are four principal issues which the primary education sys-
tem faces: access and equity; the quality and effectiveness of education
provided; planning and management constraints; and financial constraints.
1.   Access and Equity
2.5       Although parents place a high value on educating their children,
the rural youngsters have limited access to school, and a very small chance
of finalizing primary education. Parents' desire to educate their children
is evidenced by the fact that while in other Sub-Saharan countries enroll-
ments in primary education'have decreased in recent years, in Equatorial
Guinea the enrollment rate, which had fallen to about 60% in 1980, is
presently at 73%. In practically all 900 small villages efforts have been
made by parents to organize a school, and in about 200 reported cases they
have assigned a village person to teach without receiving a Government
salary. These village schools are, however, a very transitory solution.
They function in dark, poorly ventilated huts, without furniture, paper,
pencils or any supplies. Teachers, who must have other jobs, have an
irregular attendance. At moot, two grades of education are offered in
these little village schools and most children fail to go beyond the second
grade unless they can live with relatives in a town with a fully developed
school. The lack of adequate access is also evidenced by overcrowding and
high student-teacher ratios. Average class size is 80 children to one
teacher, and in rural areas as many as 200 children aged 4 to 18 attend the
same class with one teacher. Overcrowding is partially explained by the
disruption of the education system between 1968-1979 which deprived entire
cohorts of children of schooling, many of whom are now attending school for
the first time. Annexes 2-5 and 2-6 provide data on school enrollments.
2.   Quality and Effectiveness
2.6       In both urban and rural areas, the overcrowding situation is com-
pounded by the lack of teaching materials, poorly maintained school facili-
ties, and the generally low quality of teachers. In a typical classroom,
children must sit on crowded benches and on the floor. There are not suf-
ficient notebooks or pencils to go around, and when it rains classes must
be suspended. Only about 10% of the teaching force has had post-secondary
professional training; only 30% h4s had secondary level teacher training;
and 60% has had no formal professional preparation (auxiliary teachers or
monitors with varying levels of general education). Some measures have
been initiated in recent years by UNESCO and Spain to assist the Government



- 4 -
in imiroving the quality of education including: the National Center for
the In-Service Training of Teachers (CENAPOD) which was organized and
financed by UNESCO/UNDP between 1982 and 1986, and through which 800
primary school teachers (representing 90% of all teachers) received in-
service training; the reorganization of teacher training schools by Spain;
and Spain's development and printing of mathematics and language textbooks.
Despite these efforts, the overall quality and effectiveness of education
is low. Only 30% of the children enrolled in 1983 were promoted to the
next grade; about 60% did not present the final exams. On the average,
children spend 5 years in school before they are promoted from 1st to 2nd
grade, and it takes about 12 years to complete the five-year cycle. Data
on examination results are shown in Annex 2-7.
2.7       In order to maintain the impetus started by Spain and UNESCO,
more permanent provisions for supplying textbooks and training teachers are
needed. Textbooks have been specially designed for Equatorial Guinea's
primary schools by the Federation of Educational Religious Communities
(FERE), but there are no trained publishers in the country who can revise
the books according to Government specifications. Distribution procedures
are cumbersome and as a result books are only available in urban schools.
Also, teachers have had little practical experience in using the books, and
require comprehensive training in their content and use.
2.8       The phenomenon of the "parvulos" is another main source of the
age bias affecting the quality and effectiveness of the school system. The
"iparvulos" are children, aged 4-7, who have not yet been admitted formally
to grade 1, because they are unable to follow classes in Spanish, but who
are allowed to sit in first grade classes with older children and partici-
pate indirectly in the learning process. This situation contributes to the
excessively large and heterogeneous pupil groups which are educationally
disruptive. To alleviate the existing situation, the "parvulos" should be
separated from the young adults and each group should receive education and
Spanish language instruction suitable to their level. In about 30% of the
rural schools classrooms could be utilized more intensively with double
shifts to reduce the overcrowding problems.
3.   Planning and Management
2.9       Administrative shortcomings exist throughout the educational
system. All administrative levels, including provincial and district
inspectorates and educational centers, have few qualified staff, rudimen-
tary equipment and lack norms and procedures. There are severe shortages
of physical inputs such as ink and paper; the simplest administrative forms
must be printed in Spain; and transport constraints make contacts between
the two regional centers for Ministry and local school officials difficult
and sporadic. The administrative deterioration has led to severe disrup-
tion in the working of the educational system, particularly at the primary
level, which is the most extensive and geographically dispersed.
2.10      The only significant effort in management improvement has been
the organization of the curriculum and teacher training unit, CENAFOD
(para 2.6). Due to its well structured internal management procedures, in
four years this unit has been successful in curriculum design and in
training teachers. Other MOE units, however, are still weak. There is no



- 5 -
systematic collection of statistics, no resource planning and only sporadic
attempts at school location planning. No unit in the Ministry has experi-
ence in school construction or maintenance. The school nutrition program
financed by the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) had
to be closed in 1986 due to administrative problems. The Ministry also has
no personnel trained in management, and no experience in procurement or in
accounting as required for project implementation.
4.   Financial Constraints
2.11      The 1985 and 1986 education budgets were much lower than in pre-
vious years (para 2.3). Until 1984 Equatorial Guinea had been allocating
between 72 and 10% of its budget to education. In 1984 when the country
joined the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and the f'anc zone,
teachers' salaries were approximately halved because various exchange rates
were used to transform diWferent budget items and teachers' salaries were
exchanged at the lowest rates. Thus teachers who were earning the equiva-
lent of US$1,150 in 1984, received the equivalent of US$514 when paid in
CFAF. This reduction, coupled with decreases in the budget for materials
and for investments, resulted in a drastic reduction of the education
budget as a percentage of the total Government budget. Annex 2-4 shows the
trend in budgetary allocations for the MOE between 1980 and 1986, and
Annex 2-8 shows the salary scales for 1984 and 1985.
2.12      The meager funding allocated for education nas had serious conse-
quences for the entire system. Not only is the student teacher ratio high
(para 2.5), but teachers are poorly paid, lack self-esteem and have no
incentives. However, during the last 4 years there has been no planning,
no collection of statistics and no staff training. The MOE has had no
investment resources for school construction and maintenance, and no funds
for materials or textbooks for schools. About 300 teachers, trained in
recent years, have not been appointed due to budgetary constraints. Rural
children have been the most affected by the budget cuts. The student-
teacher ratio is higher in rural areas, and existing rural schools are
overcrowded and lack the most essential furniture and materials needed to
do a reasonable job (desks, textbooks, paper and pencils are in very short
supply).
2.13      Approximately 450 new teachers are required between 1987 and 1995
to lower the student teacher ratio from 80 to 1 to 65 to 1 by 1995. the
number of teacher positions would, therefore, need to be increased by 50%
during this period. This represents an increase in the Ministry of Educa-
tion's budget of about 122 in real terms per year. Since it is not
possible to envisage transfers from higher levels of education to lower
levels, because the Government does not pay for higher education
expenditures except for administration of the few existing secondary
schools, increases in the primary school budget must be made available by
allocating a greater share of the total Government budget to MOE.
Annex 2-8 provides information on teachers' salaries in 1985 and Annex 2-9
shows projected student enrollments and teacher requirements during 1986-
1995.
2.14      Given present financial constraints, it is unlikely that in one
or two years the Government would be able to transfer resources from other



- 6 -
sectors to education. However, over a 4 to 5 year period it is reasonable
to expect that allocations to the sector could be raised, increasing educa-
tion's share from its present level of 3.8% to about 6%. This increase
would cover staffing needs in primary education and reasonable increases in
allocations for primary school supplies. Spanish aid would continue to be
used for secondary schools and university courses. Annex 2-10 shows
projected MOE expenditures between 1986 and 1992.
C. The Government's Strategy
2.15      As presented in the UNDP supported roundtable document prepared
in December 1986, the Government will concentrate efforts on improving
primary education to regain former levels of enrollment and quality.
Continuing beyond the rehaoilitation period, the Government will emphasize
implementing the changes called for by the 1981 Education Reform Law, i.e.,
extending the basic education cycle from 5 to 8 years, 3trengthening
secondary, technical and university education and providing special courses
for pre-school children and adults.
2.16      Emphasis will be given to improving access and effectiveness of
the five-year primary education cycle. To accomplish this, the minimum
acceptable conditions for effective teaching and learning should be estab-
lished, namely: curricula; education materials; a more homogeneous age
structure of classes; a reduction of class size (from 80 at present to
about 65 by 1995); appropriate student evaluation procedures; furniture;
and expansion of physical infrastructure. Also, the number of teachers
would be increased. In relation to this increase in the number of
teachers, the Government plans to increase pay levels for civil servants.
A study is underway to determine the adequate size of the civil service, to
establish targets for revisions in the number of employees and for increas-
ing the salaries of those who stay in the system. It is estimated that
teachers' salaries would be increased by about 20%. Overall, the recurrent
education budget would have to be doubled in real terms and investments of
about US$15 million would be required to achieve the proposed goals.
2.17      To meet the investment requirements, the Government has requested
assistance from the African Development Bank (AfDB) to build primary
schools in urban areas, from IDA to finance school construction in rural
areas, and from UNESCO/UNDP to continue providing assistance in curriculum
development and teacher training.  Additionally, it has requested that
Spain continue financing secondary schools and university courses. This
could prove to be a good strategy, if the effort is accompanied by
provision of the necessary recurrent funds for primary schools (para 2.14).
Otherwise, lack of sufficient teachers for primary schools would result in
underutilized facilities and in no progress in rural schools.
D.   The Bank Group's Role
2.18      The Bank Group's assistance strategy recognizes the urgent need
to: (a) support the Government's rehabilitation program through intensive
policy dialogue and technical advice; (b) support the reform of the civil
service; (c) revitalize the productive sectors and increase exports;
(d) alleviate the critical shortage of skilled people; and (e) restore
badly dilapidated infrastructure. Pour projects are being implemented: a



-7-
technical assistance project for improved economic and sectoral planning
(Cr. 1489-EG); an import rehabilitation project (Cr. 1690-EG); a cocoa
rehabilitation project (Cr. 1548-EG); and a petroleum project
(Cr. 1304-EG). The proposed primary education project would be the Bank
Group's first education project and first social sector project in
Equatorial Guinea.
2.19      Rationale for IDA involvement.  The project supports the Bank
Group's country assistance strategy. It is recognized that the lack of
basic education is hampering development in other areas and that a viable
medium-term development strategy requires a more literate work force. The
project would assist the Government in its efforts to restructure the edu-
cation system by increasing access to and quality and efficiency of primary
education. Over the long term, children who become literate would be
better prepared to adopt the new technologies, skills and attitudes needed
for improved productivity and improved health standards. Through its
involvement IDA would make other aid efforts more efficient, primarily
through improvements in the sector's planning process, a main goal of the
project, and the training of national staff in the preparation and imple-
mentation of investment programs. As part of this planning effort the Bank
would assist the Government in coordinating aid to the sector by holding an
annual meeting of major donors (AfDB, Spain, UNDP, UNESCO, and IDA) to
review project implementation and plan future involvements in the sector.
I                    III.  THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
3.1       This is the first large-scale project to be implemented by the
MOE and constitutes the first phase of a long-term investment program aimed
at improving primary education as well as resolving the financial and mana-
gerial problems of the Ministry of Education. The design is deliberately
simple, taking into account the lack of managerial capacity within the MOE,
and emphasis has been placed on specifying in advance all the implementa-
tion procedures. Success in implementing this first project should lead to
a more comprehensive project invo'.ving other levels of education and
training.
3.2       The major objective of the project is to aid the development of
primary education by supporting the Government's efforts for reorganizing
and expanding primary schools and strengthening the MOE.  To these ends,
the project would support: (a) improvements of primary school teaching by
(i) providing instructional materials through printing and distributing
textbooks for all primary school children, and through training teachers in
the use of these books; (ii) improving classroom management practices
through the implementation of double shifts (in some of the larger rural
communities), multigrade teaching (in areas where there are few children in
schools), and a special pilot program for pre-school children ("parvulos");
and (iii) decreasing the student-teacher ratio from about 80:1 in 1987 to
about 66:1 by 1992 through provision of 250 new teachers. The project
would also: (b) expand and improve physical facilities in rural areas by
constructing and furnishing 100 cost-efficient classrooms and teachers'
houses in 50 rural communities; and (c) reinforce the planning and imple-



- 8 -
mentation capabilities of MOE by assisting the Ministry's education
planning division and establishing a project implementation unit (PIU).
1.   Improving Primary School Teaching
3.3       Textbook provision and training in textbook use.  To aid in
improving the teaching and learning processes the project would increase
pupils' access to instructional materials by revising, printing and distri-
buting mathematics, reading and language textbooks for all primary school
children in the country and train teachers and supervisors in the use of
textbooks. Specifically, the project would support: (a) improvements in
the curriculum for grades 1 to 5; (b) the revision, printing and distri-
bution of two editions of language, science and mathematics textbooks for
all primary school children (about 200,000 copies of existing textbooks in
l088, and revised editions of about 260,000 before 1991); (c) the
development and printing of 10,000 teachers' guides; and (d) training
seminars for 75 supervisors and 1,100 teachers in the use of the new books.
A list of books and teachers' guides to be printed and costs is found in
Annex 3-1. A list of training courses for teachers is presented in
Annex 3-2.
3.4       Emphasis would be on strengthening the existing institutions so
that gradually the MOE would build up the capacity for improving the cur-
riculum for implementation of teacher training programs, for textbook
authorship and for textbook distribution processes. The curricula develop-
ment process and the training of teachers and supervisors would continue to
be carried out by CENAFOD. The textbook revision process would be coordi-
nated by CENAFOD with assistance from the Federation of Educational
Religious Committees (FERE), a non-government Spanish organization, which
has been supporting textbook development in the country since 1980.
Spanish authors would work in close collaboration with Equatorial Guineans
so that national authors gain experience in the book publishing process.
Detailed textbook printing, distribution and teacher training plans would
be prepared by the Government before December 1987 and submitted to IDA for
approval.
3.5       UNDP would finance 46 manmonths of specialist services for the
teacher training and curriculum unit, as well as secretarial services,
furniture, equipment and per diems for the curriculum development staff to
observe and monitor the use of the new curriculum and textbooks in the
classrooms. IDA would finance the printing of textbooks and teachers'
guides, the honoraria of 15 Spanish authors and 15 Guinean authors, and the
cost of transportation and distribution of textbooks. UNDP would finance
honoraria, per diems and materials for the training of teachers.
3.6       Improving classroom management and organization.  In order to
begin the process of improving school management the project would support
a number of innovations in the 50 project schools, which would then serve
as a basis for longer term planning and implementation of improved manage-
ment schemes in other schools. Within this context the project would
support CENAFOD's efforts to carry out the following activities:
(a) the organization of 50 model multigrade schools which would be
provided with a trained teacher, necessary materials for children
and a small library. These model schools would be utilized for



- 9 -
the training of 75 supervisors and 1,100 teachers in multigrade
practi s. The training scheme includes short courses followed
by periodic visits of trainers to teachers in the classrooms.
The training scheme is outlined ir. Annex 3-2, and the required
materials are detailed in Annex 3-3;
(b)  the organization of double shifts in 30 of the project schools.
Before and during the school construction process, the communi-
ties would receive information on the organization of the double
shifts. Children 7 to 10 years old would attend the morning
shift and children 11 and older the afternoon shift. Each shift
would run for about 4.5 hours with one teacher for the morning
shift and one teacher for the afternoon shift; and
(c) the establishment of separate classes for pre-school age
children. In villages with large numbers of children 6 years or
younger currently attending classes with older youngsters the
school children would be divided into two groups: (i) a pre-
school group -- the "parvulos" (children 4-7 unable to read or
write and not ready to follow the first grade syllabus). This
group would have a teaching assistant who would teach oral
Spanish and aid the children in developing the skills needed to
enroll in the first grade; and (ii) a multigrade group -
consisting of all other children age 7 and older who would
continue in one multigrade classroom (grades 1-6). For about
,one-third of the project schools, with more than 120 children
enrolled, a third group would be organized for children 14 years
and older who are ready to follow the 5th and 6th grade
curriculums.
3.7       UNDP wc -a finance:  the training of teachers in multi,rade
practices, the required equipment and materials for 50 multigrade schools;
the travel and per diem expenses of the educator and social worker who
would work with teachers in organizing the double shifts; 6 manmonths of
consultant services for organizing the pre-school program; the training of
assistant teachers for the pre-school program; and equipment and materials
for 30 schools where pre-school programs would be organized. Annex 3-3
provides details on materials to be bought for schools. Annex 3-4 provides
details of the consultant services, and Annex 3-5 shows the type of program
to be organized in each project school.
3.8       Decreasing the student-teacher ratio.  In order to decrease the
student-teacher ratio from 80:1 in 1987 to 66sl in 1992, the project would
assist the Government to finance the creation of 250 new teaching positions
during the first five years of the project (50 positions per year).
Teachers for the new positions would be selected from among the 300
teachers already trained by the UNESCO project between 1984 and 1987; pre-
ference would be given to teachers who have successfully completed the
training course.
3.9       The incremental cost of appointing 250 teachers over a 5-year
period is about US$688,000. IDA financing would be provided on a partial



- 10 -
and declining basis averaging about 60% of the increases. Total IDA
financing for this component is estimated at US$415,000. Government's
contributions would amount to US$273,000 (US$2,300 the first year; US$9,200
the second year; US$27,500 the third year; US$73,400 the fourth year; and
US$160,500 the fifth year). After that, the Government is expected to pick
up the total bill (US$230,000 annually) and to continue increasing the
number of teaching positions by about 50 per year.  During negotiations,
the Government provided assurances that it will create the 250 new teaching
positions, appoint the teachers following selection criteria satisfactory
to IDA and that these new teachers will be assigned to work in the rural
schools.
2.   Expanding and Improving Physical Facilities
3.10      To expand and improve physical facilities in rural areas the
project would support the construction and furnishing of 100 cost-efficient
classrooms and teacl'.!rs' houses in 50 rural communities. They would accom-
modate about 5,760 students projected to be enrolled in these schools by
1991. Sixty classrooms are replacements of small village constructed huts
and 40 are additions to the existing number of classrooms.
3.11      School construction.  School location, design and construction
methods have been carefully studied to ensure that they represent the most
cost-effective solution, and that the methods adopted for the project can
be replicated by the Government in the future in order to continue the
system's expansion. To determine the location of the new schools the MOE,
assistea by UNESCO, conducted a school mapping exercise in 1984; subse-
quently, location of new schools was decided following the results of this
exercise.  Schools would be built in rural communities, with a projected
school age population of 60 or more children, which have access by road.
The number of classrooms to be built in each district is proportionate to
the existing population.  A list of schools to be built is found in
Annex 3-6, and distribution of classrooms by district in Annex 3-7.
3.12      The design of the schools would be simple, consisting of: (a) one
or two classrooms; (b) a covered recess area for rainy days, which would
also serve as a stage for school presentations and/or as a food distribu-
tion area in school* which have a school nutrition program; (c) latrines
and a water well; and (d) teacher housing.  Each classroom would be
furnished with desks, two blackboards and a closed shelf for textbook
storage. Details on construction areas, construction systems, standards,
and unit cost estimates are found in Annexes 3-8 - 3-11.  A construction
implementation schedule is shown in Annex 3-12.
3.13      Special provisions would be taken to organize the communities to
participate in building their schools, as has already been done success-
fully in some parts of the country. The local town council would select
and approve the school site and appoint a school construction committee.
The towns' construction committees would then be asked to clear the sites,
provide local construction materials (water, sand, rocks, etc.), manu-
facture the cement blocks and be responsible for fencing, gardens and the
play area. Three local masons would be contracted on a force account basis
to build the schools, and would be assisted and supervised by project unit
(PIU) staff. Additionally, the PIU would have a social worker to assist



- 11 -
the town councils in these tasks. Communities would be provided with the
necessary tools and a machine to build the cement blocks.
3.14      The project would finance construction materials (cement, steel
rods, corrugated aluminum sheets, paint, timber, wood doors and windows),
salaries for local masons, tools and equipment needed to build the schools.
3.   Reinforcing the Planning and Implementation Capabilities of the
Ministry of Education
3.15      In order to create a capacity to address longer term development
issues in the education sector, the project would strengthen the MOE's edu-
cation planning unit and aid in developing the capacity to implement
projects. For future planning of the sector the project would help the
planning unit tc: (a) update the school map in collaboration with UNESCO;
(b) collect and publish school statistics; (c) prepare a study on future
needs of the secondary and university levels, including recommendations on
policies for the provision of higher level education and scholarships;
(d) prepare a levelopment plan with its corresponding investment plan for
1990-1995; and (e) strengthen the project monitoring unit/Unidad de
Seguimento de Proyectos (USP). T1.c project would finance the field work
for the school map, collection of statistics, printing of documents and 6
manmonths of technical assistance. During negotiations the Government
provided assurances that it would: (i) by March 31, 1989, complete the
study on future needs of the education sector; (ii) by December 31, 1989,
prepare an education sector development plan in conjunction with its
investment plan for 1990-1995 and discuss it with IDA and other donors; and
(iii) not later than October 30 of each year, hold an annual meeting with
all sector donors to review project implementation, analyze progress made
in the sector, and establish investment targets for the following year.
Details of all education planning activities and proposed studies are found
in Annex 3-13.
3.16      To strengthen project implementation capacity, a project imple-
mentation unit (PIU) would be organized in the MOE. It would be based in
Bata (Rio Muni), where most of the schools are to be built, and would have
its own administrative offices. Annual reviews of the PIU's activities
would be conducted to streamline its operations and to recommend improve-
ments.  Before the end of the project the Government would present IDA with
a recommendation concerning the future operations of the unit. The PIU
could then become either the school construction agency of the MOE, or it
could be used for implementing future projects.  The project would finance
staff salaries, furniture, equipment and vehicles. Additionally, the pro-
ject would finance the continuous nonitoring of project activities to be
carried out by the PIU, and external auditing of project accounts. Estab-
lishment of the PIU in a manner satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of
effectiveness. An organization chart of the project unit is presented in
Annex 3-14; details of the PIU's terms of reference are found in
Annex 3-15; and Annex 3-16 provides details of equipment and operating
expenditures for the project unit. Annex 3-17 presents project monitoring
indicators.



- 12 -
B.   Project Costs and Financing Plan
M of kEec c as
neAt of tm   ad dutlw
(in tW$'OO)
Local     ___          Total
1.         In PrImary Sdwo Instrction
(a) ProIs:Wn of  sct1  Mkteral and
Tining of Teads                              122.3     1,366.3    1,488.6
(b)         insC InaWsar          Pactices       69.2       209.6      278.8
(c) Decrluing St t esh Rato   hr   Pro-
vision of 250 1bw Teaching Po,ltitIm         573.2          0       573.2
2. Ebwhion and Iayow*t of Rurl Sc1ola              670.2     1,563.9    2,234.1
3. Reiforcmit of P3atit  and              Cap-
bilities of the PME                             392.5       483.6      876.1
Total baae costs                                 1,827.4     3,623.4    5,450.8
Physcal cotiogmcies                                251.0       493.1      744.1
Prime contliWacias                                 112.6       133.7      246.3
tal Project aDsts                                2,191.0     4,250.2    6,441.2
-Ef Pin (:in us$ zudl4)
MAS                                                  1.9        3.2         5.1
UIPAEUO                                             0.2         0.8         1.0
Goerrncst                                           0.3         0.0        0.3
TOta                                            2.4         4.0        6.4
-  _
3.17      The total project cost 4  estimated at US$6.4 million equlvalent
(net of taxes and duties) with a   reign exchange component of about US$4.3
million or 66%. Base cost estimates have been adjusted to April 1987
prices based on June 1986 prices.  The project would be financed by IDA
(US$5.1 million or 80X of total cost), a UNDP-UNESCO grant (US$1.0 million
or 152), and budgetary allocations from the Government (US$0.30 million or
5%) for teaciers' salaries. The !NDP-UNESCO grant would finance specialist
services, curriculum development and teacher training. These costs are net
of taxes &ad duties. All goods procured by the Government are exempt from
custom duties. Foreign exchange costs were estimated at 100% for
equipment, materials, textbook printing and expert services; 70% for civil
works and supplies , furniture, transportation, communication services, and
internal travel. Physical contingencies oi US$0.74 million represent 11%
of baseline costs, and were estimated at 20% of base costs for teachers'



- 13 -
salaries 3/, civil works, furniture, equipment, materials, supplies,
textbooks, transportation and travel, and 52 for local training. No
physical contingencies were estimated for honoraria and technical assist-
ance.  Price contingencies of US$0.25 million represent about 4% of base
costs, and were estimated separately for local and foreign costs with the
percentage rates indicated below. Detailed project costs by component and
cost category are found in Annex 3-18.
Price Contingecies Eatiutes
(percentase)
1987           1988-90         1991-94
Costs
Foreign           3.0               1.0            3.5
Local             4.0               4.0            4.0
3.18      Unit costs.  The baseline school construction costs are reason-
able. They amount to US$17,436 for a two-classroom school (about US$115
per m2). The teachers' houses are estimated at about US$6,530 each (about
US$160 per m2). Of these construction costs, about 85% represents the cost
of materials, 10% the cost of labor and 5% the transportation costs.
Annexes 3-8 - 3-11 provide costing details.
3.19      Textbook publishing and printing costs average US$1.30 per unit.
Transportatlon and distribution costs average US$0.20 per unit. Each book
will cost about US$1.50 when placed in the classrooms. This compares
favorably with the average textbook cost in West Africa estimated between
US$1.80 and US$3.00. Teacher training costs average US$12 per day or US$60
per weekly course. This amount includes transportation and per diem for
teachers and trainers, as well as salaries to be paid to teacher trainers.
Details on teacher training costs are shown in Annex 3-2.
3.20      Recurrent cost implications.  The annual recurrent expenditures
likely to be generated by the project upon its completion are estimated at
about US$300,000 (CFAF 105 million) in 1986 prices. This cost includes the
salaries of 250 teachers to be appointed in the next five years and to be
partially financed by the project (para 3.9), as well as US$100 per
classroom for school supplies and maintenance.  It represents 18% of the
MOE's projected budget for 1992. The Government can cover this increase if
allocations to education are raised from 3.8Z of the total Government
budget to 6%. The AfDB project, to be implemented at the same time, would
not have additional cost implications. The creation of 250 teacher
positions covers the needs for both projects, urban schools to be built
3/   Contingencies were estimated at 20% for teachers' salarie,3, taking into
account possible increases of civil servant salaries.



- 14 -
with AfDB financing and rural schools to be built undar the IDA project.
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it would
increase the budgetary allocations to the education sector, by about 12%
per year, to cover the creation of 250 new primary school teaching
positions, and allocations for supplies and maintenance. The projected MOE
budget is in Annex 2-10.
r
C.   Project Administration
1.   Preparation, Management and Implementation
3.21      Present Status of Preparation.  The project was originally pre-
pared by UNESCO and by an architect under the Bank's technical assistance
project (Cr. 1489-EG). Spain assisted the Government in preparing the
textbooks, which are now ready to be reprinted. Textbook quality is good
and specifications are reasonable. The architectural briefs and prelimi-
nary school designs have also been prepared, and would be finalized prior
to effectiveness with funds from the PPF. The organizational structure for
the PIU has been developed and detailed staffing terms of reference for
each of the project positions prepared. Staff will be appointed in May
1987 with PPF funds, and will be trained during the next two months.
3.22      Project management.  Sp cial management arrangements for effi-
cient implementation of the project have been designed. These arrangements
include: (a) the establishment of a project implementation unit (PIU) in
the MOE (para 3.16); (b) carefully designed staffing plans; (c) well
defined implementation procedures; and (d) a realistic implementation
schedule. The PIU was designed to ensure that it would be efficient in
implementing the school construction program, which is a new activity for
the MOE, and to make maximum use of the existing units, originally
organized by UNESCO, for training teachers, curriculum development and
education planning.
3.23      Staffing plans.  UNDP would assist the Government in finding
candidates for the internationally recruited expert positions. All project
staff would be contracted by the Government following terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. Signature of contracts for the two internationally
recruited experts financed by IDA would be a condition of effectiveness.
The list of experts in in Annex 3-4.
3.24      Project Preparation Facility.  A project preparation facility
(PPF) of approximately US$160,000 has been approved by IDA to finance
starting activities: (a) the organization of the project implementation
unit and the training of its staff; (b) the preparation of bidding
documents; (c) the construction of a warehouse for school construction
materials with attached space for .he PIU offices; and (d) two staff months
of technical assistance for training PIU staff, and reviewing bidding docu-
ments and contracts.
3.25      Implementation.  Implementation is expected to take five years.
Improvements in the teaching process would start in 1988 with the printing
of the first editions of textbooks and the training of teachers in their
use. This activity would be followed by revising the textbooks for a
second edition printing in 1991. Organization of schools, introduction of



- 15 -
multigrade practices and establishment of pre-schools would be done
gradually, once schools are constructed. School construction would be
implemented in three years in 6 phases of 5 to 9 schools each. Con-
struction would take plaLe during the two annual dry seasons. Between
construction periods there would be a three-month period during which the
following activities would take place: evaluation of the previous phase;
procurement of materials; instruction and organization of the communities;
selection and hiring of contractor teams; transportation of materials to
the communities and organization of programs to be introduced in the newly
built schools. Annex 3-5 provides details of the school phasing process.
Annex 3-19 provides a detailed schedule of implementation.
3.26      While villages where schools are to be placed have been identi-
fied, there is still a need to identify school sites. Before each con-
struction phase the Government would be required to provide IDA with a
document showing that the school site has been properly designated by the
local town council.  A minimal surface area of 1,500m2 would be required
for each school.



- 16 -
2.   Procurement
3.27        The following procurement arrangements would apply:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(USS milllions)
Procurement Method
Total
Project Elements                                ICB           LCB         Other        N/A         Costs
Construction materials                         1.5  a/       0.4  bl       0.1  c/     --          2.0
(1.5)        (0.4)        (0.1) (1-)               (2.0)
Local labor                                     --            --          0.2  d/       --         0.2
t--)   t--)       ~~(0.2)       t--0t.2)
Textbook revision, printing and
transportation                                 --            --          0.9  e/      --          0.9
(--   t--)         t~~O. 9)     (-)         (0.9)
Textbook distribution                           --            --          0.1  c/       --         0.1
t--)   t--)       ~~(0 1)       t--         t.l)
Furniture, equipment, materials
and supplies                                  0.1  f/       0.1 ji       0.1 h/        --         0.3
(0.1)       0(01)         (01)           --)       (0.3)
Specialist services                              -            --          0.9  i/       --         0.9
(--)         (--)        (0.3)         (--)       (0.3)
Local training, studies and audits              --            --           --          0.6 ji      0.6
f--)   (--)      (--)       ~~~(0.2)     (0.2)
Operating costs (internal travel,               --            --           --          0 3 kl      0.3
communications)                               t--)          t--)          --         (0.3)       (0.3)
Salaries                                        --            --           --         0.9  1/      0.9
Total (including contingencies and                                                                ' y h/    () 
excluding PPF)                               (1.6)         (0.5)        (1.7)        (1.1)       (A.9)
Note: Figures in parentheses indicate respective amounts financed by IDA eredit.
s; Imported construction materials (e.g. cement, steel rods, corrugated aluminum sheets and paint)
would be grouped in packages valued over US$100,000 equivalent and would be procured through ICB
procedures according to IDA guidelines.
b/ Local construction materials (e.g. timber, wood doors and windows) would be procured through LCB
procedures acceptable to IDA.
c/ Transportation of construction materials from the central warehouse to the communities and distri-
bution of textbnoks would be contracted with the cooperative league of the USA, CLUSA, a
specialized transportation firm, partially financed by USAID, established in Equatorial Guinea to
assist in solving internal transportation problems. CLUSA, the only firm in the councry with
vehicle maintenance and repair services, bas established special prices for Government services.
d/ Local labor would be contracted through force account, with skilled and unskilled workers.
e/ Textbook revision, printing and transportation would be contracted sole source procurement from
PEM, the Spanish organization which previously developed and printed books for the Goverment.
The contract would include the coordination of the revision process, snd the printing and trans-
portation of books.
f/ School furniture contracts in excess of US$2O,000 would be awarded through ICB according to IDA
Procurement Guidelines. Qualifying 1domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid
evaluation of 15% of CIP price, or the import duty, whichever is lower.
I/ Equipment, materials, supplies and office furniture contracts in excess of US$20,000 would be
awarded through LCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
h/ Items below US$20,000 might be procured by comparing quotations from at least three reliable
suppliers, with a US$250,000 maximum.
i/ Specialist services financed by UNDP would be procured according to UNDP procedures; those
financed by IDA would be procured following IDA guidelines.
/ Local training would mainly consist of per diems.  Studies will be contracted by the Government
with consultants selected following IDA guidelines.
k/ Procurement through regular Government procedures.
I Regular Government procedures.



- 17 -
3.28      Bidding packages for construction and for goods valued at more
than US$40,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review of pro-
curement documentation resulting in a coverage of about 80% of the total
estimated value of contracts. Smaller packages would be subject to random
post review by IDA after contract award. Annex 3-20 gives details on
procurement procedures for IDA general expenditures.
3.   Disbursement
3.29      The IDA credit would be disbursed over a period of 6 years
(between 1987 and 1993). The credit proceeds would be disbursed on the
basis of the table shown below. All disbursements from the IDA credit
account would be fully documented except expenditures for: (a) contracts,
purchase orders or training programs valued at less than US$2A,000;
(b) operating costs; and (c) salaries for which expenses would be made
against certified statements of expenditure (SOE). Documentation would be
retalned by the PIU for review by 8ank supervision missions and project
auditors.
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
t of Total Expenditures
CategorY                     USS Million     to be Financed by IDA
1. Civil Works: construction materials and
local labor                                    1.7         100
2. Furniture, equipment, materials, supplies,
and teytbooks                                  1.0         100
3. Local training, studies and audits            0.2         100
4. Operating costs: conmunication, trans-
portation, internal travel and per diefs      0.3          100
5. Salaries
(a) PIU and honorariums                       0.3          100
(b) Teachers                                  0.3           95 in 1988
90 in 1989
80 in 1990
60 in l991
30 In 1992
(c) Consultants                               0.3          100
6. Project Preparation Facility                  0.2
7. Unallocated                                   0.7
Total                                          5.1



- 18 -
4.   Special Account
3.30      In order to expedite disbursements, the Government would estab-
lish a Special Account for the project in the Central Bank. An initial
amount of US$150,000 equivalent would be deposited by IDA after receipt and
approval of a withdrawal application. This amount is estimated to cover
three months of local payments for construction, labor, teachers' salaries
and project administration. Replenishment applications would be aggregated
into packages of at least US$50,000 equivalent and would be accompanied by
the full documentation except for expenses related to contracts valued at
less than US$20,000 equivalent, which would be reimbursed against certified
statements of expenditures.
5.   Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
3.31      The project implementation unit would establish an accounting
system with the assistance of an internationally recruited expert who would
work with the project administrator. Auditing would be financed by IDA and
contracted with a specialized private firm. Statements of Expenditures
would be audited every 6 months. Audit reports would be furnished to IDA
on an annual basis. To facilitate close monitoring of the project, the PIU
would also submit to IDA: (a) semi-annual progress reports; and (b) within
six months of the project's closing date a final report on the implemen-
tation experience and project outcomes. During negotiations the Government
provided assurances that not later than March 30, 1988 it would sign a
contract with the auditing firm under terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.1       Benefits.  The project would increase the access, quality and
effectiveness of primary education. In the long term, this effort would
result in higher school enrollment, completion rates and lteracy rates.
The groundwork provided by the project would also help realize greater pro-
ductivity in other sectors as well as education. An increase in the liter-
acy rate would eventually contribute to increased agricultural producti-
vity, reduced fertility rates and better rural health. Under the project
the MOE would strengthen its planning capacity, establish a unit which
would implement school construction programs, and develop the capacity to
distribute teaching materials and to train teachers. In addition to alle-
viating the present educational rural-urban imbalance, the project should
benefit the rural population by providing a boost to the rural economy, a
greater distribution of social services, making small communities better
organized to participate in development projects and the communities and
the Government more experienced in community participation schemes. Addi-
tionally, the project would establish the instituticaal framework needed
for continuous improvements of the education sector for future investment
programs.
4.2       Risks.  This would be the first large-scale project to be imple-
mented by the MOE, and, as such, there are several inherent risks associ-
ated with it. One major risk is staff recruitment and weak management to
implement the project components. In addition to MOE's lack of experience



- 19 -
in implementing projects, there is little experience in working directly
with communities. These risks would be addressed through the design and
organization of a project implementation unit, in a manner acceptable to
IDA, and through the appropriate technical assistance and staff training.
Two international consultants, an architect, and an accountant would
provide assistance during implementation for project accounts, the bidding
processes and community organization and motivation. A warehouse for
construction materials would be built by the project and transportation of
materials to the communities would be carried out by the USAID-supported
transportation company to alleviate possible storage and distribution
problems. Counterpart funding and increased Government budgetary alloca-
tions to education from present levels to about 6% are also risks. Without
an increase in allocation the sector would be unable to rebuild to previous
levels of enrollment and literacy achievement, much less embark on improve-
ments. While by the end of the project GDP is projected to grow at 4%
annually, which should fuel some of the growth in allocation to education,
some transfer from another sector or Government administrative overhead
would appear inevitable. Specific agreements or increased budgetary allo-
cations to the sector were reached during negotiations. Also, in connec-
tion with the budgetary outlook, the IMF is presently attempting to nego-
tiate a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for the 1987-1989 period, as well as a
program for 1987, which would be supported by a Structural Adjustment
Facility (SAF) loan.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1       During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it would:
(a) create 250 new teaching positions (50 per year), appoint new
teachers following selection criteria approved by IDA and assign
new teachers to rural schools (para 3.9);
(b) increase the allocations to the education sector by about 12% per
year in real terms, to cover the incremental teachers' salaries,
school maintenance and supplies (para 3.20);
(c) by March 31, 1989, complete a study on future needs of the
education sector (para 3.15);
(d) not later than March 31, 1989 prepare a study on future needs of
the sector and by December 31, 1989, prepare an education sector
development plan in conjunction with its investment plan for
1990-1995 to be discussed with IDA and other donors (para 3.15);
(e) not later than October 30 of each year, hold an annual review of
expenditures for education with the participation of all donors
to review project implementation activities, review progress made
in the sector, and establish investment targets for the following
year (para 3.15); and
(f) not later than March 30, 1988, sign a contract with an auditing
firm under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para 3.31).



- 20 -
5.2       Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) establishment of the PIU in a manner satisfactory to IDA
(para 3.16); and
(') signature of contracts for the internationally recruited experts
financed by IDA (para 3.23).
5.3       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would con-
stitute a suitable basis for a credit of US$5.1 million on standard IDA
terms.
WAPID
April 1987



- 21 -
ANNEX 1-1
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRm8ARY EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA SHEET
J
General (1985)
GNP per capita                 US$270
Land area                      28sO00 km2
Total Population               325,000
of which - rural              72%
agricultural      85X
Population growth rate         1.7%
Life expectancy at birth       44.3 years
Languages
official                      Spanish
national                      Fang-Buki
Literacy rate                    20%
Enrollments in Education
Enrollment               Growth
Total               Ratio                    Rate
(net)               (1980-1985)
Primary              64,850                   73                    9.6S
Secondary             8,072                   25                   31.0%
Higher                   286                   -                      -
Education Expenditures
Total Miniastry of Education Expenditures: US$850,000
2 of total Government budget: 3.8%



- 22 -
ANNEX 1-2
CMAPTIVE ECIICATION INDICA^TRS                                                     Page   1  of  2
January 16, 1987
CENTRAL.
COVBRNH15Nt
tIPENDITUIR eo1CATION                         COMPLETION          REcURRENT
ON EDUCATION  RECURRENT     AIrILT            RATE FOR            UNIT COST  PROGRESSION
GNP PER             AS PERCaT    EXPENDISTUIR   LITERACY PRIMARY PRIMARY    PRIrARY  PRIMARY    RATe FROrr  SECONDARY SECONDARY H IOTR
BASE  POP. CAPITA  PERCENT GNP OtAL CENTRAL ALLOC6TD TO: RATR         ENROLL. SCHOOL      STIDENNS EDUiCATTON  PRIKARY TO  ENROLL.  STIDENTS  ENROLL.
YEAR MILLS. (USS)  DEVOTED TO  GovRaBt    PRI seC  HI    (2)   RATIO  CYCLe               PtR      AS PERRENT SECONDARY   RATIO      PER       RATIO
(1979) (1979)  EDrCATION  eXPSNDITURe          (2)       (1976)   (2)        (2)    TeACHeR  CNP/CAPITA      (2)        (2)    TEACHER      (t)
(1)    (2)        (3)          (4)           (5)         (6)      (7)       (a)       (9)      (0I0)        (11)       (12)       (11)    (14)
DVEeWPRID COUNTRIES
AUSTRALIA         80    14.6b  8,870      6.3a       14.6                                 2 ---  103x  too     21       ---          99         71        11      20.4n
CNADA             Rl   21.7b  9.650b    7.P7         18.ay      308t 1481 2P1?   901      106x     I0o         21       19.qa?      In0         q2x1      IR      22.60"
GERMANY F.R.      79    61.2  12,200      4.6         9.9'       _    -- _--      gqb      a"9     100        --        _---        In'r        44a       --      12.1n0
NRtIeRLANDS       79    14.0  In 490      7.9         S.l       20   35  25       9gh?     96       05         IR       15.3         90         42        11      11.40
NEw ZEALAND       80     1,2b  6,081b    5.5"        13.4       37   31  2B       9b      100      100         24       11.6        100         R2        15      25.OX'
SUEDEN            79     8.3  12,250      9.0        161.2      it   10  10       qb       9qx     100 tIR4             19.9        Io0         79X      Ij0v    36.50sY
EAUSTR AFRICA
BUlsiO'NA         83      i.0b    920b    6.0        22.0       41   34  22       40      100       77         12       20.0         40         20       ?2        2,80
BURUNDI           81     4.2      235     2.8bw      19.0       43   28   27      25       24X      35         37       20.2         12          PI       17       l.nn
COMOROS           84     0.4b    345      3.8v       28.0       49   29   22      49       76       40         19       ---          45          16       28       n.60
imBOUTI           84     0.4     480      3.0        11.9       73   26   ...    10        42       66        40        67.n         40         In        19       n.60
ETHIOPIA         81    32.8    140b    2.9P         21.1       45   25   2n      53       42       30a       61        29.1         93a        14       44        n.45
KENYA             82    17.46    420b    5.Svb       20.1b      65   16   11    48b       113       58         36       14.4         35          la       26       --
LESOTHO           82     1.4b    435b    5.5         16.9       38   32  26       53b     116X      41        48         9.6         46         21        21       1.30
KADACASCAR        77     8.5      330     4.0"       24.0       53   28   19    50         94bx     33         556       9.0         38         14        21       1.oh2
MALAWI            81     6.1b    230b    3.5         11.4        38   14  25      25b      62       23         65        5.8         12          4        21       0.40
MAURITTIIS        83      I.Ob  1.170b    4.3        14.0       46   36    7    *10b       93       72         23       13.0        2o0         S0        22       2.00
RWARDA            83     5.9b    270b    3.6         27.4       71   16   11      37b      65       30        40        26.0          9          5        16      n040
SRYcHEL.Les       79     0.6   1.770      5.9        22.48      34a  338  10t          --                     25        --                 ---     _               -
SOKALIA           82     4.5    2"0       1.5        10.5       50b  44b   6b    50b       22b      80b        29b       q.nb        *1b0       122       22       2.o0
SUDAN             80    19.2b    380b    3.0         -          66   39  ...    32         Sl*x     68         34        1.4         44         16        16
SWZIAND          813    0.7b    940h    3.86b       20.4       51   14  tI    65b         91       sn         13      21.0          9R         29        I8        .0.a
TANZANIA          s0    18.5      260     5.9        17.7       47   10  16       79b      98b      87         41       11.0         f9b         3        20'      0.10
UGAND             80    12.66    300h    --          16.2v      21h  37b  20b    48        54x      62         34      _--           17          5        23       n.60
ZAIRE             a1    29.8b    210b    7.7         26.4       -    -    10    54b        76       25         10       21.0         40          18       28       2.00
ZAMBIA            sO     5.7b    566b    4.50        11.1       48   21   22      44b      95       AO        4R        12.9         14         16        22       I.SO
ZrMBABE           81     7.7h    700b    S.1         19.5       62   12    6      44b      90       55         39       20.0        r8          15        23       0.50
WESTERN AFRICA
RBNIN             79     3.,4b    320b    6.5"       35.0       43   21    5    l1b        42       30        46        14.0         10         11       43        2.00T
BUr1INA           83     6.5      210b    2.1w       21.7       43   29   28      9        I6       25         57       24.1         16                  24       o.n3
CAN*OON           84    10.0      8I0b    3.1P       -           33  38  28    20          89       45b        50       ---      __ 23                   28        2.70
C.A.R.            79     2.2      280     3.88Y      20.67              -        -- --     --                  650Y     ---          ---                           0._ _OT
CRAD              76     4.4      120     2.418y     21.7b      -     -     -    15        25Y      --         77       __           --          3"       21       0.20Y
CONGO             78      2.5     670     9.0'      27.7sY      __                                  - - -     56by         _    _   30n        _3                 4.00'y
C0N0              77     0.6   1,420      3.7by       8.47      --                                             46b6                  -- -                 Ib       2.8ra0
CAMIA             77     0.6      220     3.31"       6.5b       46   25'  6    tb         42b6     90         27b6     44.7         40          12bx2    17        -
ORA               76    11.3    400       4.07       15,56b           --  -                7lbV    -           27b6     ---          -          16b62     21
GUInEA            79      5.3     290P    4.66P      -          25' 28  28a  20            14        36        38       20.0P'       85          16       29       7.0n0
IVORY COAST       83     9.3b    720      7.3        42.8       51   40    9    358Y       72       79         17       29.0         49         2211      30       1.88
LtBERIA           80      1.9    520      4.6        19.6       43   23   24    30         32       32         35       20.0         76         22        20       2.90
MALI              81     70ob    190      4.2'       21.7'       38  21   It   10          20       60         44       15.t         66           1       11       a,907y
MAITANIA          78      1.6b    320b    5.5        16.9        33   43   25   tob        32       60         44       52.0         30          9        25       0.17
NIGER             84     5.2      300     2.8        21.0       40   25   20    14         25       20         36       41.0         37          6        28       0.50
NIGERmi           83    93.6b    760b    7.47        16.0       -    -    13    36         93       70         16       19.5         47         23        30       2.00
SENEGAL           84     6.4      380     5.0b       24.0       46b  35b  19b   28         52       59         46       26.0         29'        2I6       24       2.20'
SIERRA LEONE      77     3.4      250     4.0b       16.0b      -.         2- '5b          17X      -          35       25.06        84         25X       22       0.60b6
TOGO              78      2.4    400      6.5qv      26.5q       30a  28*  21'  18         74       40         54by     38.0         52         12bx?   4*1        2.60'v
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIsEAN
AEgIRTIRA         78    27.3   2,210      2.7        10.9       43' 110  I8'  93b          89       52         17       -            R7         11         a      21.00
BAHAMAS           79     0.2   2,770      5.7        19.1       36   36 11  q3b            99       97         24       -            97         75        29      --
BARBADOS          78     0.2   2,680      8.5wy      22.2a      438  31' 16'  99b         0OOY      9qa        27Y      29.9'        948        789       207     --
BOLIVIA           *0     5.4      550     4.187      30.5'      -    -    --   63          747      --         20'      -            ----5v               _       12,60?
BAZIL             79   116.5   1 770      3.8         6.2       51   -    14   76          73'?     -          23a?      4.5b        61'         2587     24"    12.62b
CRILS             76    10.9   1,890      3.2        13.06b     _    _-          --       ll9gby    __          46                               I:S?h#t    2nb0    11.90b?
COLOtl8IA         80    26.76  1,806    3.3          25.0        35   20   20    81b       78        16        12        6.6         -          47        20      10.02&y
COSTA RICA        80     2.2h  1.810b    8.4         31.1       40   27   33    90         93       77         33        5.5         77         40        27      14.00
CUmA              78     9.8      -       8.0        11.0        -    --_        96       112611    98         11b6     --           48         7h161     IS      19,02!
DOMINICAN REP.    80     5.3   1,030      2.9        13.0       39   21   22   6*16        80       32         59        1.2         94         30        31      16.00
ECUADOR           80     8.4b  2,220      6.0P       36.7       45   31   16   81         105       -          36       12.6         86         47        16      29.00
EL SALVADOR       77     4.4     640      3.4b6      23.1by     64    8   27    62         826x1    12         39       ---          41         26b1r   276b       7 90bq
GUTEMALA          78     6.8   1,010      2.7'       12266                       -         69bxy    -          3I6      _            69          2561?    1qb9     5 50W
cUmAN             76     0.6      630     6,1by      13.8by     -    -     -     -bv    -                      12b6      --                      592bx    -        3,006Y
HAITI             80      5.0b    230     3.4"        7.9y     65    9    6    23b        50       20         41       19.0         62'         4'       27       0.80
RONDtRlS          78     3.6      520      ,517y     14,3by     62' IS  29'  60           R96xy    30'        41b7     12.98       fi*         211X      19       8.00'
JAMAICA           80     2.1   1,110      6.5        13.7        37  43   20    90         98       98         40        2.3         95         81        22       8.00
lfflCO            80    65.5   1,880      4.7        17.0'      46   39   15   92          9*       53         44        9.5         86          56       17      20.10
NICARAU           78     2,6b    610b    S.OW        14.0)      -       ---      90b        5wbx    24         37b                   -          26b6      30b 
PANAMAP           78      1.8b  1,5506    5,55wy     21.8b6      428  18  13    82b        95by     --         25b6     11.6         85'        506b      27b6    20.406?
PARAGUAY          79      3.0   1,140     1.4"       14.2       42   27  20    84          83       12         28        3.1r        76          22       12       0.70
PUR               80    16.6   1,000      3.6        14.3       53   IS  19   80           83       S6         19        9.8         89         39        22      14.40'
TRINIDAD 6 TOB.   77    121   3,910       4.8by       8,8bJ      48   32  20    95         98       91         30       10.5?        49         62        24       _
URnUU             78     2.9   2,500      2.5         94b       -    -     ---   94        05b6      __        24b                    --- __4bx           -       17.8y
VDSWNUIA          78    14.4   1,440      5.27       19.9b      --  _      -     82       206b6      --        28       --           -          181x    I7        21.107
EQUAXOE
GUINEA           85     0.3      270     2.8         3.8        47  24    0    20         73        10        80        5.2         40          25       70       -



- 23 -
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                          ANNEX   1-2
January 16, 1987
_           _          ~~~~~~CENTRAL_                           _
GOVERNMENT
EXPENDITURE   EDWCATION                      COlPLbTTON          RECURReNt
ON EDUCATION  RECURRENT    ADULT             RATE FOR            UNIT COST  PROGRE8StON
CGN  FER           AS FERCNT    EXPENDItURES  LITEURCY PRIMARY PRIMARY    PRIMARY  PRIMRY    RATE FRm   SeCoNDARy SECoNDARY HIGNER
BASE  POP. CAPITA  PERCENT GNP TOTAL CENTRAL ALLOCATED TOt RATE      ENROLL. SCHOOL    STUENTS EUCATtON  PRIMARY TO  MNROLL.  StUIENTS  ENROLL.
YtAR MILLS. (USE)   DEVOTED TO  GOVERNMENT    PRI SEC  RI   tS)   RATIO  CYCLE          PER       AS PERCENT SECONDARY   RATIO    PER        RATIO
(I 9 79 ) (I 9t9)   BWDCATION  EXPENDITURS   (S)       (1976)  (S)        (S)    TEACHER  GlPtCAPITAI   (S)           (2)   TEACHER      (2)
(1)    (2)        (3)          (4)          (5)         (6)      (7)      (8)       (9)       (10)        (I1)        (12)      (13)    (14)
-________         _      .-         .                                        - -.  -.I..--        ---                        _  ____         -    _ ____        _
EST ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
CHINA             S3 1,025.0b    310b    3.1         7.1       38  40   22       77b      77       62        25        8.0         65         35       17       4.80
INDONESIA        81   150.5b    520      2.1         9.3       70  24    6      32b      98       61         37       11.0         74         27       26       3.70
KOREA             82    39.3b  1.636b    7.7v       20.8       34   34   31    96        99        98        43       19.0         98         84       38      21.80
AAYSIA            84    15.2b  1.870b    6.1        16.7       39'  43v  IW    70b       97X       97        26       11.5'       8          72       22       4.00
PAPUA E.G.        83     3.0"    820     5.4        19.0       40   17  22      -        60        73'       31'      15.0         35         15"t    27'       1.00
PHtLtPpINes       79   48.3b    690b    2.8v        14.0       64   36   -      75b      84       65         31        7.1         89         55       36      21.0f
SINGAPORS         80     2.4  4*420      2.7         6.7       39  40   16    83         92        82        32        8.8         96         55       22       f.00
SOLOMON tSL.      82     o.2b    640     6.6Pw      19.0b      41   34   20     15       78       80         27       10.5         40         20       28       2.50
THAILAND          82    49.1b    8Oob    3.4        20.3       59   14  10    56b        101       68        21        9.3"        44         46       18       4.00
SOtJTH ASIA
BANOGALWSH        79    92.3b     90     1.1P       10.2'y     51   17  20      22b      637       -         53        5.6         -          14       23       1.43
tHDTAN            SO     1.2      80     3.6        11.0       -    --  -        10       12      -          -        -            -          --       --      --
INDIA             77   659.6    210      2.9Y        9.9wr    __         -      36       79X      -         41        -            -          28x      -        8.301y
NEPAL             82    i5sOb    150b    1.4       --           ---     --       19      70        --        34       -            ---        21       21       3.70'
PAKISTAN          82    87.2b    380b    2.0         7.0       38  20   24      22        50      41         30        5.9         56         21       15       3.00
bfJROPE. MIDDLE AST AND NORTH AFRICA
AFGHANISTAN       77    15.5     -       1.7         3.7       47   19  1    12          31by     69        37b      -            62          N       22by     1.007
ALGERIA           79    18.3   1,770     3.8'       12.3       34*  26'  21'    35       b3'      45'        37        7.0t        5Y        Y9y      26       3.70Y
EGYPT             82    43.3'    650'    4.6'        7.9       31'  35'  26'    44       75X      80'        34'       9.8"        83"        438      29'     17.00
GREECE            76     9.3   4.140     2.6'       10.6b      37  26  21       -        97by      -         226       6.2?        -          79b2     27by    17.80by
IRAN              79    36.9     -       5.7'       14. 'l     --  -    -       50      lo0x1                32'            -                 44"3t    24'      4.90"'
IRAQ              79    12.6   2.710     4.3-'       6.9Yr     -    --  -_      -    1_OO         -         2S        -            -          45aY     29'      9.W0Y7
IRELAND           '1     3.4b  4 480    6.39'       11.S Y     -    -    -      98       93       94         29       -            98         8l       14      11.00
JORDAN            81     2.2b  1.420b    4.9'       10.2       19  44   18    70b         57      85         32       15.1         --         57       38       8.90
LEANOm            79     2.3     -       -          IN.6sy    - -- -                     g6 96    _ -        1        _9            -         46'      -       27.80"'
MOROCCO           84    21.8b    670b    6.0"       22.9       38   43   19    35         57P      9         31       15.1         -          14'      l8       8.90f
OMAN              82     O.9b  5,920b    2.5"       12.7'      -    -    --    30bt    71p        65         25       -            86         11       24      ...
PORTUGAL          79     9.8b  2,060     3.6        22.2       SO  28   11    78         97       20         19'      12.8        8So         45'      17      8.301
RlMaIA            78   22.1   2.100      3.9h7       6.27      -    -   -       98      106bx                23       -            98         S4bx     22b     10.60b6
SPAIN             76    37.0   4,920     2.17       16.87      -    -   -       -        98by    -           2*       -            -          67b6     -       24,10by
SYRIA             78     8.6   1.170    4 4P        10.3       39   25  26      58       87by    8O          35b      -            68         42b6     21b     12.60
TUNISIA           79     6.4   1.130     7.0P       19.0       42   39  18    62b    lo2g         80         3*6      12.8         30         10x      30       6.00
TeamY             83    47.5  1.230      3.3        16.2       50   22  24      73b      IID      77         31        6.0         I5         26       11       8.00
YOENM A.R.        80     6.8    420      S.Op'      12.0       94    7    7    21b       37        12'       387      67.0         a5          3       20       1.10
YEMEN P.D.R.      82     2.06    420     7.6    _      7       63'  14'  8A    53        61       34        2_        22.0'        46         17       20       2.50
SuLAR FOR DEVELOPING COtRIBS:
Nuber of Countries:                    84             93      70  69  67    81          92       68        95       65            75        91        88      85
RAng :                                 (1.4-         (3.7-  (23-  (8-  (5-    (8-     (12-    (12-         ( 7-     (1.4-        (10-       (2-      (8-     (0.03-
10.0)        54.3)  94)   46)  33)    99)      119)    99)         77)      67.0)        100)       804)     48)     29.0)
Quartileo: Upport                       5.6          21.7     51   36   22    81        98       80        43        20           87         47       26      11.0
median:                      4.0          16.1    43   28   19    53         83       61         35       13           65         26       22       3.7
Lver:                        3.0          11.0    *38  21   13    25         60       35        28        9           40          14       29       1.0
Quartile Deviation:                     1.3           5.4    6.5  7.5  4.5  28.0    19.0    22.5           7.0      5.6         23.5       16.5      3.5       5.0
Maen:                                   4.4          17.0     46   28   18    53        76       59         36       16           62         31       23       6.9
Standard Deviation:                     1.9           8.7     12  10    7    29         2.       24         11       13           27         23        7       7.4
Median:                                 4.0          16.0    43   28   19    53         83       61         35       13           65         26       22       3.7
SYMBOLS:                                                           FOOTNOTES:
DATUM UNAVAILALE                                                A - DATUM PRIOR TO BAS YEUR              S - MINISTRY OF bDUCATION (NOB) ONLY
..A. NITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE                                        B - DATDM MORE RECENT tYAN BAS TEAR      T - tOe AND STATI GOVERNMET ONLY
t    DATUM QUESTIONABLE                                              N - CURNt PRICES                         V - PUBLIC EXPENDITItt ONLY
*    IECLUDES PART-TIME STUDNTS                                      E - NEt ENROLE   RATIO                   E - INCLDES OVER-ACE STUEINTS
P * GROSS ENROLMUENY RATIO               Y-  UNLECO SOURCES
P - CDP
SOURCES:        Col.ina I and 2: tiorld Bank Atlas or Educatton sector field  iestona.
Coluns 3 to 14: Velnd Bank Education sector missions, Govein ent sourcea and/or the Ibasco Statistieal Yearbovx.
Comarative Educction Dats are uteful In the evaluation of various education "ete so ad analysis of relattiv staes of educational davelopwnt between various
countries. Bwever, on the balis of the present data, cross-astional copartison should be approached witb great caution. Date praaanted In the above table hfe
ben collected largely by Bank missions from government sources; the reminder are staff *atiastes or data from  HiaaCo. Efforts have bean mede to staaodrdIse
definitions and, within limits, to eheck the accuracy of the data. Nevertheless, sauh data are still imperfect in several respects and the Rank ts working to
isprove them progressively on the ocCaaion of Its operational work.  In the use of these data, the following qul ifteations should bh kept tn mindt
(1)   utdaetion   as defined tn the table Includes all education and training, both formal and non-formal.
(2)   Primry' education refara to education at the firet level and aecondary  education refore to all eduetion at the  ecozndrv level re"rdlesg of type
(e.g. general, technical, agricultural).
(3)    I.tteracy rates' (col. 6) ere often obtained from country cenus"e.  In many counttrie  the are only approiatina and It to doubtful that any uniform
definition of lttersteo has been followed conistently.
(4)    Public expenditure in education' (cola. 4 and 5) refers to all capital end recurrent expendituras devoted to eduftatto by public aed qumt-ynbilc
agencies.
(5)  -Enrollmnt ratioe  (cola. 7, 12 and 14) refer to school year and are the percentage of eligible ehidren enrolled full-tim  In the appropriate school.
public and private by level. They are often subject to a wide margin of error tn the developing eountres owing to variatlons in the accuracy of basic
data (L.e. .  ge-spectfle population and enrollments). Earollment figuree frequently are bhighr then the nu  ber of studeats ectu tly in school.
Over-aged students msy be Included in these figures and can inflate the rattoo.



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Organtzation Chart of the Ministry of Education
see
| 01=1 US  l   khletl               tz~~~~Edominde       L     w asdpofs               ikwc
Prow wa               PMoWl                                         l
h                b#l-                        _~~kdecat              cmd
MK=)                   M                                                Raooods
DMid                  DWk
Ir_  _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s onn
vdpectofs  k*PWwrwm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ecia
MK=)           o~b6cw mum
WAPED
hbA $966                                                                                    VIOd Ban-3096M:i



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM
Exidsing Structure
_dO
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
{                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
ftaaho ~ ~ P=                    ooftdoPoiO
POMis_ 
Pill=bb                                      0         LW 
4~~ 2_ W
f3ad              For PebixaV    Fbr Seowo*my EduociSon
Pwvkdw  Agdmbm  sdmocam



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM
According to Educational Law of 196'
UrMv.fly Educath
Educocirn Unbeoffori
t. Cicio     2. Cielo    3. 0clo
DddUcoc6  dirL rcko        Dochtr
E222eW
r    { 
Bo          _ert
Pdnr Gudo c Tmdn  Grado
Porodo de kOoof P*nrl V                      T0acheraTvo
Pfeschool                I. Ehpo               2. EtcIPo
M4twK      P                                                                    Aul
WA oddBnk-30884:2
E H                       {3E}  4JE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
BUDGETARY ALLOCATIONS FoR THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION a/ 1980-1986
Budgetary Allocations                                          Actual Expenditures
Millions of BK b/                         Millions of CFAF          Millions of BK   Millions of CFAF
1980      1981       1982      1983       1984     1984 bI    1985         1986      1983      1984          1984
1. Central Government                2,025.0   2,883.0   4,037.6   9,983.4  12,075.8   9,056.9   10,132.0   7,979.0   6,798.7  6,838.4             5,128.9
Recurrent Expenditures           1,849.5   2,868.0   3,837.6   7,108.4   8,776.4   6,582.3    9,532.0   6,979.0   4,831.6  4,949.4              3,712.1
Personnel Expenditures            1,355.3   1,840.4   2,444.5   3,261.3   3,913.4   2,935.1    1,000,0   1,200.0   2,167.6  2,837.1             2,127.8
Materials and Services              419.2     647.2   1,060.0   2,572.7   3,123.8   2,342.9    5,702.0   4,414.0   3,215.8  1,563.7             1,172.8
Other                                75.0     380.4      333.2   1,274.4   1,739.2   1,304.4    2,830.1   1,365.0        448.2    548.6           411.5
Investment                          175.0      15.0      200.0   2,875.0   3,299.4   2,474.6        600.0   1,000.0   1,967.1  1,889.0          1,416.8
2. Ministry of Education               284.0     381.2      419.8      710.0   1,157.5      868.1      266.1      392.6     426.7    599.1           449.3
Recurrent Expenditures              284.0     381.2      419.8     710.0                            216.1      302.6     426.7    517.2           387.9
Personnel Expenditures              257.5                378.3     563.6                            120.4      169.1     405.0    422.4           316.8
Materials                             0.0                  0.0      91.8      N.A.       N.A.        26.6    ) 97          21.7     55.8           41.9
Services                             26.5                 41.5      17.5                             31.4    )                      27.0           20.2
Other                                 0.0                  0.0       37.1                            37.7       36.5       0.0      12.0            9.0
Investment                            0.0      0.0         0.0       0.0                             50.0        0.0       0.0      81.9           61.4
3. Ministry of Education as %
of Central Government Budget        14        13         10         7         10         10         3           4         6         9             9
4. Recurrent Expenditures of
Ministry of Education as
S of Central Government
Recurrent Expenditures              15        13         11        10          9         N.A.       2           4          9       10            10
a/ Ministry of Education and Culture up to 1983, Education and Sports from 1984.                                                                           0Q
b/ 1 BK - 0.75 CFAF (official exchange rate)
o l
Source:  Government Budget 1980-1982-1985
Ministry of Finance 1983, 1984, 1985                                                                                                              8-



Ministry of Education Budget (1986)
(CFAF '000)
Transportation
Office Supplies
and                                                  X of
Salaries           Communication          Other 1/             Total         Total
Administration               4,930               35,500               31,070             71,500          24
Secondary Schools           32,005               20,600               20,000             72,605          24
Primary Schools            132,025               12,000   r144,025                                       47
Food Program                  -                    -                  16,000             16,000           5
Total                   168,960               68,100               67,070            304,130         100        X
X of Total                56                    22                   22                 100
1/   Includes equipment and furniture.
Source: Government budget.
0I1



- 29 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 3 of 4
Estimated Spanish Contribution to Education (1985)
Annual                   Number of
exeiiture 1/                   Staff
US 1000)
Primary Education                          20                       N.A.
Secondary Education                       400                  70
Normal Schools                             90                  15
Polytechnic Schools                        90                  15
Vocational Training 2/                    100                  12
University Courses                         60                  18 (part time)
Scholarships Abroad                       700
Total                                1,460                  130
I/   Includes personnel expenditures, travel and investments in repairing
secondary schools.
2/   Ministry of Agriculture, Labor and Health.
Source: UNESCO sector study and mission estimates from data gathered in
the field.
Analsis of the Goverment's Education Budget In 1986 I/
1.        Total budget allocated to the education sector in 1986 amounted
to CFAF 304.1 million (US$864,570). This represented about 3.71 of the
total Government budget. 21
2.        About CFAF 168.0 million (56Z of the total) was allocated to
personnel expenditures, CPAF 68.1 (22Z) was allocated to materials and
services and CPAF 67.1 (22%) to others (teacher training, nutrition, equip-
ment, furniture and sports).
3.        From the amount allocated for personnel services, about 78% went
to pay primary teacher salaries, 201 for secondary school teacher salaries
and 31 for salaries of administrators.
1/   Exchange rate as of June 1986: US$1 - 350 CFAF.
2/  About 29% of the Government budget is allocated for interest payments
on the public debt, 142 for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 141 for
the expenditures of the chief of state and the presidential palace,
and 8S for public works. The remaining 352 is divided among the other
15 ministries.



- 30 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 4 of 4
4.        The overriding issue is the low allocation for the sector.  Most
African countries allocate between 15% and 20% of their budgets to
education. Equatorial Guinea isp by far, the country which allocates the
smallest percentage.
5.        Spanish contribution.  In addition to the Government's alloca-
tions, Spain's contributes about US$1.5 million per year for the education
sector. Half of this amount goes to pay scholarships for training in
Spain. The rest is spent in salaries of about 130 staff working in
secondary, normal and vocational schools and teaching university courses.
About US$20,000 is spent in materials for primary schools.
6.        Unit costs.  The following table shows the average per pupil
recurrent expenditure in primary, secondary education and higher education:
Per Pupil Annual Expenditure       Primary      Secondarv     Universitv
(US)        -(US$)           (US$
Public expenditure                    5            10               -
Contribution by Spain                 2            97             350
Private expenditure                   7            30             200
Total                           14           137            550
7.        These expenditure levels are very low in the Sub-Saharan African
context. In 1983, public expenditure per primary school student in Sub-
Saharan Africa averaged US$48, and public expenditure per secondary school
student averaged US$223; higher education costs ranged between US$600 and
US$10,000.
WAPED
July 1986



- 31 -
ANNEX 2-5
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC ENROLLMENT DATA
(1980/81 and 1984/85).
Annual
Growth
Primary Education                1980/81      1984/1985        Rate
Number of students                        44,894         64,849         9.6%
Number of schools                            511            676         7.2%
Number of teachers                           800            850         1.5%
Enrollment rate (net)                        55%            73%
Enrollment rate (gross)                      59%            78%
Student/teacher                            56:1           76:1
Student/school                             88:1           96:1
Secondary Education
Number of students                         2,729          8,072          31%
Number of schools                              91             9           -
Number of teachers (full-time)               236            116 a/      -16%
Enrollment rate (net)                         9%            25%
Students/teacher                                             70
Students/school                            X13:1          897:1
Technical Education (secondary)
Number of students                           784            929         4.3%
Number of schools                              1              2
Number of teachers                            40             74
Students/teachers                             20             13
Enrollment rate (net)                       2.6%           2.8%
Higher Education
Number of students                           234            286
Number of teachers (part-time)                22             24
Students/teachers                             11             12
Students with scholarships abroad            175            312
a/   No data are available on part-time teachers.
WAPED
July 1986



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENT
(1980/81-1984/85)
Enrollments at Beginnlng of School Year                                      Enrollments at End of School Year
Period     Parvulos       1         20         30        4o       5e      Total       Parvulos      1e         20        30       45 Se            Total
1980/81                                       N.A.                                            25,692          13,636    4,501    3,258    2,253    49,340
1981/82           25,975           6,015     4,089      2,724    1,751    40,554              29,364           6,603    3,850    2,956    1,936   44,664
1982/83      9,553      22,064     7,399     5,772      4,286    1.981    51,055        12,300     24,281      8,948    6,761   4,546    2,221    59,057
1983/84     10,879      20,063     7,902     6,691      5,072    3,358    59,965         N.A.                                                             L
1984/85     12,420      27,636     7,359      7,470     7,478    2,357    64,720         N.A.
N.A. *  ot available.
Source: Ministry of Education and Sports, Planning Department.
0I
P|O
w a



PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENT BY AGE
(1982-1983)
Less
Than
6 Years                                                                                                                             Total
Grade/Age     Old        6         7        8        9        10       11      12      13       14      15      16      17     18    Total  Adjusted 11
Parvulo     5,655     1,204       631      516      403       225      224     183     128      98       79      52      71    52    9,553       8,895
1-          14     1,783    2,900    2,628    2,728    3,054    2,639   2,424   1,661   1,052        538     285      97    61   22,064      24,815
20          -          5       33       121      338      628       928   1,440   1,417   1,236      710     352     129    62    7,399       7,47n
30          -         -          1       24       90      258       368     824   1,136   1,279      89      520     238   135    5,772       5,835
40          -         _         -         1        3        65      136     351     599     950      922     689     352   218    4,286       4,309
5s                    -                  -        -         1        36     106     201     267      448     462     252   208    1,981       2,014
6-          -         -         -        -        -        -          1       6      68      83      139     163     173   106       739        741
70          -                                                                         2      30       27      27      51    70       207        207
o           _         _         _-       -        -         -        -       -       -        -       -        1      _     19        20         20
Total     5,669     2,992    3,565    3,290    3,562    4,231    4,332   5,334   5,472   4,995   3,762   2,551   1,363   931   52,021
Adjusted
Total     5669      3,006    3,588    3,877    3,567    5,243    4,629   5,679   5,382   5,005   3,768   2,552   1,357   933                  54,287
1/  Adjusted total, which corresponds to addition of partial totals by dis;-ict.
Source: Ministry of Education and Sports, Statistics Section, and UNESCO missions.
VAPID
July 1986
Ie
t1t0
W



- 34 -
ANNEX 2-6
Page 3 of 3
ENROLLIMENT RATES BY PROVINCE
Annual Growth
Enrollment Rate              Rate of Enrollment
~(`1979-1984)
(in percentages)
Bioko y Annobon                     76                              16
Bioko North                         76                              19
Bioko Sur                           72                               2
Annobou                             96                              13
Rio Muni                            56                               5
Litoral                             81                              13
Centro Sur                          66                               7
Kie-Ntem                            41                              -2
Wele-Nzas                           40                              - 2
Total                            73                              9.2
Source: UNESCO Sector Report and mission estimates.



- 35 -
ANNEX 2-7
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIMARY SCHOOL - EXAMINATION RESULTS (1982-83)
No.               No.               No.
Grade        Passed       %     Failed      %     Absent     %      Total
Parvulos
and ist grade     5,609      15     2,180       8     28,162    77    36,581
2nd grade     4,800      54     1,812     20       2,336    26      8,948
3rd grade     4,071      60     1,112     17       1,578    23      6,761
4th grade     2,318      51     1,731      38        497    11      4,546
5th grade       832      37     1,066     48         323    15      2,221
6th grade       307      29       352     33         396    38      1,055
7th grade        74      34       113     52          31    14        218
8th grade      N.A.       -      N.A.       -       N.A.     -       N.A.
Total         18,011             8,996              3,334           60,330
% of Total          30%               15%                55%             100%
Source: UNESCO Sector Report.
WAPED
July 1986



- 36 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 1 of 2
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TEACHERS' SALARIES (1986) 1/
Total
Annual
Annual Salary             Salary
CPAF                      CFAF
Category                                     ('000)    US$   Number   ('000)
Regular teachers       Primary school
included in            specialists 2/          240    685       55      13,200
Ministry of Finance
budget (A-List)        Primary teachers 3/
(maestros
nacionales)             180    514      100     18,000
Normal school
graduates 4/
(diplomados)            120    343      105     12,600
Teacher Assistants
(Auxiliares sin
oposicion)               84    240      160     13,440
Teacher Assistants
(Auxiliares de 3*
categoria)               72    205      360     25,920
Additional teachers   Primary school
under annual           specialist 2/           240    685       20       4,800
contract (B-List)
Primary Teachers 3/    180    514        25      4,500
Teacher Assistants
(Auxiliares)             84    240       22      1,848
Total                                       110    315      847      94,308
1/   Exchange rate as of June 1986:  US$1 - 350 CFAP.
21   Eight years primary education plus 3 years secondary plus 3 years
higher education.
3/   Eight years of primary education plus 3 years of secondary plus
in-service teacher training.
4/   Eight years of primary education plus three years of normal school.
Source: Ministry of Education and Sports - Finance Division.
WAPED
July 1986



- 37 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 2 of 2
COMPARISON OF TEACHER'S SALARIES IN 1984 AND 1985
Annual Salary                   Ratio
1984             1985          1984 to 1985
BK         US$    CFAF      US$
('000)            ('000)
Primary Teachers
(maestros nacionales)          367     1,150      180     514       2.23
Normal School Graduates
(diplomados)                   315     1,000      120     343       2.92
Teacher Assistants
(auxiliares sin oposicion)    262        800       84     240       3.33
Teacher Assistants
(auxiliares con oposicion)    210        650       72     205       3.17
Sources: UNESCO data for 1984 and Ministry of Education for 1985.



KUATORTAL GUINEA
PRI1ARY EDUCAMON PROJECT
PROJECTED ENROLLMENTS AND STUDENT-TEACHER RATIOS, 1985-1995
84/85    85186    86/87   8,/88   88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95
1.   Number of students 1st - 5th grade
primary ('000)                             52.3      54.8     57.0    59.3    61.6    63.3    64.5    65.4    66.1    66.7    67.1
2.   Preschool (parvulos)                       12.4      12.8     13.2    13.6    14.0    14.4    14.8    15.3    15.7    16.1    16.5
3.   Young adults (in special program)             -        -         -       -        -       -      2.5      5.0     6.0      7.0     7.0
4.   Total Primary School Enrollm.nt
(without young adults)                     64.7     67.6      70.2    72.1    75.6    77.7    76.8    75.7    75.8    75.8    76.6
5.   Number of Teachers                          850       850      850      900     950   1,000   1,150   1,100   1,150   1,200   1,250                 1
5(a) Student/Teacher Ratio (without young
adults)                                      76        80       82       80      80       78      73      69       66      63       61
5(b) Student/Teacher Ratio (including
young adults)                                76        80       82       80      80       78      73      73       7X      69       67
Source: UNESCO enrollment projections and mission estimates.
WAPID
April 1987
IB
'C
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECTED MINISTRY OF EDUCATION EXPENDITURES, 1986-1992
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990   1991   1992
1.    Central Government budget in US$ million 1/            22.8    23.7    24.6    25.6    26.6   27.6   28.7
_.    Ministry of Education budget in US$ millions 2/    0.86    0.96    1.08    1.21    1.35   1.52   1.70
3.    Ministry of Education budget as X of central
Government budget                                     3.8      4.0     4.4      4.7     5.1    5.5    5.9
4.    Primary school budget as X of Ministry of
Education budget                                       47       47      47       47       47     47      47
5.    Primary school budget in US$ thousands                  410     450      510     570      630    710    800
so
6.    Averige teacher salary (including family aid) 3/    435         457      480     503    -528    555    583
7.    Number of positions for primary school teachers         850     900      950    1000    1050   1100   1150
8.    Primary school salary bill in US$ thousands             370     410      456     503      554    610    670
9.    Budget for materials and school maintenance
(US$'000)                                               40       40      54       67       76    100    130
10.   Average expenditure in educational materials per
school group 4/                                         47       44       52      67       72     90    113
1/  Government budget projected to grow at 3.9% between 1986 and 1992 (1986 US$).
2/ ZMoE budget projected to grow at 12% between 1986 and 1992.
3/  Assuming 5% annual increase.
4/  Assuming that number of school groups equals the number of teachers.
Source: Mission estimates from Goverrnmet and UNESCO data.
WAPED
July 1986



- 40 -
ANNEX 3-1
SEUATRAL Gunn
PRIHARY EDUCATION PROJECT
COSTS OF PRINTiNG EDUCATITONAL MATRIALS/
COSTOS DE INPRESION DE MATERIAL EDUCATIVO
(in Spanish pesetas) 1/
Reprinting/Retlpresion           New Zdition/Nueva Edicion
(1988)                           (1991)
Unit       Total                  Unit      Total
Name                   Number    Cost        Cost         Number    Cost       Cost
Lenguaje l/Language 1                38,000     122      4,636,000     36,000             6,840,000
Lenguaje 2/Language 2                15,000     147      2,205,000     15,800   (190)    3,002,000
Lenguaje 3/Language 3                12,500     319      3,987,500     13,400             2,546s000
Lenguaje 4/Language 4                 9,800     274      2,685,200     11,000             2,090,000
Lectura l/Reading 1                  38,000     123      4,674,000     36,000             4,608,000
Lectura 2/Reading 2                  15,000     167      2,505,000     15,800   (128)    2,022,400
Matematicas 1/Math 1                 38,000     123      4,674,000     36,000             6,444,000
Matematicas 2/Math 2                 15,000     227      3,405,000     15,800             2,828,200
Matematicas 3/Math 3                 12,500     225      2,812,500     13,400   (179)    2,398,600
Matematicas 4/Math 4                  9,800     225      2,205,000     U,000              1,969,000
Matematicas 5/Math 5                    -         -          -          6,200             1,109,800
Sociales y Naturales 3/Social
and Natural Sciences 3                 -                    -         13,400      200    2,680,000
Sociales y Naturales 4/Social
and Natural Sciences 4                 ^        -           -          n0oo0    , 200    2,200,000
Sociales y Naturales 5/Social
and Natural Sciences 5                 -        -           -          6,200      250    1,550,000
Guias para el professor/
Teachers' Guides                       -         -          -         10.000       55      550.000
Total Number of Books               203,600                           251,000
Total Cost in Pesetas 3/                                33,789,200                       42,838,000
New Edition (1988)
Unit       Total
Number    Cost       Cost
Lectura Pre Escular/
Preschool Reading                   25,000     200      5,000,000
Preschool Numbers                    25,000     100      2,500,000
Plastica 3/Arts 3                    12,500     150      1,875,000
Plastica 4/Arts 4                     9.800     150      1.470,000
Total Number of Books                72,300
Total Cost in Pesetas 2/                                10,845,000
1/   Exchange Rates as of April 1987
100 CPAP - 41.40 Spanish pesetas
US$1 -130 Spanish pesetas
2/ Total cost in 1988 - 33,789,200 + 10,845,000 - 44,634,200 pesetes
(equivalent to 107.8 million CPAP)
Total cost in l991 - 42,838,000 pesetes (equivalent to 103.5 million CPAF)
WAPED
April 1987



EWJATORIAL GUIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
LOCAL TRAIN
(to be financed by UNDP)
No. of                                    Cost
Type of Training             Place            Duration           Partickpants      No. of Trainers            (CFAF)
1.   Use of Textbooks                 Bata          1 week in 1988         25 supervisors     5 trainers from    (75 participants x
1 week in 1989         25 consejeros *    CENAPOD            3,000 per day x 10
25 others          I curriculum       days) + (4 trips x 75
teacher training  x 10,000)   5 5,250
expert
2.   Use of Textbooks                 District      12 days in 1988 and    1,100 teachers    25 supervisors       (24 days x 2,000 x
capitals      12 days in 1989                           25 "consejeros"    1,100) + (4 trips x 75
(four three- day                          25 others          x 10,000)  55,800
sessions each year)
3.   Preschool Teaching               Bata          1 week in 1988         25 supervisors     5 trainers from    5,250,000
1 week In 1989         25 consejeros      CENAPOD
25 others
4.   Preschool Teaching               Bata          2 weeks in 1989         75 teachers        5 trainers from    (20 days x 2,000 x
2 weeks in 1990                           CENAPOD            200) + (4 trips x 200
s 10,000) - 16,000
5.   Visits to pre-school teachers   Schools        3 visits per teacher      30 teachers              -          90 days at 6,000
in their classrooms                                                                                        per day - 540,000
6.   Multigraded Teaching             Bata          1 week in 1988         25 supervisors      5 trainers from    5,250,000
I week in 1989         25 consejeros      CEKAFfD
25 others
7.   Pultigraded Teaching             District      6 days in 1989         1,100 teachers    25 supervisors       (12 days a 2,000 x
Capitals      6 days in 1990                            25 consejeros      1,200) + (4 trips x 75
25 others         x 10,000) - 29,400,000
8.   Visits to SO wultigraded         Schools       3 visits per teacher      50 teschers              -          lSO days at 6,000 per
pilot schools                                                                                               day - 900,000
Other Costs - bibliograhiic material:   8 million FCFA
printing of documentss     7.2 million FCFA
honorariums for trainers:  30 man months at 35,000 FOCA per month
* consejeros - pedagical advisors
Sources  Mission estimates.
VAPID
July 1986



- 42 -
ANNEX 3-3
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
LIST OF EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS FOR PLANNING UNIT AND SCHOOLS
(US$1 - 314 CFAF - April 1987)
A: LIST OF EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES FOR PLANNING UNIT a/
Total                     Cost
Cost (US$)                CFAF ('000)
1. Filing cabinets (3)                      250
2. Typewriter (1)                         3,000
3. Vehicle                               12,000
4. Copying machine                        6,000
5. Materials and Supplies                 2,000
Total                            23,250                     7,300.5
B: LIST OF EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS FOR SCHOOLS
Cost per       Total           Total
School       Cost b/          Cost
US$           US$         CFAF ('000)
Unitary Schools
1. School library (50 titles)          100          5,000
2. Closed Shelves (2)                   60           3,000
3. Materials (notebooks,
pencils, paper)                    200          10,000
Total                                        18,000          5,652
Preschool Program
1. Readiness materials                 500         25,000
2. Closed Shelves                       60          3,000
3. Rugs (esteras)                       10             500
Total                                        28,500          8,949
a/   Includes project monitoring group of planning unit of MOE.
bi  Total cost for 50 schools.
WAPED
April 1987



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CONSULTANT SERVICES
Estimated Cost and
Name of Position          Qualifications for the Job                  Job Description                    Timing            Financina Source
1.    Textbook develop-       - Expertise in textbook publishing   - Assist CENAFOD unit in finali-      46 manmonths starting   US$8,000 per month
ment, curriculum                                                zing preparation of the            in September 1988         (UNDP)
design and teacher      - Experience in curriculum design,    curriculum for grades 1 to 5
training                  and training of teachers
- Assist in revision of textbooks
- Knowledge of Spanish
- Assist in textbook distribution
- Prepare plans for training of
teachers in the use of books
2.   Preschool expert         - Experience in organizing bi-        - Assist CENAFOD unit in designing   12 manmonths (in two    US$8,000 per month
lingual preschool programs in        the training of preschool          periods of six months    (UNDP)
developing countries                 teachers                            each) starting June
1988
- Knowledge of Spanish               - Supervise teachers in the class-
rooms
3.   Textbook authors         - Expe7 ience in teaching primary     - Observe how the existing books     About 6 months part-     Honorariums:
(15, one for each         school                               are being used in the classrooms   time in 1988 for each    US$1,000 per book
book)                                                                                              book                      (total = $15,000)
- Knowledge of Equatorial Guinea     - Work with Equatorial Guinean                                 (IDA)
author in revising the books
- Knowledge of subject matter
- Assist in training teachers in
the use of books
0o
1J    Could be one person or various short-term experts.



Estimated Cost and
Name of Position           Qualifications for the Job                  Job Description                      TiiniK             Financing Source
4.    Guinean co-authors       - Experience in teaching primary      - Assist authors in textbook           About 6 months part-      Honorariums:
school                                writing and revisions               time for each book        USS500 per book
(total for 15 books
- Knowledge of subject matter                                                                         - US$7,500) IDA
5.    Architect                - Experience in organizing con-       - Assist PFM architect in design-    12 months- three            US$12,000 per month
struction programs with com-          ing bidding documents, in evalu-   months per year during   (includes travel to
munity participation                  ating bids and in prograxming       4 years starting          Equatorial Guinea)
construction activities             September 1987            IDA
- Knowledge of English and Spanish
- Evaluate each construction phase
and present a written report
6.   Ptoject adminis-          - Experience in management of         - Set up accounting system for the   15 months:  4 months        (Includes travel to
trator and                 foreign financed projects             project                              the first year and        Equatorial Guinea)
accountant                                                                                            then 3 months each        IDA
- Knowledge of accounting and         - Assist PrT administratlon            subsequent year
procurement procedures                officer in procuresent matters      starting Septeaber                                 4
1987
- KnowledSe of Spanish                - Train project staff
- Prepare project evaluation
reports
7.    Education planner        Experience in preparing invest-       - Train staff of MOE's planning        6 months:  2 months       WS$12,000 per month
ment plans for education                unit                                 per year during 3         DUDP
years starting January
- Assist in preparing investment      1988
plan
VAPiD
April 1987
f1.



- 45 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 1 of 2
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
*                                      8(.CHOOL PROGRAMS TO BE I*L-ft1ENTED IN POJECT 80CHOOLS
Projected Situation
Project Schools                                Enrollment
District             Locality                   1990/1991            H   A          Programs 1/
Aconibe              Ebom Ncodjen                    89              2              P, M
Acurenam             Ngolensok                      108              2              P, M
Acalayong                     198              2   2          P, H, At SH
Anisok               Bibara                          40              1              M
Nfanan Cdo                     94              2              P, M
Nsung-esangui                   77             2              Po M
Milong                         99              2              P, M
Ndji Oveng                     88               2             P, M
Baney                Baho Basuala                   104              2              Pt M
Bakake Gde                     67              2              P, M
Bilelipa                       74              2              P, M
Bata                 Ntobo                          202              2   2          P, M, A, SH
Bikui                         103              2              P, M
Wiboman                        94               2             P, M
Bibogo                         99              2              P, M
Cogo                 Ncolsnvam                       85              2              P, M
Nzan8nam                      132              2  1           P, M, A
Ebebiyin             Mbiralen                        87              2              P, N
Bife-Efac                     137              2  1           P, M, A
Misaa                          98              2              P, M
Wbedumu Oyoc                  177              2  2           P, M, A, SH
Eson esason                   236              3   2          P, M, A, SH
Ocong Oyoc                    250              3   2          P, M, A, SH
Evinayong            San Jose                       156              2  1           P, M, A
Eboafan                       131              2  1           P, M, A
Ncolanvan                     176              2   2          P, M, A, SR
Luba                 Bokoricho                      151              2  1           P, M,A
Mbint                Sendje                         103              2              P, M
Minang                         89              2              P, M
Mitomo Cdo                     58              1              M
Bolondo I                      11              2              P, M
M a Morning Shift
A - Afternoon Shift



- 46 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 2
Projected Situation
Project Schools                                  Enrollment
District              Locality                     1990/1991            M   A           Programs 1/
Micomesseng           Afanebang                         99              2               P, M
Mbe Nsomo                       188               2   2          P, M, A, SH
Andok Eseng                      79               2              P, M
Avantan                         126               2   1          P, M, A
Evansoc Cdo                     124               2   1          P,M,A
Mongomo               Andon-Mboam                       63              1               M
Mayang-Efac                      66               2              Ps M
Mibang Cdo                       43               1              M
Mengomeyen                      101               2              P, M
Niefang               Mvon Cdo                         174              2   2           P, M, A, SH
Ayene Cdo                       181               2   2          P, M, A, SH
Ncolben Cdo                     146               !  1           P, M, A
Monong Cdo                       67               2              P, M
Ebain                           121               2   1          Pt M, A
Nsoc Nsom             Oberonco                          83              2               Ps M
Toho                             67               2              P, M
Eves Esandon                    142               2   1          P, M, A
Nsork                 Ecuameyene                        77              2               P, M
Nvon Oyec                       101               2              P, M
5,761             98  28           67
1/   P - Preschool (parvulos); A - Adults, M   M Multigraded, SH a Two Shifts.
Schools with two groups will bave: one group of parvulos (P); and one multigraded
group (M).
Schools with three groups will have: one group of parvulos in the morning (P); one
multigraded group (M); and one group of adu.ts in the afternoon (A).
Schools with four or five groups will have: one or two groups of parvulos (P); two
multigraded groups (M); and one group of adults (A).
WAPED
July 1986



- 47 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page I of 2
EQUATORILl GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CLASSROOMS TO BE OONSTRUCTED IN PROJECT SCHOOLS
Existing Sieuation                        Projected Situation
Classrooms
Project Schools              Enroll,ent                Enrollment             Shifts 3|    to be       New
District 1/ Locality          1984/1985    Teachers    1990/1991   Groups  / 1   2  Constructed Teachers
Aconibe      Ebom Neodjen         72           1             89         2       2            2          1
Acurenam     Ngolensok            87           1            108         2       2            2          1
Acalayong           160           1            198        4        2   2        2          3
Anisok       Bibara               32           1             40         1       1            1          0
Nfanan Cdo           76           1             94        2        2            2          1
Nsung-Esangui        62           1             77        2        2            2          1
Milong               80           1             99        2        2            2          1
Ndji Oveng           71           1             88        2        2            2          1
Baney        Baho Basuala         84           1            104         2       2            2          1
Bakake Gde           54           1             67        2        2            2          1
Bilelipa             60           1             74        2        2            2          1
Bata         Ntobo               163           2            202        4        2   2        2          2
Bikui                83           1            103        2        2            2          1
Miboman              76           1             94        2        2            2          1
Bibogo               80           1             99        2        2            2          1
Cogo         Ncolanvam            69           1             85         2       2            2          1
Nzangnam            107           1            132        3        2  1         2          2
Ebebiyin    Mbiralen              70           1             87         2       2            2          1
Bife-Efac           11            1            137         3       2  1         2          2
Misaa                79           2             98        2        2            2          0
Mbedumu Oyec        143           2            177        4        2   2        2          2
Eson Esason         191           1            236        5        3   2        3          4
Ocong Oyec          202           2            250        5        3  2         3          3
Evinayong   San Jose             126           2            156         3       2  1         2          1
Eboafan             106           1            131        3        2  1         2          2
Ncolanvan           142           2            176        4        2   2        2          2
Luba         Bokoricho           122           2            151         3       2  1         2          1
Mbini        Sendje               83           1            103         2       2            2          1
Minang               72           1             89        2        2            2          1
Mitomo Cdo           47           1             58        1        1            2          0
Bolondo I            90           1            111        2        2            2          1



- 48 -
ANNEI 3-6
Page 2 of 2
hxistln  Situation                         Projected Situation
Classrooms
Project Schools               Enrollment                 Bnrollment            Shifts 3/    to be        New
District 1/ Lotality           1984/1985    Toachers    1990/1991   Groups I/  1   2e Constructed Teachers
Micomesseng Afanebang              80           1              99        2        2            2          1
Mbe Nsomo           152            2            188         4       2   2         2          2
Andok Eseng          64            1             79         2       2             2          1
Avantan             102            1            126         3       2   1         2          2
Evansoc Cdo         100            1            124         3       2   1         2          2
Mongomo      Andon-Mboam           51           1              63        1        1            2          0
Mayang-Efac          33            1             66         2       2             2          1
Mibang Cdo            35           1             43         1       1             1          0
Mengonayen           82            1            101         2       2             2          1
Niefang      Mvon Cdo             141           1             174        4        2   2        2          3
Ayene Cdo           146            1            181         4       2   2         2          3
Ncolben Cdo         118            1            146         3       2   1         2          2
Monong Cdo           54            1             67         2       2             2          1
Ebain                98            1            121         3       2   1         2          2
Neoc Nsom    Oberonco              67           1              83        2        2            2          1
Toho                 54            1             67         2       2             2          1
Eves Esandon        115            2            142         3       2   1         2          1
N;ork        Ecuameyene            62           1              77        2        2            2          1
Nvon Oyec            82            1            101         2       2             2          1
Totals           4,9656         59          5,761        126     98  28        100        67
Students Per Teacher               79                          46
1/   School construction phase.
2/   Groups of about 48 children: a younger group (children 4-7)
a multigraded group (children 7 and older)
In some cases there is a third group for children 14 and older.
3/   10 shift: number of groups in the morning shift;
20 shift: number of groups in the afternoon shift.
WAPED
July 1986



- 49 -
ANNEX 3-7
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CLASSROOM DISTRIBUTION ACCORDING TO RURAL POPULATION BY DISTRICT
Total Rural             %           Classrooms
District               Population 1/        of Total         to be Built
Malabo/Baney                    10,739                 5                6
Luba/Riaba                       8,057                 4                2
Bata                            18,634                 9                8
Mbini                           10,252                 5                8
Cogo                            11,577                 5                4
Evinayong                       15,824                 7                6
Akurenam                         8,329                 4                4
Niefang                         22,603                10               10
Ebebiyin/Nsok Nsomo             44,160                20               20
Micomiseng                      20,653                10               10
Mongomo                         15,571                 7                7
Anisok                          18,852                 9                9
Nsork/Akonibe                   12,001                 5                6
Total                       217,252               100              100
1/   1983 Census.
WAPED
July 1986



- 50 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 1 of 2
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC STANDARDS FOR SCHOOL BUILDINGS
A.   Basic Spaces, Areas and Specifications
1.   Type of Accommodation Unit:  Classroom
Number of Students 1/: minimum 33
optimum 48
maximum 64
Dimension: 7.20m x 8.64m
Net Area: 62m2
Optimum Area by Student: 1.3m2
Specifications: Can be used from 33 to 64 students. Groups
larger than 64 can work in two shifts. 2/
2.   Type of Accommodation Unit:  Multi-use hall/office
Dimension: 7.20m x 2.88m
Net area:  21m2
Specifications: Entrance to classrooms, and office if needed.
Open space projected to the exterior for ceremony use or rain
activity.
3.   Type of Accommodation Unit:  Front pavement
Dimension: 8.64m x 4.32m
Net area: 37m2
Specifications: Play area and open air ceremony platform.
4.   Type of Accommodation Unit:  Teacher's house
Dimension: 7.20m x 5.76m
Net area: 41.47m2
Specifications: House unit with living room, 2 bedrooms, and
bathroom. Kitchen according to local customs is outside. During
construction period it is used as warehouse and workers' sleeping
quarters. After classrooms are ready, the interior divisions are
to be completed.
1/   Number of students determines the combination of number of classrooms
to be constructed, the number of shifts and the number of new groups.
2/   Proposed in populated areas due to shorter distances to be covered by
students.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 2 of 2
5.   Type of Service:  Latrines
Dimension: 2m x 2m (covered area)
Net total area (2 units): 8m2
Specifications: Separated from classrooms for student use, with
evacuation to septic tank.
6.   Type of Service:  Well
Dimension: (to be determined on each site)
Specifications: To be digged and constructed for students and
teachers use (probable community use too). Rainwater from roofs
to be channeled to well for extra volume.
7.   Type of Space:  Site exteriors
Dimension: (to be determined in each case)
Area:       average 3000m2
minimum acceptable 1500m2
Specifications: Access roads, sidewalks, sports area, farm and
fence are the community responsibility.
B.   Design and Construction System
1.  Design:  Based on modules (M) (1.44m x 1.44m).  All dimensions
are multiple of these: 2N = 2.88m, 3M = 4.32m, SM - 7.20m,
6m - 8.64m, 8m = 11.52m
Classroom: 5M x 6M - 7.2m x 8.64m - 62.2 m2
Multiuse, office: 5M x 2M = 7.2m x 2.88m = 20.74m2
Front pavement: 6M x 3M
Teacher houses (2): 5M x 8M
2.   Construction Details
Roof "A" frames are all of identical dimensions, every
2M = 2.88m.
Distance between supports: 7.20m.
Notes: M - Module; m = meter
WAPED
July 1986



- 52 -
ANNEX 3-9
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STANDARD SCHOOL OF TWO CLASSROOMS AND TEACHER HOUSES
Cost Estimates in CFAF '000
(US$1 - CFAF 314 - April 1987)
Total    Unit         Total
Area               Area      Cost      Unit Cost
Accommodation Unit        (a2)     Quantity  (m2)   (CFAF/m2)   CFAF '000
A. Academic and Communal
Classrooms                 62          2       124      35         4,340
Multi Use/Office           21           1       21      35           735
Latrines                    8           1        8      50           400
153                5,475
Subtotal
B. Teachers' Houses           41           2       82      50         4,100
Total cost for a
standard school                                                    9,575 1/
Furniture (12% of
construction costs)                                               1,150
Site Works 2/ (12%
of construction costs)                                            1,150
1/ 1 warehouse and 50 schools at CFAF 9,575,000 each gives a total of
CFAF 488,325,000 (including site works the cost is CFAF 546,975,000).
2/   Includes sidewalks, paved areas and well.
WAPED
April 1987



- 53 -
ANNEX 3-10
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
*                               DETAILED SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION COSTS
(US$1 - CFAF 314 - April 1987)
Unit   Total           %
Item                  Unit    Amount   Cost   Cost  Total FEC 1/
A. MATERIALS
Cement                        Bag (50 kg)   700    3.3  29310   24.1  24.1
Steel Rods                        kg      1,400    0.5    700    7.3   7.3
Corrugated Aluminum Sheets
(0.6mm x 80x200)                   1        340    6.0  2,040   21.3  21.3
Roof Accesories                   set                      510    5.3   5.3
Timber 2/                         ms          7  150.0  1,050   11.0      -
Doors and Windows                  1         18   50.0    900    9.4   1.9
PaintinR                          m2        600    1.0    600    6.3   6.3
Subtotal (A)                                        8,110   84.7  66.2
B. LABOR
Mason                          mAnmonth       6   50.0    300    3.1      -
Skilled Helper                     "          3   30.0      90    0.9     -
Unskilled Helper                   "          9   20.0    180    1.9      -
Assistance to Communities 3/    bulk          -       -    390    4.1     -
Subtotal (B)                                           i&5   10.0      -
C. TRANSPORTATION
Freight 4/                                                 505    5.3   4.0
Total (A + B + C)                                     9,575  100.0  70.2
Note: Concrete floors, cement blocks and corrugated aluminum roofs were
selected as the most appropriate materials for the tropical rainy areas
where the schools would be built.  Wooden walls and thatched roofs, which
appear to have a lower cost, were not found appropriate because, without
expensive wood treatment, their duration averages only between 3 to 5
years. Cement block schools are expected to have a life expectancy of 25
to 30 years, and have low maintenance requirements.
1/   FEC - Foreign Exchange Component
/   Completed roof structure.
3/   Includes 2 wheelbarrows and 2 casts for making concrete blocks.
4/   Average per school according to a specialized firm, which is operating
in the country.
WAPED
April 1987



- 54 -
ANNEX 3-11
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
UNIT CONSTRUCTION COSTS
(US$1 - CFAF 314 - April 1987)
Cost per
Pupil 1/
By Space                          CFAF '000                 US$
2 classrooms        (62m2 x 2)                  4,340                  129
Multi-use           21m2                          735
Latrines and well                                 400
School total                               (5,475)                  162
2 teachers' houses (41m2 x 2)                   4,100
Base cost total                              9,575
By Kind                                                 % of Total
Cost of materials                               8,110                   85
Labor costs                                       960                   10
.,Transportation                                  505                     5
Total                                        9,575                  100
1/   Based on double shift and 96 students per classroom (2 shifts of 48
students).
WAPED
April 1987



- 55 -
ANNEX 3-12
Page 1 of 2
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION IMPLEMENTATION SCHEME
A. BAR CHART
Construction Phases
Preparation    |Implementation
I _1  I           II    I    III   I        IV         V             VI
1988                    1989                     1990                     1991
JFMAMJJASONDIJFMAMJJASONDIJFMAMJJASONDIJPMAMJJA SOND
Bata Warehouse 1/
Acurenam    Ebebiyin      Anisok     Mbini     MicomessenR    Bney
Ii   lI/Il /1     I//,,I1     I/I/I 1      I/I/I, 1    I,,/i/    1  I/III1
12   1/1//12     1111///2    1////112    1//11/12     1///112      ///"I
vinayong
Luba
2   1/////14    1/////14     1///1114    1/////14    1Il/I 1    M//i
Bata
3    1///115    1I////1      llI/Ill     5////         u
Aconibe                  Nsork                 Niefan_
I I///// 6    j////jl  1/////12    r/ /ii1    1i////
Nsoc Nscm
ji    I////2    I///13    I///  2           i//il
!4onaomo
12    1/////11    1/////14    1/////13    f///i
13    1/////12     I//Il//1    ]////14      I 
13    1/////12      II, ,/5    rjI
1/ Located In urban area and to remain as future school.



- 56-
ANMEX 3-12
Page 2 of2
B. ACTIVITIES DURING STANDARD CONSTRUCTION PHASE
DURATION 6 months
MDNTH NO.                |1  2  3 :  4  5  6
DISjRICT                          Bata
A A A: A A
A. Decision on Implementation                                  E :  |. Evaluation of Phase (adjust-
Legal Adquisition of Site         I        stnt of schedules for
B. Social Work in Community                   :                    following phase)
Procurement of Materials                   :                D. Local Transport, Construction
C. Preparation of Site                        I                   Period, Supervision
PREPARATION      :  IMPEENTAIIOW
WAPED
April 1987



- 57 -
ANNEX 3-13
Page 1 of 2
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
EDUCATION PLANNING AND IMPROVEMENTS IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PRACTICES
The project will support activities to improve the education
planning unit of the MOE and to develop the capacity to implement projects.
Following is a detailed list of activities to be financed under this
project component and their estimated costs.
Summary of Activities                  Date        Estimated Cost
(US$)
1. Future Planning of the Sector
(a) Updating of the school map in
collaboration with UNESCO              March 1988       20,000
(b) Collection and publishing of school                     10,000 x 4
statistics                             Annually         40,000
(c) Study on future needs of secondary
and university education               December 1989   20,000
(d) Investment plan                        March 1990       20,000
2. Project Monitoring and Auditing of                          25,000 per year
Accounts                                   Annually         plus US$23,250
for equipment
Detailed Activities
Updating of School Map
The planning unit of MOE will update the school map in March
1988. Assistance would be provided by UNESCO for data gathering and data
analysis purposes. The project will finance: (a) printing of data
gathering instruments (US$500); (b) field visits by two planning officers
(US$5,000); (c) two meetings with the supervisors, one to plan field visits
and one to analyze results (US$4,500). The updated version of the school
map would then be utilized for the proposed investment plan outlined below.
Collection and Publishing of School Statistics
The planning unit of MOE will revise the instruments used for
collecting statistics on school enrollments and on school efficiency
(repetition and drop-out). The new instruments will be presented to the



- 58 -
ANNEX 3-13
Page 2 of 2
supervisors in an annual meeting. Supervisors will be asked to train
school principals in the use of the new forms. The planning unit will
gather the data, analyze it and publish it in an annual report to be
distributed to all schools (1,000,copies). The project will finance:
(a) printing of forms (US$4,000); (b) meeting with the supervisors every
year (US$3,000); (c) printing of ivn.ual reports (US$5,000); and
(d) equipment needed by planning office for this work (US$1,000).
Study on Future Needs of Secondary and Higher Education
This study will analyze the organization of general secondary
schools, normal schools and vocational schools (the polytechnic and
agricultural schools). It will project manpower needs and employment
possibilities for graduates to recommend the rates of growth of secondary
and university level education. Additionally, it would estimate recurrent
cost levels and investment needs. For higher education it will also
recommend policies which should orient the training of professionals abroad
(area3 of study, financing mechanisms and selection procedures for
students).
Development Plan
Using the school map data, the updated statistics, and the study
on future needs of secondary and higher level education, the planning unit
will prepare a development plan with its corresponding investment plan for
1990-1995. This plan will show: (a) school enrollment projections;
(b) classroom requirements; (c) textbook requirements; and (d) teacher
requirements. In addition, it will show recurrent cost implications of
expanding the system utilizing various possible scenarios, i.e., with
different student teacher ratios, with different teacher salary scales and
with different promotion rLatios. The project will finance three months of
technical assistance to the planning unit for preparation of the plan.
Project Monitoring and Auditing
The project will support strengthening of the Project Monitoring
Unit of MOE /Unidad de Sequimento de Projectos (USP). This unit will,
among others, organize the annual meetings of donors and it will prepare an
annual report on project activities using the criteria found in Annex 3-17.
Project accounts will be audited by a private firm to be hired under the
project. Detailed terms of reference will be prepared and sent to the Bank
for comment during the first year of project implementation. Total cost of
monitoring and auditing activities is estimated to be US$123,250
distributed as follows: US$23,250 for equipment (Annex 3-3), US$12,000 per
year for USP personnel and US$13,000 for contract with the auditing firm.
WAPED
April 1987



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Organizational Chart of Project Unit and Functional Relations
Dfrectoro-tca
L                                                                   |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
<; d tJdt i i H~~~~~~~~ow Of                  U       rdtW                          i    Ofi 
Coodmp.n
wot( .Wh  t   tk
I                                                     dL  fi  tI>ffI t>fi tI
| |  UIOE  |   Team    Teamt  TeamI   Tffam|  Teaml|  T4eam ||Team ||Teom|  Tewm
Wo&d Bw*-3096:2
"hiI1



- 60 -
Annex 3-14
Page 2 of 2
The PIU was designed making a deliberate effort to ensure that it
would: (a) be efficient in implementing the school construction program
which is a new activity for the Ministry of Education; and (b) make maximum
use of existing units for training of teachers, curriculum development, and
for education planning. A director who reports to the Minister of Educa-
tion will head the PIU. He will be assisted by an educator, an architect
and a project administrator.
The educator will be in charge of textbook printing and distri-
bution contracts. Additionally, he will coordinate training activities
with CENAFOD, the MOE teacher training unit and with the normal schools,
and he will coordinate the education planning activities with the MOE
planning unit.
The architect will head the school construction unit. He will be
assisted by an internationally recruited consultant, who will visit the
project for one month every semester; a permanent construction assistant; a
social promotion officer, who will be organizing the comiaunity partici-
pation unit; and a UN volunteer to assist him. For building the schools
there will be nine work teams with three construction supervisors. These
teams will be paid on a force account basis.
The administrative officer will be in charge of project
accounting and procurement, in addition to regular administrative duties
like office organization and vehicle maintenance. For his accounting and
procurement duties he will be assisted by an internationally recruited
advisor who will work with him during the first year of the project.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3-15
Page 1 of 2
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT STAFF
Project Director
The project director will report directly to the Minister of Education and
will be responsible for:
(a) selection, supervision and direction of all project unit staff;
(b) selection of consultants and specialists, approval of their terms
of reference and administration of their contracts;
(c) making the necessary arrangements for calling bids, evaluation of
bids and awarding of contracts;
(d) ensuring maintenance of project accounts and timely preparation
of auditing reports;
(e) coordination of all project activities with MOE units and with
the Bank and UNDP; and
(f) preparation of progress reports.
Qualifications: Manager with a professional degree and at least 5 years
experience in managerial positions. Knowledge of a foreign language
(English or French).
Project Architect
Under the general direction of the Project Director, the architect will:
(a) assist in selection of construction workers and supervisors;
(b) coordinate all construction, furniture and equipment activities
including preparation of furniture and equipment lists and bid
documents;
(c) supervise construction works and processing certificates of pay-
ments to construction workers and supervisors; and
(d) participate in preparation of project implementation schedules
and project reports.
Qualifications: Architect or engineer with at least two years experience
in construction activities in a developing ccuntry, and with experience in
the construction of rural schools, preferably with experien e in using
comunity participation schemes.



- 62 -
ANNEX 3-15
Page 2 of 2
Project Administrator
Under the direction of the Project Director, the Project Administrator
will:
(a) coordinate all procurement activities including preparation of
equipment, furniture and material lists, establishing procedures
for bid evaluation, inspecting and reviewing goods;
(b) setting up the accounting procedures, ensuring that financial
regulations are complied with when receiving goods and paying of
funds related to project activities; and
(c) coordination of services for the Project Unit (warehouse, trans-
portation, etc.).
Qualifications: Experience in accounting and procurement activities, at
least two years of higher education.
Project Educator
Under the direction of the Project Director, the project educator will:
(a) prepare, with CENAFOD, detailed teacher training plans;
(b) coordinate textbook revision, printing, transportation and
distribution activities;
(c) coordinate with the planning office of the MOE the planning
studies (school map);
(d) assist in organization of the new schools; and
(e) participate in preparation of periodic progress reports.
Qualifications: Professional degree and experience in textbook production
and teacher training activities.
Social Promoter
Under the direction of the project architect, the social promoter will:
(a) assist in organizing the communities which will be building the
schools;
(b) assist the MOE supervisors and the project educator in organizing
the new schools; and
(c) participate in the training of teachers.
Qualifications: Experience in organizing community participation and in
training of teachers.
WAPED
July 1986



- 63 -
ANNEX 3-16
Page 1 of 2
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
EQUIPMENT AND OPERATING EXPENDITURES FOR THE PROJECT UNIT
(CFAF '000)
Unit
Cost             Total
Equipment                       (CFAF '000)          Cost
3 vehicles                                         5,250               15,750
6 motorcycles 1/                                     210                1,260
Office furniture, equipment, supplies                                  10,000
Operating Costs
a) vehicle maintenance (20% of purchase
cost per year (0.2 x 4 x (15.750 +
1.260))                                                            13,600
b)  gasoline for 3 vehicles (250,000 kmts
x 0.16 lts/km x CPA 290/lt) x 4 years
x 3 vehicles                                                   13,920,000
c)  gasoline for 6 motorcycles (3,000 kmts x
0.03 lts/km x CFA 290/lt x 2 years)
x 6                                                               313,200
14,246,808
1/   Three motorcycles to be bought at the beginning of the project and
three to be bought in the third year of project implementation.
Cost
No. of    Per Trip    Total
Travel Expenditures                 Trips        CFAF    CFAF '000
a) Travel between Bata-Malabo-Bata
- Project Director (2 trips per year)            8
- Project Architect (1 trip per year)            4
- Project Supervisor (1 trip)                    1
- Social promoter                                3
- Others                                         4
Total                                      20     45,000        900



- 64 -
ANNEX 3-16
Page 2 of 2
No. of       Per
Visits      Diem       Total
Per School    CFAP    CFAF '000
b) Per diems for visiting schools
- Project Director                               2
- Architect                                      5
- Architect assistant                           15
- Supervisors (2 weekly visits during
3 months)                                    30
- Total for one school                          52
- Total for 50 schools                       2,600      6,000    15,600
Project Unit Salaries
(US$1 X CAFA 314 - April 1987)
No. of     US$1             Total
Months     Month  (US$ '000)  (CFAF '000)
Project Director                     60       1,000      60.0        18,840
Secretary                            60         140       8.4         2,638
Project Educator                     60         500      30.0         9,920
Architect                            48         800      38.4        12,058
Architect Assistant                  48         350       16.8        5,275
Social Promotor                      48         350      16.8         5,275
Guardian - Warehouse 1               48         240      11.0         3,454
3 Construction supervisors
(48 months each)                   144         230      33.1        10,393
Accountant                           60         500      30.0         9,920
Other                               180          50       9.0         2,826
Total                                                             79,599



- 65 -
ANNEX 3-17
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
OUTLINE OF PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
Project Objectives       ProJect Activities             Indicators
(a) Improve training and   - Print and distribute   - Number of books
learning efficiency       textbooks                 printed, distri-
buted and in use in
the classroom
- Training of teachers   - Number of teachers
in the use of books       trained
- Quality of training
provided (schedule,
program, partici-
pation)
- Improve school          - Number of multi-
organization              graded and parvulos
teachers trained
- Number of schools
with new programs
- Appointment of          - Number of teachers
teachers                  appointed
- Student teacher
ratios
(b) Expand physical        - Build 100 classrooms   - Status of construc-
facilities                                          tion
- Community partici-
pation
(c) Reinforce planning     - School map               - Status
and implementation
capacity of MOE        - Education statistics   - Annual report printed
- Financial plan          - Status
- Organization of         - Description of activ-
project unit              ities carried out,
achievements and
problems to be solved
WAPED
July 1986



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROWECT
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS COST SLAMRY
(FCFA MlIlion)           (US$ '000)
_____________________  _______________-------- % Foreign
Local Foreign Total    Local  Foreign Total   ExchwnV3
yuan. cosmon  mmunww  unuosun .aum*u 00numuw m  uuiW=n
t. INVESTMENT COSTS
________________
A. CIVIL VMCS                                                    161.2  376.2  537.4   513.4 1,198.0 1.711.5           70
B. FURNITURE. EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
SCHOOL FURNITURE . EQUI . MAT                                  22.0   51.2   73.2    69.9   163.2  233.1            70
OFFICE FUR . EQU . VEHIC AND SUPPLIES                             -   49.3   49.3         -   157.0  157.0         100
TRAINING MATERIALS                                                -    15.3   15.3        -   48.6   48.6          tOO
TEXTBOOKS                                                         -  210.0  210.0         -  668.8  668.8          100
Sub-Total FURNITURE. EUtPMENT AND MATERIALS                       22.0  325.8  347.7    69.9 1.037.5 1.107.S           94
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE . STUDIES AND LOCAL TRAINING
--------------------------------------------------
PEDAGOGICAL EXPERTS                                               -   147.4  147.4        -  469.5  469.5          100
TEACHER TRAINING                                               36.1   64.2  120.3   114.6  268.2  383.2             70
STUDIES                                                        18.6   44.0   62.8    60.0  140.0  200.0             70  0%
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE . STUDIES AND LOCAL TRAINING       54.9  275.6  330.5   174.9  977.7 1.052.7            83
D. OPERATING EXPENDITURES
_______________________
COMUUNICATIONS                                                  0.1    0.2    0.4       0.3    0.8      1.1         70
TRANSPORTATION AND INTERNAL TRAVEL                             16.8   38.6   55.1    52.7  122.9  175.6             70
PER DIEN                                                        5.3   12.3   17.6    16.6   39.2   56.0             70
Sub-Total OPERATING EXPENDITURES                                  21.9   51.2   73.1    69.8   162.9  232.7            70
E. SALARIES
PIU SALARIES                                                   80.0       -   80.0   254.6        -  254.8           -
TEACHER SALARIES                                              180.0       -   190.0   573.2       -  573.2           -
HONORARIES                                                      7.1       -    7.1    22.5        -   22.5           -
CONSULTANTS                                                    31.7   73.9  105.5   100.6  235.2   336.0            70
Sub-Total SALARIES                                               296.7   73.9  372.6   951.3  235.2 1,166.5            20
F. PREPARATION FACILITY                                           15.1   35.2   50.2    48.0  112.0  160.0             70
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                 573.8 1,137.7  ,t711.6  1,827.5 3,623.4 S,450.8       66
PhysIcal Contlngwncies                                             78.8  154.8  233.7   251.0  493.1   744.1            66
Price Contngencies                                                 35.4   42.0   77.4   112.6  133.7  246.3             54
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                  608.0 1.334.6 2,022.6  2,191.1 4.250.2 6,441.3        66 O 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 
----------------_ _- _----------- ------- --- ------------ ------------------------------------                             O 
April 22. 1987  18:28



pRIkm? EDUICATIONPIOdECT
O8MS  iOf S       lAR   ACCOISTS
UIS, *000
Ifsm Cont                  Phyaleol COnti fmels           Price Cioti anice                 Tot1  list: Oamt.
Lalti                          t.e.l                        Local                              locli
lEast.  lOtte. a         Por.  alat. Duties           FM.  (fuel. lOtioe a                    (Eamt.  lOtte. a
for. t.1  Taaes)   Taxes  Total    Eac. Teasel  Team   Total  tL laze.)  Tom    TaoWt  fer. Eact  Teas)   Tam    I.t.l
tnn..ntXW   unse--n  -sect.. tsenon    n a attn. *w cnn. sacws s.  nut. tssa.nnss zast.eta  sacta    nt--tn ---    ttst Zt-tt-st  attfl
t. INVEStNNI COSTS
__________,_____
I. CIVIL lmS                                                          1. ISL O    513.4      - l. I. 5  239.  f,0. ?        -  342.3  64.7 n7.4           - 142.0    t. 902. 3   6.S         - 2, 1". a
L  flit1W1E1 , 114161111 410 MATERIAtS
SCOWL f     tMITUM    I EWI, VAT                                      let.2   669         -  233.t  32.6  t4.0           - 46.6  tt.O   12.S          - 23.5         206L9    96.4        -  3SO.3
Ofatl  FOR . E1, VEMICt N11o so0WtES                                 W5t.0                -   I5t.0  31.4       -        - 31.4    4.3        -        -   4.3       112.I       -        -   192.       1
T3ll093 63*1181*5                                                     46.6       -        -   4& 8    9.t       -        -  9.1    S.*       -         -  3.          61.3                     6 1.3
TEX1n13ml5                                                           686K        -        -  US&.8  133.8                  t3-  -    8.6  30.2  -0. 0  - 30.2       832.6        -        -  832. 
S%6-Totel FMITOL E4fIPlUt AND MATERIALS                               t.O3t.5    61.9        - 1.107.5  20t.5   14.0        - 221.5   4.5  12.S           - 5t1.20 03.S6    64               - 1.310.0
C. TEtCEICAL 8SSIStMCE . $011DES M0  LOCAL TRAINI6N 
PED0AUICAL PIERTS                                                    4fA.5       -        -  469.5       -      -        -    -       -      -         -     -       489.S       -        -   469.5
TE1C0E1  TRAtlPlS                                                    2UL2   114.9         -  383.2  13.4    5.t          - I12    O.S3  11.6          -  22.1        291.9   132.5        -  424.4
STUDIES                                                              140.0   f0A0         -  2O.0       -                                                           140.0    60.0        -   n0.0
Sub-Ptest TECWICU   SSISTS1CE . STUDIES  0D LOCAL TRAINING              8t.?  tt4.9          - 1t f2.    13.4   5.          -  19.2  10.3   11.8          - 22.1        901.4  t92.5         - 1t0940
IL OPERATtING EMIEUDITURES
C0WIC8TliUIS                                                           0. 8    0.3        -     t. 1    0.2    0.1       -  0.2    0.0       . I       -  O.I          1.0     0.5        -      1.4
TRAIS TOTIW  AIM IlUTAL TRAVEL                                       122.9    52.?        -   175.6  24.6   10. 5        - 35.1    7 .6    8.0         -  15. 6       55. t   t. 2        *   22. 3
PER DiEl                                                              39.2   t8.8         -   560    t 8    3.4          -  11.2    2.6    2.6         -  5.5         49.?    23.0             t2.7
S.t-otalt OPERATING EWP19ITOMS                                          162.9   69.8         -  232.?  32.6  14.0           - 45.5   10.3   10.9          - 21.2        205      8 94.?      -  300.4
E. SBt4RIES
Pto SALARtiES                                                            -  2. a              254.8      -      -        -     -       -      -              -           -   254.8        -  254.8
tE1*011  St*1ES                                                         -  1tl32         -   5t3.2      -  114.         - 114.5      -      -         -     -           -  681.9         -  681.8
U *RS                                                                         22. 5 22.5  -   25                -        -     -      -       -        -     -           -   22.5         -    22.5
ttttXotS                                X". X  to@. 8 -235.2   100.8                      -  33O0
SuI-Totet SALARtES                                                      25.2   15t.3         - t. 8L5       -  lt4.6        - 114.8       -      -        -     -       23.2 1,O68O          - 1.301.2
f. PEPAATtI  FACIIUTY                                                   tt2.0   48.0         -   16.        -      -        -     -      -       -        -     -       *12.0   48O          -   1'0.0
- -- - --- - -- -- -- - -- - -- -- - -- -- -- - --  ... : -- -- - --    -- -- - -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- - -- -- -- - -- - - - - -- - -- -- - -- - - - - --  -
Total tIEST6 Ot5 COSTS                                                   ,623.4 1. 2t.5        - 5450.8  4913.  251.0          - 144.1   33.1  112.6        - 241L3     4.2.02 2 t91.1         - 6,441.3
Totl                                                                     3S,62.4 1 862.5         - 5. 4S.8  493. 1 251.0         - 44. t t1 . 7  112.6        - 246 3     4,250.2 2 19t. I        - IL441.3
us 
VI



11mu   tnmlby ltmt     ftowm
L  nSM92 mn CME  a                                      C CtsIIupU.b
ILa t    miit mmlaUs _t32 t.  P8.4
EL hf_ t   16515
0. 3111 5                                                                  -          -          -  11,465.,              -   53140.0e 20.0 31,6.0
$mm3133  EWIMTINIS   no. anKf$ lDEM&*St
su         llE go.    . Imu lt                                          - M8.OS0.0            -   ss.m.         3      -    N,sst o  so   %e.e
Two=S PCI *smt It                                                                        -                -     34, 36.0    4,27.  24.0  659.4
Bemum  m is                                                     tsm.O -                      -           -            -      10   2.0  3
_5                                                              21-0              -          -           -            -   u-         0. 
3S-1tol 16061135l. 451HE   m lTtRiaii                             24,.0    #4,660.0             -   54,1000       34. IOI.0   4,747.09 4. Z9,569.
C. lim at MISTUlS,  IUE  I    t 513533658.71 116
uemmgu  uzpms                                                    I    Lo    fson.o            -          -      IB    o    M. 424.0  to0       Q.0
TE    Tom=                                                       64430.0   16,664             -          '            -   123t14.0  t5    6,415. 
5II393U                                                                 -          -          -          -      6     .*    61,60.   0.0       0.0
I T L 53511 * 5 5 U  L1- 1-376,---.0   1--172.0  - ---11;660.    |50            6,3.
S-Tteal   tt SCISt, G   ltlxt    11u  M  tLa    imti            ^                    e                 -                       ^         a  6.6XtIL
0. 11119711 133315EE
-    l    aS         tS -  -     -        350.0       350. 0 200        0
tlE ITo  MID IIUNL tl                                            4000.9            -          -          -       . 146      56,340"0 20.0  11025.
PEI min                                                                _-   1.00.0                               M _  15e66o  11,580.0 20. 0   , 51 0
S-lrtota70O4 ElWTIU  IZPIilKS                                      40,060. 0     .1.            -          -      310.0    no706   20a0 s11 152
1.   58__                                                                                           .3115                               Qo.
M 3188511                                                                                     -                  0,000.0    61,000.0  0.0      0.0
urni  murQIEs                                                           -          -  10600.0ea  -                         38,00.  20.  3600.0
mlBES                                           '                    6 5-                     -          -            -      1.0  0.0           0.0
u1 Ots                                                                  -          -                   0-                      50t0  0.0         . 00
-.- - -- - - - - - --- -- -- ---- -.-- -.- - - - - - - -- -- ---- - -,- -- -- -- ---  - - - - - - - -- - --- -- -- - -- -
f. C3UP037103 P&6J                                                         -          -    -                      56,246.W     50,240.0  0.       0.0
total aIMsIMIg  mS,                                                   467,414.0   155.0W   1060.00,0   MoS5040        M1M,01 .0  211,516.0  12.7233,100.
i3,1ESil 1C1m                                                          43,41340   S5T.0   366.000.0  10o,50.o        216,05.0  t1111,51o   1? 13,6
p't0a3 bm3f los                                                      10,26s 71    6111.0   3,0o0.   I332o 000       131.2   223,660.1  0.0         0 0
pribo a13swk                                                         ts7.8 sya   S630.5           -   65%            3,8154    135.3  15.I IL    06.OK6
tot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*Zalaa ptee*| COMSILSL                                     as. UL S8g astsswaelLe %t%SL   IL    -satla$
i..er       m                                                                                         onsa  Q  Wa m.  8 -  57,1. 1  3.    3345o4. 1. 644.0 I t  0
a(D
, ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                 1
CZ



EIATIAL  UINEA
PRIMAR  EDUCATION PRWCT
PROECT COST SUIARY
(fCPA Mltl0on)         (US$ '000)                   % Total
---------------------    -----------------------   %  Forelgn   Sas
Local Foreign Total    Local Foreign Total    xchwg    Costs
Sasmo  WWWWAIW Wassumue  =umasum  aSansoe uuua.us  .a.ueuuu  =mamsam
A. PART A TEACHIS IM       ES        3.4  429.0  467.4   122.3 1,366.3 1.488.6            a2       27
8. CLASS M1AEIMN                     21.7   05.3   87.6    00.2  200.6  278.6            .75        5
C. ADDITIONAL TEACHERS              160.0       -   180.0   573.2        -  573.2          -       11
D. PART S PYSICAL FACILITIES        21o.5  491.1  701.5   670.2 1,863.0 2,234.1           70       41
E. PART C PLAWING AND MANAGEMT    123.2  181.9  275.1    32.5  483.6  876.1               as       i6
Total BSELINE COSTS                   573.3 1,137.7 1,711.6  ,827.5 3,622.4 5,450.          66      100
Physical Contiosn-les               78.8  154.0  223.7   251.0  403.1  744.1             66       14
Price Contlrgmncles                 35.4    42.0   77.4   112.6  123.7  246.3            54        5
--- -  ------- - -- ----- - ----_---- --- -_- --- - - - _- - --  _-- -- ----- -_- -- -- -
Total PROJECT COSTS                   688.0 1,334.6 2,022.6  2,191.1 4,250.2 6,441.2       s6       1t8
wommn smamaum a uneam  .amw==a maaamus= 0e=000. asma.uaua   amuflmm
April 22. 1987  18:28
1 1
io 



EQATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMAIR EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 101. 'TEXTBOOKS AND   tNRIN
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs tn I
unit    Unit Cost   6 8         00   91   92  93 Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
________________
A. INSTRUCTIAL MlATERIALS AND TEXTBOOKS
--------------------------------------
TEXTBOOK PRINTING                                             40t.3    -    - 267.5    -   -  668.8
TEXTBOOK TRANSPORTATION                                        38.2     -    - 25.5    -   -   63.7
TEXTBOOK DISTRIBUTION                                             -  12.7  25.5    - 25.5   -   63.7
SPANISH AUTHORS FEES                      Book           314   5.0  5.0  5.0    -   -   -    1S.0
GUINEAN AUTHORS FEES                      Bcok           157   2.5  2.5  2.5    -   -   -    7.5
Sub-Total INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS AND TEXTBOOKS                  447.0 20.2 33.0 293.0 25.5    -  8S1.7
B. REINFORCEMENT OF CENAFOD
CURRICULUM AND TRAINING EXPERTS         Nan-month      2,512  60.0 60.0 80.0 60.0 48.0    -  368.0
LOCAL CURRICULUM AND TRAINING STAFF     Man-month         35   2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7    -   -    10.7
FUR . EQUIP , AND MATERIALS                                    24.1 24.1    -    -   -   -   40.2
Sub-Total REINFORCEMENT OF CENAFOO                               106.8 106.8  82.7 82.7 48.0    -  426.9
C. TRAINING tN USE OF TEXTBOOKS                                   97.2 07.2    -    -   -   -   194.4
D. TRAINING MATERIALS                                              9.7  9.7  9.7  9.7 9.7   -   48.6
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                              660.7 233.6 125.4 385.4 83.2    - 1,488.6
m-au. =m*usin Isiu  mum. 3wmg SWum *U--U
Total                                                                660.7 233.9 125.4 385.4683.2    - 1,488.6
ingugS eseem mamma mamm. monuo SO=. mn===m.
April 22. 1987 18:27
0 1
lc
4. 



EOUATORIAL GUIKE
PRiME? EUIICATt O  PROECT
Table 10l. TEXTBOOtS ANo TUIVEIH
Totals Icutltung Contingsncls          -----------------------------------------
(1s$ Io0)                            INTERM KV ASSOCIATION
8B    89    90    91    92   93 Total       88    89 9   91    92   93 Total
*sssaar  sss asun*  a=x= tS:S5 S2:_S==  -2==S= _==as Can= a1=== 5=SZ= -==us =a====-
1. INEST T COSTS
.u IIUSTICTIOII PATERIALS AMD TEXTBOOKS
TEXTBOOK PRIETIN                               491.2     -      - 341.6    -    -   832.8  491.2    -    - 341.6    -    -   82.8
TEXTBOOK TRUSFPOUTATION                         41.1     -      - 33.5    -    -    80. 6   47.1    -    -  33.5    -    -    80.6
TEZT31 DISTREITIOI                                 -  16. 0  32. 6    - 34.7    -    83.3       - 16 0 32.6     - 34.7    -    83.3
SPAISH AUTHORS FEES                              5.0   5.0   5.0      -    -    _    15. 0    S.0  5.0  5.0     -    -    -    15.0
UJXA  AUTHORS FEES                               2.5   2.5   2.5      -         -    -  7.5    2.5  2.5  2.5    -    -    -       .S5
Sub-Total INSTU0CTIONAL RTERIALS AMD TEXTBOOKS 545.6  23.5  40. 1 37S. 1 34.7    - 1.019.2  545.8 23.5 40.1 375.1 34.7    - 1.019.2
S  OEINFORCENENT OF CEIF00
_________________________
CoRIcSLURAUDTRAIU10EXPERTS                      80.0  80.0  80.0    .0 480      -   360         -    -    -     -    -    -        -
LOCAL CORRICULON AND ItIWiGIH  STAFF             2.1   2.9   3.0   3.1    -    -    11.9        -    -    -     -    -    -        -
FUR. EWIP . AND RATERIAIS                       29.S  29.S      -     -    -    -    59.3       -    -    -     -    -    -        -
Seb-Total KINFO TCEKET OF CEIAFOD                 112.4 112. 7   3.0  83.1 48 0    -   439.2       -    -    -      -    -    -       -
. TRAININGIN UKSE OF TEXTBOOS                     104.7 106.7      -     -    -    -   211.S       -    -    -     -    -    -        -
L  TRAIMIS RATERIALS                               11.   1t. 0  12.1  12.4 12.8    -    61.3       -    -    -     -    -    -        -
Total fVESTNT COSTS                                  774.8 255.0 135.2 470.6 9S.6    - 1,731.1  545.8 23.S 40. 1 375.1 34.7    - 1.011.2
an:-,ttSX1IS: -21tt :ilSt2 *o1:es *us*ItS Bananas  8 ItSXS =*=a sm:0m, *gas= z = :tSn  =SZ5=
Total                                                 714.8 255 0 135.2 4t0.6 95.6        1,731.1  545.8 23.5 40.1 315.1 34.1    - 1, OL 2
sssas atz*Was==s ran==  *UZZ as**  -Susanna  *sWaW czSS     sax S W3ZZV ==s5 W2=a a :_S
11 22. 1981  1&26
01
VIIa



EQATORIAL WJINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PRO;JECT
Table 102. SCHOOL ORGANIZATION
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs n S
Unit     Unit Cost  86  89  90   S1  92  92 Total
Cmaammam m s um ismmO=OmamO name maa amman mama Oman mama mamm
I. INmVESTENT COSTS
________________
A. PRESCOL
PRESCHOOL TRAININ                                                        - 21.1  20.3 20.3   -   - 67.7
PER DIENS TO SUPERVISE TEACHERS IN SCHOOLS    Fee per day          6    - 0.6   0.6 0.6    -   -   1.7
PRESCHOOL EXPERT                               Mn-month        2.812    - 24.0  24.0   -   -   - 48.0
EQUIPWENT AND MATERIALS FOR PRESCHOOL                                    - 5.7  1.4.1*1.4    -   - 286.
Su-Total PRESCHDOL                                                          - 87.3 66.2 22.3    -   - 145.9
S. ORGANIZATION OF DOUBLE SHIFTS                Fees per day          6    - 0.6  0.6  0.6    -   -   1.7
C. R.TIGRAOED SCHOOLS                                                                                                        a
____________________
EQUIPMNT A# MATERIALS FOR 1LT SCHOOLS                                    - 3.6  7.2  7.2    -   -  18.0
TRAINING IN  ULTIGRADED                                                  -   - 55.2 55.2    -   - 110.4
PER DIEMS TO SUPERVISE MULTIRDED TEACHERS   FEES PER DAY           6          -  1.0  1.0  1.0    -  2.9
Su-Total UILTIGRADED SCHOOLS                                                - 3.6 63.3 6.23  1.0    - 132.2
Total INVESTMNT COSTS                                                          - 61.5 120.2 96.2  1.0    - s78.8
mam mman manna mama mama mama mamma
Total                                                                              .5 120.2 96.2  1.0   - 278.8
maa -am  m--m- --n- mama mama seamma
April 22. 1987 18:27
co



EOUTORtIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUATION PWQIECT
Table 102. SCHOOL ORatIZ&TION
De1taled Cost Table
(FCFA '000)
Totals Including ContiwncIota       ------------------------------------
(USi 'COO)                      ITERN 0EV ASSOCIATION
as   S    ED   e1    92  63 Total  68  GO  68  01   92  93  Total
name me mon ameMs ane-   ae swee seae     n same    se.  man
t. INVESIW6T COSTS
A. PIE_SUOL
PRESCHDOL TRAIMNIS                               - 29.7  22.7  23.4    *    - 75.e           -   -   -    - _   _
PR DIEMS TO SUPE RVSE TEACHERS IN SCH3OLS      ' 0.   0.7   0.6                 2.2     -    -   -   -    -   -        -
PESCHOOL EER                                     -4.0  24.6       -   -   - 48.0               -   -   -         -     -
Pnp r AM  MIATERIALS FOR PRaSCHOL               - .2  14.6  15.0               8 -26.?  - 7.2 14.6 15.0         - 36.7
-    - - -- - - -   - -   --- -- -    ---e - -e --- - -- e- - -- -  ----
sub-Total PRESCHOOL                                 - 61.6  62.0  39.1    -   - 162.6      - 7.2 14.6 15.0    -    - 3.7
U. _o6NZATIaG  OF DOUIE SHIFTS                      - 0.7   0.7  0.6    -    -  2.2        -   -    -   -
C. IJLTIOADE SacHoOL
-----------------
EUIP$MNT NO MATERIALS FOR WILT SCHOOLS           -  4.   9.2   .5    -   - 22.2         - 4.5 9.2  .        -   - 23.2
TIRAINSI  In  ULTIORADED                         -    - 61.6  63.3    -   -125.2        -   -   -   -   -    -         _
PE  I     TO SUPEVISE  nMULTeIA  TEA@ERS        _         1.2   1   1.3       _ .       -   -   -   -   -    -         _
5ub-Total NLTIUDED SCHOOLS                             4.8 72.2  74.2  1.    -. 12.2       - 4.5  .2 8.5    -          23.2
__ _ _--  __- _----- _-- _-_ ------ -  _---- ---- - -- - -- ____-_
Total IwUsiSuN COSTS                                     66.6 135.0 114.1  1.3   - 317.2      - 11.? 23.8 24.S    -   - 39**
museases aomoa sasoa seses   e   na -owe msw                 cs n      c seeno
T@tst                                                   - 66.6 135.0 114.1  1.8    _ 317.1     - 11.? 2.8 24.5 *        e 3.9
__ __ ---_-_--    __-_---------- -- --    -------  --   ~- ~ ~ ~ ~ ---~---------_----____-_ ____ _-_____ ___ __-
awIls 22. low; 18:2?
o t
U'



Tbe TIM ma UIm
ft led 0S" Tbtb
Totals Including ContR1ignios
Sam Costs In S                           (US 'l00)
Unit --------  ----------------------- -----------------------------
Unit    Cost  as  Be  s0   of   92   93  Total  OS  so  00   91   ea   03 Total
INES1rTNE   COSTS
A. TEACHER SAL  1ES    Staff YEAS  240 38.2 76.4 114.6 152.0 191.1      573.2  45.3 91.7 137.6 163.4 2.3     - 67.3
Total IMSTMIT COSTS                        3.3 76.4 114.6 12.3 1.1    - 73.2  45. 31.7 137.6 18.4 22.3    - 67.3
mamw   --m mamma mam  mamm m c m      ema=.mm              a ma*   Maac mamoa
totolu                                       8.2 76.4 114.6 152.8 11.1   - 57. 2 45.0  1.7 137.6 163.4 229.3   - 687.9
ame come mae sousm macma ma mcame  seon cma ==amma ancan wa*m   m a mmw
Aprtl 22. 17  18:27
00 
00 
(A I
QI
t.



EIUATORIAL WIxuEA
PRIMlY EcOCaTIOl PRWECT
tablo 103. TEAER SALRIES
Expend tureS by F inanciers
(US$ '000)
INTERN DEV ASSOCIATION                    (OVERNIRNT OF ELO
S8  as   90    91    92   93 Total   88   89. 90  91   92    93  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. TEACHER SALARIES    43.6 82.5 110.1 110.1 68.8    - 418.0   2.3  9.2 27.S 73.4 160.5    - 272.9                k
Total INVESTMENT COSTS    43.6 82.5 110.1 110.1 68.8    - 415.0  2.3  9.2 27.8 73.4 160.S    - 272.9
=;WW umum  unman seems mama =    mama  awes mesa manm  msaa= mama -  nmw=a
Total                        43.6 82.5 110.1 110.1 68.8       415.0   2.3  9.2 27.5 73.4 160.5    - 272.9
masam    mamma mamma mum. mama rum.. mamo memo mama seem umaun momo mwamm
AprIl 22. t98?  18:27
X
o> w
I o



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROWECT
Table 1O4. PHYSICAL FACILITIES
Detaled Cost Table
Total*s tecludfng C ntig---el- -
BMW Coats In 8                             105$0001                            ITE  KEW BSSOIATIOI
uniltit Cst                    80   91   92  93Ttl                            9 891    2                          90   91   92  93 Total
1. IMESTINET COSTS
I. SUIOl COuST0Cttlt
scmaOt                                       5. 475   34.920.2 33. 313.9    -   -  8WI.S  42.9 22.4 <O1.54 2.8    -   - 1 119.8  42.9 212.0 401.5 412.8    -   - t.tt9.a
TE76N13 IOUSES                               4.100  26.1 t  t6. 235.0 225.0   -   -  652.9  32.2 196 6 300.? 39. 1   -   -  636.5  32.2 IS8& 300. t 309. t   -   -  838 5
SITE tORlS                                           22.4  85.4  65.4  33.6    -   -  tBS.8  27.6 62.0  63.6 44.2    -   -  237.5  27.8  82.0 83.6  44.2    -   -  237.5
Sth-Totat SCIIO  COtS?UUCTIOW                             .4 431.3 614.3 582.5   -   - t.7tt.5  t02.t 54t.3 765. 7 18.    -   - 2. 195. 8  102.? t54t. 3 7t5.8 76.    -   - 2. 195.8
L  SCIIWt E ITtlFO                                         - 22.4  65.3 65.3 33.6   -  I8S.6         - 26.1 63.6  85.9 45.8    -  243.4       - 28.1 83.9 85.9 45.8    -  243.4
t. PIC EX  RtS FRo CONSTRCIONCtA
AROIITECT                      NoN 1IWltl     3.768  s340  36.0  28.0 3L.0   -   -  144.0  36.0  36.0 36.0  t0    -   -  144.0   30  360  S&.0  3.0    -   -   144.0
AUINISTRNTOR                   NOu ONMTO      3.168   48.0 38.0 36.0  36. 38.0   -   92. 0  4& 0 38.0 36.0 36.0 S6.0    -  t92.0  4.90  36.0 38.0 38.0 38.0    -   192 0
Sth-Total PtU EXPERTS FOR COUSTRIICTIOU                 64.0  7.9  2.o0  1.0 S3.9    -  336.0  64.0  72.0  72.0  12.9 3LO   -  33890  64.0  12.0  72.0  72.0 31.0    -  3M3.0
~~~~~~- - - - -- -- -- - -- - I- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- - - -- - - -- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- - .- - - ..- -- - -- - - -- - - -- - - - - - - -   .  ,. .. .  .
Total INTEStRUT COSTS                                     18t.4 525.7 751.8 71t.08 69.    - 2.2J4. t 18.? 64t1.4 94t. 3 924. 0 St. 8  - 2.775.    8 8.? 641.4 941.3 924. 0 81. 8   - 2. 75. 
usuts ttgua sca:l sss-s *:sY e:ts ;2*** casst    stustt tutu*.  s agss utsgs sese "us sussta  tus gust sta tsgu's estu  sass *sggics
Total                                                      tSt.4 525.7 7S1.6 71.# 69.6    - 2,234.1 188.7  41.4 94t. 3924.0 St.8     2.t7T5.tI IS.7 541.4 941.3 924.0 81.8    - 2.7 t
cocoa ttcuu sagas sass.X tutu tugs assacuc  tutu. cocoa souoa ounct soas anus *.sus*s  taut. socsa Ssans Uscag cosa stat ttsXsst
Wil 22. 1987  56.26
10
IOD
tI-
_  t   {~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 1O5. PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
Detai led Cost Table
Bass Ccats in $
Unit     Unit Cost   88    89    90    91    92    93 Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
________________
A. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
_______________________
PIU SALARIES                                                  51.0  51.0  51.0  51.0  51.0    - 254.8
VEHICLES                                 Auto         5.200   49.7      -     -     -     -    - 49.7
MOTOS                                    Motos          210    2.0      -   2.0     -     -    -  4.0
VENICLE MAINTENANCE                                            4.5  9.1  11.3  11.3  9.1    - 45.4
EOU FURN AND MATER                                            31.8      -     -     -     -    - 31.8
PER DIEM                                  Day             6    3.8  11.5  11.5  11.5  11.S    - 49.7
INTERNAL TRAVEL                          Trip            45   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6    -   2.9
COSUNICATIONS /a                                               0.2.  0.2  0.2  0.2   0.2    -   1.1
Sub-Total PROJECT IMPLEMETATION                                  143.6  72.3  76.6  74.6  72.3    - 439.4
B. STUDIES MONITORING AND AUDITING
---------------------..----------
SCHDOL MAP                                                    20.0      -     -     -     -    -  20.0
SCHOOL STATISTICS                                              8.0   8.0   8.0   8.0   8.0    - 40.0
STUDY ON FUTURE NEEKIS                                         4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0    - 20.0
-DEVELOPMENT PLAN                                                 -  10.0  10.0      -     -    - 20.0
PROJECT MONITORING AND AUDITING                               20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0    - 100.0
FUR . ECU , MAT FOR MONITORING UNIT                           11.6  11.6      -     -     -    - 23.2
Sub-Total STUDIES MONITORING AND AUDITING                        63.6  53.6  42.0  32.0  32.0    - 223.2
C. EDU PLANNER                            MAN MONTH      2.800   17.8  17.8  17.8      -     -    - 53.5
D. PREPARATION FACILITY                                          160.0     -     -     -     -    - 160.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                              385.1 143.? 136.4 106.6 104.3    - 876.1
aW000 a,:a;. a.... woman =snuna.  a
Total                                                                385.1 143.7 136.4 106.6 104.3    - 876.1
nnmamm=       mna.   n.n             a
/a PHONE,TELEX, ETC
--------------------------------------------- __---- _----------------------------------------------------------                o 
April 22. 1987  18:27                                                                                                             |X
i-



EQUATORIAL QJINEA
PRtNARt EDUCATION PRJECT
Table IO. PFUNING  30 NUAGNEEWT
Ostai led Cost Table
(ECTA 'I0c
Totals Including Contingees          --                -      -  --------------------------n-c--- -
fiUs  '000)                        INTERN DEV ASSOCIATTON                 04ITED NATIONS 0EV PUGRAN
88    09    80    91    92    93  Totat   88    89    90    St    92    83 Total   88   89   90   9t   92   93T Total
1. INVESTREDI CDStS
________________
L PRQECt IUPtElENTAT IO
PIG SALAtIES                              81.0          5t.0  81.0  5t.0  51.0    - 254.     5S0  5t 0  SI.0  51.0  Si.0  254.0--
VENICLES                                  64.8a     -     -     -     -       go6.8a  60.8 a         -     -           -so.6                                       -
NOTOS                                      2.5      -   2.5     -     -        5.0    2.5     -  2.5      -     -    -  50
VEHICLE MAINTE4QACE                        56  tt1.4  14.S  14.9  12.4    - S8.8       .86  it.4  14.5  14.9  t2.4    - S8 a8
t" UM        PATEN                        39.0     -      -     -     -       390   39.0       -     -     -     -       39.0-I
PER UIEN                                   4.t  14.4  14.7  15.t   15.     - 64.5    4.7  14.4  14.?  t15I  15.6    -  64.5- 
INTEUAL TRAVEL                             0.?   0.7   0.7   0.8   0.8         3.     0.?   0.?   0.t   0.8   0.6    -  3t--'
Golm"ICATIUIS /a                           0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3    - 1.4    0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3             1.4--0
Sub-Total POJECT IHPIE AENTtOTI             t64.5  77. 7  83.7  82.0  80.0    - 487.9  164.S  77.7   3.7  82.0  80.0    - 4 9         - 8         9  -      
6L STOUIES NffITORhN  G     WAUDITING
s omot up                                 20.0     -     -     -      -    - 20.0   20.0      -      -     -     -    -  20.0     -    -    -    -    _    _
SCHO  STATISTICS                           & 0   a 0   8 0   8.0   8.o    -  40.0    8.0   8 0   8. 0   a o   a o        4080     -    -         -     -     -     -
STUD CM FUTURE  EEDS                       4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0    -  20.0    4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0    - 20. -o
KEVELOFE   PLO                               -  10.0  10.0            -    -  2.0       -  tO. 0  10.0     -     -    -     0 20. 0-
MROJECT UtITORIRG AND AUDITING            20.0  29.0  20.0  20.0  20.0    - tOO.0   20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0         tOO.O    -    - 
FUR , EQOU * NAT VON RONITRING UNIT       14.2  14.4     -     -     -    - 28.6   14.2  14.4       -      -     -       28L. 6  - 
____  _____-  -  _4____  __3__#_   _____   ----    -----   -----    -----    -----   ----   -----    ----   -----     ----    ----    ----    -- -____--- -- -
5*u-Total STUDIES NORITORING A0ADITING   60228.6   6L2  S8.4  42.0  32.0  32.0    - 22a 8   -   _    _  _
C. EW PUIIIER                                17.8  t78  1.8 I       T .          S3.5      -     -     _      _     _    _     - t7.8 17.8 t7.8             - - U 
PREPAUATION FACILUT                      60            -      -     -      t 1.0.0  160. O                                        t80.0 -- - __                '
Total INWESTNT COSTS                           406 S 151.9 143.S 114.0 112.0    - UO.O  390.7 134.t 125.7 tt4.0 112.0    - 867.5 I7.6 1t.8 17.8              -    -  53.5
XSrXB Xatax among a:na:  Munoz :::: "*::5   ===us c::5 saw  *1::5 u  5-uz  :n=  &=*a5  :s noun   asas :0 :s 9:Ts =22ar
Total                                           406.5 151.9 143.5 114.0 tt2.0    - 930.0  390.7 134.1 125.7 114.0 112.0    - 87L.5 17.8 It.8 17.t a                - 5S.5
32233 *3323 23332 Nuz  mu32 once  2333.  .333= 23232 V3cua *n=3= 333  33  333m33 e 
/a  PHUE. 7ELEL ETC
Sp"Il 22. 1987 1112
0w 
"I OD
Ln



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIOARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Financing Plan by Sumery Accounts
(US$ 'w00)
INTERN DEV   UNITED NATIONS GOVERWENT OF
ASSOCIATION    OEV PROGAMe        E06          Total
Amount   %    Amont   %    Amount  %    Amount   %
I. INtESTM   COSTS
________________
A. CIVIL VMORKS                                                  2.195.6 100.0         -    -       0.0  0.0  2.199.8  34.1
S. FURNITURE. EQUIPME  AND MATERIALS
----------------------------------
SCHOOL FURNITURE . EQUI . MAT                                   3M3.3 100.0         -    -               -   303.3   4.7
OFFICE FUR . E1U . VEHI4C AND SUPPLIES                          133.4  69.2      59.3  30.6        -    -    192.7  3.0
TRAINING MATERIALS                                                  -    -       61.3 1O0.0        -    -    61.3   1.0
TEXTBOOKS                                                       832.8 100.0         -     -        -     -   832.8  12.9
Sub-Total FURNITURE. EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                     1,269.4 91.3    120.6  6.7           _    -  1,390.0  21.6
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE . STUDIES AND LOCAL TRAINING
--------------------------------------------------
PEDAGOGICAL EXPERTS                                                 -    -    469. 100.0           -    -   469.5   7.3
TEACHER TRAINING                                                    -    -    424.4 1OO.O          -     -   424.4  6.6
STUDIES                                                         200.0 100.0         -    -         -     -   200.0  3.1
Sub-Total TECHMICAL ASSISTANCE . STUDIES AND LOCAL TRAINING     -  200.0  16.3    694.0  61.7         _    -  1,094.0117.0
D. OPERATING EXPENDITURES
COUXNMCATIONS                                                     1.4 100.0                                     1.4  0.0
TRANSPORTArtON AND INTERNAL TRAVEL                              226.3 100.0         -            0.0  0.0   226.3   3.5
PER DIEM                                                         64.9  66.7       8.2  11.3        -     -    72.7   1.t
Sub-Total OPERATING EXPENDITURES                                   292.2 97.3        8.2  2.7       0.0  0.0   300.4   4.7
E. SALARIES
PIU SALARIES                                                    254.6 100.0         -              -     -   254.8   4.0
TEACHER SALARIES                                                41S.0 60.3          -    -   272.9  39.7   687.9  tO.7
HONWDRARIES                                                      22.8 tOO.0         -    -         -     -    22.5  0.3
CONSULTANTS                                                     336.0 1O0.0         -    -         -     -   336.0  5.2
Sub-Total SALARIES                                               1.029.3  79.0         -     -   272.9 21.0  1.301.2  20.2
F. PREPARATION FACILITY                                            160.0 100.0         -    -         -     -    160.0  2.5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                 Z* 9145.8  79.9   1.022.7  19.9   272.9   4.2  6.441.3 100.0
Total Dlsbur ont                                                     5.145.8  79.9  1,022.7  15.9   272.9  4.2 6,441.3 100.0
*Macao nne moms.    mmsun Conan  @@UUso mean= ====ow moUSU
Apr1l 22. 19867  1:28 6
OQ Z
fD 
tl  X0



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Financing Plan By D0b1   tt Cae    y
(US$ 1000)
INTERN DEV   UNITED NATIONS  OVERNENT OF
ASSCIATIO8   DEV PROGRAM           EGG          Total
Amout   %      Amount   %       Amout  %    Amount   %    For. Exch.
;:UwaU= seems  =owesOOmaa   ammoes  ma0s 0=00000 Names *==0=Mana8
A. CIVIL fiWIKS                                    2,195.8 100.0         -            0.0  0.0  2,185.6 34.1        1,502.3           1
B. PEDAGlOICAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                      -     -    469.5 100.0         -     -   469.5   7.3        469.5           OD
C. TRAINING AM REINFORCEMENT OF CENAFOD                  -    -    553.2 100.0          -     -   553.2  8.6         418.1           o
D. FUNITURE, EQUIPENT. MATERIALS AND TEXTOOKS   1,269.4 100.0            -    -         -     -  1.269.4  19.7     1.173.0
E. LOCAL TRAINING ST1DIES *90 AUDITS                 200.0 100.C         -     -        -     -   200.0   3.1        140.0
F. 0 PEIATINS EXPEPDITURES                           292.2 1O0.O         -     -      0.0   0.0   292.2  4.5         200.2
S. SALARIES
PIU SALARIES                                      254.8 100.0         -     -        -     -   254.8   4.0            -
TEACHER SALARIES                                  415.0  60.3         -     -   272.9  39.7   697.9  10.7             -
HURIIES                                           358.5 100.0         -    -         -     -    358.5  8.6        235.2
Sub-Total SALARIES                                 1,028.3  79.0         -    -   272.8  21.0  1.301.2  20.2         235.2
H. FACILITY                                          ISO.0 100.0         -     -        -     -    16O.0  2.5        112.0
Total Dsbursawnt                                     b5,145.8  79.9   1,022.7  15.9   272.9   4.2  6.441.3 100.0    4,250.2
wumfoa= momaw  aausum* Namso  ==names Osman  oarnmoom mama.  =mmaamoamm
--- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- ---  ---------- ---------- -----------* "----- -------- -----e ----- ---- --
Apr11 22. 1987  18:28
o 
I-.-
LR C
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



EQUITORIAL GUINEA
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Calendar Year                                            1987          1988         1989          1990          1991         1992          1993
Activity                                             JFMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASOND JFMWMJJASOND JFMAMJJASOND
CIVIL WORKS
School Prototype
Architectural Briefings                              xxx
Architectural Plans                                       I///l  xx
School Phases
Individual Schools                                                 Warehouse  I      II    II I   IV    V       VI
Construction materials acquisition and storage,
sites layout and architectural plans                             x    xXX    xxx   m          xxx   m      XX
Construction materials delivery and construction                       xxx   x xx   XXm    x xx   m     x xx   xxx
period
Furniture
Acquisition and manufacture                                       xx      XX     XXX   XX    XXX   XXX m      X
Delivery                                                               xx    x xx    XX    x xx   m    x xxxxx
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
Prolect Implementation Unit
Staff selection and appointment                               // XXX
Construction Supervision                                               XXXXXXX                           I xmxxx
Project Supervision                                                 m     m=mm mm m                                            m      xxx
EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS                                                              Phase I                                 Phase II
Textbooks
Bid documents and awarding                                        XXX=
Printing and distribution                                                       mxxx                             xxxm  xxmxxx
Follow-upXXK
Design of New Materials                                                                            XXXXXX XXXXXX
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Expert Architect (civil works supervision)                    X    X     X      X      X      X     X       X     X
Accountant Assistant                                         mI         xxx    xxx mn                       Xm  
Fellowships                                                            XX           XB
Teacher Training                                                        mX            m             mm
Selection and Appointment of new teachers                         mmmm           mmmmm
ites: / - possible activity; X - planned activity



EQUARIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
FOL IDA FINANCED EXPENDITURES
Item                            Quantity            Estimated Base Cost                  Procurement Procedure
Cement                              35,700 (50 kg) bags               117,810,000 CPAP    ICB - partial deliveries
Steel Rods                          71,400 kg                          35,700,000 CPAF    ICB - partial deliveries
Corrugated Aluminum Sheets          17,340                            104,040,000 CFAF    ICB - partial deliveries
(0.6mm x 80 x 200)
Timber (for roof structures)         357m9                             53,550,000 CFAF    LCB
Co
Wood doors and windows              918                                45,900,000 CPA?   LCB
Paint                                30,600M2                          30,600,000 CFAF    ICB
Transportation of construction                                         25,755,000 CFAP    One contract with specialized firm operating
materials to communities                                                                   in the country
Local labor                         About 920 manmonths                27,540,000 CFAF    Individual contracts with masons, skilled
(on a force account basis)                                                                helper and an unskilled helper for each school
Textbook printing revisions         520,000 books                     220,000,000 CFAF    Contract with FERE - Spanish Federation of
and transportation                                                                        Religious Orders
Textbook distribution               450,000 books to about 600         12,000,000 CFAF    Contract with specialized firm operating in
schools                                              the country
0 1



Item                             Quantity            Estimated Base Cost                   Procurement Procedure
Office equipment, vehicles,          See Annexes 3-3 and 3-16           40,000,000 FCFA    Three price quotations from three different
furniture and supplies                                                                      countries
School furniture                     6,000 desks with chairs, 100       58,600,000 FCFA    ICB
teachers' desks, 100 shelves
School materials (for preschool      (See Annex 3-3)                    14,500,000 FCFA    Contract with UNICEF or three price
and multigraded schools)                                                                    quotations from three different countries
WAPED
April 1987
l
0I
0
tol



IBRD 20025
gs                                              lo,                                     v        ,
0 Douala
- 4'                                                                                                           EQUATORIAL GUINEA                       4'-
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
MALABO                                                         -                             Primary schools to be built
B_ney                                                                           -      Existing aspholt roads
salfeeA                                                                                                     Existing laterite roads
Planned roads
Rivers
Lube           B~~~~~IOKO                                                                         4,   Ports
Bot ba              BIOKO                                                                              +    Airports
Baeaiet~ Rib=   Bridges
IIMuwi                                                                                                  @    National capital
<_   /                                                                                 -s_ -     International boundaries
-3'                                                                                                                                                    30'
Ebolowa
CAMEROON
Rio Campo
f. 30'                                                          Ebeby in1
ANNOBON I.                                           .4l                                              elm  -  3b    ANsoc
9'ini        1                                      Acolabot                 JZ y>--           |
0      BURKINA r-/   ;6            >        1 |                        4            (                  "      A c.n|
1`3'' }   X   *   ^xetS                       Akaayo    00mNo
#EQUATORIALS -rO iY4                     1108EVCHICO2                       '
GUNE    GA8^ONK5l             AD   .                                                 0        ,                8t0KlmtS
AnnobOn       1       .       .      M.Z R A  BON  D h Zn                            _____________________KilmetesSfX~
GABON           R0   o       20M     o     ''o    soMI
'e.   '                                                                                                                                       .0~~/Z   R  t.  ,,e .'155~SM  ff',ss,4ho555
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,..'  C.p_ .,bo    fnle C$0O5$   . rh h5 d #.e bo.5.,e  In.. n.a nW$ aoS  lDO 
S75.0. Onit Pad of he Y.orO .* *07. OVautenM.OIF,5ce C$5$$OW. W,"nv.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  75.5 00$  efAw  Of F5  ho'5v  $50  erlO$5.O  vv501 0cce5LV0vf $5h w.00*0
ANGOA                                                10'                                              ii.
SEPTEMBER 1986



