Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16762
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit 1797-EG)
June 25, 1997
Hluman Development 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 20, 1997)
Currency Unit         =          CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                             CFAF 520
CFAF I million        =          US$1,923
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Meter (m)           =          3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)      =          0.62 miles (mi)
I square kilometer (km2) =       0.39 square mile (sq mi)
I hectare (ha)        =          2.47 acres (a)
I metric ton (t)      =          2,205 pounds (lb)
1 kilogram (kg)       =          2.2046 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
SCHOOL YEAR
September - June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          African Development Bank
BEAC          Bank of Central African States/Banco de los Estados de Africa Central
CENAFOD    National Center for In-Service Training of Teachers/Centro Nacional para la
Formacion de Docentes
CLUSA         Cooperative League of the United States of America
FERE          Federation of Spanish Church Educators/Federacion de Educadores Religiosos
Espanoles
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
IDA           International Development Agency
MOES          Ministry of Education and Science
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
USP           Unidad de Seguimiento de Proyectos
Vice President                     Jean-Louis Sarbib
Technical Manager                  Ok Pannenborg
Acting Country Director            David Berk
Staff Member                :      Loso Boya



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit no. 1797 EG)
CONTENTS
Page Number
PREFACE ....................I
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................................... ii
PROJECT OBJECTIVES .......................................................... ii
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS ........................................................... j
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED .............V
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .........................................
A.  INTRODUCTION.                                                              I
B.  PROJECT BACKGROUND .
C.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES .
D.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES .
E.          MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                  .6
F.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                             .7
G.  BANK PERFORMANCE                                   .8
H.   BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                 .9
1.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                               .0
J.   FUTURE OPERATIONS .10
K.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED .                                                    1
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEX .....................                                   1 2
TABLE 1:  SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS                        .13
TABLE 2:  RELATED BANK CREDITS.                                               I 
TABLE3:     PROJECT TIMETABLE .................................................................................. ............... 16
TABLE 4:    CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATES AND ACTUALI.           1 7
TABLE 5:  KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                      .18
TABLE 6:    KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                          8 X
TABLE 7:    STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT .19
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS .20
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING.                                                  2 1
TABLE 9:  ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS.                                        2 1
TABLE 10:  STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .2 1
TABLE 1 1:   COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENT .23
TABLE 12:  BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .23
TABLE 13:  BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .24
ANNEXES
Annex 1:   Map (IBRD 20025) .............................. 25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit 1797 EG)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Primary Education
Project in the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, for which Credit 1797-EG in the amount of
SDR 4.1 million (US$5.1 million equivalent as of 1987) was approved on May 21, 1987
and made effective on January 13, 1988.
2.    The credit was closed on December 31, 1996, compared with the original closing
date of June 30 1994. The final IDA disbursement took place in January 1997 and the
undisbursed balance of US$340,900.10 was canceled. The ICR was prepared by Mr.
Loso Boya (Projects Officer and Task Manager, AFTH2) and reviewed by Mr. Ok
Pannenborg (Technical Manager, AFTH2), Mr. Robert Prouty (Senior Education
Specialist, AFTH2) and Mr. David Berk (Acting Country Director, AFC7). Mr. Kevin
Lumbila (Project Assistant) and Mr. Michael Kauder (Staff Assistant) assisted in the
preparation of the report. The report is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the
President's Report, the Development Credit Agreement, project supervision and progress
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda. The Borrower has provided comments that are reflected in the ICR, but has
not provided its own evaluation of the project.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1797 EG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The objectives of the Primary Education Project were: (i) to support
improvements of primary school teaching through teacher training and the provision of
instructional materials; (ii) to expand and improve the physical facilities in rural areas
through construction and furnishing of 100 new classrooms in 50 rural communities; and
(iii) to reinforce the planning and implementation capabilities of the Ministry of
Education and Science (MOES) through assistance to MOES' education planning
division and establishment of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Ministry
(para. 4).
2.    Direct incremental project benefits were expected to result from an increase in
access to quality education and effectiveness of primary education. In the long term, it
was expected that the project would result in higher school enrollment, completion rates
and literacy rates. An increase in literacy rates would eventually contribute to increased
agricultural productivity, reduced fertility rates and better rural health. Under the project,
the MOES was expected to strengthen its planning capacity, and to develop the capacity
to produce and distribute teaching materials and to train teachers. Additionally, the
project was expected to strengthen the partnership between the Government and the
beneficiary communities (para. 4).
3.    The objectives were well defined and represented the appropriate priorities of the
primary education sector. In the area of institution and capacity building, the objectives
were consistent with the needs of the Ministry and its basic weaknesses: weak planning
and programming capacity, and scarce manpower resources. The project concept
addressed all the priorities in the sector but its design proved overly complex and
unrealistic given the public sector's limited ability to implement projects (para. 5).
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
4.    Teacher Training and Instructional Materials: A total of 250 new teaching
positions were to be created by the Government in order to decrease the student / teacher
ratio from 80:1 in 1987 to 66:1 by 1992. These teaching improvement targets have not
been met. For textbooks, only 200,000 copies of existing textbooks were reprinted at the



iii
beginning of the project. For the 260,000 new textbooks in the subjects of language,
science and math and the related 10,000 teaching guides, only manuscripts have been
prepared. Printing of the books never took place despite efforts by the Bank to assist this
process. (The Bank textbook specialist made three trips to Equatorial Guinea to prepare
the bidding documents for printing and distribution of the new textbooks.) Frequent
suspensions of disbursements on account of overdue Bank arrears and administrative
inefficiencies in MOES are largely responsible for the delays. In 1996, IDA made a last
attempt to supply textbooks to project schools by giving its non-objection to imports of
textbooks by the Government. This offer was turned down (para. 10).
5.    Of the 250 new teaching positions planned by the project, only 80 positions were
created due to funding constraints of the Government. Teacher training was carried out
only partially at the beginning of the project and ceased completely during the last years
of the project as UNDP financing of 46 man-months of specialist services, honoraria, per
diems and materials for teacher training did not materialize. The goal of improving
classroom management and organization in the 50 project schools has not been met
because of lack of training of teachers and the absence of textbooks and other
pedagogical materials (para. 12).
6.    Physical Facility Expansion Objective: The construction of 100 classrooms
(with 50 seats each) has been achieved but with cost overruns and at the expense of 74
percent of housing construction for the teachers. T his relative success was possible after
the Bank recommended contracting out the construction works instead of construction by
force account which gave rise to several instances of theft of project building materials
and equipment. Fumiture for the classrooms was built by local carpenters following
national competitive bidding procedures (para. 13).
7.    Reinforcement of MOES Planning and Implementation Capacity Objective:
Two sets of activities were planned towards this objective: (i) support for MOES
education planning unit to update the school map in collaboration UNESCO, to publish
school statistics and to undertake a number of sector studies relating to the investment
plan for the 1990-1995 period and higher education; and (ii) the establishment of a
project implementation unit (PIU) within MOES in Bata (Rio Muni) where most of the
schools were to be built. Although the planning unit of MOES exists, the elaboration of
school map and the education studies included in the project did not take place, despite
the presence in the unit of Spanish and UNESCO technical advisers for many years.
Successive Ministers of Education showed little interest in the capacity building aspects
of the project and concentrated their attention on construction and equipment. In
response to this situation, the supervision team obtained a Bank IDF for institutional
strengthening of the Ministry. The result of the IDF was mixed: a comprehensive report
on institutional issues and reforms was prepared but the Government did not act on the
report's recommendations (para. 14).



iv
8.    The Project Implementation Unit was established and this structure helped
supervise the construction of the schools. However, the PIU remains a weak and
underfunded structure.
9.    Bank's Performance: Bank performance was mixed. The objectives of the
project were consistent with the needs of the country but its design was flawed. The
design of the project suffered from serious deficiencies: overly complex design given the
low implementation capacity of the MOES, ambitious objectives, and disregard of
Government's warnings about the risks inherent in the proposed method of contracting
for civil works which led to serious cost overruns, misuse of project funds and building
materials and implementation delays. The supervision effort was uneven due to frequent
interruptions and staff discontinuity at the sector and macroeconomic levels, further
exacerbating the Government's weak institutional capacity. However, some flexibility
was shown by the Bank when appropriate, which led to reallocation of IDA credit funds
when needed and to the extension of the credit closing date to make it possible to
complete the school construction program. Frequent debt-related suspensions of IDA
disbursements to Equatorial Guinea compounded the problem. In general, the Bank
performed well on project identification but showed deficiencies at the preparation,
appraisal and supervision phases (paras. 26 and 27).
10.   Borrower's Performance: The Government played a positive role at the
preparation stage but failed to deliver at the implementation phase. In particular,
compliance with the legal provisions was poor and follow-up action was inadequate. The
project faced major implementation problems due to the actions of the Government that
included inadequate financial control of project funds (in the initial phases), the ineligible
use of school building materials and other educational supplies, non-application of
established guidelines and procedures, weak project administration, delays in
procurement, the arbitrary appointment of unqualified project staff and a lack of
continuity of Ministers in charge of the project (paras 28, 29 and 30).
11.   Project Outcome: Barely into the second year of the project, the Bank
suspended disbursement as a result of disagreement with the Government over misused
project building materials. No supervision of the project took place between July 1989
and June 1990. The Government wrote a letter to the President of the Bank in March
1990 complaining of Bank inaction. The Bank's reply was sent in April 1990 setting the
conditions for resumption of project activities and proposing a Bank mission in July 1990
to review the project status and implementation problems and make recommendations for
restructuring the project. Agreements to restructure the project reached between the Bank
and the Government were only partially implemented whereas the Bank lifted the
suspension. By 1991, project supervision had acquired a new momentum. Two
significant changes were introduced in 1992. The PIU staff was changed and a new
project director was appointed. For the school construction component, a private sector
contractor was retained following national competitive bidding. Taken together, the
project did not achieve its objective of improving primary school teaching as few teachers
were trained and revised textbooks were not printed and distributed. The 100 classrooms



v
built with a total capacity of 5000 places will have a positive impact on the
student/teacher ratio in rural areas provided an effort is made by Equatorial Guinea to
recruit and retain more teachers. Overall, because of the fundamental problems discussed
above, the project did not accomplish its major objectives and no sustainable
development was achieved. Consequently, the project outcome is assessed to be
unsatisfactory (para 31).
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
12.   Since its conception, the project was plagued by many difficulties including an
overly complex design, lack of clear coordination mechanisms for cofinancing of certain
components and, above all, the Government's very limited administrative and
implementation capacity. Most components failed to achieve their objectives with the
exception of the school construction program which was carried out with delays and cost
overruns. The PIU has been established but remains weak and underfunded.
13.   Future operations in the education sector could focus on support for strengthening
the administrative and implementation capacity of the education institutions, including
the Ministry of Education itself. Education investments should target teacher training,
curriculum development and the supply of teaching materials. However, before the Bank
could finance any follow-up project, the Government would need to address the serious
issues that negatively affected the Primary Education Project's implementation and
internalize the key lessons learned from this operation (para 32).
14.   The principal lessons learned from the Primary Education Project can be
summarized as follows:
(a)   Simple Design and Modest Objectives: Project design needs to be kept
simple and in line with the public sector's capacity. The Primary
Education Project had multiple objectives. Even though the SAR claimed
that the design of the project was simple, the complexity of the
implementation procedures and multiplicity of objectives and activities
overwhelmed the limited managerial capacity of the Ministry of Education
and Science.
(b)   Government Commitment and Ownership: The lack of Government
commitment and ownership have a detrimental impact on all aspects of a
project. The lack of Governmental commitment to the successful
implementation of this project was evident in the frequent political
interference, the selection of unqualified project staff, the misuse of
project building materials (cement and roofing materials) and misuse of
special account funds.



vi
(c)   Secure Cofinancing: If the successful completion of project objectives
depends on cofinancing, project appraisal must assure that this cofinancing
is secure. Implementation of the teacher training and curriculum
development components depended on financing of 46 man-months of
specialist services by UNDP. Little progress was made in the execution of
these components largely because UNDP made no disbursements for
training and for the curriculum unit because of changes in the priorities of
the Government and the UNDP.
(d)   Technical Assistance: Most of the problems experienced by the project
stemmed from the Government's weak administrative capacity. In such a
situation, a much greater commitment of IDA staff time is necessary for a
project to have any impact or success. Also, projects under such field
conditions should be provided with a full complement of technical
assistance staff and up front mobilization of qualified counterpart staff.
The Primary Education Project had very little technical assistance staff and
the skills mix of Bank supervision staff was also limited (para 35).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1797 EG)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   INTRODUCTION
1.    Equatorial Guinea is comprised of widely scattered territories with different
natural endowments totaling about 28,000 square kilometers. The estimated population is
around 400,000. Rio Muni, on the mainland Africa, contains about 90 percent of the land
area (26,000 square kilometers); the island of Bioko where the capital Malabo is located
and five other small islands make up the balance. Bioko is more developed and
urbanized than the continental region; its dominant economic activity is cocoa
production, whereas in Rio Muni it is food crops and forestry. Agriculture, including
fishing and forestry, account for over 50 percent of GDP and 60 percent of exports.
Following independence in 1968, under the administration of President Macias Nguema,
Equatorial Guinea went from having the highest GDP per capita in Sub-Saharan Africa to
a state of economic ruin, social dislocation and administrative paralysis. In 1979 a
change in Government resulted in new initiatives to rebuild the economy by revitalizing
production and exports, as well as re-establishing social infrastructure. Nevertheless,
progress towards this goal has been slow and economic activities and government
programs continue to suffer from inefficiencies and weak management capacity. In
particular, frequent changes of Ministers in the education sector and low morale of
teachers due to poor working conditions have prevented a consistent and supportive
environment for education development in the 1 980s and 1 990s.
B.    PROJECT BACKGROUND
2.    The project was the Bank Group's first contribution to the education sector in
Equatorial Guinea, and a continuation of UNDP-UNESCO efforts to strengthen and
improve the training of teachers. In the 1 980s, primary education as the principal means
by which a widely literate population may be developed, emerged as a main priority of
the national development efforts. One of the first orders of business of the new
Government, installed in 1979, was the passage of a comprehensive education reform law
(Law No. I I of July 1981). This law established long-term targets for reorganizing the
sector and for restructuring the education system from its colonial structure, which was
cumbersome and incomplete, to one which includes eight years of basic education for all
children between the ages of 6 and 14 followed by three years of secondary education.
Children had the possibility of following technical education courses after completing the
basic education cycle.



2
3.    The project was prepared by UNESCO and by an architect under the IDA-
financed Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1489-EG). Spain assisted the Government in
preparing the textbooks for the first edition printing in 1988/89. A Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) of US$160,000 was approved by IDA to finance starting activities: the
organization of the project implementation unit (PIU) and the training of its staff; the
preparation of bidding documents; the construction of a warehouse for school
construction materials with attached space for the PIU offices; and two staff months of
technical assistance for training PIU staff and reviewing bidding documents and
contracts. The appraised project cost of US$6.4 million was to be financed by IDA
(US$5.1 million), UNDP/UNESCO (US$1.0 million) and the Government (US$0.3
million). The Government's contribution consisted of budgetary allocations for teachers'
salaries. The project was presented to the Board on May 21, 1987, was signed on July 6,
1987, and became effective on January 13, 1988.
C.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.    The major objective of the project was to aid the development of primary
education by supporting the Government's efforts for reorganizing and expanding
primary schools and strengthening the Ministry of Education and Science (MOES). To
these ends, the project was to: (a) support improvements of primary school teaching by
(i) providing instructional materials through revising, printing and distributing textbooks
for all primary school children, and through training supervisors and teachers in the use
of these books; (ii) improving classroom management practices through the
implementation of double shifts (in 30 of the larger rural communities), multigrade
teaching (in areas where there are few school-age children in schools), and a special pilot
program for pre-school children ("parvulos"); and (iii) decreasing the student-teacher
ratio from about 80:1 in 1987 to about 66:1 by 1992 through provision of 250 new
teaching posts. The project was also to: (b) expand and improve physical facilities in
rural areas by constructing and furnishing 100 cost-efficient classrooms and teachers'
houses in 50 rural communities; and (c) reinforce the planning and implementation
capabilities of MOES by assisting the Ministry's education planning division and
establishing a project implementation unit (PIU).
5.    The objectives were clearly defined, especially as concerned teaching
improvement and the provision of physical infrastructure. They also reflected the
appropriate priorities of the primary education sector. In the institution building area, the
objectives were consistent with the needs of the Ministry and its inherent weaknesses:
weak planning and programming capacity and thin manpower resources. In its design,
the project tried to avoid duplication of activities with on-going programs or projects in
the sector by other external partners such as UNESCO, tINDP and Spain.
6.    Planned project activities equally took into account the work of religious or non-
government organizations which were already active in the sector such as the Federation
of Spanish Church Educators (FERE) and the activities of local institutions like the
National Center for the In-Service Training of Teachers (CENAFOD). The active



3
participation of rural communities in school construction was an innovative feature which
sought to ensure an appropriate involvement and commitment from parents.
7.    Despite the realistic nature of the project objectives, the project implementation
arrangements exhibited a number of flaws which subsequently caused significant
implementation problems and delays:
* Construction by force account by the Government and the contracting system
for building schools, by stressing the system of partial contracts, i.e. separate
contracts for procuring construction materials, for transportation and
distribution of materials and for local labor, increased the need for efficient
coordination which was beyond the management or institutional capability of
the Government or PIU. Although the intent was to realize substantial savings,
it led to major cost overruns, corruption, credit suspension and project
implementation delays before it was changed in June 1992. Partial contracting
had been opposed by the Government at appraisal, and it is not clear why the
Bank appraisal team insisted on the force account method.
* The coordination mechanisms between the project and concurrent activities run
and/or financed by Spain, UNESCO, UNDP, CENAFOD, and FERE were not
properly spelled out. This amounted to a de facto cofinancing situation
without clearly defined contractual and coordination arrangements. Since
these activities were complementary, the inability of MOES and PIU to
properly coordinate these cofinancing arrangements led to delays and a
disruption of implementation in textbook development and in-service training
of teachers which were to be financed by UNDP and Spain.
* The design of the institutional development component was weak and did not
include adequate specific measures targeted at overcoming the management
deficiencies identified or at reinforcing local capacity at the Ministry's level or
at the PIU level. Training and, more generally, human resource development
were not provided with a long term perspective as should have been the case.
As a result, little institutional development seems to have been initiated or to
have taken place.
D.   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
8.    Early Bank supervision missions recognized that project implementation was in
trouble and seriously affected by the lack of strong management, financial control of
project funds and discipline in applying the agreed guidelines and procedures. Within six
months of effectiveness, a July 9, 1987 supervision mission reported "The mission found
the Minister [of Education] to be unsatisfied with project implementation, very critical of
the two foreign experts in the project unit, and still unconvinced with respect to the
approach taken by the project to use local materials and labor in rural primary school
construction. Overall, he does not appear committed to the project, and in addition to the



4
construction issue, critical of the Bank for reasons hard to pin down. All projects in
Equatorial Guinea need close supervision, and this one in particular should be placed in
the intensive care unit until start-up problems are solved and we are convinced that the
project unit is capable of managing the project satisfactorily". Despite intermittent and
short-lived improvements, the project continued to be plagued by the same fundamental
problems throughout its existence. The June 1991 supervision mission reported that "The
Ministry of Education and the Project Management Unit continue to show weaknesses in
managing and limited vision concerning all aspects of the educational program (teacher
training, textbook preparation, basic procurement, staffing and teacher pay) that create
frustrations for timely project execution." Following a change of Bank task manager for
the project in December 1991, the latter recommended contracting out the civil works to a
private sector enterprise, and a contract was signed in June 1992. A new management
team was brought into the PIU with a mandate to focus on field supervision and getting
the construction program completed. These actions helped achieve the school
construction objective but did not change the overall performance of the project which
remained unsatisfactory. A Bank IDF grant of US$166,000 was secured in 1993 in an
effort to address the institutional issues of the education sector which the project had not
addressed. A comprehensive report and recommendations for improvement were made
by independent consultants under the IDF grant but the Government did not respond to
the Bank's repeated calls for action on the report's recommendations. Although the last
school was completed by June 30, 1996, the amended date of credit closing, the credit
was closed on December 31, 1996 in order to allow late disbursement requests to be
processed. A request from the Government to extend the credit closing date by another
year was denied.
9.    The project substantially achieved one of its three main objectives: namely the
expansion and improvement of school physical facilities, although this was done with
high cost overruns, much delay and at the expense of construction of houses for teachers.
The primary school teaching improvement objective was achieved only partially and in a
limited way; the institutional development objective was not achieved. Overall, the
outcome was unsatisfactory.
10.   On average, two supervision missions were organized each year as required by
Bank rules for a total of 80 staff weeks for the entire period, except for a couple of lapses
from July 1989 to July 1990 and again from November 1995 to November 1996. This
represents an average of 10 staff weeks per year. The Banks norm is 12 staff weeks.
Improvement of Primary School Teaching
11.   Preparation of instructional materials in the curriculum for grades 1 to 5 was
completed and the materials reviewed and corrected by a team of local education planners
supported by an external consultant. However, the textbooks (200,000 copies) were
published and distributed only once. The revised and approved materials for the second
round were not yet published at project completion because of inefficient handling of the
printing procedures by the Government. The Bank textbook specialist made three trips to



5
Equatorial Guinea and provided hands-on assistance in preparing the printing
procurement documents but this did not result in concrete action by the MOES. Related
activities that depended on this second printing such as training of trainers and teachers in
the use of the new materials did not take place. Training of teachers was carried out
during the first year of the project but was subsequently reduced, due to lack of UNDP
funding, and stopped completely in the last year of the project. The reasons for this lack
of UNDP funding include an increase in training costs and changes in resource allocation
priorities by the UNDP.
12.   Steps that were to be taken to improve classroom management and organization
were not implemented consistently. They included: (i) the introduction of multigrade
teaching in 50 project schools; (ii) the organization of double shifts in 30 schools after a
well designed communications campaign aimed at explaining the justification of the
double shift system; and (iii) the establishment of separate classes for pre-school age
children in villages with large numbers of children 6 years or older previously attending
classes with older youngsters. The main reasons for shortcomings in these areas included
a shortage of trained teachers, operating funds and materials, inadequate follow-up and
lack of community and parental involvement.
13.   Finally, the student-teacher ratio was decreased from 80:1 to the objective of 66:1
for two thirds of project schools but in other schools the number was still higher than
66:1 because only 80 of 250 new teaching positions created under the project were filled.
In addition, a high teacher dropout rate is still being experienced in rural schools due
mainly to difficult working conditions and low salaries.
Expanding and Improving Physical Facilities
14.   The objective of expanding and improving physical facilities was achieved with
the construction of 100 well designed classrooms made of durable materials. The
building program has been carried out with considerable delay and experienced huge
costs overruns for the first batch of schools because of the force account contracting
mode adopted and deficiencies in administrative capacity. Through contracting with the
private sector, adequate corrective measures were subsequently taken and normal
implementation of this component was resumed and completed within the revised budget
guidelines. Meeting these financial guidelines, however, has meant the elimination of
teachers' houses from about 74 percent of the schools. In addition, water wells have not
been dug as planned.
Reinforcing the Planning and Implementation Capabilities of the Ministry of
Education
15.   Little success has been achieved in the implementation of this component for
reasons that include: (i) the very nature of institutional development which is complex
and should have been conceived within a longer time frame; (ii) the absence of a
systematic diagnostic of the institutional weaknesses of MOES when the project was



6
being designed in order to clearly highlight key areas requiring special attention; (iii) the
poor design of the institutional development component which featured mainly studies
and no real human resource development except at the teachers' and supervisors' levels;
and (iv) the tendency during implementation to hire outside consultants to perform, on a
very short term basis and without the requirement for a meaningful involvement of local
staff, the tasks that the administration was unable to carry out. An institutional
assessment of MOES was done only near the end of the project implementation in
1993/1994 with a Bank-financed IDF grant.
E.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control
16.   The project was conceived and designed only a few years after the virtually
complete breakdown of the entire economy, including the education system, at the hands
of the eleven-year Macias regime. This legacy and the other factors described below had
an adverse impact on the project.
17.   Manpower and administrative constraints. The education sector had and
continues to have few qualified staff at all levels: at the teaching level, only about 10%
of the teaching force had post-secondary level professional training; 30% had secondary
level teacher training; and 60% had no formal professional preparation. At the policy
making and planning level, there were few qualified staff with the experience necessary
to carry out key functions. Finally, norms and procedures were not well documented.
The removal of these constraints could only be conceived or achieved on a long term
basis. During the relatively short time frame of five years for the implementation of the
project, these factors were essentially beyond the control of the Government and
continued to weigh heavily on project implementation.
18.   Financial and Budgetary constraints. The Government's budget was
insufficient to cover the basic expenditures of the education sector partly because of lack
of funds but also due to poor allocation priorities. Government spending on education
amounted to less than 5% of total public spending or about US$850,000 annually. This
compared with an average of 15% for Sub-Saharan Africa. The situation had been made
worse after Equatorial Guinea joined the CFA Franc Zone in 1984. The exchange rate
system used to convert the former Guinean currency into the CFA Franc resulted in
salaries being reduced by more than half. This was and has remained a major cause of
teachers' disaffection, lack of motivation and high dropout rate. Some efforts were made
to increase the salaries of rural teachers but the cash shortage of the Government made it
difficult to honor the commitments made.
19.   Road Infrastructure. The country's road infrastructure is not well developed.
This makes transport and communications to and with remote rural communities difficult,
especially during the rainy season. This logistical problem was a serious impediment to
normal project implementation and mostly beyond Government control.



7
20.   Frequency of Bank Missions and Suspension of Disbursements. During
project implementation, disagreement with the Bank on project issues led to a one-year
interruption of Bank supervision missions from June 1989 to July 1990. Throughout
implementation, Equatorial Guinea was frequently under suspension of disbursements
due to Bank arrears. For example, in 1994/1995, the disbursement suspension lasted 10
months. This led to frequent interruptions of payment to suppliers and contractors, and
the deployment of project consultants for education planning and textbook preparation
work. This adversely affected the intensity of the implementation effort and may have
caused an accumulation of problems which a more regular work schedule would have
otherwise helped prevent or solve on time.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
21.   Project implementation was helped by the following factors within Government
control: (i) the credit became effective within a reasonable time because of strong
Government follow-up and action; (ii) the involvement of the Ministry of Finance to
control project expenditures after irregularities were discovered; and (iii) the suspension
or removal of staff when this was warranted.
22.   The following factors, however, had a negative impact on project implementation:
(i) the inability of the Government to ensure adequate coordination of the interventions of
its external partners in carrying out different but complementary and mutually dependent
project activities such as textbook production, curriculum development and teacher
training; (ii) the weak supervision of project activities by the Government which led to
misuse of funds early in project implementation. This led to credit suspension in the
second year of the project and at least a twelve-month implementation delay; (iii)
inadequate communication efforts with the local communities which led to their
contributions to the building of schools being irregular; and (iv) lack of proper focus on
institutional development questions which prevented the laying of a solid foundation for
future human resource development at the planning and policy making level.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementation Agency Control
23.   The major weakness of the project implementation unit which had a serious
negative impact on project implementation was weak management performance which
led to: (i) substantial cost overruns in early project implementation; (ii) misuse of funds
and corruption; and (iii) inefficient coordination of the construction program with the
local communities.
F.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
24.   The project has provided vital and needed physical infrastructure for the primary
school system and helped take initial steps for a durable improvement of teaching and
classroom management and organization by building 100 new rural classrooms providing



8
5000 places, creating 80 new teaching positions, and preparing manuscripts of new
textbooks for teaching language, science and math and related teachers' guides.
25.   The consolidation and sustainability of these achievements will depend on a
number of factors: (i) the provision of an adequate number of teachers to work in the
schools created; (ii) the allocation of sufficient budgetary funds to meet recurrent cost
requirements; (iii) continued manpower development through the maintenance and
reinforcement of the training program at all levels, (iv) continued emphasis on the
development, publication and distribution of teaching materials and textbooks prepared
under the project and their revision at regular intervals; and (v) further and more
systematic institutional development efforts at the policy making, programming and
implementation supervision levels. All these factors require a strong political
commitment at the center. Just as important, they require a long-term and sustained effort
not just by the Government but also by its external partners. In that respect, given the
budgetary constraints faced by the Government and the resulting unlikelihood of transfer
of funds to education from other sectors, sustainability in the medium term is unlikely.
G.    BANK PERFORMANCE
26.   During the preparation and appraisal phases, the Bank only marginally evaluated
the sector prerequisites and relied essentially on other donors (UNESCO, UNDP and
Spain) to create the conditions for project success and to provide the funds for teachers'
training and salaries. The supervision phase also suffered from serious gaps. Two phases
can be distinguished in the performance of the Bank in project supervision. The first
period was from effectiveness in early 1 988 to the end of 1991 when the project
continued to face serious problems and the immediate reaction of the Bank was to
suspend the credit, hoping to force the Government thereby to take corrective action to
redress the situation. During that period, the Bank focused much of its attention on civil
works at the expense of other components. The second period, from June 1992 to project
completion, saw a shift to the privatization of construction and renewed the focus on field
supervision of project activities by the PIU. The Bank made every effort to anticipate
problems and help find solutions to the cost overrun problem by getting the Government
to finance part of the additional costs of construction, suggesting ways for future cost
control and containment within the financial constraints of the project, and agreeing to
extend the credit to ensure that construction woul(i be properly carried out and that the
achievements of the project would not be lost. These efforts only served to limit the
damage but did not cause major improvements in project performance.
27.   There are areas where Bank performance could have been more responsive to
local conditions. The first such area was the need to fully take into account in the design
of the project institutional weaknesses of MOES. This would have led to a better
designed institutional strengthening component. The second point is that the Bank
ignored the warnings of the Government about the risks inherent in the force account and
partial contracting arrangements adopted for civil works but instead emphasized the
narrow focus of putative construction costs savings. This led to serious cost overruns,



9
misuse of project building materials and funds, and implementation delays. The third
area was the need for workable and more effective coordination mechanisms between
project activities and the complementary activities of other donors or partners such as
UNDP, UNESCO, and Spain. There was an organizational void that was not filled,
which led to implementation problems and confusion. Finally, by asking the Government
and the PIU to prefinance working capital needs during the last two years of the project
despite the financial difficulties of the Government, the Bank helped complicate project
implementation during that period.
H.   BORROWER PERFORMANCE
28.   The Borrower apparently had a limited role in project identification and
preparation which resulted from a 1983 UNESCO sector report. Therefore, right from the
beginning, there was an issue of Government ownership of the project and commitment
to its implementation.
29.   The performance of the borrower was unsatisfactory throughout project
implementation. The borrower failed to properly supervise the PIU, which resulted in
huge cost overruns and misuse of project funds and led to a year-long suspension of the
credit within two years of the start of implementation. After meeting the conditions set
for the resumption of disbursements in late 1991, the borrower attempted to play an
active and constructive role to keep implementation on course: (i) it instructed the
Ministry of Finance to carry out financial control missions which had a positive effect on
reducing fraud and fund mismanagement; (ii) it proposed an imaginative solution to make
up for cost overruns by negotiating a fiscal compensation agreement with the private
contractor building the schools; (iii) after the initial cost overrun, it took steps to maintain
construction costs within the guidelines originally set, although at the cost of eliminating
the teachers' houses from most of the schools built; and (iv) it changed PIU staff speedily
when this was warranted. The Government failed to ensure that the second round of
publishing and distribution of teaching and related instructional materials under project
financing took place as planned, despite the fact that they were prepared, revised and
approved by all concerned, including the Bank, two years before project completion. The
timetable for this activity that was agreed upon following a Bank-sponsored mission was
not followed and this had negative consequences for accomplishing the textbook
objective of the project.
30.   Financial and accounting management and reporting were a constant problem for
the project: accounts were inadequately kept and audit reports were submitted beyond
the prescribed deadlines, except for 1994. Government's performance was also deficient
in donor coordination: donor actions were sometimes undertaken separately and
independently, resulting in confusion and duplication. This was specifically the case in
1989 in regards to the training of teachers and the preparation of textbooks. Finally, the
Government failed to take effective action in coordination with the Bank for the second
publication and distribution of textbooks and teachers' guides even though these materials
were ready two years before project completion.



10
1.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
31.   The project did not achieve its objective of improving primary school teaching as
few teachers were trained and revised textbooks were not printed and distributed. Class
management also did not improve due to insufficient instructional materials and the
inability of teachers to effectively organize multigrade and multishift schooling. Only the
physical facilities (1 00 classrooms with 50 places each) were constructed but with high
cost overruns and at the expense of teachers' housing. T'hese classrooms will have a
positive impact on the student/teacher ratio in rural areas provided an effort is made by
Equatorial Guinea to recruit and retain more teachers. Long-term planning of sector
activities, including the preparation of a five-year investment program and the intended
institutional development never took place. On balance, the project's outcome must be
rated as unsatisfactory because only one of its three major objectives was accomplished
under difficult conditions.
J.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
32.   The Government will need to put a special emphasis on the rational utilization of
the physical infrastructure that the project has provided and on the consolidation of the
school instruction improvement measures undertaken by the project, i.e. the printing and
distribution of revised textbook manuscripts for teaching language, science and math, and
the funding of the newly created 250 teacher positions. To this end, it needs to: (i) seek
to provide sufficient budgetary funds to meet the recurrent budget needs for teachers'
salaries and school supplies for the new schools built, either from its own resources when
possible or from its external partners; (ii) continue a regular program of teacher training;
(iii) maintain the provision of instructional materials through revising, printing and
distributing textbooks for the primary school system at regular intervals or as needed; (iv)
carry out the program of improved classroom management practices that the project was
supposed to initiate and try to gradually extend them to schools other than those financed
by the project; and (v) keep the communities involved in the maintenance of the new
schools that have been built.
33.   Key indicators that will be monitored to evaluate Government action include:
(i) the level of budgetary funds provided to the education sector as a percentage of total
Government budget and in terms of yearly increase; (ii) the ratio of students to teacher;
(iii) the number of training programs organized for the teachers; and (iv) the maintenance
of improved classroom management techniques.
34.   Finally, the Government intends to seek financing for a follow-up project whose
main thrust would be institution building in the areas of planning and policy formulation
for the sector, manpower development, and continued work on the development of
instructional materials and the improvement of classroom management practices.
However, before any follow-up projects can be financed, the Government would need to
address the serious issues that negatively affected the implementation of the first project
and internalize the key lessons learned.



II
K.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
35.   Following are the key lessons learned:
(a)   Simple Design and Modest Objectives: Project design needs to be kept
simple and in line with the public sector's capacity. The Primary
Education Project had multiple objectives. Even though the SAR claimed
that the design of the project was simple, the complexity of the
implementation procedures and multiplicity of objectives and activities
overwhelmed the limited managerial capacity of the Ministry of Education
and Science.
(b)   Government Commitment and Ownership: The lack of Government
commitment and ownership have a detrimental impact on all aspects of a
project. The lack of Governmental commitment to the successful
implementation of this project was evident in the frequent political
interference, the selection of unqualified project staff, the misuse of
project building materials (cement and roofing materials) and misuse of
special account funds.
(c)   Secure Cofinancing: If the successful completion of project objectives
depends on cofinancing, project appraisal must assure that this cofinancing
is secure. Implementation of the teacher training and curriculum
development components depended on financing of 46 man-months of
specialist services by UNDP. Little progress was made in the execution of
these components largely because UNDP made no disbursements for
training and for the curriculum unit because of changes in the priorities of
the Govermnent and the UNDP.
(d)   Technical Assistance: Most of the problems experienced by the project
stemmed from the Government's weak administrative capacity. In such a
situation, a much greater commitment of IDA staff time is necessary for a
project to have any impact or success. Also, projects under such field
conditions should be provided with a full complement of technical
assistance staff and up front mobilization of qualified counterpart staff.
The Primary Education Project had very little technical assistance staff and
the skills mix of Bank supervision staff was also limited.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1797-EG
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEX
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimates and Actuals
Table 5:     Key Performance Indicators
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 7:     Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions



13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substant           Parial          Nelgigible       Not alicable
Macro Policies                                                                             0 2  O
Sector Policies                                       0O      
Financial Objectives                                  E]
Institutional Development            ri                z               E
Physical Objectives                                                    El                  O
Poverty Reduction                                                      E 5  5              0
Gender Issues                        El                5                01 
Other Social Objectives                                                E 5  5              0
Environmental Objectives              5               5                 5                  0
Public Sector Management              5               5                 0                  5
Private Sector Development            5               5                 0                  5
Other (specify)                      E                E                 E                  0
B. Project Sustainability               Likey                    Unlikely                   Uncertain
(/)                        (V)                        (v')
El                        0                           5



14
HWL
C. BankPerform=n                         satisfactoy            Satisfacrv                  Dleficent
(V)                       (v')                       (v')
Identification                       El                        I 
Preparation Assistance               E                          Dl
Appraisal                             a                        El
Supervision                          El                         a]
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                          E]
Implementation                       E                          aE
Covenant Compliance                  E                         E                          I3
Operation (if applicable)            E                          al
HiehlW                                              HigUy
E. Assment of Outcome                   satisfary    SatisfactoU      Unsatisfacor       unsatisfactory
(/)        ~(/)               (/)               (/)
Ol              El                                  ED



15
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Credit Title                     Amount    Purpose                             Year of       Status
(US$ 000)                                    Approval
Preceding Operations        X     =                                           _ X_X__
Technical Assistance Project             200  To provide an education planner
Education                                     for a period of two years.       FY 1985       Closed
(Cr.- 1489)
To provide short term technical
IDF Grant for MOES Institutional         166  assistance to support a review of   FY1993     Fully used
Strengthening                                 education institutional issues



16
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned               Actual Date
Initial Discussions with IDA  Not applicable            November, 1984
Preparation Mission           March 1986                March 1986
Appraisal Mission             June/July 1986            June 1986
Negotiations                  March 1987                March 1987
Letter of Development Policy    Not Applicable          Not applicable
Board Presentation           June/July 1987             May 21, 1987
Effectiveness                 October/November 1987     January 13, 1988
Project Completion            December 31, 1993         June 30, 1996
Closing                      June 30, 1994              December 31, 1996



17
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimates and Actuals
(US$ 000)
Fiscal  Appraisal Estimates            Actual Disbursements
Year
Cumulative Actuals
Annual         Cumulative      Annual         Cumulative      as % of Cumulative
Disbursements   Disbursements    Disbursements   Disbursements    Estimates
1988              200             200            290             290        145%
1989              500             700            990            1,280       183%
1990            1,200           1,900             70            1,350        71%
1991            1,200           3,100            700            2,050        66%
1992            1,200           4,300            370            2,420        56%
1993              800           5,100           1,400           3,820        75%
1994                0           5,100            250            4,070        80%
1995                0           5,100            520            4,590        90%
1996                0           5,100            380            4,970        97%
1997                0           5,100             130           5,100       100%
Date of Last Disbursement: January 31,1997



18
Table 5: Key Performance Indicators
Item             Unit             Appraisal        Achievement    Actual
Target at        March 1995       Achievement as
Project                           of December
Completion                        1996
Textbooks        Book                     200,000          200,000          200,000
Revised          Book                     260,000                0                0
Textbooks
Teachers' Guide   Book                      10,000               0                0
New teacher      Position                     250               80                80
positions
Trained Teachers  Teacher                    1,175             650              650
Classrooms       Each                         100               90              100
Teachers' houses  House                       200               52               52
Organization of                     Fully functional   Fully functional   Fully functional
PIU             l_L_                             l
Student/teacher                     66:1 (from 80:1            65:1     66:1 (in some
ratio                                     in 1987)                      schools only)
Primary School   Student                   66,700           50,182            52,346
enrollment
Preschool        Student                    16,100           12,475           14,677
Enrollment
Total Primary    Student                   82,800           62,657           67,023
School           _                _              _ _
Enrollment in    Student                    5,761            4,534             5,700
project Schools
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicator                      Before Project                  After Project
Portion of total Government                 5%                             10%
Budget spent on Education
Ratio of Students to                        80:1               66:1 (in some schools only)
Teachers
Number of Training                           2                            3 or 4
Programs for Teachers
Maintenance of Improved                Non-Existent              Existing techniques not
Classroom Techniques                                             being followed regularly



19
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                 Purpose as defined at   Status                Impact of study
appraisal
1. Update school map    To get better        Started but not        None
information on        completed
urban/rural school
distribution and improve
future planning
2. Collect and publish    To provide reliable  Done for first time in    Provided better planning
school statistics      information basis      1992/93 and continued   tool
afterwards
3. Prepare study on   To provide basis for   Done for university    New university being
future needs of       policy definition at    level only            created against the
secondary and         those levels                                  advice of IDA
university level
4. Prepare development  To improve sector     Started but not       None
plan and investment   management and         completed
plan for 1990-95      resource allocation
mechanism



20
Table 8A: Project Costs (IDA Credit)
(in millions of SDRs)
Appraisal Estimate                    Actual**
Item              Local   Foreign    Total*        Local   Foreign        Total
Costs     Costs                 Costs      Costs
la. Building Materials                                 1.11                            1.90
lb. Labor Services                                    0.20                             0.14
2. Furniture and                                       0.76                            0.53
Equipment
3. Training Studies and                               0.13                             0.14
Audits
4. Operations Costs of the                             0.27                             0.19
MOE
5a. Salaries - Teachers                                0.24                            0.18
Sb. Salaries - PIU                                    0.22                             0.30
6. Consultant Services,                                0.31                            0.40
Experts
7. Advance P422-EG                                     0.13                             0.02
8. Unallocated                                         0.73                            0.00
Special Account                                          0                             0.06
TOTAL                                                  4.1                         ***3.86
*      Source: Credit Agreement.
**     Figures represent actual IDA disbursements. Source: LOAAF.
***    Undisbursed balance of SDR243,500.07 was canceled.
Table 8B: Project financing
(US$ 000)
Appraisal Estimate              Actual/latest estimate
Local       Foreign      Total      Local    Foreign      Total
Source                       Costs       Costs                    Costs    Costs
IBRD/IDA                           1,900       3,200       5,100     2,100      2.760   4,760
UNDP/UNESCO                         200         800        1,000      200          0      200
Government                          300           0         300       100          0      100
TOTAL                             2,400        4,000       6,400     2,300      2,760   5,060



21
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits (Not Applicable)
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
kgree-   Section    Covenant  Status   Original  Revised     Description of Covenant   Comment
nent               Type             Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Date         Date
'redit   3.03         5         C  Condition of             Government to establish
effectiveness            and maintain PIU
3.04 (a)    10        CP                           Government to create     Only 80 positions
250 new teaching        created
positions
3.04 (b)    10        CP                           Government to            Only 80 qualified
employ qualified and   teachers employed
experienced
teachers to fill new
positions in rural areas
3.05         4         C                           Government to allocate   Education budget
annual budgets to sector.  doubled since
appraisal
3.06         12       CP                           Government to organize   meetings held
annual meetings with    sporadically
donors
3.07         9       NC  12/1994        06/1997    Government to submit    Project delayed
final report on project
implementation
3.08 (a)    12        CP  3/1989        10/1992    Government to carry out  Study initiated but
a sector study          not completed
3.08 (b)    12       NC   12/1989                  Government to prepare a
sector development plan
3.09         5        CP                           Government to employ    Pre-school part
consultants for education  not fulfilled
planning, textbooks and
preschooling
4.01 (a)     I         C                           Government to have       Verified by Price-
records and accounts    Waterhouse
maintained
4.01 (b)     I       CD                            Government to have       Fulfilled but with
records and accounts    considerable delay
audited and to submit
audit report to IDA
4.01 (c)     I       CD                            Government to maintain   Audits carried out
SOEs and have them      by Price-
audited                 Waterhouse



22
Covenant types:
1. Accounts/audit                                              11. Sectoral or cross-
sectoral
2. Financial performance/generate revenues from users             budgetary or other
3. Flow and utilization of project funds                          resource allocation
4. Counterpart funding                                         12. Sectoral or cross-
sectoral
5. Management aspects of project or executing agency              policy/regulatory/
6. Environmental covenants                                        institutional action
7. Involuntary resettlement                                    13. Other
8. Indigenous people
9. Monitoring, review, and reporting
10. Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
Status:
C      =      covenant complied with
CD    =       complied with after delay
NC    =       not complied with
CP    =       complied with partially



23
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statement
Statement number and title           Describe and comment on lack of compliance
OD 10.60                             Fully complied with and submitted but with
Accounting, Financial Reporting and  considerable delay, except for 1994, the sixth
Auditing                             year of implementation
OD 12.20                             Same comments as above
Special Accounts
OP 12.30                             Same comments as above
Statement of Expenditure
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(US$ 000)
Stage of              Planned            Revised             Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks    US$       Weeks    US$       Weeks    US$
Through Appraisal   N.A.    N.A.      N.A.      N.A.         58.9      84.2
(preparation, pre-
appraisal)
Appraisal          N.A.     N.A.      N.A.      N.A.         43.6       8.7
Negotiations-Board  N.A.    N.A.      N.A.      N.A.          11.6     14.5
Supervision        N.A.     N.A.      N.A.     N.A.          80.0    180.0
Completion         N.A.     N.A.      N.A.      N.A.          13.0     41.6
TOTAL              203.6    394.8    N.A.       N.A.        202.1    329.0
N.A. = Not Available.



24
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of      Month/  Number   Days in  Staff skills    Performance Rating   Types of
Project Cycle   Year    of      Field   Represented                          Problems
Persons
Implemen-   Develop-
tation status  ment
Objectives
Through
Appraisal                        _
Appraisal-
Board
Supervision    10/87         2      10 TM,CE                   2          2 F
05/88          2      10  TM,CE                 3           2  LC,M
11/88          2       8 CE,CE                  2           2 P,TA
07/89          3       7 TM,AS,CE               3           2  LC,M,P,
TA
07/90          1       9                        3           2  LC,
10/90          1       3  Ec                    3           2 M,F,P
05/91          2      10  Ec                    3           2  M
10/91          1      10  Ec, CE,TM             3           2 M,T,S,M,
P,T,TA,S
04/92          1      10  TM                    3           2  M,F
10/92          1      10 TM                     3           2  M,T,S
04/93          3       8 TM, TB, C              2           2
03/95          1       6 TM                     U         Sat
10/95          1       5 TM                     U         Sat T,F,M
12/96          2      10  TM,C                  U         Sat
Definitions:
A. Skills rpresented: TM = Task Manager; AS = Administrative Assistant; CE =
Consultant: Education; Ec = Economist
B. Slafljs: 1= Problem Free; 2 = Moderate Problems; 3= Major Problems; U=
Unsatisfactory; Sat = Satisfactory;
B. Types of Problems: LC = Compliance with Legal Covenants; M = Management;
P = Procurement; TA = Technical Assistance; F = Availability of funds; T = Training; S
= Studies



MAP SECTION






IBRD 20025
1   oDouala
4.                                                         7i1'  EQUATORIAL GUINEA                                                                   4-
MARY EDUCATION PROJECT
. MALA8O                                                                                 -     Primary schools to be built
Existing asphalt roads
saber /Existing laterite roads
----    # Planned roads
BIOKO                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
Luba                                                                                                   ..  Ports
Bateta                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+ Airports
Ricbo                                             \                                      =  Bridges
1      Musoko  /                                                                                        @ Q    National capital
M  -.- International boundaries
Ebolowa
/7 o. X  /   (Cumxra                                I                                                            >t,
CAMEROON
Rio Compoo
po-                       6' T   j                                                                                                Ebeb in 
~~~~~~~ym  .KenyeX   MUN0MnO8l
ANNO . I.                                                                  ,A                       m nI               Nsoc
~~~~~*3oe   6'~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ n                                                  
Sonyo  R  I 0  u                            ~Mongo        1
MAilI   y                                                                                                 iyn
MAI.-.T    NIGER   fI
BURKINA .                      CHAD
FAO~  NIGERIA                                                                                                     coni
1j   . I I                                                                                          AcaVongx                                       sr 
~~ 4t~  ~~JV~O    A FR. REP.                                                                                                                sr
<       xr.rH,          >  J e    b~~~~~' '  -<                    -      -   -   - -   4 - -j       80
C                                           40~     ~~~      ~~~~~~~~~ 60  8.0
' GABONj!            W     Y                                                                            Kilometers
Aflnob6n .                I-J.                                 GA BO  Nmiles
, < .fZA IRE                                               rhm       0 h.o.eo rW    d by rhe WoOd *S Jta l c.o to, tO. cohceno C 0,
ff -* ' *O _ -k-* tt. t. W-e -of Th. /o d IhC* M.50 te 0tton e,nDd-o
F--stc Cotpoeto Th. d.W-0tOn ae.d en Po. 0000-.5.- .00 00h..POe do not
: .J-  0_                           t .on mpat Diet  Ot rhlo steritod.  crWny endOroeitt or aCc epance Ot each boo_ dan- _
ANGOLA                                               ,10                                               11
SEPTEMBER 1986









IMAGING
Report No.:          16762
Type:      ICR



