Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1797 EG
 DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Primary Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 6, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1797 EG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 1987, between REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS (B) the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.O1. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Page  2
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"MOE" means the Ministry of Education and Sports of the Borrower;
 
(b)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit of MOE referred to in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
(c)
"Project Area" means the localities within the districts of the 
Borrower's territory referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(d)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(e)
"Project  Preparation  Advance"  means  the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
March 5, 1987, and March 31, 1987, between the Borrower and the Association;
(f)
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year which runs from 
January 1 to December 31;
(g)
"School Year" means the Borrower's primary school year which runs from 
September 1 to June 30;
(h)
"Local  transportation"  means  air,  land  or sea transportation within 
the territory of the Borrower; and
(i)
"Central Bank" means Bank of Central African States (Banco de los Estados 
de Africa Central) (BEAC).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to four million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 4,100,000).
Section 2.O2. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
Page  3
at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.O5. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.O7. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 
1997, and ending May 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on May 15, 2007, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and one-half percent 
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.O8. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.O1. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MOE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and educational practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
Section 3.O2. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall establish and maintain PIU during the execution 
of the Project with such responsibilities, powers, services, facilities and staff 
whose experience and qualifications are satisfactory to the Association as are 
specified in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. In order to carry out Part A.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
create 250 new primary education teaching positions as follows:
 
(i)
not later than January 10, 1988: 50 positions;
 
(ii)
not later than January 10, 1989: 50 positions;
 
(iii)
not later than January 10, 1990: 50 positions;
 
(iv)
not later than January 10, 1991: 50 positions; and
 
(v)
not later than January 10, 1992: 50 positions.
 
(b)
employ qualified and experienced teachers to fill the positions mentioned 
in paragraph (a) of this Section and assign said teachers to rural schools including 
Page  4
those in the Project Area.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all the suitable measures, in each year, 
to appropriate the necessary budgetary allocations for the education sector to finance 
the incremental cost of:
(a)
salaries for teachers employed as set forth in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement; and
(b)
school maintenance and supplies for the respective school year.
 
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall not later than October 30 in each year organize 
a meeting with the Association and all aid agencies participating in the financing of 
the Borrower's education sector development to:
(a)
review progress made in said sector and in achieving the Project 
objectives as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(b)
review all investments made by the Borrower in the education sector 
during the previous year and expected to be made during the next year.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall not later than December 31, 1994, prepare and 
furnish to the Association a detailed report on the final implementation of the 
Project and the outcome thereof.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than March 31, 1989 carry out the study included in Part C.1 
(c) of the Project; and
(b)
not later than December 31, 1989 prepare and furnish to the Association 
for its review and comments the development plan of the education sector and 
investment budget included in Part C.1 (d) of the Project, based on the 
recommendations of the study referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 3.09. In order to carry out Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall take all necessary measures to employ consultants in the following 
areas:
(a)
education planning, not later than January 31, 1988;
 
(b)
preschool teaching, not later than June 30, 1988; and
 
(c)
production and textbook development, not later than September 30, 1988.
 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
Page  5
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the completion of the audit 
for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.O2 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Borrower or any other 
authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any  action  concerning primary school 
teachers' recruitment and salaries and school construction methods that would 
materially and adversely affect the objectives of the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.O1. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section l2.Ol 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
PIU has been established in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 
to this Agreement; and
(b)
the following consultants have been employed:
 
(i)
architect; and
 
(ii)
financial advisor.
 
Section 6.O2. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.O4 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.O3 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.O2. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
Page  6
11.O1 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas
Malabo
Guinea Ecuatorial
Cable address:
MINISTERIO DE FINANZAS
MALABO
GUINEA ECUATORIAL
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2O433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
44OO98 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
By /s/ Florencio Maye Ela Mangue
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works for
     Parts B and C.2
     of the Project
Page  7
     (a)  building               1,110,000       100%
          materials
     (b)  labor                    200,000       100%
          services
(2)  Furniture, equip-             760,000       100%
     ment, materials,
     supplies, textbooks
     for Part A.1, A.2,
     B and C of the
     Project
(3)  Local training,               130,000       100%
     studies and audits
(4)  Operating costs of            270,000       100%
     MOE
(5)  (a)  Salaries:
        (i)  Teachers              240,000       95%-for FY88
                                                 90%-for FY89
                                                 80%-for FY90
                                                 60%-for FY91
                                                 30%-for FY92
       (ii)  PIU                   220,000       100%
     (b)  Consultants'             310,000       100%
          fees
(6)  Refunding of Project          130,000       Amount due pur-
     Preparation Advance                         suant to Section
                                                 2.02 (b) of this
                                                 Agreement
(7)  Unallocated                   730,000
                                 _________
         TOTAL                   4,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "operating costs" means maintenance 
costs of equipment, vehicles and buildings; travel costs; transportation costs; 
communications costs and per diem.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in increasing the 
efficiency and quality of its primary education system and improving access to schools 
in rural areas through:
(a)
improvement of primary school teaching;
 
(b)
expansion and rehabilitation of physical facilities in rural areas; and
 
(c)
strengthening MOE's planning and implementation capabilities.
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Page  8
Part A:
Improvement of Primary School Teaching
 
1.
Provision of instructional materials and training in textbook use:
 
(a)
Improvement of the existing curriculum for grades 1 through 5.
 
(b)
Training seminars for about 75 supervisors and about 1,100 teachers in 
the use of new textbooks.
(c)
Printing and distribution of two editions of language, reading and 
mathematics, natural and social science textbooks to all primary school students as 
follows:
(i)
edition of about 200,000 already existing textbooks in 1988 to be 
distributed 
for the 1988/89 school year; and
 
(ii)
a revised edition of about 260,000 textbooks for the 1990 school 
year.
(d)
Preparation and printing of about 10,000 teachers' guides.
 
2.
Upgrading classroom management and organization practices.
 
(a)
Training of about 75 supervisors and about 1,100 teachers in the 
implementation of multigraded teaching practices.
(b)
Development and implementation of a double-shift teaching program in 
about 20 schools in the Project Area.
(c)
Organization and implementation of a pre-school program in about 50 pilot 
schools in the Project Area including:
(i)
training of assistant teachers in pre-school teaching techniques; 
and
(ii)
acquisition of instructional materials and equipment for schools 
where the 
pre-school program is implemented.
 
3.
(a)
Decreasing the student-teacher ratio; and
 
(b)
Selection and employment of about 250 new teachers.
 
Part B:
Expansion and Rehabilitation of Physical Facilities
 
1.
Construction, equipping and furnishing of 50 multigraded schools (about 100 
classrooms) and about 50 teachers' houses in the Project Area.
2.
Strengthening of the local communities, through its town council, for the 
implementation of the construction program. 
Part C:
Strengthening MOE's Planning and Implementation Capabilities
 
1.
Planning
 
(a)
Updating of the school map.
 
(b)
Collection and printing of education statistics.
 
(c)
Carrying out a study on  future development needs of the education sector 
in particular  those  of  the secondary and post-secondary levels.
(d)
Preparation of  a  development  plan  and  an investment budget for the 
education sector.
(e)
Strengthening of the Project Monitoring Unit of MOE.
 
Page  9
2.
PIU
 
(a)
Establishment and operation of PIU.
 
(b)
Construction, furnishing and equipping of a warehouse.
 
(c)
Strengthening    PIU's    financial    and    accounting capabilities.
 
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for building materials shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of school furniture estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$20,000 or more, in accordance with the procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods 
manufactured in Equatorial Guinea may be granted a margin of preference in accordance 
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and 
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Local competitive bidding:
 
Local building materials, office furniture, equipment and supplies estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
International or local shopping:
 
Works, goods and services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $20,000 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of evaluation and 
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association, provided the 
aggregate cost of such items shall not exceed the equivalent of $250,000.
3.
Force Account:
 
Labor services to carry out the civil works referred to in Parts B.1 and C.2 of 
the Project, may be carried out by force account by MOE.
4.
Direct Contracting:
 
Goods referred to in Parts A.1 (c) and A.1 (d) and local transportation services 
required to carry out Parts A.1 (c) and B.1 of the Project may be procured under 
direct contracting, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
Page  10
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $40,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 7% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
(a)
In order to assist the Borrower in the optimal execution of the Project, 
the Borrower shall employ: (i) not later than March 30, 1988 an auditing firm to 
assist the Borrower in discharging its obligations under Section 4.01 (b) of this 
Agreement; and (ii) consultants for textbook revision and writing, all with 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the 
Association.
(b)
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized  Allocation"  means an amount equivalent to $150,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
Page  11
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence 
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible 
Categories of the Project, minus the amount of any 
outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall be equal to the 
equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories of the Project 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
SCHEDULE 5
Project Area
Page  12
              District                 Locality
              Acurenam                 Ngolensok
                                       Acalayong
              Nsoc Nsom                Oberonco
                                       Toho
                                       Eves Esandon
              Niefang                  Mvon Cdo
                                       Ayene Cdo
                                       Ncolben Cdo
                                       Monong Cdo
                                       Ebain
              Mongomo                  Andon-Mboam
                                       Mayang-Efac
                                       Mibang Cdo
                                       Mengomeyen
              Ebebiyin                 Mbiralen
                                       Bife-Efac
                                       Misaa
                                       Mbedumu Oyec
                                       Eson Esason
                                       Ocong Oyec
              Nsork                    Ecuameyene
                                       Nvon Oyec
              Aconibe                  Ebom Ncodjen
              Micomesseng              Afanebang
                                       Mbe Nsomo
                                       Andok Eseng
                                       Avantan
                                       Evansoc Cdo
              District                 Locality
              Baney                    Baho Basuala
                                       Bakake Gde
                                       Bilelipa
              Luba                     Bokoricho
              Bata                     Ntobo
                                       Bikui
                                       Miboman
                                       Bibogo
              Anisok                   Bibara
                                       Nfanan Cdo
                                       Nsung-Esangui
                                       Milong
                                       Ndji Oveng
              Cogo                     Ncolanvam
                                       Nzangnam
              Evinayong                San Jose
                                       Eboafan
                                       Ncolanvan
              Mbini                    Sendje
Page  13
                                       Minang
                                       Mitomo Cdo
                                       Bolondo I
SCHEDULE 6
The Project Implementation Unit
1.
PIU established in MOE and based in Bata (Rio Muni) shall be responsible for the 
overall management of the Project. 
2.
The functions of PIU shall include inter alia the following:
 
(a)
implementing the school construction program; and
 
(b)
interfacing with MOE's units responsible for: teachers training, 
curriculum development and education planning.
3.
PIU shall be headed by a full-time Project Director with qualifications and 
extensive managerial experience acceptable to the Association.
The Project Director shall report directly to the Minister of Education.
4.
The Project Director shall be responsible, inter alia, for the following:
 
(a)
selection, recruitment, supervision and direction of all PIU staff;
 
(b)
selection of consultants and specialists, approval of their terms of 
reference, recruitment and administration of their contracts;
(c)
making all necessary procurement arrangements, including calling for 
bids, evaluation of bids and awarding of contracts;
(d)
ensuring appropriate maintenance of Project accounts and timely 
preparation of auditing reports;
(e)
coordination of all Project activities with MOE units and the 
Association; and
(f)
preparation of progress reports.
 
5.
PIU will include, in addition to the Project Director, the following local 
staff:
(a)
a Project Architect;
 
(b)
an Assistant Architect;
 
(c)
a Project Administrator (Accountant)
 
(d)
a Social Worker;
 
(e)
an Education Specialist; and
 
(f)
support staff:
 
(i)
a secretary;
 
(ii)
two guardians;
 
(iii)
three construction supervisors;
 
(iv)
a cleaning person; and
 
(v)
a driver.
Page  14
