Doc_mm  of
The World Bank
FOR OFMIAL USE ONLY
Rqst No. 9980
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJET
(CREDIT 1078-IN)
OCTOBER 7; 1991
Agricluture Operations Division
India Department
Asia Regional Office
This document has a cestricted distribution ond mai be used bv  wipieots orld in the perforiance of
their official duties. Its contents mav not otberwise be discloised without World Bank authorization.



CURRNC ELTAI
Name of Currency: Rupee (Rs.)
Rate of Exchange:   Appraisal (July 1980)     US$ 1.00 = Rs. 8.40
Intervening years (average)  US$ 1.00    Rs.12.25
Completion year           US$ 1.00    Rs.15.50
Fiscal Year of Borrower 001 and GOO: April I to March 31
Weights and Measures: Metric System
GLOSSARY
Anicut       -      Diversion weir
Chak         -      Watercourse Cultivable Command Area
cm           -      cendmeters
cumecs       -      cubic meters per second
kg           -      kilogram
kg/cm2       -      kilogram  per square centimeter
Kharif       -      Wet season: June-October
m            -      meters
mm           -      millimeters
Rabi         -      Dry season: November - April
t/m2         -      tons per square meter
Watercourse  -      Small channel below outlet serving a chak
Warabandi   -       A rotational water supply system (RWS) of allocating water aLiong
farmers by fixed turns and time periods; flow rate is constant, and
time periods are proportional to land holding size.
ABBREVIATIONS
CWC          -      Central Water Commission
CWPRS        -      Central Water and Power Research Station (at Pune)
DMP          -      Drainage Master Plan
ERR          -      Economic Rate of Return                                                     4
GOO          -      Govemment of Orissa
GOI          -      Govemment of India
IPD          -      IrTigation and Power Department (within GOO)
NDP          -      Net Domestic Product
O&M          -      Operation and Maintenance
PCR          -      Project Completion Report
RL           -      Reservoir Level
RWS          -      Rotational Water Supply



FOR OFFICIAL US ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
WCh"n1on D.C. 2W35
U.S.A.
00ke td Owvw-Cw
Opefatuw IvaktMmif
October 7, 1991
MEM4ORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India
Mahanadi Barra,tes Proiect (Credit 1078-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on India - Mahanadi Barrages Project (Credit 1078-IN)"
prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by
the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutics. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LPROJEC COLEON REPORT
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
(CDredit 1078-IN
Table of Conts
Pag No.
Preface ...........................................i
Evaluation Summay  ...................................                                                                iii - iv
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity .......................................                                                                     1
Background  ...........1...........................                                                                          I
Project Objectives and Descripion ...........................                                                                2
Project Design and Organization ............................                                                                 2
Project Implementation ..................................                                                                    4
Project Results .......................................5 
Project Sustainability ...................................                                                                   6
Bank's Performance  ...................................                                                                     6
Borrower's Performance .................................                                                                     7
Project Relationships ...................................                                                                    7
Consultancy and Contracting Services .........................                                                              7
Project Documentation and Data  ............................                                                                 8
PART LI PROJECT REVIEW FROM i3ORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . .                                                                      9
Confirmation of Adequacy and Accuracy of Inforrnation in Parts I and Im  ...                                                9
Project Objectives .                ....................................                                                     9
Project Design .......................................                                                                     1 l 0
Project Implementatoon ..................................                                                                  12
Development Impact of the Project ...........................                                                              14
PART m          STATISTICAL TABLES  .........................                                                              1 5
Table 1 - Related Bank Credit .                     ............            ..          ..............                     16
Table 2 - Project Tirae Table ..............................                                                               17
Table 3 -  Schedule of Disbursements ..........                                      ... . I   .        .......            1 8
Table 4 - Project Implementation ............................                                                              19
Table 5 - Project Costs and Financing
A  - Prject Costs  ............................                                                       22
B - Project Financing ..........................                                                      23
Table 6 - Project Results
A  - Direct Benefits  ...........................                                                     25
B - Economic Impact ..........................                                                        27
C - Studies ................................                                                          28
Table 7 -  Status of Covenants  .............................                                                              29
Table 8 - Use of Bank Resources
A  - Staff Inputs  .............................                                                      30
B - Bank Missions ...................    31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without IFC authorization.



i
2ROEC  CM1LETION  EPOR
s                               =~~~~~~I IA
MAHANADI BARkAGiES PROJEC
(Credit 1078-N)
PEEFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for Mahanadi Barrages Project in the State of
Orissa, India, for which Credit 1078-IN in the amount of SDR 63.3 million (US$83 mnillion) was
approved on December 2, 1980. The Credit closed on March 31, 1989, two years behind
schedule, and by September 8, 1989 the Credit was fully disbursed.
The PCR was prepared by the New Delhi Agriculture Unit of the Agriculture Operations
Division of the India Department, Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Sununary, Parts I and
III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was initiated during the Bank's final supervision mission of the
project in December 1988, and is based, inter alia. on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Legal
Documents, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal
Bank memoranda.



iii
PROJECrCOMPLEIsON RPR
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROECT
Wredit 1078-IN
Evaluation Summary
1.    The main objective of the project was to construct new barrages in place of the existing
weirs in order to ensure continuity of the irrigation system in the old delta and to create the
necessary conditions for improvements in the water distribution system and for increased
production.
IwlmWntation Expenence
2.    The project made a promising start and attained reasonably good progress on civil works.
However, the momentum slowed down soon thereafter and persisted throughout, particularly on
the construction of right under-sluice bays, right head regulator, and divide walls of Mahanadi
Barrage. The reasons contributing to slippages and shortfalls are lis.:ed in para 11, Part I.
Unreliable performance of the construction agencies also constituted a major bottleneck. The
critical works remained more or less bogged down during the 1985 to 1987 working seasons
requiring two one-year extensions of closing date from March 31, 1987 to March 31, 1989.
Generally, late rains and consequent flooding in the river during the month of November also
delayed the resumption of works. The speed of construction on the critical components of
Mahanadi Barrage Complex picked up significantly from May 1988 after a new construction
agency was appointed by the Government of Orissa (GOO) along with the deployment of
additional financial and equipment inputs. The erection of gates was also accelerated by utilization
of a 90-ton capacity crane made available by GOO. The Credit of US$83 million was fully
disbursed by September 8, 1990.
Results
3.    Notwithstanding an implementation delay of over two years, the new Mahanadi and Birupa
barrages were successfully constructed without the failure of the existing old weirs during the
construction period. The principal objective of the project in ensuring the continuity of irrigation
of 167,000 ha in the Delta was thus fulfilled. In addition, another objective of saving 30 to 40
cumecs water (which would have been lost from leakages through the shutters of old weirs) for
irrigation puiposes had also been achieved through the completion of new barrages fitted with the
state-of-the-art gates and related operating equipment (para 19, Part I).
4.    The analysis shown in Table 6B of Part In reflects the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for
the project as 14.1% and 15.6% under the existing irrigation conditions and improved irrigation
standards, respectively. This compares to 21.0% and 41.0% at appraisal. The general shortfall in
ERR compared to that evaluated at appraisal was due to: (i) project cost escalation; (ii) decline in
world market price for rice; and (iii) delay in accrual of benefits. Because of incomplete
iri.,iementation, an important objective of the study envisaged at appraisal to introduce warabandi
type- rotational water supply (RWS) (mainly during rabi) to improve the equity and reliability of



iv
water supply, has not been fulfilled. Accordingly. as brought out in para 13, Part I, GOO will
have to make sustained efforts over the next 3 to 4 years to attain this project objective.
5.    Preparation of a Master Plan for Drainage and Flood Control (DMP) is a notable
achievement of the project, particularly so in the context of imrensity and complexity of the task.
SustainWaU4i
6.    With a good Operation and Maintenance (O&M) back-up system, there is no doubt that the
projcct, incorporating updated designs, provision of under-sluice bays, and state-of-the-art gates,
will be sustainable over the normally accepted long-range life expectancy for projects of this type.
Findings and Lessons Learnt
7.    The Bank's technical advice during project implementation had a positive impact on the
project, including valuable guidance provided to GOO in the preparation of DMP. However, there
were a number of deficiencies and lessons to be learnt for future projects. These have been
highlighted in paras 9 and 10 (a) and (b), Part I. The 5-year implementation period estimated at
appraisal was far too optimistic, particularly so when, during appraisal, no serious thought was
given to the need to specify mechanized construction methodologies and corollary support,
including a full range of matching state-of-the-art equipment. Construction methods oudined in
the Staff Appraisal Report were too sketchy and tended to favor labor-intensive techniques. This
was no, conducive to achievements of optimum progress and high quality construction,
Furthermore, the implementation schedule should have provided at least one working season for
geological exploration, mapping foundation profiles, and data collection needed by the Central
Water Commission (CWC) to complete design. Another major finding relaites to the enforcement
of contract provisions by GOO. As is common on most Indian projects, contract provisions are
seldom strictly enforced, and there is a general hesitation in terminating contracts despite
continuous slow progress. Such delays also occurred on this project, though the situation was
substantially improved towards the end by terminating the contractor engaged in the critical works
of Mahanadi Barrage. GOO should have scheduled period-wise milestones, and in the event of
failure of any construction agency in achieving those, the contract should have been terminated
promptly and a new agency appointed.



1
PRO.lECT COMPLETION RE i ORE
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PRO.ECT
(Credit 1078.IN)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
EPoet Identv
Project Name:     Mahanadi Barrages Project
Credit No.        1078-IN
RVP Unit    :     Asia
Country     :     In,iia
Sector            Agriculture
Subsector         Irrigation
Backgond
1.    Fhe Stte of OAissa, located in eastern India, had a population of about 26 mnillion in 1980.
Predominantly rural (92%), some 39% of the population belonged to schieduled txibes and
backward classes, the highest in India. Though rich in forest and mineml resources. thle average
per capita income in the State was among the lowest in India.
2.    The agriculture sector provided employment to 79% of the working population and
accounted for 69% of Net Domestic Product (NDP). Being highly vulnerable to weather that
typically varies from the extremes of severe floods and dioughts, the economic growth lagged
behind the rest of India. Between 1960/61 and 1977/78, the NDP grew at an annual rate of 2.3%
compared with an all-India figure of 3%.
3.    Development of the canal systems in the Mahanadi Delta started in the 1860's with the
construction of weirs on the Mahanadi, Birupa and Kathjori rivers, and included three main canals
and related distribution systems. Irrigation was limited to kharif season and covered about 80,000
ha under the old delta system. Construction of the .firakud Dam upstream on Mahanadi river was
undertaken and completed in 1957 which helped in increasing the cultivable command area in the
old Delta to 167,000 ha and allowed the introduction of rabi irrigation as well.
4.    The condition of weirs on Mahanadi river and its Birupa branch had deteriorated over the
period since their construction in 1863 and 1868, respectively. Frequent damage by heavy floods
and extensive scouring of downstream protective aprons continued to cause weakening of these
structures. A critical stage of deterioration had been reached which threatened a major breach of the
weirs with the consequence of reverting the entire project area back to rainfed conditions.



2
LAect Objcives and Description
5.    Te principal objectives of the project were:
(a)   To finance over five years, the construction of two new barrages in place of the
existing weirs and replacement of the existing three head regulators, in order to:
(i)   ensure continuity of the irrigation system in the 167,000 ha being already
irrigated;
(ii)  save the estimated 30 to 40 m3/sec of water losses, resulting from excessive
seepage underneath and through the crest and sluice shutters of the old
weirs, and use this reclaimed water for irrigating 16,700 ha during the rabi
season;
(iii)  prevent accumulation of silt through the provision of under-sluice bays in
the new barrages; and
(iv)   create necessary conditions for improvements in the water distribution and
drainage system as needed for increased production.
(b)   To finance the preparation of a Master Plan for Drainage and Flood Control (DMP)
for the whole Mahanadi delta area (about 300,000 ha) covering the main and
intennediate level drainage systems.
(c)   To finance a programn of water management pilot operations to include construction
of water courses and field drains and introduction of RWS over an area of about
1000 ha in order to update and improve the water management.
6.    Project physical indicators are given in Table 4 and project cost estimates in Table SA, Part
m. Project cost estimate at appraisal was Rs.926.5 million(US$ 110.3 million). Art IDA Credit of
SDR 63.3 million (US$ 83 million) to finance about 75% of the total project cost was signed on
December 5, 1980 and was effective on February 11, 1981. Closing was scheduled for March 31,
1987. Two one-year extensions were subsequently approved. Financing details are shown in
Table 5B, Part II1, which indicate the actual cost of the project as Rs. 1135.78 million at project
closing (March 1989). Table 6D lists a number of studies financed under the project.
PJn?ect DLesign and Organization
7.    The appraisal was fairly thorough and covered all the key features and requirements for
rehabilitating existing weirs, site selection of new barrages, foundation investigations, and
structural design aspects, including contingencies. It also covered institutional aspects in general,
including quality control, and O&M criteria and procedures. Throughout preparation and appraisal,
GOO gave full cooperation and support.
8.    The project was to be executed entirely by the Irrigation and Power Department (IPD) of
Orissa, under the Chief Engineer, Irrigation. Designs of the Mahanadi and Birupa barrages, except
the prestressed concrete bridge component of Mahanadi barrage, were the responsibility of the
CWC who was required to conduct periodic inspections to ensure that the work was carried out in
accordance with its designs and specifications. GOO's Command Area Development Department
was responsible for the water management program. IPD was responsible for irnproving the main



3
conveyance and drainage systems serving the pilot water management area as well as for the
pepadon of the drainage master plan (DMP).
9.    A notable Jeficiency pertains to shortcomings in the fruning of the construction method
outlined in the Staff Appraisal Report. Since construction of Mahanadi Barrage and related head
regulators was the biggest component of the project, constituting about 70% of the total cost, the
reort should have emhsid to a much greater extent the cridcally important plant and equipment
planning neded to obtain optimum progress and high quality construction. The acceptance of
manualu  plaement of concrete did not conform to good construction pracdce either quandtatively or
qualitatively for such a large and important barrage. The report also mentions that 'if ncessary,
buckets operated by crne can be used for placing the concrete', but mechanization of concrete
deivery and place=ent should have been mandcatory. The methodology prescribed in the report of
handling of concrete encourages aggregate segregation and often results in a porous concrete. In
retpect, concrete delivery from batching plant by transit concrete nixers and placement by long
boom crnes with skip/bucket combinations should have been suggested and outlined in the report
In addition, deployment of hydraulic pumpcrete machines and beltcrete system should have been
included. The construction methods outlined in the report were too sketchy to adequately cover the
job requirements. They do not cover fcrmwork, height of lifts, treatment of construction joints etc.
as would have to, n needed to guide efficient implementation. The report also made no mention of
the methodology and equipment needed for dismantling massive ancient structure. It is clear that
slippage was due to inadequate construction and equipment planning at appraisal.
10.   The description and specification of each project component as provided in the Staff
Appr,isal Report are generally adequate. Viewed in retrospect, the analysis and optimal timing
depicted in the report for initiating construction of two barrages starting in 1980/81 has proven to
be realistic. In addition, the emergency plan to repair any breach caused by the failure of either of
the existing weirs during flood seasons and during the construction of new barrages, had been well
co;aceivcd in the report, as well as the broad methodology for accomplishing repairs and the
c;urying out of functions of the responsible engineers. However, the five-year implementation
schedule for the completion of Mahanadi Barrage was too optimistic. The characteristics of actual
founcation material which were required to complete designs were not fully provided. The
preliminary design, based on only 18 foundation borings as evolved by CWC was vulnerable to
substantial changes upon actual excavation of the foundations. Accordingly, the critical path
schedule in the Staff Appraisal Report should have provided at least one initial working season for
completion of geological exploraion, foundation profiles including field work and data collection .
Project Implementation
11.   GOO at the very outset made encouraging efforts to address the start-up problems.
Construction on Birupa barrage made a promising start and proceeded at a good pace for a couple
of years, exceeding the physical targets agreed at appraisal but slipped thereafter. However, the
Mahanadi barrage complex not only experienced a delayed start but continued to experience
shortfalls througnout project implementation particularly on the construction of right under-sluice
bays, right head regulator and divide walls due to unreliable performance of the construction
agencies. These works remained more or less bogged down during the 1985 to 1987 working
seasons. Late rains and consequent flooding in the river during the month of November also
delayed resumption of works. Generally, the implementation delays were due to the following
reasons:
a)    Clay strata was unexpectedly encountered duirng excavation of foundations which
necessitated the review of CWC's earlier designs;



4
b)    Site investigations involved a time-consuming process and GOO had to entrust the
work of preparing the foundation profile of barrage bays 49 to 68 to a consultancy
fun, and until the receipt of the final profile, completion of the .- 'signs by CWC
for the barrage tloor and piers in these bays was held up. The implementation
schedule had not made any specific provision for this activity;
c)    Poor management and operational performance of the original construction agency
in the mobilization of labor and the required skills/trades, as well as the deployrent
of needed equipnent;
d)    Poor mobilization, inadequate equipment deployment and unsatisfactory by the
replacemnent construction agency;
e)    Serious power shortages in the State resulting in frequent disruption of work
requiring power supplies at the construction site;
f)    Work by the contractor was limnited mostly to the day shift instead of mobilizing the
crew and organizing work on a round-the-clock basis; and
g)    Financial limitations constrained progress more frequently than should have been
necessary.
As a result of the above factors, the implementation schedule for the Mahanadi Barrage
cozmponent was revised a number of times by the Project M.-nagement, necessitating two one-year
extensions of the Credit Closing Date to March 31, 1989. The speed of construction on the critical
components of Mahanadi Barrage Complex picked up significantly from May 1988 after a new
construction agency was appointed by G00 along with the deployment of additional funds and
equipment. The erection of gates was also accelerated by utilization of a 90-ton capacity crane,
made availab!e by GO The project was expected to be fully commissioned by March 19901.
However, the DMP-created computer-based drainage evaluation model will be useful in continuing
analyses of improved irrigaion and flood drainage potential for many years to come.
12.   G00 initiated preparation of a Master Plan for Drainage and Flood Control (DMP) by
establishing a special cell under a Superintending Engineer. A Bank specialist was made available
for technical review during various supervision missions. The Central Water and Power Research
Station (CWPRS) at Pune was enlisted to develop a mathematical model of the Delta to analyze
Delta river and drain hydraulics as a means of assisting in the project design. A realistic critical path-
type schedule for accomplishment of DMP was prepared by the Bank consultant resulting in an
agreed completion of plan by March 1989. However, completion of the DMP was delayed for the
following reasons: (i) shortage of engineering cadre staff in IPD caused by diversion of staff
engaged on L)MP to the repairs of flood damages following unprecedented floods in the State in
September 1982; (ii) delay in filling up the needed complement of positions and deputation to the
team of engineers as required to undergo basic computer training; and (iii) inordinate amount of
time taken by the Special Cell to review and revise the draft reports to conform to the agreed new
design criteria. Out of a total of ten volumes of the proposed DMP report, eight had been
1 Chief Engineer, Mahanadi Barrages Project, (00, intimated the completion of project in
June 1990 except for the installation of mechanism of the operation of gates through remote control
system.



S
completed and the other two are being printed. The final version of the DMP Report, including
review by CWC, was expected to be completed by December 31, 1990.
13.  In respect of the Water Manag 'ment Pilot Operation Study undertaken in the pilot blocks
covering a total of 1094 ha under Distributary No.6, the physical systems (land consolidation,
essential control and measurement structurts on Distributary No.6 and its offtaking channels, etc.)
wvere completed and made operational, but the study is still in progress under the Joint Director of
Agriculture. Nevertheless, the important objecdve of the study envisaged at appraisal has not been
fulfilld Because of the delayed implementation and the need for additional operational experience,
it will still require a continuing effort of three to four years to develop required farmer-village level
organizations, improve cropping patterns, ir.crease extension and physical inputs, and obtain
useful monitoring results on all aspects. Sustained efforts by GOO through the Command Area
Development Authority and the Irrigation Department would be needed to obtain a meaningful
result of the proposed RWS schemes.
14.  Unlike the Mahanadi Barrage works complex, the construction of civil works on Birupa
barrage and its head regulator did not present any serious difficulty, though actual performance has
belied earlier expectations that the physical targets would be completed ahead of the appraisal
schedule.
15.   Construction quality throughout implementation was generally variable. The Bank
supervision missions helped instill quality-consciousness among project engineers and
construction staff. Quality control was good on the implementation of the prestressed concrete
girder bridge over Mahanadi Barrage. However, construction quality was not satisfactory in a
number of piers which suffered from inadequate inspection and testing as evidenced by concrete
honey-combing, poor concrete finish, improper construction joints and, partial embedment of
gunny bags and burlap pieces in concrete at construction joints. Poor formwork, slow manual
placement of concrete, lack of vibration, and inadequate quality control, contributed to this
situation. However, rectification of defective construction was satisfactorily carried out.
16.  inordinate delays in the release of encroached lands coming in the alignment of Taladanda
Link Canal (in its head reach) offtaking from the right head regulator of Mahanadi Barrage caused
the delay in the construction of this important link channel. Completion was achieved by March
31, 1990 except in about 300 meters reach where construction to full section, including lining, was
not done for want of clearance from encroachments. GOO has sought court intervention for
removing the encroachments.
17.   The schedule of disbursements under the Credit is shown in Table 3, Part HI. This
demonstrates that whereas the actual disbursements were more than the appi-aisal projections
during Fiscal Years 1982 and 1983, they declined thereafter in the subsequent years and increased
relatively only during Fiscal Years 1988 and 1989. The Status of Covenants is shown in Table 7,
Part III. In general, except for Section 2.04 of Development Credit Agreement which relates to the
two-year delay in project closing, other covenants were in compliance. In respect of this covenant,
GOO initiated positive result-oriented steps to address the critical components of Mahanadi Barrage
Complex and completed them in accordance with subsequent agreed revised implementation
schedules albeit with considerable delays.
Project Results
18.   Project implementation by component is shown in Table 4, Part III. The Birupa barrage
civil and mechanical works havc been completed. The Mahanadi barrage complex is also practically



6
complete and only a very small fraction remains to be done. These incomplete works include
concretion of the right head regulator and erection of the gates, lining of Taladanda link channel,
completion of the balance portion of the left upstream divide wall and completion of the
dismantling of old anicut structure.
19.   Project direct benefits in Table 6A, Part III show encouraging results. Successful
completion of the construction of the new Mahanadi and Birupa barrages, without the failure of
existing old weirs (during the period when the new barrages were being constructed), has fulfilled
the project objectives and prevented the return of project command areas even temporarily to the
rainfed conditions, thereby maintaining the crop outputs and farm incomes. Completion of the
project has successfully accomplished the principal objective of ensuring the continuity of irrigation
in the Delta of 167,000 ha already being irrigated. Furthermore, the new barrages fitted with the
state-of-the-art gates and related operating equipment and having under-sluice bays, have
eliminated all the structural and operational defects associated with the old weirs. As such, the new
barrages are expected to prevent at least 85 to 90% of water losses which were otherwise seeping
underneath and leaking through the old weir structures and shutters. The exact quantum of such
savings will, however, be known later during actual sustained operations. The appraisal objective
of irrigating an additional area of 16,700 ha during rabi, through saving of the estimated 30 to 40
m3/sec of leakage occurring from the old weirs, is optimistically expected to be achieved at the full
development stage.
20.   Revised economic rates of return have been calculated for the project as a whole using the
actual costs for a 1000 ha pilot area and based on (i) the proposed cropping pattern throughout the
project life, and (ii) predominantly paddy cultivation (60% of the rabi area), both under existing
and improved irrigation standards. Based on these assumptions, the economic rates of return are:
under existing standards, 14.1% under proposed cropping pattern, and 6% with paddy as the
predominant crop; and under improved standards, 15.6% under proposed cropping pattem, and
9.7% with paddy as the predominant crop. These compare with appraisal estimates of 21% under
existing irrigation standards and 41% under improved irrigation. Decline in rates of return was
attrbuted to project cost escalation, to the decline in world market price for rice, and to the delay in
accrual of benefits. Details of economic re-evaluation are in Table 6-B.
Project Sustainability
21.   Following completion of the new barrages, incorporating undated designs, provision of
under-sluice bays, installation of state-of-the-art gates and stop logs and given the overall good
quality of construction, there is little doubt that the functional aspects of the new work and facilities
will be sustainable over the nornally accepted long-range life expectancy for projects of this type.
The sustainability and reliability would depend on the adequacy of future O&M performance but,
in any case, even with their inherent operational and structural deficiencies, the new works and
facilities are superior to that of the old weirs which have been in operation for over 100 years. It
will, however, be important and desirable for GOO to continue the water management pilot
operation study and bring it to a successful conclusion through sustained efforts to develop
required farmer-village level organizations, improved cropping pattern, efficient agriculture
extension and better water management. As such it will be an indispensable tool with which GOO
will be able to properly analyze future modernization and rehabilitation development prospects for
the entire Delta area.
Bank's Performance
22.   The Bank, in the course of project supervision, provided useful technical assistance



7
throughout the project implementation cycle. Table 8, Part m demonstrates that from project start-
up Bank missions provided result-oriented assistance to GOO and its Project Management in all
aspects of project implementation, including procurement, and planning and finance, organization
and management, pilot water management study, and technical assistance in the preparation of
Master Plan for Drainage and Flood Control of the Mahanadi Delta. In addition the Bank provided
overall assistance and guidance in the identification and deployment of proper construction
equipment and required infrastructure for improving progress and achieving quality construction.
Borrower 's Performance
23.   The IPD extended its full cooperation to the Bank and exhibited positive responses to the
various suggestions and recommendations throughout the project implementation cycle. Various
constraints inherent in the State-wide system and set-up, including financial stringencies, power
shortage, shortage of required technical expertise, unreliable construction agencies, to name a few,
resulted in over two years delay in completing the project. Notwithstanding the delay, GOO's
overall performance was satisfactory. Non-performing contractors were replaced to speed up
critical and lagging components of Mahanadi barrage complex. The Irrigation Department
demonstrated strong management at the State level and made earnest .fforts to implement Bank
recommendations and suggestions. Of course, there have been shortcomings too. Preparation of
Barrage Operation Rules have been abnormally and unnecessarily delayed. GOO realized quite late
during implementation that in-house expertise was not adequate to prepare a comprehensive O&M
manual. Private consultants were eventually employed. The O&M Manual had been completed and
approved by the Chief Engineer.2
JPrject Relationships
24.   Throughout the project cycle, GOO, its implementing agencies, and the Bank maintained
very cordial relationships, which enabled frank discussions, presentations and understanding of
each other's view points. On technical aspects, the Irrigation Department invariably considered
Bank observations with an open mnind and ensured that their project staff took appropriate actions.
Such a strong link of professional association between the Bank, GOO, and the Project
Management helped in resolving numerous issues, leading to the successful completion of the
project.
Consultancv and Contracting Services
25.   Consultants were engaged by GOO for site investigation and preparation of the foundation
profile for the required Mahanadi barrage bays which were furnished to CWC to complete the
design of barrage floor and piers. GOO also engaged CWPRS, Pune, in the development of a
mathematical model of Mahanadi Delta river flow hydraulics.
26.   Contractors were engaged for all project works except on a part of Mahanadi barrage right
side head regulator which was undertaken by the 1-rigation Department pending the appointment of
a construction agency. Two construction agencies had to be replaced over time because of their
unsatisfactory perforrnance.
2 This takes into account Government comments.



8
RQjec;t Docutnnain and D:ata
27.  In general the legal documents were appropriate and adequate. The Staff Appraisal Report
provided a good framework for project execution except for a shortcoming listed in paras. 9 and
10.



9
PART II: PRO.TECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Confirmation of Adequacy and Accuracy of Infonnation in Parts I and In
28.   Paras 11 and 22 of Part I have been revised to take account of Governments' comments.
GOO had no comments on Part III.
Project Objcives
29.   Mahanadi Barrages Project which became effective in February, 1981 and operational in
June 1989 is programmed for completion by March 31, 1990. The project contemplated and
achieved the following broad objectives.
i.    Construction of Mahanadi and Birupa Barrages as replacement of old anicuts to
ensure continuity of irrigation with assured supply to a cultivable command area of
167,000 ha.
fi.    Drainage Master Plan covering the irrigated area of 303,000 in Mahanadi Delta.
ii.   Water Management Pilot Project covering an area of 1094 ha under Distributary
No.6 of Kendrapara Canal.
30.   The main components of Mahanadi Barrage of length 1928 meters + between abutments
are:
i.    95 bays of 18 meters clear span of which 79 are spillway bays and 8 under-sluice
bays each on left and right.
ii.    One fish pass bay 2 meters wide between right divide wall and right under-sluice
bays.
iii.   Head regulator of Kendrapara Canal of 4 bays of 10 meters each on the left bank
with discharge capacity of 142 cumecs.
iv.   A two-lane bridge over the Barrage adjacent to hoist bridge.
v.    Guide bundh in the upstream and downstream on the left bank and in the
downstream on right bank and two long spurs in the upstream on the right bank.
31.   Simnilarly main components of Birupa Barrage of length 180 meters between abutments are:
i.    15 bays of 10 meters clear span of which three are under--sluice bays on the left
and 12 are spillway bays on the right
ii.    Head regulator of High Level Canal Range I of three bays of 10 meters each on the
left bank with discharging capacity of 142 cumecs.
iii.   A two-lane bridge over the Barrage adjacent to the hoist bridge.
iv.   Guide Bundh both upstream and downstream on both left and right banks.



10
32.   For Mahanadi and Birupa Barrages, the Central Water Commission was the design
consultant. The hydraulic model studies were entrusted to the Central Water and Power Research
Station (CWPRS), Pune. Results of the model studies formed the basis of hydraulic design and
structural design so far as they were relevant. Exploration of foundation of the barrages was
conducted by the project authorities through their own organization at the earlier stage.
Subsequently foundation exploration of Mahanadi Barrage was entrusted to M/s Duban Project
Engineering (P) Ltd., Bombay. The exploration results formed the basis of structural design of
the two Barrages.
33.   After analysis of flood datd, design flood of Mahanadi at Naraj was fixed at 42,475
cumecs. Equivalent design discharge of Mahanadi and Birupa arms were taken as 15,300 and
2,070 cumecs respectively. In the Staff Appraisal Report, the higher flood recorded at Naraj was
43,100 cumecs in 1972. That was exceeded and the highest flood of 44,749 cumecs passed
during 1982 at Naraj. Frequency analysis was conducted at CWPRS, Pune which revealed mean
value of 100 years flood as 50,260 cumecs and 95% Upper Confidence Limit 59,832 cumecs at
Naraj. Corresponding to 50,260 cumecs at Naraj, discharges in Mahanadi and Birupa are 18,000
and 2,500 respectively. The model has been tested for these discharges. Model was not run for
the discharges of 59,832 cumecs at Naraj as, such high flood is not likely to reach Naraj because
of low embankment capacity in the upper reaches.
34.   The shape and alignment of upstream and downstream guide bundhs of Birupa Barrage,
left upstream and downstream and right downstream guide bundh of Mahanadi Barrage were fixed
as per model study recommendation. Looseness factor of 3.27 and existing shoal forrrLtion
upstream of right under-sluice posed a problem for river training Mahanadi right. As the best
alternative, two long spurs of length 706 meters and 966 meters have been constructed in the
upstream of Mahanadi Barrage to develop adequate velocity preventing reformation of shoal and
silt entry into Head Regulator of Taladanda Canal. Model study recommended removal of shoal in
specified area upstream of the right under-sluice of Mahanadi Barrage and the same was taken up
accordingly. Excessive sediment deposit was observed on the right upstream bank of the Birupa
river in the model and therefore the Head Regulator of Kendrapara Canal was shifted to the left
side of Mahanadi Barrage. Width between abutments of the new Mahanadi Barrage has been kept
1928 meters against 1935.50 meters of the old anicut keeping in view the water-way of existing
railway bridge near the downstream in spite of a looseness factor of 3.27. Width of 180 meters
between abutments has been kept of Birupa Barrage against 635 meters in old anicut and the
pAesent watcr-way has been found satisfactory in the model test, the looseness factor remaining as
0.83. The reservoir level (RL) of 21.2 meters of old Mahanadi anicut has been retained for the
new Barrages. Capacity of each of the three Head Regulators is kept at 142 cumecs against 84.90,
90.19 and 18.62 cumecs of old Head Regulators of Taladanda, Kendrapara and High Level Canals
respectively to utilize additional regulated releases due to future reservoirs.
35.   Foundation exploration was taken up by M/s Duban Project Engineering (P) Ltd., Bombay
for Mahanadi Barrage and Birupa Barrage during the period from 4/82 to May 1986. These show
that left under-sluice bays of Mahanadi Barrage are located on stiff grey clay below which are
layers of sand and loam which are further underlain by very stiff yellow clay. The thickness of the
grey and yellow clays and of the sandwiched sandy layers vary both in longitudinal and transverse
directions. The gray clay of 8.0 meters depth under left abutment disappears at the left divide wall.
Clay thickness of 8.0 meters below bottom of raft in the upstream vanishes below downstream
raft. The subsoil between bays 9 to 48 mostly consists of thick alluvium deposit of thickness from
16 meters to 30 meters underlain with a stiff yellow clay stratum. Between bays 49 to 63, there is



11
a top sand layer extending up to RL 0.00 in bay 49 and up to RL + 8.0 m in bay 63. Between
bays 64 to 78, there is a top sand layer extending up to RL + 11.0 meters in bay 64, up to +6.0
meters in bay 73 and up to RL + 11.0 meters in bay 78. Within bays 79 to 88, there is a top sand
layer with clevat.on ranging from RL + 11.0 meters to +9.0 meters, stiff black clay layer between
RL + 10.0 meters and + 7.0 meters, gray medium stiff clay below, RL 6.0 meters with thin sandy
clay/clays sand between two clay layers. In right under-sluice bays from 88 to 95, the subsoil
mainly consists of stiff black clay within intermedipte layers of clayey sand. The raft rests on clay
throughout its length, against subgrade reaction of 2.10 kg/cm2 for sand foundation and 2.80
kg/cm2 for grey clay estimated by design consultant, 0.9 kg/cm2 has been adopted for actual design
of raft. The raft abutment is resting on stiff black clay of about 8.2 meters depth underlain by
sandy strata of about 6 meters depth below which stiff yellow clay of about 1.5 meters depth
exists. Preconsolidation pressure for black clay and yellow are 22 t/m2 and 24 t/m2 respectively
under design pressure of 20 t/m2 which is less than the above values. The differential settlement
expected is negligible. On analysis, settlement is found to be about 2.39 cm. Ultimate bearing
capacity with over-burden estimated is 40 t/m2. The left abutment was constructed to its full height
leaving an expansion joint between the toe of the abutment and raft of first bay. Without
constructing the portion of the raft, the abutment was back-filled up to its full height and some
surcharge load on backfill and on toe was placed and settlement observations were made for about
one year. Practically no settlement of left abutment was noticed. The black stiff clay encountered
in the foundation of right abutment is almost identical. In the foundation of right abutment, the
stiff clay continues to a large depth and there are also thin layers of clayey sand. The heave
estimated is about 25 rnm and ultimate bearing capacity is 45 t/m2. Total settlement calculated is
145 mm which is the sum total of consolidation settlement of 120 mm and heave of 25 mm. In
order to keep the estimated total settlement within permissible limit of about 90 mm, several
alternatives such a providing the sand drain below right abutment and adjoining under-sluice bays,
combining the abutment with some under-sluice bays and founding the tight abutment on reamed
pile etc. were studied in detail. Finally, to reduce the intensity of base pressure, it was decided that
the last bay (bay No.95) would be constructed monolithically on the right abutment with a double
pier between bay 94 and 95. Thus maximum intensity was reduced from 20 t/m2 to 15 t/m2 and
settlement was reduced to the pernissible limits.
36.   The Birupa Barrage is founded on hard laterite rock underlain by stiff yellow clay. Safe
bearing capacity is found to be 38 t/m2 against maximum abutment pressure of 20 t/m2. Settlement
corresponding to load intensity of 96.8 t/m2 is about 0.8 mm for 300 mm plate. Therefore,
settlement and differential settlement of abutment would be marginal and no settlement is expected
in barrage bay. The modulous of subgrade reaction estimated is 61.5 kg/cm3 for laterite rock and
the same value has been used for design of raft.
37.   For Mahanadi Barrage, double pier has been provided generally after 10 days. However,
where the foundation strata is changing this has not been adhered to. Care has been taken in
making separate unit of raft having the same type of foundation. Double piers have been provided
between bays numbered 3-4, 8-9, 18-19, 28-29, 38,39, 48-49, 58-59, 70-71, 75-76, 78-79, 83-
84, 87-88 and 94-95. The raft is designed as a reinforced concrete beam on elastic foundation
spanning between piers. Keeping in view the uncertainties, a 'conservative value of co-efficient of
subgrade reaction (0.9 kg/cm2)' has been adopted. The raft is stiffened by extra transverse
reinforcement to withstand any settlement. The raft is divided into various zones depending on the
intensity of loads/forces coming. The raft is analyzed for various conditions such as flood, pond,
hydraulic jump and construction etc. And also for normal and seismic conditions. Seismic
coefficients of 0.12 kg for horizontal and 0.06 kg for vertical acceleration acting simultaneously
have been considered. The critical condition which has given maximum loads and moments in



12
various zones has been finally considered in the design. Two meters wide piers have been
extended to full length of raft. Over the piers, hoisting equipment for gates operation and a road
bridge have been accommodated. Loads dispersion angle of 45 degrees has been adopted.
According to the height of piers and loads coming, piers have been divided into various zones.
The condition of live loads of bridges which cause maximum vertical loads and corresponding
horizontal force has been analyzed. Both normal and seismic conditions were considered and the
one causing maximum eccentricity is the critical one for which reinforcement has been provided.
Pier has been desigried as a column subjected to combined bending and direct load. Abutment has
been designed as a reinforced concrete retaining wall in three parts i.e. stem, heel and toe. Each
member is acting as a candlever fixed at the junction of the member and subjected to vertical forces
in case of heal and toe slab and horizontal forces due to earth pressure, water pressure and bridge
live load in case of vertical stem. The structurl design for Head Regulator of Taladanda Canal and
Kendrapara Canal have been done in the same manner as variGus components of barrage structure.
Prestressed Girder bridge has been designed for Mahanadi Barrage and bridge over Head
Regulator of Kendrapara Canal and reinforced concrete slab bridge has been designed for Head
Regulator of Taladanda Canal.
38.   For design of raft of Birupa Barrage, the modulous of subgrade reaction of 61.5 kg/cm2
has been used. The three left under-sluice bays have been isolated from 12 spillway bays on the
right side with provision of expansion joint and double pier between bay No.3-4. A divide wall
separates under-sluice bays and spillway bays. The highly stressed abutments are isolated from
the main raft with provision of an expansion joint between two of abutment and main raft. The
procedure of design of raft, pier and abutment adopted for Mahanadi has been followed for Birupa
Barrage. Structural design for Head Regulator of High Level Canal Range-I has been done in the
same manner as various components of Birupa Barrage. Reinforced concrete beams with slabs
have been designed for bridge over Birupa Barrage and Head Regulator of High Level Canal
Range-I.
Priect Implementation
39.  In Mahanadi Barrage clay was encountered in the foundation of the left and right under-
sluice bays and open dewatering by pumps of various capacities was resorted to. Spillway bays
were founded on bed of sand. Dewatering of foundation was accomplished with well-point
dewatering system with 50s0 horsepower Electric/Diesel Pumps in combination with one
submersible pump of 8 to 10 horsepower capacity in each bay. Concrete was supplied from
batching plants installed on the banks and was transported to worksite by Tippers and finally
placed in position manually. To a limited extent, concrete mixers were used near worksites to feed
concrete mostly for cement concrete blocks for upstream and downstream protection works.
Birupa Barrage was founded on laterite rock requiring open dewatering by small capacity pumps.
Concreting was done by concrete mixers. Progress on Birupa Barrage, although heartening during
earlier period, lagged behind construction schedule during later period. However, being a small
work in comparison with Mahanadi Barrage, it was completed ahead of Mahanadi Barrage.
Progress of Mahanadi Barrage could not keep pace with the implementation schedule and
following reasons in addition to those listed in Part-I of the PCR contributed to the time over-run:
i.    River diversion posed a great problem throughout construction period. Mahanadi
Barrage was constructed 60 meters downstream of the old anicut keeping the old
irrigation system operational. Water diversion through canals and escapes of Delta
Stage-I and Stage-II mostly did not succeed due to resistance of the people growing
crops in the land along the drainage channels. Water level in the pond of the old
anicut remained high and submerged the working area and construction machinery



13
several times by over-topping or breaching masonry coffer dam during monsoon
cyclones resulting in considerable loss of working period and life and efficiency of
construction machinery.
ii.   There was occasional dislocation in work due to non-availability of cement during
working season 1984-85.
iii.   Foundation including concrete raft was the major and difficult component of work
requiring sustained lowering of water level in construction area by four to seven
meters. Disruption in power supply led to more of idle pumping and considerable
loss of progress in items of work. In view of uncertain electric supply position,
four of 250 kilovolt amperes diesel generating sets were procured and put to work
from working season of 1986-87. Had these sets been procured from the
begmining, delay on this account could have been avoided.
40.  In the foundation of bays 44 to 53 of Mahanadi Barrage (downstream of the central sluice
area) laterite masonry, laterite dry masonry, crates made of palm tree sown into four pieces
lengthwise and filled with granite stones and concrete blocks of nearly 2 m depth were
encountered. Due to presence of sand underneath, dewatering took a long period, involving time
over-run and blocking of dewatering pumping units. Four to five small rigs worked to make holes
to insert 1/2 inch diameter well-points. One high capacity rig had to be procured to make holes to
insert 4 inches diameter well points. Two open pumping pits were dug by crane grabs and
provided with inverted filter arrangements. An indication of this problem in the Staff Appraisal
Report would have led to better preparedness to prevent seepage in construction schedule on this
account.
41.   The Mahanadi Delta Development plan envisages an integrated development of Mahanadi
Delta Command with Gross Command Area and cultivable command area of 5.20 and 3.03 lakh
hectares in the following sectors.: (i) Drainage Development; (ii) Flood Control Works; (iii)
Modernization of Irrigation System; (iv) Command Area Development and land consolidation
works; and (v) Conjunction use of ground water along with the surface irrigation system. For this
purpose comprehensive project report in 10 volumes has been prepared taking into consideration
(i) Topographical survey, geology, and Delta formation, (ii) Climatic study; (iii) Soil Survey; (iv)
Socio Economic Benchmark study; (v) Position of groundwater table, its fluctuation and quality;
(vi) existing canal system and its efficiency; (vii) existing drainage channels and their efficiency
and other relevant topics. Mathematical model study for determination of water movement in the
Delta have been undertaken at CWPRS, Pune. Several specific notes have been received from
CWPRS and these have been incorporated in designing the drainage system and flood control
works. All the ten volumes of the project report have been completed and the dialogue with
Central Water Commission is continuing.
42.   Modernization of the Distributary No.6 Ex-Kendrapara Canal was selected as a pilot
project. 1026 hectares in 21 villages in three patches were identified for agricultural
demonstration. A project implementation committee was formed under Chairmanship of Chief
Engineer, Mahanadi Birupa Barrage Project to coordinate amongst Land Consolidation
Departmnent, Agriculture Department, Command Area Development Authority and review the
program and progress of the project. The sole motto of implementing the project was to expose the
advancement in cultivation methods and water management to the agriculwural community. The
Agriculture University, Orissa carried out studies over pre-stage and post-stage socio-economic
development in the said area.



14
43.   The program consisted of the following: (i) Modernization of Distributary 6, (ii) on-fann
development in the pilot patches, (iii) To regulate pre-deternined discharge through outlets, (iv) To
educate the cultivators regarding the program, and (v) benefit evaluation through economic
surveys. The 110 year old existing canal which has lost the shape and the structures being either
broken or insufficient for full discharge in tail reaches are to be remodelled to avoid periodical
drought and unnecessary flooding. The canals have been developed to the required design shape
to supply required quantity of water in time. Beyond the outlets the on-fann development is done
by command area development.
44.  In the full modernization program a summary of the structures included 26 head regulators,
17 cross regulators, 22 drainage syphons, 59 intervening bridges, 3 falls, 407 outlets, and one
aqueduct. Also, a total of 79.19 kilometers of earthwork on the canal were executed. Significant
development in providing effective irrigation in the pilot area was achieved with the help of
modernization. Valuable guidelines provided by the missions during their visits to the project site
were of much help in implementating the project.
45.   A well equipped quality control unit was established for the project. Project Enginekrs
desired to maintain quality of construction. Bank supervision missions insisted on quality with
constructive suggestions. There were occasions when Bank missions became harsh on the quality
of work but these were taken in the stride as the observations were meant to improve the quality of
work. Pressure was all the time exerted to complete the project within the original target date and
after that date was over, to complete with least time over-run. Targets set were ambitious
considering cumulative effect of reasons contributing to shortfall in progress. Hurrying tendency
to make good slippage in program was one of the contributing factors for the deficiency on
mishing quality. However, remedial measures were taken giving due weightage to observations
of Bank missions and rectification was satisfactoxy achieved.
46.   Work of link channel of Taladanda Canal could not be started before the stipulated date of
project completion (i.e. March 31, 1987). Taking possession of land under unauthorized
occupation of individuals posed a great problem. After acquisition of land in the head reach, it was
possible to demolish the dwelling houses towards middle of 1988-89 working season and take up
the work. Vacation of some land in the tail reach has not yet been possible. However, efforts are
being made for taking possession of land and to complete the work by March 31, 1990 as per
program.
Development Impact of the Project
47.   Saving of 30 to 40 cumecs of water which was earlier being lost as leakage through
shutters of old anicuts and elimination of fluctuation in pond level due to deficiencies of shutters of
old anicuts, have assured supply in canals up to full supply level as per requirement throughout
irrigation season. This has been achieved in practice during Kharif season of 1988-89. Because
of this project, GOO is already executing Birupa Genguti Island Irrigation Project at estimated cost
of Rs.4.63 crores contemplating irrigation to 3830 ha during Kharif and 3095 ha during Rabi
drawing design discharge of 4.41 cumecs from Nattamundai Branch of Kendrapara Canal. GOO
has also set up organization to execute Mahanadi Chitrotpala, contemplating irrigation to 16.612 ha
during Kharif and 15,438 ha during rabi, drawing design discharge of 26.47 cubic meters per
second from Kendrapara Canal. With assured supply of water due to this project and Drainage
Master Plan ready, GOO cannot afford any delay except to arrange resources for taking up the
execution of Mahanadi Delta Development Plan.



15
PART III: STATISTICAL TABLES



TABLE I
RELATED BANK CREDITS
Loan/Credit Title                  Purpose          Year of Approval         Status                      Commnents
Credit 682-IN               To reorgaiise and improve   1977           Project closed on June 30,   The project acheived nost of
Orissa Agricultural         extension & research services.             1984.                       targets and overall physical
Development Credit                                                                                  performance was good.
(US$ 20 M)                                                                                          Quality of extension in the
State improved and made a
positive effect on agricultural
production.
Credit 1523-IN             To provide 1994 assistance   1984           Project implementation is    Notwithstanding the fact that
National Agricultural       for acnieving c.ntinued                    severely behind schedule with   sound professional extension
Extension Project I         strengthening of agriculture               respect to SAR completion    services are now well
(US$ 39.1 M)                extension services and the                 date of March 1989. Credit   established, deficiencies exist
(or SDR 38.6 M)             research-extension linkages.               Closing Date had been       in the extension quality and
extended to March 31, 1992.    coverage besides serious
planning and financial
constraints.



;.7
TABLE 2
Item                      Date Planned       Actual (A)/Estimated at Closing (E)
Identification (Executive  Not available
Project Summary)
Preparation               Not available
Appraisal Mission                                             July '80 (A)
Loan/Credit Negotiations                                      October '80 (A)
Board Approval                                                Dec. 2,'80 (A)
Credit Signatures                                             Dec. 5, '80 (A)
Credit Effectiveness                                          Feb. 11, '81 (A)
Project Completion        Mar. 31, '86                        March '90 (E) 1/
Credit Closing            Mar. 31, '87                        Mar. 31, '90 (A)
1/ The Chief Engineer of the Project intimated that estimated project completion was June
1990, except for the installation of mechanism of the operation of gates through remote
control system.



18
TABLE 3
CumDiav  ibursments
BANKIFY/            Appraisal Revised     Revised        Actual  % Actual to SAR or
Semester            Projection Projection    Projection          Revised Projection
(3/88)      (12/88)
------------------------ (US$ M) --------------------
1982    lst            0.2
2nd            2.2                                3.7           168
1983    1st            5.2                                 5.5          106
2nd           11.0                                9.3            84
1984    1st           19.0                                13.1
2nd           30.0                               22.20           74
1985    1st           43.0                               24.20
2nd           55.0                               35.90           65
1986    1st           65.0                               40.22           69
2nd           74.0                               49.86           67
1987    1st           80.0                               52.70           66
2nd           83.0                               56.18           67
1988    1st                                              69.30
2nd                      74.0                    73.80           99
1989    1st (Sept.'88)           76.0                    76.70          101
2nd (Dec.'88)            80.0                    77.10           96
3rd (Mar.'89) 1J         82.0        81.3        81.30 3/       100
4th (June 89)            83.0        83.0
1990    1st (Sept 89) 2/
1/      Credit Closing date.
2/      End of grace period (9/89).
3/      US$ 81.30 M is equivalent to SDR 62 M against Credit amount of SDR 63.3 M.



TABLE 4
Page 1 of 3
PROJECE IMPLEMENTATION
Indicator                     Unit           Appraisal      Refornulated        Actual
Estimate        Estimate       Achievement    Remarks
(1/89)           (3/89)
1.  Mahanadi Barrage (Civil Works)
Foundation excavation      m3              946700         657,000            609057     Completed in 5/89
(619557 m3)
Formation of sheet piles   m2               39800          35,000            33,428     Completed in 5/89
(33688 m2)
Concrete in substructure   m3              241632         184,820           181,488
Concrete in super-structure  m3            100347          83,830            74,898
Concrete blocks            m3               39680          63,000            49,742
Prestress girder           Nos.       38011429 m3             428              396
Mild steel reinforcement   nt               21600          19,000            18,244
Loose stone apron          m3              144,930        126,000           106,852



TABLE 4
Page 2 of 3
Indicator                     Unit       Appraisal      Reformulated     Actual
Estimate        Estimate    Achievement    Remarks
(1/89)       (3/89)
2.  Mahanadi Barrage Mech, Works
Manufacture and supply of
embedded parts          mt         609.60           521.29        521.29      Completed
Erection of embedded parts    mt     609.60           521.29        505.23
Completed 5/89
Manufacture and supply of
gate stoplog           nmt         2938             2202.49      2202.49      Completed
Erection of gate and stoplog    nit  2938             2202.49      1934.20
3.  Birupa Barrage Civil Works
Foundation excavation     m3         45,618           99,700        99,700      Completed
Laterite excavation       m3         362.97           47,700        47,700      Completed
Concrete in sub-structure  m3        33,277           29,000        26,506      Completed
Concrete in super-structure  m3       17,563          12,000        13,867      Completed
Concrete blocks           m3           2,863          14,000        13,469      Completed in 5/89
(13737 m3)
Steel reinforcement       nit          3,380           2,280         2,177      Completed
Loose stone apron         m3         21,693           22,000        12,000



TABLE 4
Page 3 of 3
Indicator                           Unit               Appraisal       Reformulated    Actual
Estimate          Estimate  Achievement    Remarks
(1/89)     (3/89)
4.  Birupa Barrage Mech. Works
Manufacture and supply of
embedded parts                nit               70.50               92.07        92.07      Completed
Erecdon of embedded parts       nit               70.50               92.07        92.07      Completed
Manufacture and supply of
gates and stoplogs            mt               379.60              332.31       332.31      Completed
Erection of gate and stoplog    Mnt              379.60              332.31       332.31
C:ompletedM
Manufacture and supply of
hoist                         nos.                 15           15+3 (H/R)  15+3 (U/R)      Completed
Erection of hoists              nos.                 15           15+3 (H/R)  15+3 (H/R)      Completed
Supply and erection of
Gantry Crane                  nos.                  I                   1         NIL           1
5.  Head regulators (HKR) and link
channel                        Rs.M               17.7                55.0        41.0
6.  Camps and buildings               Rs.M              17.0                141.7       141.0      Completed in 5/89
(146.0)
7.  Roads                             Rs.M               5.0                  9.0         9.0      Completed
8.  Master Drainage Plan              Rs.M              12.0                 40.2        39.8      Completed in 5/89
(40.2)
9.  Water Management                  Rs.M               3.0                  8.0         9.04     Completed



TABLE 5-A
PROJECT COSTS
Apraisal Estiimate     Apasal Estimate        Revised     Actual           Balance
Foreign                Fomign            Estimate    at 3/89         Estimated
Local Exchange          Local Exchange            (3/87)      (Credit       Expenditure
Costs   Costs   Total   Costs  Costs   Total                 Closing)         at 3/89
---(US$ M) X-------  -----------(Rs. M) --------   (Rs. M)   (Rs. M)     (Rs.M) (US$M) /
1. CivilWorks              38.1    9.5    47.6    320.2  80.0   400.2    858.60         768.18        37.02    2.38
2. Mechanical Engineering    4.8    7.1    11.9      40.3  60.0   100.3      159.40      153.53       10.00     0.64
3. Engineering Supervision
and Administration       9.0    0.5      9.5     75.4   4.0    79.4      141.70      166.47       12.00     0.77
4. Drainage Master Plan      1.2    0.2      1.4     10.0   2.0    12.0       28.70       39.20        2.00     0.13
5. Water Management Program   0.3    0.1    0.4       2.4   0.6      3.0       8.40        8.40         -        -
6. Base Cost                53.4   17.4    70.8    448.3  146.6   594.9        -           -            -        -
7. Physical Contingencies
(18.5%)                  9.9    3.2    13.1      83.0  27.1   110.1
8. Price Contingencies
(31.4%)                 19.9    6.5    26.4    167.0  54.5   221.5          -           -
Total Project cost      83.2   27.1   110.3    698.3 228.2   926.5    1196.80        1135.78      61.02     3.92
(US$M)                   (Rs.M)    (Rs. M)     (Rs M)       (Rs M)  US$ M
Notes:
1/  Exchange rate US$ I = Rs. 8.40.
2V  It includes the cost of buildings and equipment (pages 25 and 26 of SAR, October 31, 1980).
3/   1 US$ = Rs. 15.50.



TABLE 5-B
Page 1 of 2
1EROCT FINANCG
Source                       Planned       Revised       Actual       Final
in Credit     (Reallo-      ason       Actual 2
Agreement       cation       3131/89
(SDR '000)    (SDR'000)   (SDR '000) (SDR '000)
(8/87)
IjBD E     i    Ugo
A.    ignaldit Agrement
1.  Civil works, gate
manufacture and
erection thereof             52,590         59,030      57156.13   58317.48
2.  Equipment, materials
and vehicles                  1,540          1,400       1428.04    1428.04
3.  Drainage and water
Management.                   1,540          2,870       3,440.48    3,554.48
4.  Unallocated                    7,630             0              0          0
Total SDR '000               63,300 1/      63,300      62,024.65  63,300.00
or
US$ '000                83,000         83,000      81,300     83,000.00
B. Co-financing Institutions               0              0           0            0
C. Other External Sources                  0              0           0            0
D. Domestic (GOO) US$ '000            27,300         48,090      42,930 6I 44,740 Wf
Total (US$'000)                   110,300       131,090 4/  123,8101/ 127,730
Total (Rs. M)                    926.500       1196.80 l/  1135.78 Y/ 1196.80
1/  SDR 63.3 M Credit or US$ 83 M equivalent; US$ = Rs.8.4 and 1SDR= US$1.31.
2/  Disbursements taken at the end of grace period (9/89).



24
TABL, -B
Page 2 of 2
3/  Revised Project Cost (3/87).
4/  1 US$ = 13.00 on 3/87
5/  1 US$ = 15.50 on 3/89
6./ This does not reflect true expenditure as the disbursements were made at different exchange
rates through respective periods of project execution.
7/  Additional Rs.61.02 M (US$ 3.92 M) shall have to be expended to complete prescribed works as per
revised cost estimate of works (Rs.1 196.80 M)
(US$ 000) 127,730 - 123,810 = US$ 3.920 M.



TABL 6A
Page 1 of 2
DIRECT BENEFITS
Indicator                     Appraisal                      Closing date                  Full development
estimate                        estimate                       estimate
1                            2                                3                              4
1. Continuity of irrigation.    Ensuring continuity of irrigation in  Completion of the project has  Same as in column 3.
167000 ha being already irrigated.  accomplished the primary objective
of the continuity of irrigation as
envisaged at appraisal.
2. Preventing the return of    Failure of existing weirs and non-  Successful project implementation  Same as in column 3.
project area to rainfed    implementation of the Project would    without any failure of existing weirs
conditions with the        revert the project to rainfed      has fulfilled the project objectives
consequent reduction in    conditions with the consequent     and prevented the retum of project
crops output.              annual reduction of crops output to    areas even temporarily to the rainfed
an estimated US$ 30M in financial    conditions, thereby maintaining the
1980 prices, besides severely     crop outputs and farm incomes and
affecting farm incomes and        employment.
employment.
3. Eliminating emergency   Eliminating the need for emergency    Successful construction of new  Same as in column 3.
repairs of old weirs.      repairs of existing old weirs      barrages has accomplished the
involving an expenditure of       project objective through elimination
US$2.OM.                          of the need for emergency repairs.



ThBIz 6-A
Page 2 of 2
Indicator                      Appraisal                    Closing date                   Full development
estimate                      estimate                        estimate
1                              2                             3                                4
4. Preventing existing     Prevention of 544 M m3 leakage and    Prevention of 400 M m3 estimated     11
leakage of water through the   its utilization in rabi season for  to be achieved.
construction of new        achieving additional benefits of
barrages.                  Rs.40 M annually.
1/    Realistic evaluation of the quantum of leakage saved shall be determined through actual operation of gates of new barrages
in the next few years.
i      t



27
TABLE 6-B
Page 1 of 4
ECONONIC IlVIAC
A. Economic Rates of Return
Particulars         Apmrisal Estimate/            PCR Estimate
Existing    Improved    Existing      Improved
hiigation    Irrigation  Irrigation    Irrigation
Standard    Standard     SLandard     Standard
Econornic Rate
Qof Retum i        21.0         41.0         14.1         15.6
6.02/       9.7 2/
Major Assumptions
1. Project Costs
(nominal)       Rs. 926.5 M               Rs. 1196.8 3/
2. Water Management
cost for improved
irrigation in the
pilot area (1000 ha)         Rs. 3.0 M                 Rs. 8.4 M 41
AL/    Refer to Staff Appraisal Report, Annex 5, paras. 5 and 6.
2t    Decline in ERR if the farmers start cultivating paddy predominantly in the rabi season.
3/    Real cost escalation for the total project costs plus the extended water management program
to cover the full 167,000 ha was 23%.
4/    At appraisal, the cost of construction works for attaining improved irrigation system was
estimated at Rs. 3 M for 1000 ha pilot area, which, if projected to cover full command area
of 167,000 ha, works to Rs. 501 M. The actual incurred cost of Rs. 8.4 M for the same
pilot area, when projected to cater to improved irigation management for the full
command, is estimated to Rs. 1402.8 M. This increase in cost makes ERR fall from 41%
to 15.6%.



28
TABLE 6-B
Page 2 of 4
B. Irrigation Potential Utilized for a Total Command Area of 167,000 ha ('000 ha)
Year           Kharif        Rabi    Remarks on Rabi Irrigation
1978-79          153         92      Heavy 1/ and light2/ rabi irigation
1979-80          154         87      Ditto
1980-81          154         67      Ditto
1981-82          156         89      Ditto
1982-83          156         82      Only light2/ rabi irigation
1983-84          156         115     Ditto
1984-85          156         109     Ditto
1985-86          156         109    Ditto
1986-87          156         111     Ditto
1987-88          156         111     Ditto
1988-89          156         111     Ditto
1989-90          156          94     Heavyl/ and light2/ rabi irrigation
1990-91 3/       159          96     Ditto
1991 onwards     159          96     Ditto
C. Economic Prices of Commodities
Rs. per Kg.
N                            8.85
P                            8.36
K                            4.43
Paddy                        1.54
Jute                         2.53
Groundnut                    3.98
Potato                        1.6
Pulses                        6.4
Rs. per md
Wage Rate                    9.6
Footnotes:
1/ Heavy irrigation pertains to paddy crop; light irrigation to pulses, groundnut and
other gardenland crops.
2/ From 1982/83 to 1988/89, there was a disruption in rabi irrigation due to cons-
truction of barrages under the project. Only pulses and groundnuts were irigated.
3/ Full irrigation potential will be utilized from 1990-91 onwards.



29
TABLE 6-B
Page 3 of 4
D. Assumptions
1.    Geneml. For traded commodities like paddy, groundnut and jute, the economic prices
were derived from the Bank's commodity forecasts 1995 (projected expressed in 1988 constant
values with appropriate adjustments for freight, handling and processing). A standard exchange
rate of US$1 to Rs. 14.7 was used for 1988 period. For non-traded commodities, market prices
were multiplied by a standard conversion factor of 0.8.
2.    AoXictal Wage. The wage rate is Rs.12 per manday for unskilled labor. The shadow
wage rate of labor is taken as Rs.9.60 per manday (80% of Rs.12).
3.   Inorganic Fertilizers have been valued at world market prices which on an average is 40%
higher (1995 projected) than the domestic retail prices. The border prices for nutrients per
kilogram were estimated as Rs.8.85 for N (Nitrogen), Rs.8.36 for P205 (Phosphate), and
Rs.4.43 for K20 (Potash) in 1995 at 1988 constant values.
4.    C=. Paddy is the principal crop in the project area. Rice is, on the margin, a traded
good for India, and Bank projections indicate that in the 1990s India is likely to be a net exporter of
foodgrains. Consequently economic price of paddy was based on the assumption that production
would be exported out of India. Groundnut was considered as an import commodity since edible
oils are imported by India. India exports jute and accordingly the economic price was calculated.
5.    Seeds. By-products and Farm Yard Manure. The economic prices for seeds, by-products
and farm yard manure were calculated by multiplying the market prices by the standard conversion
factor of 0.8.
6.      j  Cots. The economic value of the project cost was calculated by multiplying the
actual cost with the standard conversion factor of 0.8. The real economic cost (1988 constant)
was computed by using wholesale price index.
7.    Yield asmsptions with and without project are very similar to that used in the Staff
Appraisal Report.



30
TABLE 6-B
Page 4 of 4
E. Cost ad Benefit Streams for a Total Commaun    ea 167.000 ha (in Rs. million)                  P
acemental  Incremental  Net Increm.  Incremental  Incremental  Net Increm.
Costs        Benefits     Benefits     Costs        Benefits      Benefits
1. Under Proposed Cropping Pattern                   . With Paddy as Predominant Crop
A. Under Existing Water Management System           A. Under Existing Water Management
1978-79              2.22            0         -2.22         2.22           0         -2.22
1979-80              7.87            0         -7.87         7.87           0          -7.87
1980-81             12.51            0        -12.51        1251            0        -1251
1981-82             46.62            0        46.62         46.62           0        46.62
1982-83             88.02            0        -88.02        88.02           0        -88.02
1983-84            168A2             0       *168.42       16842            0       -168.42
1984-85            146.65            0       -146.65       146.65           0       -146.65
1985-86            164.88            0       -164.88       164.88           0       -164.88
1986-87            195.44            0       -195.44       195.44           0       -195.44
1987-88            129.29            0       -129.29       129.29           0       -129.29
1988-89             98A2             0        -98A2         98A2            0        -98A2
1989-90             45.26        144.63       99.37        45.26         45.43         0.17
1990-91 2V           12.2        156.19       143.99         12.2         49.1         36.9
1991-92              12.2        164.63       152.43         12.2        51.75        39.55
1992-93              12.2        173.07       160.87         12.2        54.41        42.21
1993-94              12.2        181.51       169.31         12.2        57.06        44.86
1994-95              12.2        189.95       177.75         12.2        59.72        4752
1995-96              12.2         1984         186.2         12.2        62.37        50.17
1996-97              12.2       206.84        194.64         12.2        65.02        52.82
1997-98              12.2       422.12       409.92          12.2        132.7        1205
1998-99              12.2       422.12       409.92          12.2        132.7        120.5
1999-20              12.2       422.12       409.92          12.2        132.7        120.5
2000-29               12.2      422.12        409.92         12.2        132.7        120.5
ERR                                          14.10%                                   6.00%
B. Under Improved Water Management System           B. Under Improved Water Management System
1978-79              2.22            0         -2.22         2.22           0         -2.22
1979-80              7.87            0         -7.87         7.87           0         -7.87
1980-81             1251             0        -1251         1251            0        -1251
1981-82             46.62            0        46.62         46.62           0        46.62
1982-83             88.02            0        -88.02        88.02           0         -88.02
1983-84            168A2             0       -168A2        168.42           0       -168.42
1984-85            146.65            0       -146.65       146.65            0       -116.65
1985-86            164.88            0       -164.88       164.88            0      -i64.88
1986-87            195.44            0       -195.44       195.44            0       -195.44
1987-88            129.29            0       -129.29       129.29            0       -129.29
1988-89             98.42            0        -98A2         98A2             0        -98A2
1989-90             45.26        144.63        99.37        45.26       112.77        6751
1990-91            138.73        156.19        17.46       138.73       121.88       -16.85
1991-92            214.09        164.63       49A6         214.09       128A7         -85.62
1992-93            297.35        173.07      -124.28       29735        135.05        -162.3
1993-94             201.9        18151        -2039         201.9       141.64       -60.26
1994-95 1/           21.4         3355         314.1         21.4       148.23       126.83
1995-96              21.4        350.41       329.01         21.4       154.82       133.42
1996-97              21A         36532        343.92         21.4       161.41       140.01
1997-98              214         74556        724.16         21.4        329A          Z308
1998-99              21.4        745.56       724.16         21.4        329A           308
1999-20              21A         745.56       724.16         21.4        329.4          308
2000-29               21.4       74556        724.16         21.4        329.4          308
ERR                                          15.60%                                   9.709%
1/ From hereon costs represent maintenance costs.



TABLE 6-C
STUDIES
Title of           Purpose as Defined             By Whom Carried       Reference        Status             Impact of Study
Study              at Appraisal                        Out             in SAR
1. Water           To carry out water             Irrigation and Power   Annex 3   Physical systems are     It has not so far made
Management         management pilot                Department (IPD);    Pages 1 &2 completed and the study  the desired impact.
Pilot Operations   operations, including the       Command Area                    is in progress. However,
construction of water courses  Development (CAD)               it would require a
and drains, and the            and State Evaluation            continuing long range
introduction of Rotational     Organization (SED)              effort of 4 to 6 years to
Water Supply System (RWS)      of GOO.                         accomplish the study
in a pilot area of about 1,000                                 objectives.
ha.
2. Drainage        To formulate a Drainage         Irrigation and Power   # 4.05   Out of ten volumes of the    The Study when
Master Plan        Master Plan for the whole of    Department (IPD);               Project Report for DMP,    completed and
(DMP)              Mahanadi Delta area (30,000 ha)    Bank Consultant              eight have been completed   atally implemented
in order to prepare comprehensive   Mr. B. Barber and          and sent to CWC. Final    in field should solve
solutions to the existing poor  Central Water and              DMP dull reviewed by      drainage of low
drainage situation in most parts  Power Research               CWC was expected to be   lying areas; prevent
of the project area.           Station, Pune                   ready by Dec.31,1989.     breaches of river
(CWPRS).                                                 embanlanents, in-
crease the CCA; raise
the value of crop
production; increase
the crop intensity
and have a great
impact on the agri-
culture and socio-
economic aspects of
the Command.



32
TABLE 7
STAllS OF COVENANTS
Covenants
Rcerence                     Subject                           Status
Section 2.01          GOO to carry out project with     Except for off and on financial
diligence and efficiency and in   constraints, GOO, in general,
confornity with appropriate      tried to allocate the needed
engineering practices & provide   finances for the project.
funds, facilities, services and   Implementation of Mahanadi
other resources required.         Barrage Complex had
slippages due to poor
performance of construction
agencies. Prompted by the
low performance of such
agencies, the project
management did initiate
positive and result-oriented
steps to complete the critical
activities.
No: GOO is in compliance of all other Covenants.



TABLE 8-A
STAFF}INPUTS
Stage of Project Cyde  Pro FY78  FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90 Total
Preappralsal               6.40           5.20  22.10                                                                                33.70
Appraisal                                         4.00  29.10                                                                        33.10
Negotiatlons                                             2.60                                                                         2.60
Supertvislon                                             7.20  18.90   9.50  12.70  14.70  11.6G  15.80  14.80   2.10               107.30
ProJecl Completlon                                                                                                     0.50   1.10    1.60
Totals                   6.40    0.00   5.20  26.10  38.90  18.90   9.50  12.70  14.70  11.60  15.80  14.80   2.60   1.10 178.30



TABLE S-B
Page 1 of 2
BANK MISSIONS
State of Project      Monti/Year   No. of    Days in    Specializations      Performance  Types of                  Comments
Cycle                            Persons     Field     Represented 1/       Rating 2/   Problems
1. Before Appisal                     NOT AVAILABLE
2. Apprasal to
Board Apral                         NOT AVAILABLE
3. Board Appoal
through
Effectiveness                       NOT AVAILABLE
4. Supervision         01/81          2         2         EN                                             (Progress review of start-up activities
02/81          2         3        EN                                             (on Mahanadi Barrages.
09/81          3         3        EN                               PR
12/81          2         3        FIN/PROC                                       Proc. & Financial Review Mission.
02/82          4         7        EN/EN/EC/EC                      T             Review & Assistance Mission for
implementation of Pilot Water
Management Project.
04/82          2         2        EN/EC                            AG            Progress Review Mission
08/82          2         3        EN/EC                            FIT           Progress Review Mission
11/82          4         8        EN/EN/EC/EC                      M/T           Water Management Pilot Project
AG            Review Mission
12/82          2         2        EN/EC                2/1         T             Supervision Mission
01/83          2         3        EN/EC                            F/AG          Progress Review Mission
03/83          2    1 for 3 days   EN/EN                           T/AG          Mahanadi Pilot Project Progress
I for 5 days                                                 Review Mission
06/83          3         3        EN                    2/3                      Periodic Supervision Mission
02/84          3         3        EN/ECQEN             211         Mir           Periodic Supervision Mission
11/84          3         3        EN                   3n2         M/PR          Progress Review Mission



TART -B
Page 2 of 2
State of Project      Month/Year   No. of    Days in    Specializations      Performance  Types of                  Comments
Cycle                            Persons     Field     Represented I/      Rating 2/   Problems
06/85          4         5        EN                   312         M;tPR        Periodic Supervision Mission
11/85         4          5        EN/EN/EN/PROC        3/2        M/PR/OR       Periodic Supervision Mission
12/85          1         3        FIN                                           Financial Review Mission
05/86          4         8        EN/EN/EN/AG          311        PR/OR         Periodic Supervision Mission
10/86         4         10        EN/EN/EC/AG         2/1         M             Periodic Supervision Mission
04/87          1         2        FIN                                           Fmancial Review Mission
05/87          4         8        EN/EN/AG/EC          212        OR/WTF        Progress Review Mission
09/87          3         4        EN/EN/AG             212        M/PR/AG       Periodic Supervision Mission
02-03/88       2         4        EN                   212       MKOR/1rPR    Periodic Supervision Mission
12188          1        4         EN                  211         AG            Periodic Supervision Mission
Nol: 1/ Abbreviations used:  EN - Engineer, EC - Economist; AG - Agriculturist; PROC - Procurement Specialist; FIN - Fuiancial Analyst; TRG - Training
Specialist; OP - System Operation Specialist; HYD - Hydrologist.
2/ Performance ratings:  1st indicator, I - minor problems; 2 - moderate problems; 3 - major problems;
2nd indicator; I - improving;    2 - static;      3 - deteriorating.
31 Abbreviations used:  M - Management Problems; F - Financial Problems; OR - Organisational Deficiencies; T - Technical (Engineering) Deficiencies;
OP - Incosrect Operation; P - Political Interferencte; LEG - Serious Covenant Non-compliance; AG - Deficiencies in Agricultural
Support Services; PR - Procurement Infringement.



