Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3111-IN
INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MIAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
October 31, 1980
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division C
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00    =    Rupees (Rs) 8.40 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                           =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                      =    0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)              3         -    2.47 acres (ac)
I million cubic meters (Mm )          =    810 acre-feet (ac-ft)
1 thousand million cubic feet (TMC)=    28.32 M3
1 cubic foot per second (cusec)    =    0.028 m3/s
I cubic meter per second (cumec)   =    3,600 m /hour
1 ton                                 -    1,000 kilograms (kg)   2,205 pounds
1/   Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against a "basket"
of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report have
been made at US$1.00 to Rs 8.40, which represents the projected exchange
rate over the disbursement period.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ACE    -   Additional Chief Engineer
AE     -   Assistant Engineer
AEO    -   Agricultural Extension Officer
AG     -   Accountant General
CAD    -   Command Area Development Department
CB     -   Commercial Banks
CCA    -   Cultivable Command Area
CRRI   -   Central Rice Research Institute
CWC    -   Central Water Commission
EE     -   Executive Engineer
ERR    -   Economic Rate of Return
FSL    -   Full Supply Level
GNP    -   Gross National Product
GOI    -   Government of India
GOO    -   Government of Orissa
HYV    -   High Yielding Varieties
ICAR   -   Indian Council of Agricultural Research
ICB    -   International Competitive Bidding
IDA    -   International Development Association
IPD    -   Irrigation and Power Department of GOO
ISI    -   Indian Standards Institution
JE     -   Junior Engineer
LCB    -   Local Competitive Bidding
NDP    -   Net Domestic Product
QCD    -   Quality Control Division
RWS    -   Rotational Water Supply
SE     -   Superintending Engineer
VLW    -   Village Level Worker
GLOSSARY
Chaka     -   consolidated plot
Kharif    -   wet season:  June to September
Rabi      -   dry season:  October to February
Warabandi -   a rotational water supply system
FISCAL YEAR
GOI, GOO - April 1-March 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I       I                                                                                                                                                                            4



INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND ..........................................   1
Agriculture   in   India   .....................................                                                                   1
The   State   of   Orissa   ......................................                                                                 1
II.         THE   PROJECT   AREA   .........................................                                                                   3
Location    .................................................                                                                      3
Climate   ..................................................                                                                       3
Topography,  Soils  and  Drainage  ...........................                                                                     3
Agricultural   Holdings    ....................................                                                                    4
Agricultural  Production   ..................................                                                                      4
Land Consolidation and On-farm Development  ....                                                            ...........            5
Supporting    Services   ......................................                                                                    6
III.    THE MAHANADI DELTA  IRRIGATION SYSTEM  .....................                                                                             6
Background    ...............................................                                                                      6
Hydrology   ................................................                                                                       7
The   Existing   Weirs    .......................................                                                                  8
IV.         THE   PROJECT   ..............................................                                                                   10
Objectives    ...............................................                                                                    10
Detailed   Features    ........................................                                                                  10
Engineering   Design    .......................................                                                                  12
Implementation   Schedule    ..................................                                                                  12
V.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS  ....                                                                ............    12
Cost   Estimates    ...........................................                                                                  12
Financing    ................................................                                                                    13
Procurement    ..............................................                                                                    13
Disbursements    ............................................                                                                    14
Accounts   and   Audits    ......................................                                                                14
VI.         ORGANIZATION  AND MANAGEMENT  ..............................                                                                      15
General    ..................................................                                                                    15
Arrangements    for   Weir   Failure    ............................                                                             16
Monitoring,  Evaluation  and Reporting  .....................    16
Cost   Recovery    ............................................                                                                  16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
India in July 1980 and comprised of Messrs. C. Helman and M. Herman (Bank)
and F. Ritchey (Consultant). Messrs. A. Meimaris (Bank) and K. K. Aw-Yong
(FAO/CP) also contributed to this report.



- ii -
Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..............................   18
Present Irrigation Benefits .............................   18
Economic  Analysis   .......................................  18
Environmental Effects ...................................   20
VIII.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....  ........   20
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1   -   Supporting Tables
T-1  -   Salient Features
T-2   -   Climatic Data
T-3   -   Cost Estimates and Phasing
T-4   -  List of Buildings
T-5   -  List of Equipment
T-6   -  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
T-7  -  Proposed Credit Allocation
T-8   -  Account of Expenditure Form for Financial Reports
T-9   -  Annual Requirement of Staff
T-1O  -  Estimated Cost Recovery
T-11 -   Estimated Farm Budget and Project Rent
T-12  -  Present and Projected Cropping Pattern
T-13  -   Agricultural Production
T-14  -   Summary of Prices and Conversion Factors
T-15 -  Present Value of Expected Net Incremental Benefits for
Different Timing of Construction
T-16  -   Costs and Benefits Streams for ERR
T-17  -   Sensitivity Analysis
ANNEX 2   -   Design Criteria, Construction Methods and Quality Control
ANNEX 3   -  Water Management
ANNEX 4   -  Arrangements for Weir Failure
ANNEX 5   -  Economic Analysis
ANNEX 6   -  Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
LIST OF CHARTS
1    -  Layout Plan of Mahanadi Barrage
2    -  Layout Plan of Birupa Barrage
3    -   Cross Section of Spillway of Mahanadi Barrage
4    -   Cross Section of Spillway of Birupa Barrage
5    -  Pert Chart
6    -   Implementation Schedule
7    -  Organization Chart
LIST OF MAPS
IBRD 15010 - Location Map
IBRD 15011 - General Layout



INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Agriculture in India
1.01      India covers some 3.27 million km  of which 49% is cultivable and
about 15% irrigated. India's population of about 660 M is growing at an annual
rate of 1.9%. National income has grown at about 3.3% per annum since 1960
and the per capita income reached about US$180 in 1979/80. Although the
average per capita income has slightly increased in recent years, there has
been little change in the living standards of the masses of some 330 M urban
and rural poor with income below the poverty line of US$80 per capita.
1.02      Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy and consti-
tutes about 45% of the Gross National Product (GNP). It engages about 70% of
the labor force and provides the base for about 60% of India's exports.
During the last decade, the Government of India (GOI) has devoted considerable
attention to agriculture in its development plans. To support agricultural
growth, GOI has modernized and expanded its agricultural credit institutions
and accelerated the development of irrigation. Its agricultural and rural
development strategy gives a special emphasis to: (i) expansion of irrigated
area; and (ii) concurrent implementation of supporting programs to optimize
the use of land and water resources.
The State of Orissa
1.03      Salient Features.  The State of Orissa, covering some 15.5 M ha, is
located in the Eastern Region. Its population of about 26 M is predominantly
(92%) rural; the average population per village--about 410--is the smallest
in the country and only si! towns have a population greater than 50,000.
Population density (141/km  in 1971) is about 80% of the all-India average.
About 39% of the population belong to scheduled tribes and castes 1/, a
proportion of disadvantaged people which is the largest among the States of
India. "Small" and "marginal" farmers (owning less than 2 ha) operate over
75% of the holdings but control less than 40% of the cultivable land while
farmers with 5 ha or more account for only 7% of the holdings but control 35%.
The individual holding is highly fragmented. The average per capita income,
about Rs 785 is among the lowest in India. The incomes of about 90% of the
rural population are estimated to be below the poverty line compared with 40%
for India as a whole.
1.04      Health and education standards are low.  Literacy rate is only 26%
compared with the all-India rate of 29% and there are only 40 hospital beds
per 100,000 of population compared with 71 for India. Orissa has vast forest
and mineral resources. It ranks third in India in forest resources, with 40%
1/   The term "scheduled castes and tribes" refers to lower castes and tribal
people of India scheduled in articles 341, 342 and 366 of the Indian
Constitution. Broadly, the groups embraced in the classification are
harijans and other low castes, and most tribes.



-2-
of its land area under forests and is rich in iron, chromite, manganese, coal,
limestone and other minerals.
1.05      The economy of the State centers on agriculture, which provides
employment for 79% of Orissa's working population and accounts for 69% of
State Net Domestic Product (NDP). The contribution of industry has been low,
12% of NDP and 7% of employment although the potential for further growth is
high in view of the State's mineral and forest wealth. The NDP is highly
vulnerable to vagaries of weather because the erratic distribution of rainfall
often results in severe flooding and droughts. Economic growth in Orissa has
been lagging behind the rest of India. Between 1960/61 and 1977/78, the NDP
grew at an annual rate of 2.3% compared with 3% for India as a whole.
1.06      Agricultural Production.  The net sown area is about 6.0 M ha (39%
of the State area) of which 1.1 M ha (18%) is irrigated. Paddy is the pre-
dominant crop, covering 70% of the cropped area but yields are low, ranging
from 1.0 tons/ha for rainfed kharif to 2.1 tons/ha for irrigated rabi paddy,
respectively. High yielding paddy varieties account for most of the rabi
crop but only for about 10% of the kharif crop. Other crops such as cereals
other than paddy (7% of the cropped area), pulses (14%) and oilseeds (6%)
are grown mostly in upland areas. The yields of most crops have virtually
stagnated during the 1970s.
1.07      Irrigation Development.  Although the average rainfall is high
(1,500 mm) there are considerable variations in both the total amount and
its distribution and even in the rainy (kharif) season supplementary irri-
gation is necessary for high and stable yields. In the dry (rabi) season
(November to April) intensive cropping is not feasible without irrigation.
Orissa has vast water resources which are sufficient for irrigating about
4 M ha in the kharif and 2.4 M ha in the rabi season. Irtigation development
started in the second half of the nineteenth century in the delta areas
where about 150,000 ha were brought under kharif irrigation. During the first
half of this century, the canal irrigated area remained virtually unchanged.
However, since 1950 the Government of Orissa (GOO) has completed two major
irrigation projects (Salandi and Hirakud) as well as a number of medium ones
and substantially extended the Mahanadi delta system. Simultaneously with
irrigation development in new areas, GOO is now facing the need to renovate
the old Mahanadi delta system (which is over 100 years old) to ensure the
continuity of irrigation.
1.08      Bank Group Support.  The Bank has assisted with the implementation
of several agricultural development projects in Orissa: The Salandi Irriga-
tion Project (Credit 14-IN, 1961, US$8.0 M) was one of the first irrigation
projects supported by the Bank Group in India. A review of Orissa's agricul-
tural potential and development constraints was conducted in 1975 jointly by
IDA, GOI and GOO. 1/ The Orissa Agricultural Development Project (Credit
682-IN, 1977, US$20.0 M) which assists improvement of extension and research
services, and the Orissa Irrigation Project (Credit 740-IN, 1977, US$58.0 M)
which supports development of medium irrigation projects, land consolidation
1/   "India:  Eastern Region Foodgrains Production Review (Orissa)", IBRD,
Report No. 972-IN, February 1976.



-3-
and construction of watercourses are currently under implementation. The
progress of both projects is satisfactory. With respect to Credit 682-IN,
there are indications that the quality of extension in the State has improved.
Farmers appear to be well aware of the visit day of the Village Level Worker
(VLW) and the adoption rate of simple cultural practices has increased.
With respect to Credit 740-IN there has been a continuous improvement in the
implementation of the medium irrigation component and the progress with land
consolidation has been good (para 2.12). The implementation of the water-
courses component (3.5% of project cost) has encountered difficulties which
are likely to be alleviated soon (para 2.13).
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
2.01      The area benefitting from this project is the old Mahanadi Delta
area of 167,000 ha of cultivable command area (CCA) in the District of Cuttack
(Map 15010). The town of Cuttack which is the largest in Orissa (population
350,000) is in the northwestern apex of the project area near the sites of
the proposed barrages. Transport facilities in the project area are good
and its main parts are connected by all-weather roads. Paradip, Orissa's
main port is located in the southeastern part of the project area.
Climate (Annex 1, T-2)
2.02      Climate in the project area is tropical.  The average rainfall is
about 1,560 mm, falling mostly during the southwest monsoon from June to
September (76%), and during the northeast monsoon from October to December
(13%). Temperatures and humidity are high throughout the year. The mean
maximum monthly temperatures range from 31  C to 430 C and the mean minimum
from 120 C to 240 C. The mean maximum monthly humidity ranges from 71% to 83%
and the mean minimum from 41% to 81%.
Topography, Soils and Drainage
2.03      The project area is generally flat, sloping slightly (less than
0.02%) towards the sea. It is intersected by branches of the Mahanadi river
and by numerous drains and creeks in the lower parts. The soils range from
coarse sand to clay, depending on the type of alluvium. They are moderately
fertile, having sufficient potash but lacking in nitrogen and phosphoric acid,
and are slightly acid to neutral.
2.04      Drainage is poor in many parts of the project area.  Many of the
main drains which were constructed over 100 years ago have silted and require
rehabilitation. Moreover, drainage obstructions have been created by new
road and railway constructions. Although most of the river branches have
embankments to prevent flooding of adjacent areas in the rainy season,
breaches often occur especially during high floods and further aggravate the
drainage situation. Since 1978, GOO has undertaken a rehabilitation program
of the primary drainage network. The program provides for renovation of 303



-4-
km of main drains serving about 27,000 ha, at an estimated cost of Rs 28 M.
Further improvements in the drainage system down to the secondary and tertiary
drainage ditches are being planned. However, due to the absence of a compre-
hensive drainage plan, drainage works have been done on a piecemeal basis and
have not been as effective as they could be. Preparation of such a plan is
proposed under the project (para 4.05).
Agricultural Holdings
2.05      Agricultural holdings in the project area are small and fragmented.
There are (1976/77) about 190,000 holdings cultivating about 167,000 ha, an
average of about 0.9 ha per holding. About 61% of the landholders operate 32%
of the land in farms of 1.0 ha or less, 34% operate 49% of the land in farms
of 1.0-3.0 ha and 5% operate 19% of the land in farms larger than 3.0 ha. The
average individual holding consists of about 12 separate plots which makes its
operation and management difficult and would benefit from consolidation (para
2.11). The average number of persons per farm household is about five and the
total population in the project area is estimated at about 1.0 M.
Agricultural Production
2.06      Paddy which is the predominant crop is grown on about 85% of the
gross cropped area (89% in the kharif, 76% in the rabi). Pre-monsoon jute
(20,000 ha, 7%) is generally grown before kharif paddy. Pulses and ground-
nuts, each crop occupying 10,000-12,000 ha (4% of the gross cropped area)
are grown during the rabi season.
2.07      Yields are low and have remained stagnant during the last decade.
Kharif paddy averages 1.4 tons/ha for local varieties and 1.8 tons/ha for high
yielding varieties (HYV), while the yield of rabi paddy is 1.6 tons/ha for
local varieties and 2.5 tons/ha for HYV. The average yields per ha of jute,
groundnuts and pulses are 1.7 tons, 1.8 tons and 0.5 tons, respectively. HYV
account for 94% of the rabi paddy area but only for 20% of the kharif paddy
area. The amount of fertilizer used is considerably below that recommended by
research and extension staff.
2.08      The heavy monsoon rains reduce the profitability of inputs used
during the kharif because of: (i) poor drainage; (ii) fertilizer (especially
nitrogenous) is often washed away immediately after application; and (iii)
pest control is difficult because insecticides are washed away by the frequent
rains. Therefore, HYV, which require intensive inputs, have been adopted in
the kharif at a much lower rate than in the rabi season.
2.09      The amount of water available for irrigation during the rabi season
is limited and, with paddy being the main crop, is sufficient for irrigating
about 50% of the CCA. The net value of production in the rabi season could be
considerably increased if paddy is replaced by crops like groundnuts which
provide a higher return per unit of water. A greater diversification of crops
would be desirable also from a crop rotation viewpoint.
2.10      There has been an increase in groundnut area (from 100 ha in 1960/61
to 10,000 ha in 1978/79), probably in response to its higher profitability.
However, the area which can be planted to this and other high value rabi crops



- 5 -
However, the area.which can be planted to this and other high value rabi crops
which are more sensitive than paddy to the timing of irrigation is limited
because the existing field-to-field irrigation system cannot provide a reliable
water supply. The on-going program of land consolidation and transition from
the field-to-field system to irrigation from watercourses (see below) should
improve the situation.
Land Consolidation and On-Farm Development
2.11      Under Orissa Irrigation Project (Credit 740-IN) provisions were made
for consolidation of 144,000 ha in the Mahanadi delta area and for construction
of watercourses and drains in 48,000 ha. The cost of watercourses and drains
was to be financed through institutional credit to individual farmers. The
progress with land consolidation has been satisfactory, although slower than
anticipated at appraisal, but no progress has been made with construction
of watercourses.
2.12      By the end of June 1980 about 55,000 ha were consolidated compared
with an appraisal target of 95,000 ha. GOO anticipates completion of land con-
solidation over the entire Mahanadi delta area by 1983/84. Farmers are well
aware of the advantages of land consolidation and this is reflected by an
increase of about 50% in the sale value of land following consolidation.
However, the main benefits from consolidation can be realized only if irriga-
tion from watercourses is introduced.
2.13      The progress with construction of watercourses has been slow mainly
due to financing difficulties. Farmers' demand for credit has been poor. The
large number of small plots, the need to obtain the agreement of each farmer
and to investigate his credit worthiness make institutional credit procedures
slow, cumbersome and expensive in relation to the small amount of a typical
loan (less than Rs 500). Aware of these problems, GOO has recently decided
to finance the construction of watercourses to blocks of 5 to 8 ha from its
budgetary sources and to recover part of the cost from the farmers. It has
not yet acted however because it anticipates recovery difficulties and
would like to determine the magnitude of farmers' participation and recovery
procedures before commencing the works.
2.14      Following the construction of watercourses GOO plans to introduce a
rotational water supply (RWS) like the warabandi, mainly in the rabi season,
to improve the equity and the reliability of water supply. The introduction
of RWS is expected to encounter objections especially from farmers whose
fields are located at the head reaches of the distribution system who have
been using more than their equitable share of water. These difficulties can
be minimized if the sequence of consolidation, construction of watercourses
and introduction of RWS is well coordinated so that the farmer receives his
consolidated field which is adjacent to a government managed watercourse
outlet and is immediately informed of the RWS arrangements. RWS systems have
been operating successfully in northern India and should succeed also in
Orissa. However intensive experimentation with the operation of the system
on a sizable scale would be required in order to adapt it to local conditions
and to demonstrate its advantages to the farmers. Such demonstration which is
expected to increase the farmers' interest in improving the water distribution
system and their willingness to participate in its finance is proposed under
the project (para 4.06).



-6-
Supporting Services
2.15      Extension.  The Training and Visit system has been introduced as a
part of the reorganization of the extension services under the Orissa Agricul-
tural Development Project (Cr. 682-IN) and the extension services were brought
under a single line of command. Extension staff allocation is based on the
following ratios: one Village Level Worker (VLW) per 400-800 farm families;
one Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO) per 8 VLW; one Additional District
Agricultural Officer per 6-8 AEO. Subject Matter Specialists provide regular
support and training to the VLW.
2.16      Agricultural Research.  The Orissa University of Agriculture and
Technology has the principal responsibility for agricultural research in the
State. The Central Rice Research Institute (CRRI) of the Indian Council of
Agricultural Research (ICAR), at Cuttack, carries out specialized research on
rice. CRRI, which was established in 1946, develops rice HYV for improved
yields under different agro-ecological conditions throughout India, and with
resistance/tolerance to major pests and diseases.
2.17       Agricultural Inputs.  Availability of agricultural inputs is
adequate. The State Seed Corporation is responsible for production, process-
ing and marketing of quality seed. Sale is mainly through block level sale
centers of the Department of Agriculture. Fertilizer and insecticides are
sold through over 700 private and cooperative outlets.
2.18      Marketing.  Marketing arrangements are satisfactory.  Four regional
cooperative marketing societies are engaged in marketing agricultural produce
in the project area, especially rice, pulses and oilseeds. The Jute Coopera-
tive Marketing Society and representatives of private mills purchase jute.
Cold storage for potatoes is available in two plants in Cuttack.
2.19      Credit.  Seasonal credit is provided by the Primary Cooperative
Credit Societies and by commercial banks (CB). The following CB have branches
in the project area: State Bank of India, United Bank of India, Allahabad
Bank and Canara Bank. Credit services are satisfactory.
III. THE MAHANADI DELTA IRRIGATION SYSTEM
Background
3.01      Development of the canal system in the Mahanadi Delta started in
the 1860s. The main purpose was to utilize the Mahanadi water for irrigation
and navigation and to establish some measure of flood control. Development
works included the construction of weirs on the Mahanadi, Birupa and the
Kathjori rivers, three main canals and their distribution system (Map 15010).
The main canals are: (i) the High Level Canal on the left bank of the Birupa
river, which extends to the Brahmani river; (ii) the Kendrapara canal on the
right bank of the Birupa river; and (iii) the Taladanda canal on the right
bank of the Mahanadi river. These canals were a part of the largely navigable
Orissa Canals system but their importance for navigation has declined in
recent years.  In the period 1975 to 1979, the tonnage transported through



-7-
the three canals averaged 111,000 tons per annum, compared with an average
of 239,000 tons per annum in the period 1960 to 1965.
3.02      Initially, irrigation was limited to the kharif season and covered
about 80,000 ha in the old delta. Following the completion of the Hirakud
dam on the Mahanadi river (1957) irrigation in the Mahanadi delta expanded
considerably: (i) the CCA in the old delta was more than doubled (to 167,000
ha) and rabi irrigation was introduced; and (ii) kharif and rabi irrigation
was extended into the new delta area with about 136,000 ha of CCA in the Puri
district.
Hydrology
2
3.03      The Mahanadi river catchment area covers about 132,000 km . The
river's flow is regulated by the Hirakud dam (located about 300 km upstream
of Mahanadi weir) which is used for irrigation, flood control and power gene-3
ration. The capacity of the Hirakud reservoir is 8,100 Mm of which 5,800 Mm
is live storage. Water supply to the Mahanadi delta areas (old and new) comes
from the releases of water for irrigation and power generation and from the
inflow fr2m the Mahanadi catchment downstream of the Hirakud dam (about
50,000 km ).
3.04      Water availability at the head of the Mahaiadi delta (for the whole
delta's 300,000 ha of CCA) is Sstimated at 50,000 Im during the kharif season
(July to October) and 6,630 Mm (of which 5,500 Mm come from Hirakud) during
the rabi and hot seasons (November to June).  Experience with irrigation in
the delta area indicates that with the existing water supply system and irri-
gation practices, this amount of water would be sufficient for supporting the
following cropping pattern:
Area
'000 ha     %
Pre-kharif:      Jute                       20       12
Kharif:          Local paddy               117       70
HYV paddy                 50       30
Rabi:            Dalua paddy                70      42
Gram & pulses             10        6
Groundnuts                12        7
Total Crop Area          279
Crop Intensity                   167
3.05      The consolidation of holdings and introduction of irrigation from
watercourses (paras 2.11 to 2.14), are expected to increase irrigation effi-
ciency and result in diversification of the cropping pattern and an increase
in the proportion of the area irrigated. Preliminary findings of field
studies conducted in small experimental areas in the new delta indicate that
as a result of a change from field-to-field system to irrigation from water-
courses the area irrigated increased by 21% in the kharif and 35% in the rabi
season.



-8-
3.06      Groundwater.  There are abundant groundwater resources in the delta
area which could be utilized in the future to supplement canal irrigation.
The Existing Weirs
3.07      The two existing weirs, across the Mahanadi and its branch the
Birupg river, were completed in 1863 and 1868 respectively. They divert some
190 m /sec into the three canal systems serving 167,000 ha of CCA in the old
delta (Map 15010).  Both weirs were founded on sand and their foundations
consist of two rows of wells, constructed of clay bricks and filled with
rubble masonry. Their body is built of 1.5 m rubble masonry, finished with
0.90 m thick stone masonry and is topped with steel crest shutters. The
original crest (top of shutters) elevation for Mahanadi weir was at +20.65 m
and for Birupa at +20.55 m.
3.08      Since their construction both weirs have been frequently damaged
by heavy floods and extensive scour areas up to 6 m deep have been observed
downstream of the apron. Although so far successfully repaired each time,
both weirs have been gradually weakened. In order to increase the area com-
manded to 167,000 ha (para. 3.02), the crest was raised in the period 1958
to 1962 by 55 cm at Mahanadi weir and 45 cm at Birupa weir by replacing the
old shutters with new ones. The extra strain of the higher pond level on
the 100 year old structures has further weakened the weirs. As a measure of
protection, concrete blocks (2.5 m x 1.5 m x 1 m) are being cast in situ on
the sloped downstream aprons where settlement occurs and submerged groynes
are constructed to control lateral flow. Since 1975 heavy stones weighing 3
to 4 tons have been placed to protect downstream scours. However, despite
these measures the condition of the weirs has continued to deteriorate.
3.09      The Risk of Failure.  The Mahanadi weirs belong to a generation
of weirs which were constructed in India over 100 years ago (e.g., Krishna,
Godavari) have reached the end of their technical and economic life and have
been gradually replaced. Several such weirs have failed in recent years,
causing total suspension of irrigation for one to three years, the most recent
occurrence being the failure of the Godavari weir in Andhra Pradesh. This
weir which was built in 1852, failed in 1975, during the construction of the
new barrage to replace it (financed under Credit 532-IN). The main causes
for failures of weirs of this type are:
(a) Deep scour downstream of the apron due to heavy retro-
gression and formation of an hydraulic jump beyond the
floor.
(b) Excessive exit gradient and consequent piping.
(c) Excessive uplift pressure on the floor.
(d) Insufficient depth of cut-off upstream and downstream
of the weir for protection against scouring and piping.
(e) Uneven concentration of flood intensity due to the forma-
tion of shoals upstream of the weir.



- 9 -
(f) High velocity cross flow on the downstream apron due to
formation of shoals downstream of the weirs.
3.10      The Mahanadi and Birupa weirs have most of the above potential
failure indicators and, consequently, are liable to breach in the near future.
The situation in the Birupa weir is especially alarming anu is considered to
be as serious as that of the Godavari weir before its failure. A number of
its central bays have subsided and this is a warning signal indicating the
possibility of a total collapse. The situation in the Mahanadi weir is also
serious.
3.11      Effect of Weir Condition on Farmers' Behavior.  As indicated (para.
2.11), GOO has launched a program for land consolidation and transition to
irrigation from watercourses. Under normal conditions this would increase
the reliability of water supply and encourage farmers to intensify production.
However, as farmers in the area are aware of the poor condition of the exist-
ing weirs and the imminent risk of their failure, they delay investment in
irrigated crops and would not exploit the full potential of an improved
irrigation system until the new barrages are constructed.
3.12      Operational Defects.  The existing weirs have a number of structural
and operational defects, especially the following:
(a) Seepage and leakage of water. Water losses resulting from
excessive seepage underneath the structures and leakage
through ths crest and sluice shutters are estimated at
30 to 40 m /sec. If these losses could be avoided, an
additional area of 16,700 ha could be irrigated during the
rabi season.
(b)   Control of shutters.  The weirs have automatic falling
shutters which do not operate satisfactorily. Some of
them may fall as a result of waves produced by strong
winds, which cause a decline in the pond level and dis-
rupt the water supply, while others do not fall even at
high river discharges thus causing non-uniform flow dis-
charge over the weir and increasing downstream apron
damage. The manual lifting of the shutters is very slow
and on the average it takes 6-10 days to raise them after
a flood and 12-18 days to restore the pond to full supply
level. Such long interruptions in irrigation reduce the
yields.
(c)   Siltation.  The weirs have no arrangements for prevention
of siltation. The canals have to be closed periodically
for removal of silt and this interrupts irrigation and
reduces yields.



- 10 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The main objective of the project would be to construct new barrages
in place of the existing weirs in order to:  (i) ensure continuity of the irri-
gation system in the old delta; and (ii) create the necessary conditions for
improvements in the water distribution system and for increased production.
Detailed Features
4.02      Mahanadi Barrage.  The new barrage would be located 60 m downstream
of the old weir on a parallel axis and use the structure remaining after dis-
mantling the part above elevation +17.20 m as an upstream protective apron.
The barrige would be 1,935.5 m long and is designed for a maximum flood of
15,300 m /sec (about 100 years return frequency). It would have 76 bays for
the spillway, separated by 69 single concrete piers and six double piers
separating the seven structural units of 12 to 13 bays. The piers support
a reinforced concrete two-way road bridge 7.32 m wide, as well as the gate
operating platform and walk way. On each end of the barrage there would also
be 10 bays for the undersluices, separated by concrete piers and one bay for
the fish ladder. Steel leaf gates for the spillway and for the undersluices
will maintain the pond level at the present +21.20 m elevation. 1/ The down-
stream erosion protection will be secured by a mat of heavy concrete blocks.
The barrage would be founded on sand and steel sheet-piles would be provided
at the upstream and downstream limits of the sill slab extending down to an
elevation of 4.50 m for protection against underseepage. The barrage layout
and a typical section of the spillway are shown in Charts 1 and 3. Detailed
technical description is in Annex 2. The general layout of the two barrages
is in Map 15011.
4.03      Birupa Barrage.  To secure better foundations, and for topographical
considerations, the new barrage would be located 300 m downstream of the
existing weir. Its length would b5 180 m compared to 635 m of the old weir.
It has been designed for a 2,070 m /sec maximum flood (about 100 years return
frequency). It would have 13 bays for the spillway and two bays for the under-
sluices, on the left side of the river. The bays would be separated by 13
concrete piers and one double pier. The barrage layout and a typical section
of the spillway are shown in Charts 2 and 4. Detailed technical description
is in Annex 2.
4.04      Head Regulators.  The existing three head regulators would be
replaced by new structures adapted to the new diversion conditions and permit-
ting a more efficient operation. The new structures would be sized for an
increased maximum discharge to serve future new areas once additional water
supplies are available for the northeastern delta area by the construction
1/ The height of the barrage at pond level would be about 7 m above stream
bed. This applies also to Birupa Barrage.



- 11 -
of a new storage dam downstre m of Hirakud. 1/ The design discharge of each
head regulator would be 142 m /sec. The waterway would comprise three bays,
10.00 m each, with two piers 1.50 m thick. The crest level would be at
+18.40 m and the stilling pool level would be at +17.25 m.
(a)   Taladanda-Machhagaon Canal Head Regulator.  Upstream of
the right abutment of the Mahanadi barrage. The full
supply level (FSL) would be at +20.23 me
(b)   Kendrapara-Pattamundai Canal Head Regulator.  This regu-
lator would be shifted for hydraulic reasons, from the
right bank of Birupa river to the left bank of the Mahanadi
and reattached to the existing system by 1.200 m of new
head canal. The FSL would be at +20.23 m.
(c)  High Level Canal Head Regulator.  This regulator would
be relocated upstream of the left abutment of the Birupa
barrage and reattached to the High Level Canal by a short
new head canal. The FSL would be at +20.52 m. The excess
capacity of the regulator is intended to be used in the
future by extending the High Level Canal in the Brahmani
Delta once additional water supplies are available. Al-
though its designed discharge is almost 8-times greater
than the present 18.62 m /sec discharge, the incremental
cost of the additional capacity would be small and it
would be cheaper and more advantageous to build it at the
ultimate size now rather than to increase its capacity in
the future.
4.05      Drainage Master Plan.  In order to prepare comprehensive solutions
to the drainage situation (para 2.04) the project would finance a Drainage
Master Plan (DMP) for the whole Mahanadi delta area (about 300,000 ha) cover-
ing the main and intermediate level drainage systems. Preparation of the plan
would involve detailed investigations pilot operations and selected works
leading to: (i) determination of the extent of the area requiring improvement
of drainage, by type of improvement and by priority; (ii) development of
design criteria and solutions for drainage of low lying areas; (iii) identifi-
cation of flood protection improvements required to prevent breaches of river
embankments; and (iv) preparation of a detailed and comprehensive master plan
including estimates of costs and benefits. It is anticipated that preparation
of the plan would require the use of specialized consultants. Its implementa-
tion would be undertaken by the Irrigation and Power Department (IPD) of GOO
or be contracted to an agency/institute having appropriate expertise and
experience.
4.06      Water Management.  The economic analysis of the project indicates
that its economic viability would be considerably increased (para. 7.07) if
1/   It has not yet been determined when the new dam would be constructed.



- 12 -
the introduction of irrigation directly from watercourses (para 2.13) is expe-
dited. To speed up the process, the project would finance a program of water
management pilot operations which would include construction of watercourses
and field drains and introduction of RWS over an area of a typical distribu-
tary (about 1,000 ha) and, if necessary, improvement of the conveyance system
leading to this area. Guidelines are in Annex 3.
4.07      Emergency Arrangements and Buildings.  The project would finance the
purchase of equipment for preparatory works, supervision and for emergency
arrangements (para 5.07), the stockpiling of building materials and the cost
of repairs in the case of weir failure. To facilitate implementation, the
project would finance the construction of offices, stores, workshops, labora-
tory, residential buildings and other structures required for management and
supervision of the project.
Engineering Design
4.08      The barrages sites were recommended by a special committee set up by
GOO which considered alternative locations. Foundation exploration, hydraulic
model studies and detailed designs for civil engineering works have been
completed and would serve as a satisfactory basis for tendering. Design work
was carried out by the Central Water Commission (CWC) of GOI and finalized on
the basis of model studies conducted at its laboratories in Poona. The design
standards are satisfactory. Responsibility for the preparation of working
drawings rests with CWC and for construction specifications, negotiations of
contract and supervision of construction with the IPD.
Implementation Schedule
4.09      Implementation of all civil and mechanical engineering works would
take five and four years for the Mahanadi and Birupa barrages, respectively.
This schedule is based on the assumption that a considerable part of the
ancillary activities, such as land acquisition, construction of site build-
ings and approach roads would be completed in the first year. The tendering
procedures and award of contracts for the main civil works would also be
completed in the first year.
4.10      During the dry season, November to June, construction operations
would be carried out in three shifts. The manufacture and installation of
all gates and hoists would be carried out during the last three project years.
Detailed implementation schedule is in Charts 5 and 6.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
Cost Estimates
5.01       The total project cost is estimated at US$110.3 M net of taxes
and duties (which are negligible). This amount includes a foreign exchange
component of about US$27.1 M or about 25% of the project cost.



- 13 -
5.02       Costs of civil works are based on April 1980 unit rates for similar
works. Physical contingencies average about 25% for civil works and 10% for
mechanical engineering works. Estimated price contingencies, which account
for about 31% of project costs, are based on expected inflation rates of 10%
in 1980, 7% in 1981 to 1983 and 5% thereafter. Cost estimates are detailed
in Annex 1, T-3 and summarized below:
% of
Base
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Cost
---------Rs M--------  --------US$M---------
Civil Works                 320.2    80.0   400.2   38.1    9.5    47.6   67.2
Mechanical Engineering        40.3    60.0   100.3    4.8    7.1    11.9   17.0
Engineering, Supervision
and Administration         75.4      4.0    79.4    9.0    0.5       9.5   13.2
Drainage Master Plan          10.0     2.0    12.0    1.2    0.2       1.4    2.0
Water Management Program       2.4     0.6      3.0    0.3    0.1      0.4   .0.6
Base Cost                 448.3   146.6   594.9   53.4   17.4    70.8  100.0
Physical Contingencies
(18.5%)                    83.0    27.1   110.1    9.9    3.2    13.1
Price Contingencies
(31.4%)                   167.0    54.5   221.5   19.9    6.5    26.4
Total Project Cost        698.3   228.2   926.5   83.2   27.1   110.3
Financing
5.03       The proposed IDA credit of US$83.0 M would finance about 75% of
total project cost including the foreign exchange component (US$27.1 M) and
about 67% of the local cost. All the expenditures would be met by GOO from
its development budget, which includes a GOI contribution.
5.04       The credit would be made to GOI on standard IDA terms.  GOI would
make the proceeds of the credit available to GOO on GOI's standard terms and
arrangements for development assistance to the States. An agreement has been
reached with GOO that it would provide sufficient funds and materials to
execute the project in accordance with the five-year project implementation
program. To ensure timely undertaking of preparatory activities, mainly
construction of approach roads, site buildings and procurement of mild steel
for reinforcement, retroactive financing would be provided for procurement of
materials and for civil works carried out after appraisal but before the
signing of the loan documents. The amount of such financing would not exceed
US$1.0 M.
Procurement
5.05      Civil and Mechanical Engineering Works financed under the project
would cost about US$60 M excluding physical and price contingencies, engineer-
ing and administration costs. Of these, about US$58 M would be let through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and the remainder would be let through
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) in piecework contracts or be carried out by
GOO's departmental forces. Works awarded through ICB would include the
following:



- 14 -
(a) Construction of the two barrages and three head regulators
(one contract)--about US$46 M. Invitations to bid are to
be issued by November 15, 1980 and the contract would be
awarded by June 1, 1981.
(b) Manufacture and installation of the gates--about US$12 M.
Invitations to bid would be issued by May 1, 1981 and the
contract would be awarded by December. 31, 1981.
Indian contractors bidding for the civil works contract would be entitled to a
7.5% preference. For gate manufacture and installation, the usual preference
limited to 15% of cif price of imported goods, or the prevailing customs duty
if lower, would be extended to local bidders during bid evaluations. Tender
documents would specify the requirement for preference eligibility and the
manner of its application. Piecework contracts and works carried out depart-
mentally would include mainly riverbed preparation, access roads, site build-
ings and staff housing (Annex 1, T-4).
5.06       The CWC has recently developed model ICB and LCB contracts and pro-
cedures for works procurement which have been approved by IDA. The GOO has
adopted these models in most respects and will use them for the procurement
of works under the project.
5.07      Equipment.  The estimated base cost of equipment and vehicles for
preparatory works, supervision and for emergency repairs in case of weir
failure is US$1.7 M. The equipment would be procured locally through LCB
procedures, since there is an adequate local supply at competitive prices
and foreign firms are not likely to be interested, and in order to enable
utilization of existing servicing and spare part supply facilities. A list
of equipment is in Annex 1, T-5.
Disbursements
5.08      Disbursement would be made for:  (i) 85% of expenditures for civil
and mechanical engineering works; (ii) 100% of the ex-factory price or 70%
of expenditures for locally procured equipment; and (iii) 100% of the cost
of the Drainage Master Plan and the water management program. Disbursements
for works carried out departmentally and for payments of less than Rs 300,000
under civil and mechanical engineering works contracts and Rs 150,000 for
equipment and vehicles would be made against certificates of expenditure
submitted by GOO. Documentation for these works would be retained by GOO and
made available for inspection by IDA during review missions. Full documenta-
tion would be required for all other disbursements. The estimated schedule
of disbursements and the proposed allocation of the credit are in Annex 1,
T-6 and T-7. It is expected that disbursements would be completed by
March 31, 1987.
Accounts and Audits
5.09      The project would be subject to normal Government control and audit-
ing procedures which are satisfactory. A resident Audit Officer, represent-
ing the State Accountant General (AG) would audit the project accounts.



- 15 -
Although continuous and annual audits are carried out in a timely manner,
the Statutory Audit Report presented to the Legislature takes a long time
to be finalized. It would be essential therefore to have interim certified
statements of account. Such statements certified by the AG or his designee
supported by an itemized account and a summary of expenditures would be
submitted to IDA as soon as possible after the end of each fiscal year.
To facilitate comparisons between planned (appraisal estimates) and actual
expenditures, project records maintained under the standard accounting prac-
tices would also be classified according to the categories used in this report
(Annex 1, T-8). Agreements have been reached with GOO that it would: (i)
maintain separate accounts on project expenditures; (ii) ensure that these
accounts would be audited annually by the AG and the resulting reports would
be submitted to IDA as soon as possible but not later than nine months after
the end of each fiscal year; and (iii) make complete accounts and financial
statements available for inspection during IDA review missions.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
6.01      Overall responsibility for project implementation would be with the
IPD, under the Chief Engineer, Irrigation. IPD has established a special unit
headed by an Additional Chief Engineer (ACE) for project execution. This unit
would also prepare detailed construction drawings, specifications and tender
documents and will have a separate cell for accounts and audits.
6.02      The ACE would be assisted by an Assistant Additional Chief Engineer
and two Executive Engineers (EE) for design and quality control. A Superin-
tending Engineer (SE) located near the barrages' sites, would be responsible
for contract management and supervision. He would be assisted by four EE:
three for civil works (two for Mahanadi and one for Birupa) and one for mechan-
ical works to supervise erection of gates and hoists. Each EE would have four
Assistant Engineers (AE) as well as Junior Engineers (JE) and other supporting
staff as required for the support and supervision of a three shift contract
work. Qualified staff for these tasks are available within the IPD. Details
of staff requirements and project organization are in Annex 1, T-9 and in
Chart 7.
6.03      Responsibility for adequate construction standards would be with
the IPD, which would assign qualified staff for supervision, with particular
emphasis on quality control based on the standards prescribed by the Indian
Standards Institute (ISI). To ensure the safety and proper functioning of
the barrages, any changes or additions to the original design would require
approval by the CWC. CWC would conduct periodic inspections to ensure that
work has been carried out in accordance with their design and specifications.
6.04      The main responsibility for the water management program (para.
4.06 and Annex 3) would be with the Command Area Development Department
(CAD) of GOO. IPD would be responsible for improving the main conveyance
and drainage systems serving the pilot water management area and for timely



- 16 -
water supply. Responsible for preparation of the drainage master plan (DMP)
would be with the IPD (para 4.05).
Arrangements for Weir Failure (Annex 4).
6.05      Because the existing weirs are very vulnerable, there is a likeli-
hood that they would fail during the construction of the new barrages. Such
a failure would cut off agricultural and urban water supply, and may delay
the construction of the new barrages and increase their costs. In order to
minimize potential damages the IPD has prepared a contingency plan for weir
failure based on lessons from past weir failures (e.g., Krishna, Godavari).
The plan specifies the hierarchy of responsibilities, the method of repairs
and the equipment and materials required. An agreement has been reached with
GOO that materials essential for emergency repairs (Annex 4) would be stock-
piled near the weir sites.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
6.06      Monitoring and Evaluation.  IPD would monitor project implementation
through regular progress reports submitted by the ACE. Responsibility for
monitoring and evaluation of water management program would rest with the
State Evaluation Organization of GOO which would conduct special studies for
that purpose, paying a special attention to the reliability and equity of the
water supply.
6.07      Reporting.  GOO would submit to IDA semi-annual and annual progress
reports within three months after the end of each reporting period. The
reports should (i) compare actual implementation with the plan in physical
and financial terms; 1/ (ii) review the progress with implementation of the
water management and DMP programs; (iii) describe serious deviations and
explain the reasons; and (iv) provide a revised implementation program for
the following period. An agreement has been reached with GOO that it would
submit to IDA a project completion report not later than six months after
its Closing Date.
Cost Recovery (Annex 1, T-10 and T-ll)
6.08      Capital Costs.  The capital costs of the new barrages would amount
to Rs 4,220 per ha of CCA. To recover these, assuming an economic life of
50 years and 12% interest, would require collection of about Rs 508 per ha.
The incremental O&M cost of the new barrages is estimated at Rs 20 per ha per
year.  The total incremental capital recovery and O&M costs per annum would
therefore amount to Rs 528 per ha.
6.09      Water Charges.  Water rates in Orissa are fixed per unit area and
vary according to the crop and the season. GOO plans to shortly (rabi 80/81)
raise the water rates considerably - by 100% for kharif paddy and about 50%
for other crops as published in the Orissa Gazette dated June 12, 1979. The
increased charges would range from Rs 10 to Rs 230 per ha and for the present
1/   Preliminary financial estimates; certified financial data would be
reported in accordance with the conditions set in para 5.09.



- 17 -
cropping pattern in the project area the average water charge per ha of CCA
would amount to about Rs 112.
6.10      Other Charges and Taxes.  Land revenue levels vary according to
soil type, location and the suitability for double cropping, and average
about Rs 20 per ha. In addition a cess equal to 50% of th, land revenue is
charged. An important source of revenue is sales tax on agricultural goods,
which amounts to 4% on most agricultural produce (excluding vegetables and
sugarcane) and 7.5% on fertilizer and insecticide.
6.11      Level of Cost Recovery.  The direct and indirect annual incremental
revenue from irrigated farming amount to the following:
Rs/ha
Water Charges                                 112
Incremental land revenue and cess              12
Incremental sales tax                         132
Total                                      256
This is about 48% of the estimated annual capital and O&M costs of the new
barrages and 25% of the project's rent. 1/
6.12      The Potential for Increased Recovery.  Irrigation charges in Orissa
are amongst the lowest in India. To a large extent their low level reflects
the unsatisfactory irrigation service, especially the unreliable water supply
during the rabi season, the constraints on diversification of crops inherent
in the field-to-field water distribution system and the poor drainage. The
standard of irrigation service can be expected to improve when the construc-
tion of watercourses picks up as a result of GOO's decision to finance their
construction to the 5 ha outlet from government budget.
6.13      With the forthcoming increase in irrigation charges (para 6.09) and
the partial recovery of watercourse construction costs (para 2.13), farmers
in the project area would face a steep increase in the cost of irrigation
services. It would be difficult to impose on them an additional levy for
financing the new barrages, especially since these would not result in bene-
fits incremental to those accruing to farmers in other irrigation projects.
In the short-run, the best way to increase the rate of cost recovery would be
by accelerating the rate of transition to irrigation from watercourses in
order to improve the reliability of water supply. It is estimated that the
resulting intensified use of input and increased production would increase
the revenue from sales taxes by some Rs 70 per ha of CCA. Eventually, the
increased reliability and equity of the water supply and the resulting in-
creased return per unit of water would permit a gradual increase in the water
rates bringing them to more realistic levels.
1/   See discussion of project rent in Annex 5.



- 18 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Present Irrigation Benefits
7.01      A unique feature of the project is that its primary objective is
to ensure the continuity of irrigation in an area which is already irrigated
rather than to develop new areas. Its main economic benefits would come from
preventing the return of the project area to rainfed conditions which would
exist temporarily in the case of a failure, or permanently if the weirs are
not ultimately replaced. The annual reduction in output resulting from a
return to rainfed conditions is estimated at about 250,000 tons of paddy,
10,000 tons of jute and 20,000 tons of groundnuts. The decrease in the net
value of production if irrigation is discontinued is estimated at Rs 250 M
(US$30 M) per annum in financial 1980 prices or Rs 300 M (US$36 M) in economic
prices.
7.02      Return to rainfed conditions even on a temporary basis would have
a severe negative effect on farm incomes and employment. Farm family employ-
ment in the project area would decrease by about 15.0 M man-days per annum
which are equivalent to about 62,000 full-time jobs. The demand for hired
labor would also decrease by about 3,000 full-time jobs. The farm income
of an average farm would decrease from about Rs 2,280 to Rs 790 (-65%). This
would increase poverty in the area and trigger a negative multiplier effect
in other sections of the local economy, depressing wages and profits.
Economic Analysis (Annex 1, T-12 to T-17 and Annex 5)
7.03      Timing.  As indicated (para 3.10) both weirs are liable to breach
in the near future. It is estimated that the probability that either of the
weirs would fail in any given year is presently (1980) within the range of 10%
to 20% (once in 5 to 10 years) and rising by about 2% per annum. If future
events could be predicted accurately, construction of the new barrages could
be scheduled so that it is completed the year before the weirs are expected
to fail for the first time. This is, however, impossible and construction of
the new barrages is likely to be either "too early" or "too late." Construct-
ing the barrages "too early" adds to their cost the expected value of the net
benefits foregone by postponing an alternative investment. Constructing them
"too late", i.e., after a failure, would add to their cost the cost of repair-
ing the breach and the resulting loss in net value of production.
7.04      The optimal timing for constructing the new barrages has been
analyzed through a present value model. The present value of the net economic
benefits was estimated as a function of the time of construction in order to
compare the benefits from construction now with those of delayed construction.
The discount rate used was 12%, the estimated opportunity cost of capital in
India. The results are summarized below (detailed assumptions are in Annex 5):



- 19 -
Construction                  Present Value of
Beginning    End              Expected Net Benefits
(Rs M)
1980/81    1985/86                  489
1985/86    1990/91                  394
1990/91    1995/96                  308
7.05      The above results. show that the present value of the net economic
benefits would be highest if the barrages are constructed now and would
decline if construction is postponed. Inclusion in the model of additional
effects of weir failure such as grain shortages, social unrest and other
undesirable socio-economic effects which cannot be adequately quantified would
further increase the advantage of an early construction. It is clear, there-
fore, that an immediate construction would be advantageous.
7.06      Economic Rate of Return (ERR).  Basic assumptions for economic
analysis are detailed in Annex 5. The economic cost stream includes civil
works, administration and engineering and O&M. The main economic benefits
would come from preventing loss of production due to weir failure. Their
expected value was calculated as the product of the economic value of produc-
tion losses due to weir failure and the probability that any of the weirs
would fail (assumed to be 15% and rising at 2% per annum). Other important
benefits would come from the elimination of the present leakage through the
weir gates (para 3.12) which would enable either to irrigate new areas in the
rabi season or to increase the crop intensity in existing areas. The economic
prices were derived from IBRD projected 1985 world market prices expressed in
1980 currency values with appropriate adjustments for freight, handling and
processing. Domestic cost components were adjusted by a standard conversion
factor (SCF) of 0.80. Discounting costs and benefits over a 50 year period
the ERR is estimated at 21%.
7.07      The above ERR estimate is based on the present water distribution
system, farming practices and yields. If the transition from the field-to-
field system to irrigation from watercourses (para 2.14) is implemented, the
estimated annual net benefits from irrigation would more than double (from
Rs 300 M to Rs 605 M) and the ERR would increase from 21% to 41%. 1/ Such
transition would, therefore, considerably improve the economic viability of
the project.
7.08      Sensitivity Analysis.  The sensitivity of the ERR to changes in
the main assumptions was tested with the following results:
1/   In this calculation the economic cost stream included the cost of con-
structing watercourses and field drains and their maintenance and the
cost of improving the main drainage system.



- 20 -
Appraisal   Switchiyg   Admissible
Estimate       Value-    Change %
Gross Value of Production (Rs/ha)       5,950        4,050        -32
Construction Costs (Rs M)                  331         821        148
Annual Increase in Probability of
Weir Failure (%)                           2            0.2     -90
/a  The value of a variable tested, ceteris paribus, beyond
which the ERR would be below the opportunity cost of capital
at 12%.
If the present probability of weir failure is assumed to be 10% (rather than
15%) the ERR would decrease to 19%. A similar decrease in the ERR would take
place if the benefits from prevention of water leakage are omitted or if
construction would take seven years (rather than five).
7.09      Project Risk.  The results of the sensitivity analysis indicate
that only large (and unlikely) deviations from the basic assumptions would
make this project economically unviable. As indicated (para 3.10), the risk
of weir failure is imminent. However, such an occurrence would not result in
loss of life or risk population centers and all possible precautions would be
taken under the project to minimize damages (para 6.05).
Environmental Effects
7.10      The new barrages would be located near the existing weirs and the
pond level would remain unchanged. Therefore, the project would not affect
conditions in the adjacent town of Cuttack or have any other adverse environ-
mental affects.
VIII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      An agreement has been reached with GOI that it would make the
proceeds of the credit available to GOO on GOI's standard arrangements for
development assistance to the States (para. 5.04).
8.02      Agreements have been reached with GOO that it would:
(a) provide sufficient funds and materials to execute the project
in accordance with the implementation schedule for the five-
year program supported under the credit (para. 5.04);
(b) (i) maintain separate accounts on project expenditures; (ii)
ensure that these accounts would be audited annually by the
State Accountant General and the resulting reports would be
submitted to IDA as soon as possible but not later than nine



- 21 -
months after the end of each fiscal year; and (iii) make
complete accounts and financial statements available for
inspection during IDA review missions (para 5.09);
(c) stockpile materials essential for emergency repairs near
the weir sites (para 6.05); and
(d) submit to IDA a project completion report not later than
six months after its Closing Date (para 6.07).
8.03      With the above agreements, the proposed project would be suitable
for a credit of US$83.0 M on standard IDA terms. The borrower would be the
Government of India.



ANNEX 1
T -
- 22 -
INDIA
MABANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
Salient Features
Existing           Proposed
1,  MAHANADI BARRAGE
Designed Flood                                           -               15,300 m3/sec
H.F.L.                                                  23.15 m            23.05 m
Pond level                                              21.20 m            21.20 m
Crest level of underaluice                             17.84 a             16.00 m
Crest level of spillway                                 19.66 m            18.50 a
Stilling pool level, undersluice                          -               12.50 m
Stilling pool level, spillway                                             14.30 m
Undersluices                                      38 bays x 1.52 m   10 bays x 18.00 m
Spillways                                         599 bays with       76 bays x 18.00 m
automatic falling
shutters 3m x 1.52 m
Width between abutments                           1,935.50 m           1,935.50 m
2.  BIRUPA BARRAGE
Designed Flood                                           -             2,070.00 a3/sec
H.F.L.                                                  22.16 m            20.95 m
Pond level                                             21.00 m            21.20 m
Crest level of undersluices                            17.75 m            14.50 a
Crest level of spillway                                19.17 m            16.50 m
Stilling pool level of undersluices                      -                10.50 mn
Stilling pool level of spillway                                           12.00 m
Undersluices                                      8 bays x 6.32 m x   2 bays x 10.00 m
3.25 m
20 bays x 1.52 m x   2 on either side
3.25 m
Spillway                                         155 with automatic  13 bays x 10.00 m
falling shutters
3.00 m x 1.83 m
Width between abutments                               635.00 m           180.00 m
3
3.  HEAD REGULATORS - DESIGN DISCHARGE (m /sec)
Taladanda Machhagaon                                   84.90             142.00
Kendrapara Pattamundai                                  90.19            142.00
H.L.C. Range I                                         18.62             142.00
4. OLD DELTA IRRIGATION SYSTEM
a.  Length of Irrigation Canals, km                     MAIN           SECONDARIES
Taladanda System                                     134               500
Kendrapara System                                    182             1,288
H.L.C. Range I System                                 53                75
b.  Net Irrigated Area (CCA), ha                                167,000



-23-                                    ANNEX 1
T - 2
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
Climatological Data
Mean Monthly    Mean Monthly       Mean Monthly
Mean Monthly      Maximum          Minimum        Relative Humidity
Months          Rainfall       Temperature      Temperature      Highest    Lowest
_ --~~~(mm)- -              -- ___ cJ - --   c-------__  -----7-____
January             10.4            35.9             11.8            80         48
February             28.5           37.7             13.9            76         43
March                19.5           39.9             18.2            73         41
April                27.0           42.8             21.6            71         50
May                  71.8           43.4             22.5            71         58
June                214.6           42.1             23.4            76         69
July                355.1           35.3             23.3            83         81
August              364.5           34.3             23.5            83         81
September          252.1            34.8             23.6            83         80
October            167.6            34.5             20.1            79         72
November             41.4           32.6             14.6            74         59
December              4.7           31.0             12.0            77         52
Annual           1,557.2
Source: Meteorological Station, Cuttack.
Period: 1951 - 1972.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
T - 3
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
Cost Estimates and Phauins
8tl/80  to          Planned Expenditures by State Fiscal Year
8/1/80 to                                                                                       Total         7. of
3/31/81        1981/82      1982/83       1983/84       1984/85       1985/86      Total       U593        Base Cost
-Ra--i --  --   --------------------------- R, M------------------------------------
I. CIVIL WORKS
1. Mahanadi Barrages
Foundation excavation                               -             3.03         3.49          4.07          1.05           -         11.64
Formation of sheet pile cot off                    1.95           6.83         8.69         10.24          3.33           -         31.04
Concrete in sub-structure                           -             7.44        31.90         48.91         18.07           -        106.32
Concrete in super structure                         -              -           9.85         15.27                       9.37        49.27
Concrete blocks                                                   0.55         4.78          4.33          1.45           -         11.11
Pre-streas girder bridge                            -              -            -             .            4.83         14.50       19.33
Mild steel reinforcement worka                     1.62           5.41        22.55         36.09         19.85         4.70        90.22
Loose atone apron  nd protective works              -            0.29          4.68          4.10          4.10          1.46       14.63
Sub-Total                                   3.57          23.55         85.94       123.01         67.46         30.03       333.56       39.7         56.0
2. Birupa Barrage
Foundation excavation                               -              -           0.18          0.29          0.09           -          0.56
Laterite excavation                                 -              .           0.37          0.63          0.19                      1 1.19
Concrete in cub-structure                           -              _           3.37          8.64          2.63          -          14.64
Concrete in super atructsre                         -              -            -            2.41         4,57          1.65         8.63
Concrete blocks                                     -              -           0.20          0.46          0.14          -           0.80
Pre-stress girder bridge                            -              -            -             -            0.44         1.32         1.76
Mild steel reinforcement works                      -              _           2.82          6.35          4.09         0.86        14.12
Loose atone apron and protective works              -             -            0.28          0.42          0.66         0.83         2.19
Sub-Total                                                                7.22        19.20         12.81          4.66       43.89         5.2          7.3
3. Head Regulatore and Link Cansla                      -              -            -             -             -          17.74        17.74         2.1          3.0
4.  Roads1'                                            1.50           1.50         0.85          0.50          0,5           0.15        5.00         0.6          0.9
SUB-TOTAL (Civil Work.)                     5.07          25.05        94.01        142.71         80.77         52.58      400.19        47.6         67.2
cI.  MECHATICAL ENGINEERING
1. Mahanadi Barrage
Supply of embeded parts                             -             -            1.63          3.60         1.31           -           6.54
Erection of emsbaded parts                          -             -             -            0.09          0.40         0.61         1.10
Manufacture and supply of gate and                  -             -            6.09          9.94         16.04          -          32.07
stop log
Erection of gate and stop log                                     - -           -            0.26          1.77         3.17         5.20
Supply and erection of hoist                        -             -            2.64          2.91         9.79         11.12        26.46
Renote control equipment                                          -             -             -             -          12.00        12.00
Supply and erection of gantry crane                                                                        -            5.500         .50
Sub-Total                                                               10.36        16.80         29.31         32.40       88.87        10.6         15.0
2. Birupa Barrage
Supply of embeded parts                            -              -             -             -           0.50          0.28         0.78
Erection of enbeded parts                          -              -             _             _             -           0.13         0.13
Manufacture and supply of gate and                  -             -             -             -            1.37         2.78         4.15
stop log
Erection of gat  and atop log                       -             -             -             -             -           0.67         0.67
Supply and erection of hoist                       -              -             -             -            -            3.34         3.34
Supply and erection of gantry crane                                                                                     2.42         2.42
Sub-Total                                                                 -            -            1.87          9.62       11.49         1.4          2.0
SUB-TOTAL (Mechanical engineering)           -              -           10.36        16.80         31.18         42.02      100.36        12.0         17.0
III.  ENGINEERING, ADMINISTRATION AND2P
SUPERVISION  (13%)                                  0.82           4.07         16.76         25.59        17.58         14.55        79.37         9.4        13.2
IV. MASTER DRAINAGE PLA   t                                 -             2.00         2.50          2.50          2.50          2.50       12.00         1.4          2.0
V. WATER MAMACDIENTA/                                       -             2.00          0.25         0.25          0.25          0.25        3.00         0.4          0.6
BASE COST                                        5.89          33.12        123.88        187.85       132.28        111.90       594.92        70.8       100.0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIESY                          1.27           6.26         24.54         37.36        23.31         17.35       110.09        13.1
PRICE CONTINGENCIES/                             0.36           5.45         32.39         67.63        58.32         57.33       221.48        26.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                     7.52         44.83        180.81        292.84       213.91        186.58       926.49       110.3
Kmx     Rs '000
lt  Permanent Roads:  Nirgundi reilway to Mahanadi left bank         9.0       2t230                       2   Including land aquisition, design end nodal studies.
Cuttack railway to Mahanadi right bank        1.0         250                      3a  300,000 ha at Rs 40/ha.
Downstream Mahanadi apron                     2.0         490                       4/  1,000 ha at Ro 3,000/ha.
Sob-total                                12.0      2,990                        a'  25% of civil works, 10% of nechaninal engineering worhs.
6/Based on local inflation rates of 10% in 1980 (calendar
Temporary Roads,  Service roads                                  3.0         450                           year), 7% in 1981 to 1983 end 5% thereafter.
Wooden bridges (Mahanadi and Birupe)                      285
Roads under Mehanadi railway bridge           1.2         440
Miscellaneous                                             835
Sub-total                                 4.2      2,010
Total                                                   5,000



-25-                                  ANNEX 1
T - 4
INDIA
m  I BARRAGES PROJECT
List of Buildings./
Units    Unit    ~2/                  I/
Units          Unit Cost-         Total Cost-
(Rs)           (Rs'000)
A.  Residential (Permanent)
Additional Chief Engineer                        1              163,800             163.8
SE and EE (C)                                    2              120,120             240.2
Ag        (D)                                   16               70,655           1,130.5
JE end Equivalent (E)                           32               47,515           1,520.5
Offiee Assistants etc. (F)                      60               36,170           2,170.2
Rest House                                       1              202,800             202.8
Sub-Total                                                                     5,428.0
B.  Residential (Temporary)
Quarters for AE                               5 blocks          205,470           1,027.4
Quarters for JE and Equivalent               10 blocks          200,430           2,004.3
Quarters for Other Staff                     20 blocks          196,550           3,931.0
Sub-Total                                                                     6,962.7
C. Non-Residential (Temporary)
Office for ACE                                   1              289,770             289.8
Office for EE                                    5              145,080             725.4
Office for AE                                   16               35,100             561.6
Storage Godowns                                  6              145,080             870.5
Site Stores                                     10               54,600             546.0
Field Workshop                                   3               90,480             271.4
Remodelling of Jobra Workshop                    1                                  780.0
Welfare Center                                   1               54,600               54.6
Dispensary                                       1               90,480              90.5
Canteen                                          2               29,250              58.5
Recreation Club                                  1               29,250              29.3
Concrete Testing Laboratory                      1               74,100             ,74.1
Post Office                                      1               46,800              46.8
Electric Sub-station                             1               23,400              23.4
Sub-Total                                                                     4,421.9
D.  Development and Roads
Land Development for Buildings                                                        50.0
Colony road                                      4 km            31,000             124.0
Fencing                                      35,000 m             4.60              161.0
Sub-Total                                                                       335.0
Total Cost of Buildings                                                          17,147.6
1/ The cost is incorporated in the Cost Estimates (Table 3) under the category
engineering, supervision and administration.
2/ Including electric wiring, water supply and sanitary fitting.



-26-                                     ANNEX 1
T -5
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
List of Equipment-/
Type                                     Quantity         Rs '000
A. Monitoring Equipment
Piezo meter                                       40
Transmitters for reinforcement meters             12
Transmitters for tilt meters                       2
Receivers                                          2
Miscellaneous small items for installation
of the equipment
Sub-Total                                               700
B. Office Equipment
Drafting machine                                   4
Automatic Printing Machine                         2
Xerox Copier                                       1
Desk Calculator                                    6
Sub-Total                                               800
C. Inspection Vehicles
Jeep (Diesel/Petrol) 4 wheel drive                12              780
Pick-up Van (Diesel)                               3              240
Passenger Car                                      2              100
Ambulance                                          1               80
Jeep Trailer                                       5               70
School Bus                                         1              130
Sub-Total                                             1,400
D. Transport Vehicles
Trucks                                            15            2,250
Trailor (20 Ton)                                   1              700
Tractor with trailor                               5              500
Tipper                                             5            1,000
Sub-Total                                             4,450
E. Construction Equipment
Concrete mixer (1/2 cubic yd.) or 14/10            4              200
Concrete mixer (10/7) Electric                     4              100
Diesel Road roller 10/8 Tons                       2              330
Dozer 160 H.P.                                     1            2,000
Submersible pumps 14 (H.P.)                       10              150
Well point pumps                                   2              300
Heavy duty pump (40 H.P.)                          4              160
Vibrators                                         10               50
Mobile pneumatic whell Crane (10 Ton)              1            1,000
Diesel Generator set 25 (K.V.)                     2              150
Welding and cutting set                            4              100
Sub-Total                                             4,540
F.  Emergency Equipment (repair of breach)-/                          2,000
TOTAL                                                     13,890
1/ Equipment to be purchased under the project; the cost of this equipment is
incorporated in the Cost Estimates (Table 3) mainly under the engineering
administration and supervision category.
2/ Indicative estimate; actual purchase requirements would depend on the type of
equipment available with the contractors constructing the barrages.



- 27-                                ANNEX 1
T-6
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year
and Semester                   During Semester              Cumulative
-----------------(US$M)-
1982
1st                               0.2                       0.2
2nd                               2.0                       2.2
1983
lst                               3.0                       5.2
2nd                               5.8                      11,0
1984
1st                               8.0                      19.0
2nd                              11.0                      30.0
1985
1st                              13.0                      43.0
2nd                              12.0                      55.0
1986
1st                              10.0                      65.0
2nd                               9.0                      74.0
1987
1st                               6.0                      80.0
2nd                               3.0                      83.0



ANNEX 1
T- 7
- 28 -
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
Proposed Credit Allocation
Category                            US$M
Civil and Mechanical Engineering
Works                                    69.0            85%
Equipment and Vehicles                       2.0           100% of ex-factory
price; or 70%
Drainage and Water Management               2.0            100% of expenditures
Unallocated                                10.0
TOTAL                                 83.0



INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
Account of Expenditures in the Year 19
SAR* Estimates (Annex 1, T-3)                                Cumulative Cost Overrun
Project Accounts                                                                    Cumulative Cost                              Overcost
Cost Item                Budget         Actual       Cumulative           Total      Expenditure      Cumulative   Including Inflation            Over Base          Including
(as in Annex 1. T-3)         Provision   Expenditure   Expenditure             Cost    during the year   Base Cost            Allowance                  Cost       Inflation Allowance           Remarks
1                       2             3               4                5              6               7                   8                       9                  10                   Ui
NOTES:  1.  Cols. 2,3 and 6 relate to year of report.
2.  Cols. 4,7 and 8 relate to cumulative expenditures upto end of year of report.
3.  In Col. 2, in the event of estimates not being available according to each
item of Col. 1, they may be shown suitably aggregated.
4.  Account to be prepared by project coordinator on the basis of information
to be obtained from all implementing entities.
5.  Variations between Col. 2 and Col. 3 and between Col. 4 and Col. 8 to be
adequately explained.                                                                                                                           ..................
Signature of Project Authority
* Staff Appraisal Report



- 30_                                               ANNEX I
T - 9
I NDIA
MAH8A17AI BARRAGES PROJECT
Annual Requirement of Staff
GOO Fiscal Year                                             81/82            82/83           83/84            84/85            85/86
1.  ManaFement and Administration
Additional Chief Engineer                                           1                1               1                1               1
Superintending Engineer (Civil)                                     1               1                1                1               1
Assistant to Chief Engineer (Irrigation) Civil                      1                1               1                1               1
Executive Engineer (Designs)                                        0                1               1                1               1
Executive Engineer (Quality Control and Laboratory)                 0                1               1                1               1
Personnel Officer (Labor Welfare)                                   0                1               1                1               1
Assistant Engineers (Civil)                                         2                8               8                8               6
II. Executive
Executive Engineers (Civil)                                         2               3                3                3               3
Executive Engineer (Mech)                                           I               1                i                1               1
Assistant Engineers (Civil and Mech)                                8              16               16              16               16
Shift Assistant Engineers (Civil and Mech)                          0              32               32              32               32
Personal Assistants to Executive Engineers (Civil and Xech)   2                     4                4               4                4
Junior Engineers                                                   34             124              140             140              140
III. Office Establishment
A. Chief Engineer's Office
Office Superintendent                                               1               1                1                1               1
Senior Assistants                                                   3               6                6               6                6
Assistants                                                         23              45               45              45               45
Typists                                                             6               9                9               9                9
Stenographers Grade I & II                                          3               6                6               6                6
Dr.ughts-an                                                         1               3                3               3                3
Tracers                                                             3               6                6               6                6
Ferm  Printer                                                       1               1                1                1
Cameraman                                                           0               1                1               1                1
Daf tary                                                            1               1                1               1                1
Peons, Night Watchoen                                              10              20               20              20               20
Contingent Orderlies                                               10              20               20              20               20
B. Executive Engineer's Establishment
Accoontants                                                         2               4                4               4                4
Clerks                                                            21               36               36              36               36
Stenographer Gr. III                                                2               4                4               4                4
Estimators                                                   .      2               8                8               8                8
Draughtsman                                                         2               4                4               4                4
Tracers                                                             2               4                4               4                4
Peos. Night Watchman                                               15              24               24              24               24
Contingent, Orderlies                                              31             252              252             252              252
C. Accounts & Audit Establishment
Financial Adviser                                                   0               I                1               1                I
Senior Assistants                                                   0               4                4               4                4
Assistants Grade I & II                                             0              16               16              16               16
Stenographer Grade I                                                0               1                1               1                1
Typists                                                             0               3                3               3                3
peons                                                               0               6                6               6                6
Contingent Orderlies                                                0               1                1               1                1
IV. Workcharged Staff
Storekeepers                                                        1               4                8               8                8
Laboratory Assistants                                               0               8                8               8                8
Gange Readers                                                       3               3                3               3                3
Laboratory Attendants                                               0               8                8               8                8
Surveyors                                                           2               4                4               4                4
Drillers                                                            0               2                2               2                2
Foreman                                                             0               2                2               2                2
Drivers                                                            20              47               42              42               42
Electricians                                                        2               2                2               2                2
Wireman                   .                                         2               2                2               2                2
Carpenters                                                          2               2                2               2                2
pile Drivers                                                        2               2                2               2                2
plumbers                                                            2               2                2               2                2
Security Guards                                                   10               20              30               30               30
Work-Sarkars                                                       12              24               30              30               30
Khalasis                                                           20              50               80              80               80
Gardener                                                            2               4                4               4                4
PFup Drivers                                                        2               6               10              10               10
Masons                                                              3               5                5               5                3
painters                                                            2               3                3               3                3
Helpers for Heavy vehicle and equipment                             7              12               22              22               22
Welders                                                             1               1                1               1                1
Blowman                                                             1               1                1               1                1
Blacksmith                                                          1               1                1               1                1
Motor Mechanics                                                     1               2                3               3                3
Fitters                                                             2               4                6               6                6
Sveepers                                                            2               4                6               6                6
V. Other Supporting Staff
Receptionists and operators                                         5               2                5               5                5
Librarians                                                          0               1                2               2                2
Canteen Managers                                                    0               1                2               2                2
Canteen Boys                                                        0               6               12              12               12
Masager (Guest House)                                               0               1                1               1                1
Cooks                                                               0               2                4               4                4
Butler                                                              0               1                1               1                1
Attendants                                                          0               6               10              10               10



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
T - 10
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
Estimated Cost Recovery
Capital Cost/ha of Net CCA 1/ (Rs/ha)                    W_              _2
Construction of Barrages                              4,220           4,220
Watercourses and Drains                                 -               500
Total                                              4,220           4,720
Annual Financial Requirement/ha of
Net CCA (Rs/ha,year)
Construction of Barrages 2/                             508             508
Watercourses and Drains 3/                               -               89
9&M                                                      20              50
Total Annual Financial Requirement                    528            647
Cost Recovery (Rs/ha/year)
Direct
Water Charges                                         112             112
Land Revenue (Incremental)                             12              24
Watercourses and Drains                                -               41
Sub-Total (Rs/ha of Net CCA)                       124             177
Indirect
Sales Tax                                            132             200
Total Cost Recovery                                       256             377
Project Rent                                            1,050           1,549
Cost Recovery as a % of Project Rent                       24              24
Cost Recovery as a % of Project Cost                       48              58
WI = With Project - Present Irrigation Standard.
W2 = With Project - Improved Irrigation Standard.
1/ Constant June 1980 prices.
2/ Annuity for recovery over 50 years at 12% interest rate.
3/ Annuity for recovery over 10 years at 12% interest rate.



ANNEX 1
- 32 -                           T - 11
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
Estimated Farm Budget and Project Rent
(For 1 ha Farm)
FARM BUDGET                           W          1          2
- Rs -----------
1.  Gross Value of Production                   1,823      4,958      6,199
2.  Cost of Cash Inputs                           691      1,732      1,899
3.  Cost of Hired Labor                           186        433        494
4.  Tax and Water Charge                            73       256        360
5.  Net Farm Income (1)-(2)-(3)-(4)               873      2,537      3,446
6.  On Farm Consumption 1/                        873      2,030      2,757
7.  Net Farm Cash Income                            0        507        689
PROJECT RENT
1.  Expected Gross Value of Production          1,823      4,958      6,199
2.  Certainty Equivalent of (1) 2/              1,276      4,214      5,269
3.  Cash Production Cost                          877      2,165      2,393
4.  Family Labor                                  379        896      1,120
5.  Net Returns (2)-(3)-(4)                        20      1,153      1,756
6.  Management Fees 3/                              2        115        175
7.  Implicit Land Rent                             18      1,038      1,580
8.  Project Rent                                  -        1,020      1,562
9.  Project Rent per ha                           -        1,020      1,562
1/  On-farm consumption was assumed to be equal to net farm income in without
project situation and 80% of net farm income in situation with project.
2/ Some studies of farmers' behavior shows that a simple approach can be
adopted to take into account the farmerst risk aversion by estimating a
certainty equivalent value (CE) of the expected value (EV). The formula
used is:
EC = EV - n x s
where s = the standard deviation and n = a factor that expresses the
farmers' risk aversion.  The studies indicate that the farmers' choice
of cropping patterns and production techniques can be predicted for values
of "n" in the interval 1 to 2 and that "n" decreases when the farm size
increases. For this analysis, it is assumed that "n" = 1.5 for a 1 ha
farm in Mahanadi Delta. The variation in gross return was assumed to be
20% of the average values in situation "without project" and 10% in situa-
tion "with project".
3/ The reward for management and entrepreneurship is primarily a premium for
the special skills that farm management requires. Consequently, it has
been assumed that the "management fee" is equal to 10% of the net returns.
W - Future Without Project; W1 = Future With Project - Present Irrigation Standards;
2= Future With Project - Improved Irrigation Standards.



ANNEX 1
T - 12
- 33 -
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
Present and Projected Cropping Pattern
P          W           W         W,
-1        -2
Kharif
Paddy:
Local Varieties                    72         72          72        18
HYV                               28          28          28        82
Jute (pre-kharif)                   12          12          12        15
Kharif Cropping Intensity          112         112         112       115
Rabi
Paddy (HYV)                          42          -          49        45
Wheat                                 -          -           -         5
Pulses                                6          4           6         6
Groundnuts                            7          -          10         7
Potatoes                             -           -           -         2
Rabi Cropping Intensity             55           4          651/      65
Total Cropping Intensity              167        116         177       180
Total Net Sown Area (ha)         167,000    167,000    167,000   202,000
Total Gross Cropped Area (ha)   278,900    174,000    295,600   364,000
1/ Water saved by prevention of leakage used to increase cropping intensity.
P = Present;  W = Future Without Project;  W1 = Future With Project - Existing
Irrigation Standards;  W2 = Future With Project - Improved Irrigation Standards.



ANNEX 1
T -13
- 34-
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
Agricultural Production
P_                            Wi             W2
Kharif                 (-----------------('000 tons)--
Paddy:
Local                 192.4          146.6           192.4           81.5
HYV                    85.7           60.0            85.7          425.8
Jute                     30.1           21.1            30.1           63.7
Rabi
Paddy                   175.4             -            187.5          224.6
Wheat                      -              -               -            23.9
Pulses                    5.0            1.4             5.4           10.4
Groundnuts               21.4             -             22.5           30.4
Potatoes                   -              -                            65.1
P = Present;  W = Future Without Project;  W1 = Future With Project -
Existing Irrigation Standards;  W2 = Future With Project - Improved
Irrigation Standards.



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
T - 14
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
Summary of Prices and Conversion Factors
Financial Prices      Economic Prices
A.  Prices                                      1980                  1985
---------------(Rs/ton)----------- -
Crops
Paddy                                 1,250                   1,900
Jute                                  1,870                   2,150
Pulses                                3,300                   2,320
Groundnuts                            2,860                   3,250
Wheat                                 1,400                    2,160
Inputs
Nitrogen (N)                          5,200                   5,910
Phosphate (P)                         4,400                   5,020
Potash (K) .                          1,500                   2,040
Draft Power 1/                         12.5                    10.0
Farm Labor 2/                           5.0                      3.4
B. Conversion Factors
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)                 0.8
Construction Conversion Factor                   0.77
Skilled Labor                                    0.8
Unskilled Labor                                  0.67
Farm Labor                                       0.67
Seed                                             1.0
Pesticides                                       1.0
By-Products                                      0.8
Manure                                           0.8
1/ Per animal per day
2/ Per man-day



INDIA
MAHANADI BA1RRAES-PROJECT
Present Value of Expected Net Incremental Benefits for Different Timing of Construction
(Rs M)l'
Begimning of Construction in 1980/81                       BeRinning of Construction in 1985/86                        Beginning of Construction in 1990/91
Ptobability       Capital   Increaental        2/       3/         4/         Capital  Incremental         2/       3/        4          Capital   Incremental        2/        3/        4
Year          of Failure         Cost       OEM Cost      B r-    B Ir-      B III-           Cost      O&M Cost      B 1    B IrI      B IIr-          Cost      O01 Cost        B 1    B Ir    B Ill
1980/81            0.17               5.5        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0              0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0              0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0        0.0
1981/82            0.19              27.2                    l           .                         l          l
1982/83            0.21             112.2                                                                     II
1983/84            0.23             171.3                   0 l
1984/85            0.25             117.7                   ;         v
1985/86            0.27              97.4         0         3.8       0.0        0.4              5.5                     I
1986/87            0.29               0.0        2.0        4.0      87.0        5.0             27.2         l
1987/88            0.31                                     4.3      93.0       10.0            112.2
1988/89            0.33                                     4.6      99.0       20.0            171.3
1989/90            0.35                                     4.8    105.0        30.0            117.7                                                        0 v
1990/91            0.37                                     5.1    111.0        40.0             97.4        o1fo       0.0       O.O       0.0              5.5
1991/92            0.39                                     5.3    117.0                          0.0        2.0        5.3    117.0        5.0             27.2
1992/93            0.41                                     5.6    123.0                                                5.6    123.0       10.0            112.2
1993/94            0.43                                     5.9    129.0                                                5.9    129.0       20.0            17123
1994/95            0.45                                      6.1    135.0                                                6.1    135.0      30.0            117.7
1995/96            0.47                                     6.4   141.0                                                 6.4    141.0       40.0             97.4        0.0         0.0      0.0        0.0
1996/97            0.49                            0        6.6    147.0                                     2.0        6.6    147.0                         0.0        2.0         6.4    147.0        5.0
1997/98             -                            4.0        0.0   300.0                                      4.0        0.0    300.0                                    2.0         6.6    300.0       10.0
1998/99             _                                                                                                    i                                              4i0        00                 20.0
I                                                      I                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30.0
2029/30                               0.0        4.0        0.O   3000          40.0              0.0        4.0         0.0    300.0      40.0              0.0        4.0         0.0    3000        40.0
Net Present Value  Rs 489 M                                   Net Present Value  Rs 394 M                                Net Present Value  Rs 308 M
1/  In constant June 1980 Economic Prices.
2/ Incremental benefits due to prevention of expected cost of repairs in case of barrage failure.  It is assumed that
after probability of failure reaches 50%, i.e., failure every other year, no further repairs will be undertaken and
agricultural production in the project area would adjust to rainfed conditions.
3/ Incremental benefits due to prevention of epected losses of agricultural production in case of barrage failure.
4/ The prevention of leakage of water (544 M   ) would result in increases in the value of agricultural production in
the rabi season.



I      t I
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
Costs and Benefits Streams for Economic Rate of Return
(In Rs M)1I/
Capital      Incremental       Probability                                                               Net
Year          Cost         O&M Cost        of Failure        Benefits I 2/   Benefits II 3/   Benefits III 4/   Benefits
1980/81         5.5            0                0.17              0                0                 0               -  5.5
1981/82        27.2            0                0.19              0                0                 0               - 27.2
1982/83       112.2            0                0.21              0                0                 0               -112.2
1983/84       171.3            0                0.23              0                0                 0               -171.3
1984/85       117.7            0                0.25              0                0                 0               -117.7
1985/86        97.4            0                0.27              0                0                 0               - 97.4
1986/87         0.0            2.0              0.29               3.8            87                 5                 94.0
1987/88                                         0.31              4.0             93                10                105.0
1988/89                                         0.33              4.3             99                20                121.0
1989/90                                         0.35              4.6            105                30                138.0
1990/91                                         0.37              4.8            111                40                154.0
1991/92                                         0.39              5.1            117                                  160.0
1992/93                                         0.41               5.3           123                                  167.0
1993/94                                         0.43              5.6            129                                  173.0
1994/95                                         0.45              5.9            135                                  179.0
1995/96                                         0.47              6.1            141                                  186.0
1996/97                        2.0              0.49              6.4            147                                  192.0
1997/98                        4.0               -                 0             300                                  336.0
1998/99         1I
2029/30         0.0            4                                  0              300                40                336.0
1/ In constant June 1980 Economic Prices.
2/  Incremental benefits due to prevention of expected cost of repairs in case of barrage failure.  It is assumed that
after probability of failure reaches 50%, i.e., failure every other year, no further repairs will be undertaken and   I 
agricultural production in the project area would adjust to rainfed conditions.                                            cm
3/  Incremental benefits due to prevention of expected losses of agricultural production in case of barrage failure.
4/ From prevention of leakage of water (544 M m ) which would result in increases in the value of agricultural
production in the rabi season.



INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
W1                                       W2
Appraisal   Switching   Admissible      Appraisal   Switching   Admissible
Value      Value 1/      Change         Val;ue       Value        Change
1. Gross Value of Production
i(Rs/ha)                       5,950       4,050         - 32           7,440       4,389         - 41
2. Annual Increase In Proba-
bility of Weir Failure
(%)                                2        0.2          - 90             -           -             -
3.  Construction Costs (Rs M)          331          821         148             455        1,020         224
4.  Standard Conversion Factor         0.8         2.9          263             0.8         2.7          238
5.  Construction Conversion
Factor                           0.77        2.1          173             0.77        1.9          147
W = Future Without Project - Existing Irrigation Standards.
1
W = Future With Project - Improved Irrigation Standards.
1/   The value of a variable tested, ceteris paribus, beyond which the ERR would be below the opportunity
cost of capital of 12%.
I-.



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Page
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
Design Criteria, Construction Methods and Quality Control
A.  Hydrology and Site Selection
River System and Design Flood
1.        The Mah-+aadi is the largest river in Orissa and has its source in
Madhya Pradesh. After flowing initially through a rocky terrain, it enters
the flat delta area near Naraj 17 km west of Cuttack (Map 15010). At Naraj,
the river branches into two main branches, Kathjori and Mahanadi. Kathjori
branches further into Kathjori and Kuakhai and the Mahanadi river branches
at Jobra into Mahanadi and Birupa.
2.        The highest floods recorded are 43,100 cumec in 1872 (before con-
struction of Hirakud dam) and 42,533 cumec in 1955. The discharge data
at Naraj was analyzed by the CWC based on these studies, the design flood
at Naraj has been assumed to be 42,475 cumecs. This flood is divided between
the Mahanadi branches of which the Mahanadi and Birupa carry 17,370 cumecs
(15,300 cumecs in the Mahanadi and 2,070 cumecs in Birupa) at their proposed
barrage sites. The new barrages would have over 2-meters of freeboard between
the flood water surface and the bottom of the bridge girders which is suffi-
cient to pass rather large floating debris. Actually it appears that the
barrages, except for possible damage to the superstructure from floating
debris, would be able to safely pass floods significantly larger than the
design flood and their flood discharge capacity is considered adequate.
Site Selection
3.        The location of the barrages was determined in 1978 by a committee
of experts appointed by GOO. After studying all the possible sites for new
barrages (four in case of the Mahanadi), the committee felt that it would be
both advantageous and economical to locate the Mahanadi barrage 60 m down-
stream of the center line (of the shutters) of the existing weir and the
Birupa Barrage, 300 m downstream of the existing weir. Length of the Mahanadi
barrage was to be kept unchanged to avoid any adverse effect of flow on the
railway bridge downstream. Both the barrages were to be aligned parallel to
the existing weirs.
Sediment Load
4.        At the sites of the barrages, the sediment load carried by the Maha-
nadi branch is low when compared to alluvial rivers in the country where similar
barrages have been constructed. The maximum total sediment load concentration
is of the order of 957 P.P.M. (1973-1979 data). Less than 20 percent of the



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
total sediment load consists of coarse and medium type. The Mahanadi branch
at the barrage site carries only 16.3% of total sediment load of the undivided
Mahanadi river (upstream of Mundali weir) 1/ while it carries 36% of the total
discharge.  The low sediment load of the Mahanadi and Birupa branches at the
sites of the barrages are favorable features from the point of view of sedimen-
tation of the canal systems taking off from the barrages. The silt tunnels
and silt excluders required for barrages where sediment load is high, would
not be required for these barrages.
B. Review of Designs
Description of the Barrages
5.        Mahanadi Barrage.  The new barrage would be located 60 m downstream
of the old weir on a parallel axis and use the structure remaining after dis-
mantling the part above elevation +17.20 m as upstream protective apron. The
barrage whiSh would be 1,935.5 m long has been designed for a maximum flood
of 15,300 m /sec (about 100 years return frequency). The structure comprises
essentially a heavily reinforced concrete slab 1.80 m thick and 52.00 m wide,
forming the sill at elevation +18.50 m. It would have 76 bays for the spillway,
each 18.00 m wide separated by 69 single concrete piers 2.00 m thick and six
double piers 4.00 m thick separating the seven structural units of 12 to 13
bays. On each end of the barrage there would be 10 bays each 18.00 m wide for
the undersluices separated by 2.00 m thick concete piers and one bay of 1.50 m
for the fish ladder. Steel leaf gates 18.00 m wide and 3.00 m high for the
spillway and 5.50 m high for the undersluices would maintain the pond level
at the present +21.20 elevation. 2/ The lowest stilling pool level of the
spillway would be at +14.30 m and its length would be 23.20 m. For the under-
sluices, the level would be at +12.50 m and the length would be 28.31 m. The
downstream erosion protection will be secured by a mat of heavy concrete
blocks 0.90 m thick laid over a 0.60 m inverted filter. Two dividing walls
2.00 m thick would separate the spillway from the undersluices. The piers
would support a reinforced concrete two-way road bridge 7.32 m wide, as well
as the gate operating platform and walk way. The barrage would be founded
on sand and steel sheet-piles would be provided at the upstream and downstream
limits of the sill slab extending down to elevation of 4.50 m for protection
against underseepage. The barrage layout and a typical section of the spill-
way are in Charts C-1 and C-3.
6.        Birupa Barrage.  To secure better foundations, and for topographical
considerations, the new Birupa Barrage would be located 300 m downstream of
1/   Mundali weir diverts water to the new delta area through the Puri Main
Canal (Map 15010).
2/   The extra 0.3 m in the gates' height is provided as protection against
wave splash. This applies also to Birapa barrage.



_ 41 _
ANNEX 2
Page 3
the existing weir.  Its length has been reduced t  180 m compared to 635 m of
the old weir. It has been designed for a 2,070 m /sec maximum flood (about
100 years return frequency). The structure comprises a heavily reinforced
concrete slab 1.50 m thick and 46.00 m wide forming the sill at elevation
+16.50 m. The barrage would have 13 bays for the spillway each 10.00 m wide
and two bays for the undersluices, on the left side of the river, each 10.00 m
wide. The bays would be separated by 13 concrete piers 2.00 m thick and one
double pier 4.00 m thick. The barrage layout and a typical section of the
spillway are in Charts C-2 and C-4.
Foundation of Mahanadi Barrage
7.        The barrage foundation area has been explored by 18 wash borings
and consists primarily of well-graded sand between 0.1 mm to 1.0 mm in size
with lenses of silty sand, silty clay, gravel and clay in the foundation, of
varying depth and thickness. The thickness, density, and gradation of each
lense is not known because of the disturbed wash boring sampling. The silty
clay has a liquid limit in the range of 35 to 70 with a plastic index in the
range of 25 to 55. However, most of the clay has a plastic index in the
range from 25 to 35 which can be considered an inorganic clay of medium
plasticity.
8.        Based on preliminary designs the CWC has calculated that the maximum
foundation pressures including the effects of hydrostatic uplift are:
(a) Under single pier - 4.26 metric tons per square meter (870
pounds per square foot);
(b) Under double pier - 12.99 metric tons per square meter (2,660
pounds per square foot); and
(c) Under abutment - 24.3 metric tons per square meter (5,100
pounds per square foot).
The maximum computed sliding factorH overV forces is 0.23. The calculated
bearing strength of the foundation is 4,000 to 8,000 pounds per square foot
and the sliding resistance 0.33. However, as no laboratory tests could be
undertaken, actual foundation conditions would be known only after the found-
ation is excavated (para 13).
9.        The above foundation pressures and a review of the geologic explora-
tion results indicate the need for foundation improvement at Mahanadi Barrage
by removal of unsuitable material and preloading. Wherever clay lenses and
low density sand and silt are found at shallow depths they need to be removed,
backfilled with high quality sand and consolidated. In places where thick
clay layers would be encountered at greater depths it may neither be economical
nor practical to remove them. They should be preloaded in advance of construc-
tion with a sufficient depth of material to create the design load. Drains
are to be installed in the layers to remove pore pressure, and settlement be
allowed to take place.



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
10.       In considering the foundation for Mahanadi Barrage it should be kept
in mind that loading from the existing weir approximates the loading of the
new barrage. It appears that settlement from load has not been a problem for
the old weir. The settlements that have occurred were the result of piping
with the masonry settling into cavities. For additional security, the bearing
area of the new barrage would be confined by sheet piling.
11.       A primary consideration for the safety of the barrage is security
against underseepage (piping). The design makes adequate provision for this.
With the two rows of sheet piling, a weighted creep path (Lane's method) of
7.6 is provided which is considered a safe value for the fine to medium sand
foundation. If the downstream protection should be washed out during a flood
and scour occurs immediately downstream from the sheet piling, the weighted
creep path would be reduced to 6.2 which is still a safe value for the tempor-
ary condition that would exist. The bottom of the downstream sheet piling has
been set below the expected scour computed by Lacey's formula.
Foundation of Birupa Barrage
12.       The foundation area has been explored by 11 bore holes.  The pro-
posed barrage axis is covered with alluvial deposit consisting of sand, silt,
and gravel, but the foundation would consist of laterite and hard clay. The
entire raft would be placed on exposed laterite surface. Below the laterite
hard clay may be encountered. The impact penetration test indicates penetra-
tion in the order of 30 to 60 blows per foot and is considered an adequate
foundation for the Birupa Barrage for which the foundation loading would be
about the same as Mahanadi Barrage. For protection against uplift, the down-
stream apron of the barrage would be anchored 5 meters into the foundation
by 32 mm diameter rods staggered at 4-meter centers and a drainage system
would be provided.
Foundation Quality Control
13.       The primary consideration for a safe barrage is to have a good
foundation. Foundation problems at Birupa Barrage appear minor, but at
Mahanadi Barrage exploration has been minimal consisting only of wash borings.
Actual foundation conditions would not be known until the foundation is
excavated. To secure a good foundation in soil consisting of sand, silt and,
clay it would be necessary for the Quality Control Division (QCD, para. 27)
to place a special emphasis on identification of unsuitable material by
observation and undisturbed sampling. A special attention should be given
to the removal of sufficient material, and to the selection and consolidation
of the replacement material. Special emphasis should be placed on accurate
driving of the sheet piling so as to obtain maximum watertight cut-offs.
Structural Design
14.       A structural design review of the barrages indicates adequate con-
crete thickness for the preliminary designs which are essentially completed.
Designs and drawings for the concrete reinforcement and for the gates and other
structural steel items have not been prepared. The roadway bridges would con-
sist of prestressed concrete. Birupa Barrage would be constructed in two



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
continuous units while Mahanadi barrage would be constructed in several
continuous units of 12 to 13 gate bays and piers, per unit. Double piers
would be provided at the junction between units. This is the same procedure
used at the new Godavari Barrage. Tying a large number of bays together has
the effect of increasing the safety of the barrage, because it allows a strong
foundation to compensate for local areas of relative weakness. The concrete
used would be of the following strengths:
(a)  Raft, piers and superstructure    -  150 kg/cm2
(b)  Bridge (no prestressing)            -  250 kg/cm2
(c)  Bridge (prestressed)                -  450 kg/cm2
(d)  Concrete Block                      -  100 kg/cm
The working compressive stress is about one-third of the 2above strengths. The
working tensil strength for reinforcement is 1,120 kg/cm . These values are
considered appropriate for the construction techniques used in India.
Hydraulic Design
15.       Extensive hydraulic model studies of the barrages by a three-
dimensional model and a two-dimensional model (Mahanadi Spillway) were con-
ducted at the CWC Poona Laboratory. The model tests were used to determine
any desirable changes in the overall layouts of the barrages, the division
of flow between the two barrages, expected water surfaces upstream and down-
stream, approach flow and tailwater flow exit conditions, weir discharge
coefficients and the adequacy of the stilling basins. Two significant changes
were made in the barrage layouts as a result of the model studies: (i) Birupa
barrage was shifted 300 meters downstream and parallel to the existing weir
to give better performance; and (ii) the heading of the Kendrapara canal was
shifted from the right bank of the Birupa barrage to the left bank of the
Mahanadi barrage. Due to curvature of flow on the right upstream bank of
the Birupa river excessive amounts of sediment have been deposited into that
canal and such a shift would reduce the amount of sediment entering it.
16.       The discharge distribution at the Mahanadi weir has not been
uniform on account of shoals located just upstream. If the shoals are not
removed and the approach channel cleared by controlled variable gate opera-
tion to erode the shoals, it may be necessary to use mechanical means to
remove the shoals in order to prevent damage to the new barrage by the
uneven approach flow. A similar problem could exist downstream.
Designers' Operating Criteria
17.       Detailed designers' operating criteria including gate operation
would be prepared by the CWC for the new barrages for use by IPD officers
responsible for their operation and maintenance. The new barrages would be
examined annually by CWC over a period of about 10 years. Their findings
would be discussed with IPD and be used for improving the operating criteria.



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6
C. Construction Methods
18.       During the construction there would be no interruption of irrigation
flow diversions into the existing head regulators at Mahanadi and Birupa bar-
rages. Construction would commence when the flow in the river recedes to
about 565 cumecs so that the diversion of surplus flow can be made through
the existing scouring sluices.  This condition is normally reached by November.
The canal water supply would be continued by raising the crest shutters of the
weirs to maintain the diversion pond level of elevation 21.20 meters through-
out the expected construction season of November through June.
19.       Construction of Mahanadi barrage would be considerably more diffi-
cult than construction of Birupa barrage because the former is founded on sand,
has upstream and downstream steel sheet piling cutoffs, and would require
dewatering of the foundation sub-base. The Birupa barrage which is founded
on laterite and hard clay, would not require extensive dewatering of the sub-
base. Mahanadi barrage is over 10 times as long as Birupa barrage and carries
over 7 times the quantity of flow. The comments in the paragraphs below apply
to Mahanadi barrage and as appropriate to Birupa barrage.
20.       As the new Mahanadi barrage would be located 60 meters downstream
from the existing weir, the existing weir and crest shutters would serve as
an upstream coffer dam. To make the weir watertight the gaps in the crest
shutters would be caulked and gunny sacks filled with clay would be placed
against the shutters on the upstream side. If seepage remains excessive in
areas where the weir is in exceptionally poor condition, additional provi-
sions to reduce seepage may be necessary.
21.       The downstream coffer dam would have:  (i) a top elevation of
18.00 m, one meter higher than the expected high water during the construction
season; (ii) a top width, side slopes, and berms as required for stability;
(iii) mostly river bed material with a clay blanket on the water side to
reduce seepage; (iv) filter material on the inside downstream toe at locations
where seepage is excessive; and (v) it would be constructed a sufficient
distance downstream of the barrage to provide space for construction operations
and dewatering facilities. The downstream coffer dam would connect upstream
to the existing weir or completed substructure to enclose a dewatered working
area for construction of 13 to 37 bays of substructure during one construction
season. During the 1982-83 season two dewatered areas are proposed. Temporary
sheet piling would be driven at exposed ends of the substructure to protect
it from floods when the coffer dams are washed away by the high water at the
end of each construction season. Additional coffer dams would be required
for construction of the head regulators and upstream flank walls.
22.       Typical dewatering would consist of:  (i) general pond dewatering;
(ii) dewatering of foundation by deep well and submersible pumps; and (iii)
further localized dewatering by well point pumps especially for pile caps.
The pond dewatering may be accomplished by heavy duty pumps to bring the
water level below river bed. The main foundation dewatering would be



_ 45 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7
accomplished by constructing rows of deep wells equipped with submersible
pumps located near the upstream and downstream edges of the main construction
at about 15 meters on centers and deep wells downstream behind the stone
protection on about 20-meter center. In addition to this general pattern of
lowering the foundation water level localized dewatering would be used for
constructing the pile caps. The proposed dewatering pattern may require modi-
fication to suit local conditions especially where unsuitable foundation is
encountered.
23.       The work area enclosed by the coffer dam can be pumped dry, the
area excavated to rough grade, unsuitable foundation corrected and the found-
ation dewatering system installed. The upstream and downstream steel sheet
piling would be driven in before pumping starts. Construction would proceed
on several bays at one time: one bay for pile caps; one bay for compacting
foundation, fine grading, and placing the 150 mm thick lean concrete sub-
base; one bay for placing concrete in the raft, and other bays for placing
the concrete blocks and Jeddy stone. The piers would be placed to at least
crest elevation 18.50 meters so that any superstructure construction scheduled
for the next season could be constructed without dewatering the area again.
Embedded metal would be placed along with the concreting or blockouts left
for placement of the metal in second stage concrete. Construction of the
superstructure, roadway bridge, and installing the gates and hoists would
follow. Access to interior work areas could be by roads constructed on the
downstream river bed.
24.       The production of concrete would be accomplished by deploying
batching plants. The German Type Kabag Batching plant has been found to be
suitable in case of Godavari barrage. The batching plant consists essentially
of a fixed horizontal drum with rotating paddles, into which water at a high
pressure of 100 psi is jetted along with the introduction of batched materials.
As a consequence of keeping the rotating parts to a minimum, the energy con-
sumption is minimized. The aggregate and sand are stacked on the ground and
dragged by means of drag line to feed the materials to the batch drum through
a series of slits kept at a height of about 2 to 3 feet above the ground and
operated pneumatically. The batching and mixing operations are electrically
controlled from an operating panel and are completed in a minute. The batch-
ing plant has a ca3acity of one cubic meter per minute and can reach a peak
production of 40 m per hour. The mixed concrete is to be conveyed to the
site in dumpers and placed in position manually. If necessary, buckets
operated by crane can be used for placing the concrete.
25.       The proposed quarry is located about 60 km from the barrage site.
Stone would be obtained by drilling and blasting; concrete aggregated would
be produced by a crushing plant. Raw sand which can be processed for concrete
appears plentiful in the delta area.



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8
26.       Materials.  The quantities of the main materials required for this
project are summarized below (in metric tons):
Structural
Cement    Steel    Sheet Piles        Steel      Explosives
Mahanadi Barrage      93,543   21,600        4,697          3,548           -
Birupa Barrage        14,191    3,380          -              457          150
Head Regulators        3,554       627         283             92           -
Camps and Buildings   4,000        420         -               25           -
Total           115,288   26,027       4,980          4,122           150
D.  Quality Control
27.       The Indian Standards Institution (ISI) has prescribed standards in
each aspect of quality control, and these would be strictly followed during
the execution of this project by incorporating them as an integral part of the
conditions of each contract.
28.       The quality control for the barrage would be conducted by a special
Quality Control Division (QCD) to be created under the direct control of the
ACE. The existing soil testing laboratory situated near the barrage site
would be used for quality control purposes. The soil testing laboratory is
well equipped and has adequate technical personnel. A concrete testing
laboratory would be constructed for the sole purpose of quality control of the
concrete works in the barrage.
29.       The QCD would be responsible for testing the quality of materials
such as cement and sandstone products before they are utilized in the construc-
tion of the barrage. It would determine the design mix for concrete by
considering the quality of materials and water cement ratio so as to obtain
the desired strength.
30.       After exacavation of the barrages' foundation, the base area would
be checked and passed by the QCD staff before laying any concrete. The QCD
would also supervise the batching of the concrete mix at the batching plant
site. Samples of concrete used for construction would be collected regularly
and systematically and cubes would be tested regularly in the laboratory in
accordance with the procedures and specification prescribed by the ISI.
Before placing concrete in any location the area is to be inspected and
passed.  The shuttering of piers and deck slab would also be checked by the
QCD staff in order to prevent any bulging of the concrete. The prestressed
concrete works for the girders would be closely supervised by the QCD staff.



47 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
Water Management
1.        Background.  The economic analysis indicates that the economic
viability of the project would be considerably improved if the water distri-
bution system is modernized to increase the reliability of the water supply
to the farmers and enable greater diversification of crops. Improvements
would consist of five main components: (i) land consolidation; (ii) con-
struction of watercourses and drains; (iii) construction of essential control
and measurement structures; (iv) organization of improved water distribution
at project level; and (v) organization of water distribution at farmers
level.
2.        Efficient organization of water distribution above the "chaka"
outlet (government responsibility) and below (farmers' responsibility) is
essential for an equitable and reliable water supply. Although rotational
(RWS) systems like the warabandi have operated successfully in northern India
conditions in Orissa are different and considerable experimentation on a
sizable scale would be necessary in order to adapt RWS to local conditions.
The organization pattern adapted is likely to effect the design of watercourses
(size of chaka, location of control and measurement structures, selective
lining, etc.).  It is important therefore to determine these design parameters
at an early stage so that once a decision on the finance of the watercourses
had been taken further delays would not be caused by design and organizational
uncertainties.
3.        Selection of Pilot Area.  The following criteria should be used:
(i) The area should cover a whole distributary (about 1,000 ha)
to enable experimentation with organization of the water supply
above the chaka and avoid distortions typical of small pilot
areas.
(ii) Land consolidation had already been completed or is at its
final stages; and
(iii) The area should have an adequate primary drainage system.
4.        Main Activities.  The following activities would take place in the
pilot area:
(i) Watercourses and drains would be designed and constructed over
the whole area;
(ii) Control, distribution and measurement structures would be con-
structed;



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
(iii) The water distribution system above the chaka (government
responsibility) would be reorganized to improve reliability
of the water supply at the chaka outlet; and
(iv) The farmers within the chaka would be organized.
The extension service would be closely involved and would conduct special
activities to teach farmers improved water management techniques.
5.        Water Allocation.  The proportion of the project rabi water allocated
to the pilot area would be equal to the proportion of its CCA to the project
area CCA. Each chaka would receive an equal amount of water per ha which would
be allocated to farmers in an equitable manner. Each farmer would receive
water according to a predetermined water allocation schedule, and would be
free to grow crops of his choice. Where interference between adjacent crops
would be a problem the chaka's committee would regulate the cropping pattern.
6.        Organization and Management.  The Irrigation and Power Department
(IPD) would be responsible for supplying irrigation water at predetermined
times and quantities at the chaka outlet and for adequate functioning of the
main drainage system. IPD would undertake the improvement works (including
control and measurement structures) required for appropriate functioning of
these systems.
7.        The Command Area Development Department (CAD) would be responsible
for design and construction of watercourses and field drains and for the
organization of water distribution below the government managed outlet.
8.        Evaluation.  Activities in the pilot area and their effect on
farmers' behavior would be closely evaluated by the State Evaluation Organi-
zation (SED), Planning and Coordination Department of GOO. The SED would
issue reports on its findings at the end of each rabi season.
9.        Implementation Schedule.
a.   Selection of pilot area                by March 1981
b.   Completion of construction works    by June 1982
c.   Introduction of RWS on a part
of the pilot area                     rabi 1981/82
d.   Extension of RWS to the whole
1,000 ha                              rabi 1982/83
10.       Cost Estimates.  Construction cost of watercourses and drains and
improvement of the conveyance system have been estimated at Rs 3,000 per ha
or Rs 3.0 M for the pilot area.



- 49 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
Emergency Plan for Weir-failure
1.        It is assumed that the failure of either weir is most likely to
occur during the flood season as it happened in the case of the Krishna and
Godavari weirs. Based on the experience at Godavari barrage a breach at
either Mahanadi or Birupa weirs is expected to be initially about 20 to 30
meters wide and gradually widen to about 150 meters. The scour is expected
to be about 7 meters deep.
2.        Repair works would be facilitated by the possibility of regulating
the river flow by controlled releases from Hirakud storage reservoir which
is located about 300 km upstream of Mahanadi weir, especially during the post
monsoon period (beginning in about mid-October). A coffer dam would be
constructed across a narrow reach of the Mahanadi river located about 2.2 km
downstream from Naraj weir and about 11.7 miles upstream of Mahanadi weir.
At the proposed coffer dam site sufficient earth and sand are available in
the existing dunes and land mass dividing the rivers Mahanadi and Kathjori.
In the post-monsoon season the proposed coffer dam site is easily approach-
able up to the dunes from Cuttack side (right bank) by land. The left bank of
the Mahanadi river up to the coffer dam site is approachable by an all-weather
road. A stone quarry is located about 3.3 km upstream from the proposed
coffer dam on the right bank of the Mahanadi near a road.
3.        Upon completion of the coffer dam all the Mahanadi river flow would
be diverted over the Naraj weir into the Kathjori river thus the Mahanadi
river would be dry downstream from the coffer dam past the Mahanadi and Birupa
barrage sites. It is expected that bank seepage would supply water to any
required local pumping in the dryed-up reach of the Mahanadi River. Repair
of the breach section would be done to the same standards as the section of
the existing weir. The coffer dam would be constructed of rock and boulders
backed up with sandy soil to creaie a watertight dam and have a gravel
road across the top. About 200 m of rock would be stockpiled at each abut-
ment of the proposed coffer dam location at each abutment of both barrages
so that corrective operations can commence without delay. Detailed cost
estimates, equipment, materials, and manpower likely to be required for
restoration of a breached weir have been prepared.
4.        Hierarchy of Responsibilities.  At present the maintenance of each
weir is the responsibility of two separate Executive Engineers (EE) under the
control of the Superintending Engineer (SE), East Circle, Cuttack, who reports
directly to the Additional Chief Engineer (ACE) (Irrigation). The ACE would
also be in charge of the construction of the new barrages.



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        As soon as a breach occurs the EE in charge of maintenance of the
breached weir would advise the ACE and other concerned parties in accordance
with a pre-determined emergency list. The ACE would be responsible for under-
taking appropriate technical and administrative actions following consultation
with the Chief Engineer (Irrigation) and the Secretary of the IPD. This would
include the necessary directives to the SE and EE in charge of the failed weir
to deploy men, materials, and equipment as necessary to construct the coffer
dam and repair the weir as soon as possible. The hydraulic model studies
(conducted by CWC) have indicated that any lowering of the crest of the exist-
ing weir would not increase the flood discharge of the Mahanadi and Birupa
rivers, therefore a breach is not expected to result in flooding of areas
downstream of the weirs.
6.        Cost Estimates.  The cost of repairing a breach is as follows:
Rs '000
construction of coffer dam and diversion
of flow from Mahanadi to Kathjori               5,000
closure of breach                                12,000
Total                                         17,000 (US$2.0 M)
The allowance for physical contingencies in the project cost estimates incor-
porates also those for weir failure.
7.        Materials.  The following materials would be required for restora-
tion of the water supply in the case of weir failure:
Unit               Quantity
Sand, earth and murrum             m3                  49,800
Boulders                           m3                  33,000
Spalls                             m3                     900
4 cm size hard granite metal       m                   16,000
Cement                            ton                   3,733
Steel.                            ton                     757
These materials, except sand, earth and stones which are available at nearby
dunes and quarries, would be stockpiled near the weir sites from the first
year and until the new barrages would provide full protection.



- 51 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
Economic Analysis
General Assumptions
1.        Prices and Conversion Factors.  The economic prices of major traded
agricultural outputs and inputs were derived from the IBRD projected 1985 world
market prices expressed in 1980 currency value and adjusted for freight,
handling and processing. Prices for pulses, traded only on the local market
were derived by application of long term historical retail price ratios
between these crops and paddy to the economic price of paddy. Conversions of
financial prices have been made at US$1 to Rs 8.40, which represents the
projected exchange rate over the disbursement period of the credit.
2.        The benefits of the project were estimated at world market prices.
However, most of the cost items are not traded on the world market, and tariffs
and trade restrictions cause a distortion in the price relationship between
traded goods - valued at world market prices - and non-traded goods - valued
at local prices. In order to have a common price basis conversion factors
(CF) were used. A standard conversion factor (SCF), currently estimated by
the Indian Planning Commission at about 0.8 was applied to the prices of
non-traded goods and consumption.
3.   The construction costs of the barrages were adjusted using a construction
conversion factor (CCF) derived by taking into account the relative share of
traded (20%, CF=1) and non-traded components (20%, CF=0.80) and the share of
unskilled labor (60%, CF=0.67). The traded component includes capital-
intensive works which require imported materials. The non-traded component
includes works that require skilled labor and locally manufactured materials.
The opportunity cost of unskilled labor was assumed to be approximately equal
to the economic shadow wage rate of farm labor. Analysis of farm-labor supply
and demand in various Indian irrigation projects typically gives an economic
shadow wage rate for farm labor in the range of 1/2 to 2/3 of the financial
wage rate. For the economic analysis of the project a shadow wage rate of 67%
of the market wage (Rs 5.00 per man-day) has been assumed.
4.        Other important assumptions made are the following:
a) The probability that either weir would fail is presently
in the range of 10-20% (15% for calculation purposes),
and increasing at an annual rate of 1-3% (2% for cal-
culation purposes).
b) When the probability of failure exceeds 50% (failure every
second year) it would not be feasible to continue main-
tenance of the existing weirs and if new barrages had



- 52 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
not been constructed the area would return to rainfed
conditions.
c)  the net economic value of production losses in a year
in which either of the weirs fails would be Rs 300 M and
is equal to the difference between the net value of
production under irrigation and that under rainfed
conditions, based on present levels of technology and
yields.
d)  the annual decline in net economic benefits due to
reversal to rainfed conditions would also equal
Rs 300 M.
e)  The construction of the new barrages would prevent
leakage of waier during the rabi season (estimated at
about 544 M m ).  With the present cropping pattern    3
the value of water in rabi is estimated at Rs .07 per m
The prevention of leakage would therefore result in addi-
tional benefits of about Rs 40 M annually.
f) The construction of the new barrages would eliminate the
need for emergency repairs. The incremental benefits
due to prevention of expected cost of repairs in case
of barrage failure would discontinue after the probability
of failure reaches 50%.
g)  The economic life of the new barrage would be 50 years.
Timing of Construction
5.        Based on the above assumptions the optimal time of constructing the
new barrages was analyzed by comparing the present value of the net economic
benefits stream of barrages constructed at different time. The discount rate
used was 12% which is the estimated opportunity cost of capital in India. The
results are summarized below:
Beginning of Construction        Present Value of the
Year                Expected Benefits (Rs M)
1980/81                            489
1985/86                            389
1990/91                            304
1995/96                            221
These results indicate that postponing the construction of the new barrages
would result in a reduction in the present value of the expected economic
benefits indicating the economic preference for an immediate replacement of
the old weirs. This conclusion is valid also for higher and lower discount
rates (rates of 10%, 15% and 20% were tested).



- 53 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
Economic Rate of Return
6.        The economic costs of all civil works, equipment, administration
and engineering, O&M have been included in the derivation of ERR. Assuming
the construction would start in 1980/81 and discounting costs and benefits
over a 50 year period, the ERR is estimated at 21% (Annex 1, T-16).
7.        The above ERR estimate is based on the present water distribution
system, farming practices and yields. Preliminary results from studies
conducted in the Mahanadi delta indicate that transition from field-to-field
system to irrigation from watercourses could increase production considerably
(para. 3.05). Annual net benefits from irrigation would increase from
Rs 300 M to Rs 605 M and, taking into account also the additional construction
costs of watercourses and farm drains, the ERR would increase from 21% to 41%.
Such transition would, therefore, considerably improve the economic viability
of the project.
Sensitivity Analysis
8.        Several tests were performed to determine the sensitivity of assump-
tions made in the economic analysis. The sensitivity of ERR to changes in
the gross value of production is moderate. A decrease of 32% would be required
to lower the ERR below that of the opportunity cost of capital (12%). Since
production assumptions are based on levels already realized such a decrease
is unlikely. Underestimation of conversion factors would have no significant
impact on economic viability of the project. The sensitivity to an increase
in construction cost is relatively low, they would have to increase by about
150% in real terms in order to reduce the ERR to 12%. The project would be
viable even without the additional benefits (Rs 40 M) due to prevention of
water leakage. The exclusion of these benefits would lower the ERR to 19%.
Extending the construction period by two years would decrease the ERR by 2%
(to 19%).
9.        The important parameters of the probability function of weir failure
are: (i) the initial probability of failure (assumed to be 15%); and (ii) the
annual increase (assumed to be 2%). If the initial probability of failure is
decreased to 10% the ERR would be 19%. The switching value of the annual
increase, assuming an initial probability of failure of 15%, is 0.2%. These
results indicate that even considerable changes in the assumptions regarding
the probability of weir failure would not make this project economically
unviable.
Project Rent (Annex 1, T-11)
10.       The concept of project rent in this type of projects is different
from the concept in ordinary irrigation development projects. If the new
barrages are constructed, most farmers would not realize incremental rent.
However, if they are not constructed and the old weirs eventually fail, the
farmers are likely to suffer a considerable reduction in their net income
(and in the value of their land). The "rent" would result, in such a case,
from a negation of the "negative rent" anticipated if the weirs fail and the
area returns to rainfed conditions. It is not therefore a suitable measure
for evaluating cost recovery.



- 54 -
ANNEX 6
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
1.   Mahanadi Birupa Barrage Project (Draft Report for IDA Assistance)
Government of Orissa, Irrigation and Power Department, Bhubaneswar,
January 1980
2.   Mahanadi-Birupa Barrage Project, Report No. P.P.C./1 Joint Report
of Project Preparation and Monitoring Cell (Government of India) and
Project Preparation Cell (Government of Orissa), May 1980
3.   Study Tour of Godavari Project
Government of Orissa, Irrigation and Power Department (undated)
4.  Emergency Plan for Weir Failure and the Hierarchy of Responsibilities
Government of Orissa, Irrigation and Power Department (1980)
5.   Model Studies for Mahanadi and Birupa Barrages, Specific Note 1907
Central Water and Power Research Station, Pune, April 26, 1980
6.   INDIA-Orissa Agricultural Development Project
Report No. 1301a-IN, February 9, 1977
7.   INDIA-Appraisal of the Orissa Irrigation Project
Report No. 1558a-IN, August 24, 1977



INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
LAYOUT PLAN OF MAHANADI BARRAGE
1. Al                                      -I I N-~ U-S 1  V  I V o                                                                -l- _B_
0/
6 u u 0 u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AU0 XE }Ge  :AK
TOB  UTn V FIa G  tIHS GUENTH-AUMNS)--(0EA    FSM AHUoRNVC                                                                                                                                                   0E



I



A~~~~~~~~~~
:vv1
.1  -



I                                                                                                                                                                              I



INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
CROSS SECTION OF SPILLWAY OF MAHANADI BARRAGE
|                ~~~~~~1270100                     9000                       10- . 0
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
1000~ ~ t 0950   1000         2240 1-7001   [ 10700          SCAL0
Pe d cl+ 21.2   11                                                                                                                              1 2
X |  F126b   -        tf350    |          | 10 85       | 3900 _ 216  sMO          11700            l                    L 1                                  +2050~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10  100,~000.0 1000010  50  0000.109
92500  ..                                                                                                                                                  1000
.t.-.......1                                                                                                     0000        1



I                I                                                                                                                     



- 58 -
CHART 4
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
CROSS SECTION OF SPILLWAY OF BIRUPA BARRAGE
23950
10700                                              13250                                                                                              SCALE
-    Axis of Barrage                                                                                                  I
1830   1830                                                                                           0 metre             5m.                  1O.,                 15,.
+28.50 (Tentative)
10700                   1 1                     12000                       1                  10050
+  F=t                    ~~~~~~~7320                                                                 -
/   \  ,,,,             ~~~~~~~+24.50  
+23.50                                        LD          X ~ j,; '            f''')-'<                         +23.50
Pond Level 21.20                    Stop Log Roove_                    Gate Grooew            H.  L +21.25                 20
-  200   l                                                               lili                  F ~~~~~~          ~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pier CaP  +00
+20.00
F[..                     7000           -A               b-25  3000  1                     12,000                      _                                          120                                   |       +18,60
NS L                              21+tS,5                                                                                                                                                                       1         21100x 1500
16.00                                                                                                                             20       x07  0 5CC. Blocrk
I        mitEa  t  h 80 Jhorr-e-
19975 10718000  1800
C_rtein Well
+13.00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                                                               0
10                                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+ 12.00
38300  I  I          II               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0
12001               Dr~32M  Ans ho 4M   raids  6M-1 C/CCSCaterg
Takenr 5M ino Rock (Both Waysl                                         ol  an    15






- r9 -
INDIA                                                                                                                                                                                  CIIRT 5
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
PERT CHART
RA
_  --rLAnswsLL5ls4Esaxul--                                                               ielAl _Q -1
_ 1                                          |                               30   EIG               ERECTIO 08 sA
pA                                                                                  11"E.               0                                                 21
,    t   /  SUS   STRUCTUR   t   CTRI5CTURS S SAYS| B R PA S S tS EQ~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                                                               613 3  000 30 10   AY                                               30  30  020 06
N SSI                  S2                                                                                                                                   SAT I  406000A  -    T  - _N  _
AII5  =. =1-T-E EAY 4 TEA7.E.YE wO      0                                       0                                13 =. 13                                                                                                         16                                                  21 IA  S0
7..0                         4120                                                   1116                       _jf                                 14412                                                                                                    |14                                                  00  01 0 440016{bYSr {85            'S             _    3SE6TUT:4C1006LAT &>(
E   E _ IAHt   EA  0000l30 SLE AKe1010  1000Es2D FRDM  -ORTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  00D0 0020H [DR  jAHANAnl AND K RIIFA EA zI  O AI- .
113011160 030  030036  F03 OOOT  I  01110100,003J06  [23                                                     0001016100000                               43                                          63   01,6 1111 10011116-01000  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/~\   ~~0'~~1O  /  2200 61000lII 0000 0I-
3   0                                                                        3                         3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L/
1100                    orlo   0                  0l-0                   611A1013                00000                  3031.000                300   6000                  016DM00311101061010                                                    0010  1 111               0L310130000000
~~~~~~~l  A I I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~                                                                 0600100
-A                                                      I   01101010000        11  000111-o10  001                                    00000~~~~~~~~~~~~~E10 - 1111N10 0060001                                      116600
~~12nA  [/3//'1\                                                                                             0303003006000000'                                    01011032010          010 3103103000o16                                    100>0006361006~~~~~~~11-T 1- II



I            I



- 60-                                                                  CHART 6
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
Implementation Schedulel/
PREPARATORY         81- 82            82-83            83-84            84-86            85-86
DESCRIPTION OF ITEM                      Quantity         PERIOD         r2 -                rI-               t            I        lF
UP TO MARCH 81       2|34                23 4   11 |  2 3|           1|    |1  2j | 3  4_
1. MAHANADI BARRAGE CI VI L WORKS
Foundation Excavation                   946700 m2                              26             30               35        9
Formation of Sheet Pile Cutoff         (39800 m3)                 6         22                28               33         1 1
Concrete in Sub-structure               (241632 m3)                                7          30               46         17
Concrete in Super-structure            (100347m3 I                                                20           31               30                19
Concrete Blocks                        (39680 m3 )                                  5     _43                  39         13
Prestress Girder                       (1429 m3 )                                                                                     25          75
Mild Steel Reinforcement                (21600 mt.                2          6                25               40               22                 5
Loose Stone Apron                      (144930 i3)                                  2         32               28               28               10
2. MAHANADI BARRAGEMECHANICALWORKS
Manufacture & Supply of Embedded Parts   (609-60 mt. )                                        25               55         20
Erection of Embedded Parts             (609.60 mt. I                                                                 8          36                56
Manufacture & Supply of Gate Stoplog   (2938 mt. )                                            19               31               40        10
Erection of Gate & Stoplog              (2938 mt. )                                                                   5         32               61
Manufacture & Supply of Hoist          (96 nos.   )                                           10               11               37               42
Erection of Hoist                      (96 nos.   I                                                                             35               65
Manufacture Supply of Ramote Control
Equipment                               (One Set  I
SupplV & Erection of Gantry Crane       (Two Sets )                                                                                              100
3. BIRUPA BARRAGE CIVIL WOR KS
Foundation Excavation                   (45618 m3 I                                               32           51        17
Laterite Excavation                    (362-97 m3)                                                31          53         16
Concrete in Sub-structure               (33277 m3 I                                                 23         59        18
Concreta in Super Structure            (17563 m3 I                                                                 28           53         19
Concrete Blocks                        (2863 m3  I                                                  25         58        17
Prestress Girder                        (130 m3                                                                                       . -  25    75
Grid Steel Reinforcement                (3380 mt. )                                               20                            29         6
Loose Stone Apron                      (21693 m3                                                  1 13        19                30               38
4. BIRUPA BARRAGE MECHANI CAL WORKS
Manufacture & Supply of Embedded Parts   (70-50 mt. I                                                                               65    35
Erection of Embedded Parts             (70-50 mt. I                                                                                                  100
Manufacture & Supply of Gates & Stoplog    (379.6 mt. I                                                                             33           67-
Erection of Gate & Stoplog             (379.6 mt. I                                                                                                  100
t          Manufacture & Supply of Hoist           (15 nos.   I                                                                                             100
Erection of Hoist                       (5 nos.   I                                                                                                  100
Supply & Erection of Gantry Crane       ( no.    )                                                                                                   100
5. HEAD REGULATORS & LINK CHANNEL   (17.7 Rs M )                                                                                                    100
6. CAMPS & BUI LDINGS                     (17.0 Rs M I             37          30               49         14
7. ROADS                                  (5.0 Rs M  I             30          30               17                10               10        3
8. MASTER DRAINAGE PLAN                   (12.0 Rs M I                         17               21                21               21               20
9. WATER MANAGEMENT                       (3.0 Rs M  )                         67                8                8                 8                7
1/ Expressed in percentage of topal quantity.
World Bank- 21978



CHART 7
- 61 -
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
CENTRAL                                                    ACCOUNTANTGENERAL
WATER
COMMISSI ON
CHIEF ENGINEER, IRRIGATION
II!
L _ _ _ _ .       ADDL. CHIEF ENGINEER, IRRIGATION    _       AUDITOFFICER
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
ASST. TO ADDIL.                            FINANCIAL ADVISOR AND
CHIEF ENGINEER                             CHIEF ACCOUNTSOFFICER
EXECUTIVE ENGINEER            SUPERINTENDING ENGINEER
DESIGN                           ICI VI L)
EXECUTIVE ENGINEER
QUALI TY CONTRO L                P~~~ERSONAL ASSISTANT
QUA LI TY CONTROL
EXECUTIVE              EXECUTIVE              EXECUTIVE               EXECUTIVE
ENGINEER-I             ENGINEER-11            ENGINEER-111           ENGINEER-IV
(CIVIL)                (CIVIL)                (CIVIL)                (MECH)
MAHANADI               MAHANADI                 BIRUPA              MAHANADIAND
I  I    ~BIRUPA     I 
4 ASSISTANT            4 ASSISTANT            4 ASSISTANT             4 ASSISTANT
ENGINEERS              ENGINEERS              ENGINEERS               ENGINEERS
8 ADDL. ASST.          8 ADDL. ASST.          4 ADDL. ASST.          8 ADDL. ASST.
ENGINEERS              ENGINEERS              ENGINEERS               ENGINEERS
(SHIFTWORK)           (SHIFTWORK)             (SHIFT WORK)           (SHIFT WORK)
World Bank -21977



AUGOUST 1980
C                                                                                                                                 DILAND TAN         N.
C0                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RC R-
Mu.i dDTAION                                                                                                                                                                    kJ. 'WxK ~.,WE 
KA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aq
1',
MAHANADI BARGSPROJECT
LOCATION MAP
~~~~~~~~~~~ P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROPOSED  BARIRAGES                                                                                                            EXSIN       RSG
PRPSDCANALS                          EX-TING  CANALS WIT-  SIPHONS
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~NEW DELTA                                                                                                                             EXISTING  RRA  NGE CNL
ODDELTA IPSO AT-AREA                    ROADS
MISAS ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    1 _______________________'   AREAS  DEFERRED                                                                                  ----. RAILROADS
CT - -                                                                                                                                                                       o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'A0> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~TDWNS  AND  CITIES



I



IBRD 15011
,;   L,,    of  C =D U . -5                                                                                       5'                                      A U G U ST   198 0
CHINA
BHUTAN,                                                                          N       I
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
GENERAL LAYOUT
INDIA -J,,nC    -   'URM E                                        PROJECT                     EXISTING   FEATURES
MATS BE'                           ES_  BARRAGES                        WEIRS                             RAILROADS
CANALS             -        CANALS                            RIVERS
-, fVO  p. EMBANKMENTS     -         DRAINAGE CANALS         ::.-  SANDBANKS
*   Arob;o R  \   \                                                                              '   T   EMBANKMENTS                       BUILT-UP   AREAS
94X \ { ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS, HIGHWAYS/
X  LAN KA
o               1                2  KILOMETERS                               v/L                                                      / 
O                                                    2 MILES                                    ;                 F7i    ,           | 
d~~ ~~ 00, OWU 005. 05050  fl k.,
005N0090,05  00  00 Thg    00,00  foOjo Y.ou  0||0j|0-    -.o,.,o
..  '   .  f' ,...  .   -'   '   '   D          2.
/    s    Wz  Z  /-?! = \ i > i ; L~/P                                -g
_  '<z  'Dy_ e ;#/ //\'k\ 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B.
, . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<   hd2 X



