Document of
The World Bank    FILE Cxpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2899-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THX
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
November 11, 1980
This document bhs a restricted distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce of
their -ofecid duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of October 24, 1980)
US$1.00       =      Rs 7.676644
Rs 1.00      .       US$0.1302
Rs 1,000,000  =      US$130,265
(Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at US$1.00 to Rs 8.40,
which represents the projected exchange rate over the disbursement period.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CWC - Central Water Commission (GOI)
GOI - Government of India
GOO - Government of Orissa
IPD - Irrigation and Power Department (GOO)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 India, acting by its President
Beneficiary:              State of Orissa
Amount:                   US$83.0 million
Terms:                    Standard
Relending Terms:          As part of Central Assistance to States for develop-
ment projects on terms and conditions applicable
at the time.
Project Description:      The purpose of the project is to ensure continued
availability of irrigation water in a 167,000 ha
command area currently serviced by two 110-year-old
weirs. The two weirs are in danger of collapsing and
continued supply of irrigation water would avert the
danger of a sharp decline in agricultural production
in the area. It would safeguard farm incomes and
employment for the area's agricultural labor force.
The project consists of the construction of two new
barrages, which would replace the old weirs across
the Mahanadi River and its branch, the Birupa River.
The head regulators for the three irrigation canals
taking off from the barrages would be replaced by new
structures. The project would also include the
development of a Drainage Master Plan for the entire
Mahanadi delta, including the implementation of
selected works identified under the Master Plan, a
program of water management pilot operations and the
construction of staff accommodation and other build-
ings required for the supervision and management of
the project. The risk associated with the project,
apart from those normally inherent in irrigation
projects in India, is that one or both of the old
weirs might collapse while the new barrages are being
constructed; the project would contain specific
measures to minimize this risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:                                                  (US$ million)
Local   Foreign   Total
Civil Works                       38.1       9.5     47.6
Mechanical Engineering Works       4.8       7.1      11.9
Engineering, Supervision
and Administration               9.0       0.5      9.5
Drainage Master Plan               1.2       0.2       1.4
Water Management Program           0.3       0.1      0.4
Base Cost: 1/                53.4     17.4      70.8
Physical Contingencies             9.9       3.2     13.1
Price Contingencies               19.9       6.5     26.4
Total                        83.2     27.1    110.3
Financing Plan:                                                  (US$ million)
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA Credit                        55.9      27.1     83.0
Local Financing (GOO)             27.3        -      27.3
Total                        83.2     27.1    110.3
Estimated
Disbursement:                                          (US$ million)
FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87
Annual:          2.2    8.8   19.0   25.0   19.0    9.0
Cumulative:      2.2   11.0   30.0   55.0   74.0   83.0
Rate of Return:           21%.
Appraisal Report:         No. 3111-IN, dated October 31, 1980.
1/   Including negligible amount of duties and taxes.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
INDIA FOR THE MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for SDR 63.3 million (US$83.0 million equivalent)
on standard IDA terms to help finance the construction of two barrages across
the Mahanadi and Birupa Rivers for the diversion of irrigation water, and
associated facilities and pilot operations. The Government of India (GOI)
would channel the proceeds of the credit to the Government of Orissa (GOO) in
accordance with GOI's standard terms and arrangements for financing State
development projects. The exchange risk would be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2933-IN, dated May 1, 1980), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 14, 1980. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a large and diverse country with a population of 663
million (in mid-1980) and an annual per capita income of US$180. Agriculture
continues to dominate India's economy, employing over two thirds of the
labor force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate
livelihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, especially the
landless or nearly landless who have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. The share of agriculture in GDP at factor cost (measured in 1970/71
prices) has declined from 59.6% in 1950/51 to 40.7% in 1978/79. The share
of industry has increased over the same period from 14.5% to 22.7%. But
industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor force,
nor to bring about the substantial economic transformation that has led to
higher productivity and rapid urbanization in some other developing countries.
The urban population was 18% of the total in 1960, and is 21% now.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past.  The growth rate of GDP
was 3.7% per annum from 1950/51 to 1978/79. Slow growth in agriculture--
2.5% per annum over the same period--has constrained overall growth, not only
because of the high share of agriculture in GDP but also because scarce foreign
exchange has often been required to import food. Industrial value-added has
grown more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between 1950/51 and 1978/79, but this
growth has not been as high as in many other countries, nor as high as required
if the overall growth of the economy is to be accelerated. Slow growth has
persisted despite a quite creditable domestic saving and investment performance.
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Bihar Rural Roads Project (No.
P-2885-IN, dated October 22, 1980).



Gross domestic saving more than doubled from 10% of GDP in 1950/51 to 24% in
1978/79. Similarly, gross domestic investment as a fraction of GDP rose from
10% in 1950/51 to just over 24% in 1978/79. Foreign savings have never financed
a large portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during
the early 1960s; by the end of the 1970s, the proportion had returned to much
lower levels. External assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and
in per capita terms. Net external assistance has never risen above 3% of GDP.
5.        Except during periods of balance of payments crisis, exports have
received relatively little emphasis in India, which has primarily pursued a
strategy of import substitution. As a result, India's share of world trade
has fallen consistently since 1950/51. The volume growth of exports between
1950/51 and 1978/79 averaged only 3.0 per annum. The volume of growth of
imports over the same period has slightly exceeded that of exports. During
the early 1970s, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant
during the 1960s, deteriorated drastically, spurring a relatively rapid period
of export growth through the mid-1970s. For the five years ending in 1976/77
the volume of India's exports grew on average over 10% per annum, demonstrating
that sustained rapid growth was possible. While expanding world markets, par-
ticularly in the near-by Middle East, contributed to this process, adjustments
in trade policies designed to improve the profitability of exports played a
major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at factor
cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged 4.7%,
2.8% and 7.3% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a marginally
better growth performance than the long-term trends from 1950/51 to 1975/76.
However, GNP is expected to have declined by about 3% in 1979/80 as a result
of the drought-induced decrease in agricultural production and input con-
straints in other sectors, bringing recent trends back in line with the long-
term picture. Industrial production stagnated in 1979/80, largely due to
shortfalls in the production of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement,
as well as constraints in the provision of infrastructure, notably power and
transportation. As a consequence of these developments, the remarkable price
stability that characterized the Indian economy after 1975 came to an abrupt
end at the close of fiscal year 1978/79. During the Spring and Summer of
1979 the price index rose sharply, and under the drought conditions, which
were then quite serious, prices failed to make the normal downward adjustment
over the winter. The result was that the level of prices at the end of the
year (1979/80) were almost 20% above the level at the beginning of the year.
Foodgrain prices rose over the Summer and Fall of 1979 but in most markets
still prevailed close to the Government's ration prices. Low income groups in
urban areas were assured adequate supplies of grain at stable prices through
the public distribution system. The substantial stocks of foodgrains also
provided resources for a large-scale drought relief employment program for low
income groups in rural areas.
7.        In agriculture the positive results of large investments and appro-
priate policies over the past few years are becoming increasingly evident and
have withstood the test of a severe drought. Agricultural production, which
had increased by 14.5% in 1977/78 and 3.4% in 1978/79 to record levels each



- 3 -
year, fell about 8-9% in 1979/80. Foodgrain production is estimated to have
declined from 131.4 million tons in 1978/79 to 116 million tons in 1979/80.
Considering that 1979/80 was a year of acute drought, coming after two succes-
sive years of record output, the foodgrain production achieved--still the
fourth highest in Indian history--provides a measure of the contribution that
expanded irrigation, extension and other inputs have made to Indian agriculture.
Furthermore, the capacity of India's irrigation potential to counteract drought
conditions might have been even more clearly demonstrated had not the diesel
shortages inhibited the utilization of groundwater resources. Rapid growth in
the use of basic inputs for agricultural production has continued. Additions
to the area under irrigation have almost doubled from 1.3 million hectares
during the five-year period ending in 1973/74 to about 2.5 million additional
hectares a year during the most recent three-year period. Fertilizer consump-
tion in 1979/80 exceeded five million nutrient tons, twice the level consumed
in 1974/75.
8.        As the new decade begins, the Indian economy is shifting from a
situation of resource surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of the
late 1970s, to one of resource scarcity. Investment has again overtaken
domestic savings, and the scope for further increases in the latter appears
limited. Marginal savings rates have recently been well above 30% in the
household sector. Future increases in savings will depend largely on enhanced
profitability of public sector enterprises. Impending resource scarcity is
even more apparent in the foreign sector. Between 1975/76 and 1978/79 India's
current account deficit had remained comfortably small in relation both to GDP
and to a growing pipeline of aid commitments. This was primarily due to
favorable terms of trade movements and rapidly growing net invisibles which
masked adverse underlying trends in the volume of exports, which has grown
little since 1976/77. Particularly serious is the evident decline in manufac-
tured non-traditional exports which had contributed much to the export growth
of the first half of the decade. A combination of strong domestic, and slack
international demand, exacerbated until recently by apparent lessened interest
in export promotion, have been the major causal factors.
9.        In contrast, imports have grown rapidly in volume terms and there
have been important changes in composition. As a result of the accumulation
and maintenance of foodgrain stocks, foodgrain imports--which had been a
traditional item in the balance of payments--have declined to insignificant
levels since 1977/78. Reflecting the impact of the liberalized import policy
adopted by the Government, non-foodgrain imports increased sharply, so that
their level in 1978/79 was over 80% higher than in 1975/76. In large part,
the liberalization in import policy and increase in imports were limited to
raw materials, basic commodities and intermediate goods; consumer goods
remained banned and capital goods imports were permitted only on a selective
basis. Strong new pressures on the balance of payments have developed during
1979/80. The terms of trade again deteriorated markedly as a consequence of
unexpectedly large increases in petroleum prices, which caused the oil import
bill to double in 1979/80, accounting for more than 80% of the total estimated
US$2.5 billion increase in imports, and bringing India's total import bill to
about US$11 billion. Petroleum imports as a proportion of total exports now
exceed 44%.



-4-
Development Prospects
10.       The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless has a
highly diversified structure and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety
of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways,
telecommunications, roads and ports--is extensive compared to many countries,
although there is considerable scope for expansion as well as improvement in
the utilization of existing capacity. India is also well-endowed with human
resources and with institutional infrastructure for development. Finally,
India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of land, water, and
minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good
economic policies and sufficient access to foreign savings, India has the
capability for managing these considerable resources to accelerate its long-
term growth.
11.       The new Indian Government installed in January 1980 is in the pro-
cess of formulating its policies and programs. A new Plan for the period
1981-86 is being prepared to replace the Draft Five-Year Plan for 1978-83.
At this stage it is not possible to comment on the new development strategy;
however, it is unlikely that the priorities accorded to agriculture and power
will be maintained. Furthermore, developments in India as well as in the
world economy during 1979/80 have brought to the surface urgent issues which
will need the attention of policy-makers, irrespective of the broader context
of development strategy that the new Government may adopt. Among these issues
are the following: (a) the bottlenecks in infrastructure and related con-
straints in production of several basic industrial inputs; (b) the new policy
options emerging in agriculture; (c) the need to substitute less costly energy
sources for imported petroleum; and (d) the anticipated deterioration of the
balance of payments in the near future.
12.       The higher rates of capital formation over the past few years augur
well for future income growth. However, there are signs that, relative to
existing demands, the past investment program has led to disproportionally
low growth in certain crucial sectors, namely power, coal, transport services,
steel and cement. Potential output growth in sectors which have benefitted
from large investments in the recent past may not materialize unless these
input bottlenecks are alleviated. In the case of coal, steel and cement,
domestic production appears to be clearly justified on grounds of comparative
advantage, indicating an a priori case for policies to promote further invest-
ment. All these are tradeable commodities. Although in 1979/80 they were
not imported in sufficient amounts to eliminate the shortages, increased short-
term reliance on imports may be necessary to alleviate slowdowns and disloca-
tion in using industries. In the case of sectors in which there is no option
to import--power and transportation--the planning of capacity expansion
becomes even more crucial. Although there is scope for improvement in the
shortrun performance of these sectors, major investments in balancing and
modernization programs as well as new capacity are needed in order to provide
adequate and stable growth in the medium term. The presence of infrastruc-
tural constraints and shortages of basic industrial inputs demonstrates
that the expansion of industrial output leads to competing claims on scarce
resources which must be efficiently allocated among different industries.



- 5 -
13.       The substantial increase in the world price of petroleum in 1979,
together with the expectation that this pattern will not be reversed in the
near future, raises several issues concerning energy prospects for India.
India imports the equivalent of about 64% of its petroleum consumption. In
order to implement its policy of minimizing dependence on foreign oil, the
Government intends to rapidly expand its oil exploration program, to increase
the utilization of its vast coal reserves and to increase the development of
India's considerable hydroelectric potential. However, recent shortages of
coal and power are symptomatic of operational problems reflecting, in part,
past planning and investment decisions which are inhibiting the timely imple-
mentation of India's long-term conversion program.
14.       In agriculture, despite the 1979 drought, economic policies, devel-
opment programs and secular trends all seem favorable for sustaining a period
of high growth during the 1980s. India ended the 1979/80 rabi season with
grain stocks of about 15 million tons, without having imported foodgrains
during the year. This is partly due to the bumper crop of 1978/79, but
also reflects the trends of the last five years during which substantial
foodgrain stocks were built up while imports were reduced to negligible
levels. In view of the anticipated growth in foodgrain output and the pro-
jected fall in the population growth rate, the long-run prospects for foodgrain
supply and demand balances look favorable. Persistent shortage seems unlikely,
and it is probable that a certain policy options will become much more prac-
tical as the overriding emphasis on foodgrains can be somewhat relaxed. These
options include a slowly falling real price of foodgrains to increase the
affordability of foodgrains to low-income families, further rationalization of
domestic markets and prices, and diversification to the production of other
higher value crops. These possibilities are likely to emerge slowly and will
involve only a gradual shift in emphasis rather than a dramatic break with
past policies.
15.       Foreign exchange reserves still provide some cushion that can help
the Government of India in short-term supply management, but this situation
is likely to be short-lived. Rising import prices and uncertainties in the
prospects for exports and invisible receipts have led to a serious and rapid
deterioration in India's balance of payments prospects.  Reserves were only
marginally higher in March 1980 than the level of a year earlier and, in terms
of import coverage, fell below the 8-month level for the first time since 1977.
A sharp increase on the trade deficit is expected to put far greater pressure
on the reserve level in 1980/81. At best, India's reserves may provide a
cushion for two more years, and even that is conditional on the maintenance of
aid flows and workers' remittances and on moderation in oil price rises.
16.       India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Progress has
been made and continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the
economy faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years. Invest-
ments required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete with
longer-term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's considerable
physical and human resources. The balancing of these objectives will place a
difficult burden on the framers of India's next Five-Year Plan. The primary
focus must be on the implementation of appropriate domestic adjustment policies,
although the aid community can and should play an important role in ensuring
that India's efforts do not fail due to inadequate foreign resources.



- 6 -
17.       The annual population growth rate declined from 2.2% in the late
1960s to below 2% at present and is expected to continue falling to around
1.6% by the latter half of the 1980s. Despite the declining trend in the rate
of population increase, a net reproduction rate of one (replacement level)
will only be achieved around the year 2020. At that time, the population of
India is estimated to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 81% over
the mid 1980 level of 663 million. Family planning has played an important
role in achieving the fertility decline in the past decade, and the extent of
a further decline will be greatly influenced by the continuation of a success-
ful official family planning program. The family planning performance data
for 1978/79 and the first ten months of 1979/80 clearly indicate a reversal
of the sharp decline observed in virtually all major contraceptive methods
during 1977/78. Except for male sterilizations, the number of acceptors for
all contraceptive methods surpassed the 1974/75 levels in 1978/79. While the
increase in the total acceptors of IUD and conventional contraceptives was
modest, female sterilizations increased by about 40% between 1977/78 and
1978/79. Data for the first ten months of 1979/80 confirm a secular upward
trend in overall performance. So far, policy makers have not made major
attempts to accelerate the male sterilization program. Instead, they have
opted for policies that would yield relatively modest but sustainable results
with increased emphasis on reversable methods.
18.       Beyond the effects of overall economic growth and reduced popula-
tion growth, the reduction of poverty in India requires special attention to
ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More than
one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than 80% of the Indian
poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small farmers.
The poor are ill-endowed with human resources, being disproportionately
represented among the illiterate, the malnourished and the sick. Improvements
in the living standards of the poor will depend to a large extent on the
overall growth of the economy, mainly on increases in agricultural produc-
tivity and rural employment opportunities both on and off the farm, but also
on the expansion of employment opportunities in urban areas. These develop-
ments will have to stem largely from market forces which, however, can be
greatly facilitated by appropriate government policies and investment prior-
ities. There is also a role for direct government action in faster implemen-
tation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in poverty
through redistribution of land is quite limited in India), in increasing the
supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans and finally in
broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital of
the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of the
Minimum Needs Program which has been an integral part of Indian planning for
the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Recent innovations, including the community
health volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign, are
encouraging evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can
lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.



-7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 59 loans and 129 development
credits to India totalling US$2,654 million and US$8,402 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,092 million had
been repaid, and US$3,925 million was still undisbursed as of August 31,
1980. Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
August 31, 1980, totalled US$131 million, representing an increase of about
51% over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement
of disbursements as of August 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
20.       Since 1959, IFC has made 18 commitments in India totalling US$72.6
million, of which US$19.1 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$39.4 million, US$29.9 million
represents loans and US$8.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of September 30, 1980, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
21.       In recent years, Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture.
The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor irrigation
and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations and in
providing direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing, seed
development, agricultural extension, and dairying are other agricultural
activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group has been active
in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector and, through its
sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in a wide range of
geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises. IDA
financing of industrial raw materials and components for selected priority
sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capacity utilization in
industry. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastructure
development for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family planning,
water supply development, urban investments and the development of oil and
natural gas have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis. Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program for
the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefit-
ting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fertilizer sector
also assists India in the more efficient provision of another key input in
the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage,
urban development and investments in the petroleum sector also form an integral
part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several years.
Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will focus on
those subsectors which have recently emerged as key constraints on India's
overall growth, primarily power and transportation.



- 8 -
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid 1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in the balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s
by augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financ-
ing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because
of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry.
Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most proj-
ects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agricul-
ture, irrigation, and water supply.
24.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reason-
ably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for
external support. Therefore, India should be eligible and regarded as credit-
worthy, for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt service
to the level of exports was 12% in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below
20% through 1995/96. As of August 31, 1980, outstanding loans to India held
by the Bank totaled US$1,338 million, of which US$576 million remained to be
disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of'US$775 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79. On March 31, 1979, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$15.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was US$4.6 billion or 30% (IDA's US$4.0 billion and IBRD's US$0.6 bil-
lion). Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1978/79,
about 17.5% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN ORISSA
26.       Agriculture is dominant in Orissa's economy, contributing 69% of the
State's total domestic product. More than 80% of the population of about 26
million depends directly or indirectly on agriculture, which employs 79% of
the work force. The domestic product is highly vulnerable to the vagaries of
the monsoon, which often results in severe flooding and droughts. Economic
growth in Orissa has been lagging behind the rest of India. Between 1960/61
and 1977/78, the domestic product grew at an annual average rate of 2.3%,
compared with 3% for India as a whole.



27.       Orissa covers some 15.5 million ha, which represents 5% of India's
total land area. The net cropped area is 6.0 million ha, or about 39% of
the total area of the state; 1.1 million ha are irrigated. The bulk of the
balance is forest, which accounts for about 40% of the State's area. Paddy
is the most important crop, accounting for 70% of the cropped area and con-
tributing abeMt one-tenth of the rice produced in India. Yields are low,
ranging from 1.0 ton/ha for rainfed kharif to 2.1 tons/ha for irrigated rabi
paddy. High yielding paddy varieties account for most of the rabi crop but
only for about 10% of the kharif crop. Other cereals, like wheat, maize,
millets, and barley, take up another 7%, and pulses 14% of the cropped area.
Oilseeds (6%), fibers, vegetables and spices account for the remaining 9%.
The yields of most crops virtually stagnated during the 1970s.
28.       The pressures of population and poverty in rural Orissa are consider-
able. Among Indian States, Orissa has the highest percentage of people living
in rural areas (over 90%) and is also one of the poorest States in terms of
per capita income (about Rs 785 or US$93.50). About 39% of the population
belong to scheduled castes and tribes; this proportion of disadvantaged people
is the largest among all States of India. Small and marginal farmers, owning
less than 2 ha, operate over 75% of the holdings but control less than 40% of
the cultivable land, while farmers with 5 ha or more account for only 7% of
the holdings but control 35% of the land. Individual holdings are highly
fragmented. Adding to the problem of the skewed distribution of income in
the rural areas are the landless and agricultural laborers, who constitute an
1.8 million households. The incomes of about 90% of the rural population are
estimated to be below the poverty line, compared with about 40% for India as a
whole. Consequently, Orissa has the lowest per capita taxable capacity of all
states in India (Punjab has the highest at Rs 71.9, the average is Rs 49.4 and
Orissa's is Rs 27.6). Of the 15 major states, Orissa also has the lowest tax
base. Overall state tax revenues account for only 4% of the State Domestic
Product. Orissa, therefore, collects only Rs 20 per head in tax revenues
(this compares with an average of Rs 48 for the 15 major states). Neverthe-
less, Orissa's tax revenues have been increasing in real terms, at an annual
rate of 7-8%.
29.       The average rainfall in Orissa is high, about 1,500 mm, but there
are considerable variations in both total amount and distribution, and even
in the rainy season supplementary irrigation is necessary for high and stable
yields. In the dry season (November to April) intensive cropping is not
feasible without irrigation. Orissa has vast water resources, which would
be sufficient for irrigating about 4 million ha in the rainy season and 2.4
million ha in the dry season.
30.       Irrigation development in Orissa started in the second half of the
nineteenth century in the Mahanadi delta areas, where about 150,000 ha were
brought under irrigation during the rainy season. During the first half of
this century, the canal-irrigated area remained virtually unchanged. Since
1950, the Government has completed two major irrigation projects, Salandi and
Hirakud, as well as a number of medium schemes, and substantially extended the
Mahanadi delta system. Simultaneously with plans for irrigation development
in new areas, GOO is now facing the need to renovate the old Mahanadi delta
system, which is 110 years old, to ensure the continuity of irrigation.



- 10 -
Minor surface irrigation is of little importance in Orissa; but groundwater
development, nearly stagnant at a low level until recently, is now receiving
increased attention.
31.       The Bank Group has contributed to the development of Orissa's
agricultural sector through both financial and technical assistance. One of
the first irrigation projects supported by the Bank Group in India was the
Salandi Irrigation Project (Credit 14-IN of November 1961, US$8 million).
Like other irrigation projects in India at that time, the Salandi project did
not fully achieve its agricultural potential due to inadequate supporting
services and lagging construction of field channels and drains by the farmers.
The problems encountered with projects such as Salandi have since led GOI and
the Bank Group to reorient their concept of sound irrigation development.
In 1975, the Bank, GOI and GOO, with assistance by the IBRD/FAO Cooperative
Program, undertook a general review of Orissa's foodgrain potential and agri-
cultural development constraints. This led to the formulation of the Orissa
Agricultural Development Project (Credit 682-IN of April 1, 1977, US$20 mil-
lion) as well as the Orissa Irrigation Project (Credit 740-IN of October
11, 1977, US$58 million). The former project is designed to strengthen
agricultural supporting services, particularly agricultural extension and
research. Credit 740-IN supports the development of medium irrigation
schemes throughout the State, land consolidation, and construction of water
courses. Both these projects are currently under implementation. Under the
Agricultural Development Project, the reform of the extension system has made
good progress; the technical knowledge of both extension workers and farmers
has manifestly improved since the project started and the extension service is
well on the way to becoming the professional technical service farmers require.
Progress of the irrigation project is slightly behind schedule, mainly due to
initial constraints in budget allocations and inadequate staffing. The Bank
Group has also contributed to groundwater development in Orissa through a
series of credits to the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Formulation
32.       The main objective of the project is to ensure continuity of irriga-
tion in the 167,000 ha combined command area serviced by two 110-year-old
weirs, which are in danger of collapse. The project would safeguard farm
incomes and employment for the area's agricultural labor force. In addition,
the project would provide the basis for drainage development over the entire
Mahanadi delta and for the introduction of improved water management practices
in a pilot area.
33.       The project was prepared by the Governments of India and of Orissa,
with assistance by staff of the Bank. It was appraised in July 1980. A
supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III. A report entitled
"India - Staff Appraisal Report - Mahanadi Barrages Project," Report No.
3111-IN, dated October 31, 1980, is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington in October 1980.



- 11 -
The Borrower and GOO were represented by a delegation coordinated by Mr. S.C.
Jain, Director, Department of Economic Affairs, GOI.
The Project
34.       The proposed project would support the construction of two barrages
across the Mahanadi and Birupa rivers near Cuttack, Orissa's largest city.
The existing weirs which have reached the end of their technical and economic
life developed most of the defects which appeared in the same type of weirs
prior to their collapse, and their condition is considered to be as serious as
that of the Godavari weir which is currently being replaced with Bank Group
financial assistance (Credit 532-IN of March 7, 1975).
35.       The new Mahanadi barrage would be located 60 m downstream of the old
weir and would be 1,936 m long. Its spillway would have 76 bays, separated
by concrete piers and equipped with steel leaf gates, which would maintain the
pond level at the present 21.20 m elevation. At this elevation the height of
the barrage would be about 7 m above the river bed. At each end of the barrage
there would be 10 bays for undersluices and one fish ladder bay. A concrete
two-way road bridge as well as the gate operating platform and walkway would
rest on the piers. The Birupa barrage would be located 300 m downstream of
the existing structure to secure adequate foundations and to reduce its length
to 180 m, compared to the 635 m long old weir. It would have 13 bays for the
spillway and two bays for the undersluices on the left side of the river. The
project would also finance engineering, administration and supervision costs,
including the building of staff accomodation. The head regulators for the
three main canals taking off from the two existing weirs would be replaced by
new structures adapted to the new diversion conditions.
36.       Drainage is poor in many parts of the project area.  Many of the
drains constructed over 100 years ago have silted and require rehabilitation,
or have been obstructed by new roads or railways. River embankments often
breach during the rainy season, flooding adjacent areas and further aggravat-
ing the drainage problem. Since 1978, GOO has been implementing a small
rehabilitation program for the drains, with extensions of the program being
planned. However, due to the lack of a comprehensive Drainage Master Plan for
the entire Mahanadi delta area, drainage works have been done on a piecemeal
basis and with less than optimal efficiency. In order to prepare comprehen-
sive solutions to the drainage situation, the project would include the
preparation of a Drainage Master Plan for the whole Mahanadi delta area of
about 300,000 ha, covering the main and intermediate level drainage systems.
Preparation of the plan would involve detailed investigations and pilot
studies which would allow: determination of the extent of the area requiring
drainage improvement, by type of improvement and by priority; development of
design criteria and solutions for drainage of low lying areas; identification
of flood protection improvements required to prevent breaches of river embank-
ments; and preparation of a detailed and comprehensive Master Plan including
estimates of costs and benefits. Selected works identified under the Master
Plan would be implemented under the project after prior approval by the
Association.



- 12 -
37.       Under Credit 740-IN, some funds were allocated for refinancing
agricultural loans to farmers for the construction of watercourses in areas
including the Mahanadi delta. However, progress of this component has been
slow, mainly due to the reluctance of farmers to apply for credit and diffi-
culties in establishing their creditworthiness. GOO intends to provide initial
financing for these works from its budget. Construction of the watercourse
would be followed by the introduction of a system of rotational water supply
in its command, to improve equity and reliability of water supply to each
farmer. The difficulties expected in implementing this plan--especially from
farmers at the head reaches of the distribution system, who have been using
more than their equitable share of water--could be avoided by coordinating
the sequence of land consolidation and construction of watercourses to be
followed immediately by the introduction of rotational water supply. To
speed up this process, the project would finance a program of water manage-
ment pilot operations, which would experiment with the measures described
above in an area of a typical distributary of about 1,000 ha.
Project Implementation
38.       Foundation exploration, hydraulic model studies and detailed designs
for civil engineering works have been completed and would serve as a basis
for tendering. Implementation of all civil engineering works is estimated
to take five years for the Mahanadi and four years for the Birupa barrage.
All ancillary works, such as land acquisition, site preparation, construction
of approach roads, and drawing of power lines, are expected to be completed
in the first year, as would be the contracting procedures for the main civil
works and the gates. Equipment and vehicles to be used departmentally for
site preparation and for the construction of access roads as well as super-
vision maintenance and emergency arrangements would be provided under the
project.
39.       Overall responsibility for project implementation would rest with
GOO's Irrigation and Power Department (IPD), under the Chief Engineer, Irri-
gation. IPD has established a special unit, headed by an Additional Chief
Engineer, for project execution. This unit would prepare detailed construc-
tion drawings, specifications and tender documents, and would have a separate
cell for accounts and audits. Qualified staff for all project tasks are avail-
able within IPD. IPD would also be responsible for adequate construction
standards. It would assign qualified staff for construction supervision, with
particular emphasis on quality control. Any changes or additions to the ori-
ginal design, which was carried out by GOI's Central Water Commission (CWC),
would require CWC's approval. CWC would conduct periodical inspections to
ensure that the work has been carried out in accordance with its design and
specifications.
40.       IPD has also prepared a contingency plan and would be responsible
for its implementation, to minimize potential damage and loss of agricultural
production, in case one or both of the existing weirs fail during the construc-
tion of the new barrages. Materials essential for emergency repairs would be
stockpiled near the weir sites (Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement).



- 13 -
41.       The main responsibility for the water management program would be
with GOO's Command Area Development Department. IPD would be responsible
for improving the main conveyance and drainage systems serving the pilot
area and for timely water supply. The Drainage Master Plan would be prepared
either by IPD or be contracted to an agency with appropriate specialized
expertise and experience. Agreement has been reached with GOO that it would
submit to IDA for comment, terms of reference for the preparation of the DMP
by September 30, 1981; and select by December 31, the agency which would pre-
pare the Drainage Master Plan.
Agricultural Supporting Services
42.       The Training and Visit system has been introduced as a part of the
reorganization of the agricultural extension services under the Orissa Agri-
cultural Development Project (see paragraph 31 above), and the extension
services were brought under a single line of command; since then the quality
of extension has improved. The Orissa University of Agriculture and Tech-
nology has the principal responsibility for agricultural research in the
state. The Central Rice Research Institute of the Indian Council of Agricul-
tural Research, at Cuttack, carries out specialized research on rice.
43.       Availability of agricultural inputs is adequate.  The State Seed
Corporation is responsible for production, processing and marketing of quality
seed. Fertilizer and insecticides are sold through over 700 private and
cooperative outlets. Marketing arrangements for aricultural produce are
satisfactory. Four regional cooperative marketing societies are engaged in
marketing in the project area. The Jute Cooperative Marketing Society and
private mills purchase jute. Cold storage is available in two plants in
Cuttack. Seasonal agricultural credit is provided by the Primary Cooperative
Credit Societies and by commercial banks. Credit services in the project area
are satisfactory.
Project Cost and Financing
44.       The estimated total cost of the project is US$110.3 million equiva-
lent. Taxes and duties included in the cost estimate are negligible. The
foreign exchange component of project cost is estimated at US$27.1 million
(25%). The principal cost components, net of physical and price contingencies
(US$13.1 million and US$26.4 million, respectively), are civil works (US$47.6
million) and mechanical engineering works (US$11.9 million). The balance is
made up by the Drainage Master Plan (US$1.4 million), the Water Management
Program (US$0.4 million), and engineering, supervision and administration
(US$9.5 million).
45.       The proposed credit of US$83.0 million would cover 75% of total
project cost, including all foreign exchange cost and 67% of local cost. This
share of project cost financing is justified in this case because of serious
constraints on Orissa's budget (which cannot be remedied in the short run due
to the State's low tax base), the extraordinary poverty of the population in
the area (see paragraph 28 above) and the need to implement the project in
the shortest possible time (to minimize the risk of weir failure). GOO would
finance the remaining project cost. GOO would provide sufficient funds and
materials to execute the project in accordance with the five-year project



- 14 -
implementation program (Section 2.01 of the Project Agreement). The proceeds
of the credit would be used to finance: civil and engineering works (US$69.0
million), equipment, materials and vehicles (US$2.0 million), and drainage
plan and water management studies (US$2.0 million). The remaining US$10.0
million would be unallocated. To ensure timely undertaking of preparatory
activities, such as the construction of approach roads, site buildings and
procurement of mild steel for reinforcement, retroactive financing of up to
US$1 million would be provided for eligible expenditures incurred after August
1980.
Procurement and Disbursement
46.       Contracts for civil and mechanical engineering works amounting to
about US$58 million would be awarded on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group procurement guidelines. Local
contractors participating in the bidding for civil works would be entitled,
for bid evaluation, to a 7.5% preference. For gate manufacture and erection,
a preference limited to 15% or the prevailing customs duty if lower would be
extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Tender documents
would clearly specify the preferences and the manner of their application.
GOO would use tendering and contracting procedures that are in line with the
standard procedures developed by CWC and approved by the Association. An
additional US$2 million worth of civil and engineering works which are not
suited for international tendering due to their individually small size and
would be contracted through local competitive bidding or in piecework con-
tracts, or would be carried out departmentally (riverbed preparation, access
roads, site preparation and staff housing).
47.       The estimated cost of equipment, materials and vehicles for prepara-
tory works, supervision and maintenance is US$1.7 million. These items would
be procured after local competitive bidding, in order that they could benefit
from existing servicing and spare parts supply facilities.
48.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against the ex-factory
price of locally manufactured equipment, materials and vehicles, or against
70% of expenditure for these items, where the ex-factory price is not readily
available. Disbursement for civil and mechanical engineering works would be
85% of expenditures. Expenditures for the Drainage Master Plan and for the
water management program would be fully reimbursed. Full documentation would
be required for all disbursements, except for payments of up to Rs 300,000
for civil and mechanical engineering works and Rs 150,000 for equipment and
vehicles and for works carried out departmentally, for which disbursements
would be made against certificates of expenditure. The supporting documents
for these payments would not be submitted to the Association but would be
retained by GOO for inspection by IDA review missions. It is expected that
disbursements would be completed by March 1987.
Benefits and Economic Justification
49.       The project's primary objective is to ensure the continuity of
irrigation in the area under the commands of the Mahanadi and Birupa weirs.
Its net economic benefits are equal to the difference between present bene-
fits under irrigation and benefits under rainfed conditions that would exist



- 15 -
temporarily in the case of failure, or permanently if weirs are not ultimately
replaced. A return to rainfed conditions would reduce annual production by
259,000 tons of paddy, 10,000 tons of jute and 20,000 tons of groundnuts. The
annual net value of production would decrease by US$30 million in financial
1980 prices or by US$36 million in economic prices. Moreover, employment
opportunities in the area would decrease by the equivalent of about 62,000
full-time jobs. The income of an average farm family would decrease from
about Rs 2,280 to Rs 790, which would trigger a negative multiplier effect in
other sections of the local economy. A failure of the weirs would also result
in grain shortages, social unrest and other undesirable socio-economic effects
which cannot be quantified.
50.       Calculation of the project's economic rate of return requires assump-
tions regarding the probability of failure of the old weirs. Both weirs are
liable to breach in the near future and the probability that either of the
weirs would fail is presently (1980) estimated to be within the range of 10%
to 20% (15% for calculation purposes), and rising by about 2% per annum. Based
on this estimate and on the estimated losses described in paragraph 49 above,
and discounting costs and benefits of the project over a 50-year period, the
economic rate of return of the project is calculated at 21%. This rate of
return is based on the present water distribution system, farming practices
and yields. If the present field to field irrigation were to be replaced by
irrigation directly from watercourses the annual net benefits from irrigation
would more than double, and the economic rate of return would increase to 41%.
Sensitivity tests indicate that even considerable deviations from the basic
assumptions still leave the project economically viable. If the present
probability of weir failure is reduced by 5%, the economic rate of return
would decrease to 19%. The economic rate of return would remain above the
opportunity cost of capital if the gross value of production decreases by
less than 32% of the estimate or if construction costs increase by less than
148%.
Cost Recovery
51.       The capital costs of the new barrages would amount to Rs 4,220
per ha of cultivable command area. Assuming an economic life of the project
of 50 years and 10% annual interest, recovery of these costs would require
annual payments of Rs 508 per ha. The incremental O&M cost of the new bar-
rages is estimated at Rs 20 per ha. Total annual payments required to recover
investment cost and full O&M cost would therefore be Rs 528 per ha. The
project rent (net incremental income less the necessary rewards to the farm
family for its labor, entrepreneurship and cultivation risk) is estimated at
Rs 1,020 per ha.
52.       Water charges in Orissa are among the lowest in India.  However,
GOO is in the process of raising water rates considerably. The increase
proposed by GOO, which has been gazetted and presented to the State Legisla-
ture is expected to become effective in the near future, would amount to 100%
for kharif paddy and about 50% for other crops. The increased charges would
range from Rs 10 to Rs 230 per ha and would average Rs 112 per ha for the
projected cropping pattern in the project area. These water charges, together
with Rs 132 per ha in incremental sales taxes and Rs 12 per ha in incremental



- 16 -
land revenue and cess, would bring total incremental revenues from the irri-
gated lands to an average of Rs 256 per ha, equivalent to a cost recovery
index of about 50% and a project rent recovery index of 25%.
53.       To a large extent, the low level of irrigation charges in Orissa
reflects the unsatisfactory irrigation services, especially the unreliable
water supply during the dry season, the constraints of diversification of
crops inherent in the field-to-field water distribution system, and the poor
drainage.
54.       With the forthcoming increase in water charges, farmers in the
project area would face a steep increase in the cost of irrigation services.
It would be difficult to impose on them an additional levy for financing the
new barrages, especially since these would not result in benefits incremental
to those accruing to them now or to farmers in other irrigation projects. In
the short run, the best way to increase the rate of cost recovery would be by
accelerating the rate of transition to irrigation directly from watercourses
on a fixed rotational schedule in order to improve the reliability of water
supply. The resulting intensified use of inputs and increased production would
increase the revenue from sales taxes by some Rs 70 per ha. Eventually, the
increased reliability and equity of the water supply and the resulting
increased return per unit of water would permit a gradual increase in the
water rates to bring them to more realistic levels.
Project Risks
55.       The main risks attached to a project of this type are weir failure
during construction. Under the project, all possible precautions would be
taken to minimize damage due to weir failure (paragraph 40 above).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and
the State of Orissa, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
57.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III
of Annex III.
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
November 11, 1980






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVIRAGES
LAIJD AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                     HOST RECENT ESTIMATE-
TOTAL           3287.6
AGRICULTURAL    1824.0                                MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960   b    1970 /b ESTIMATE tb  ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  60.0         90.0     180.0             197.9                  894.8
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRMS OF COAL EOUIVALENT)      108.0.Ls    141.0]S   176.015            166.0                  842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    434.9       547.6      643.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9         19.7      21.7              20.8                   39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     974. I
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      1645.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      132.0       167.0      196.0             193.2                  376.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0       308.0     353.0              409.6                 2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.0        42.5      41.4               42.0                   40.4
15-64 YRS.                         56.5        54.6      55.6               55.0                   56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.5         2.9        3.0               3.0                    3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.9         2.5        2.0               2.2                    2.4
URBAN                              2.51d       3.3        3.3               3..9                   4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     43.0         40.0      35.0              37.4                   28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     21.0         17.0      14.0              14.6                    7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2          2.9       2.4               2.6                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     64.0      3782.0    4714.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..        12.0       16.9              15.6                   39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0       102.0      103.0             101.4                  116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   93.0        92.0       91.0              92.4                  108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          52.0        51.0      50.0               49.8                   60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0        15.0       13.0              12.0                   18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     28.0         22.0      18.0              17.9                    5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.0        48.0       51.0              50.8                   63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..        134.0       ..                 ..                   52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         17.0      33.0              30.2                   42.4
URBAN                               ..        60.0       83.0              66.0                   62.1
RURAL                               ..         6.0       20.0              20.0                   29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         18.0      20.0              17.7                   52.8
URBAN                               ..        85.0       87.0              71.3                   71.1
RURAL                               ..          1.0       2.0                ..                   42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          5800.01    4890.0    3617.0              6322.7                 4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     9630.0/e    5220.0    5675.0             9459.0                 2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2149.O0f    1629.0    1289.0             1758.4                  819.4
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              502.9
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..            10524.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..                 ..                   28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.2           ..       5.2
URBAN                              5.2          ..        4.8
RURAL                              5.2          ..        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.6          2.8
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..         ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                                ..         ..         ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) 
HOST RECENT       LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA 6 PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                61.0        72.0      80.0              80.9                  98.6
MALE                 80.0        87.0      95.0              94.3                  99.2
FEHALE               40.0        55.0      64.0              66.7                  97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                20.0        29.0      28.0              26.6                  55.5
MALE                 30.0        39.0      38.0              34.8                  60.7
FEMALE               10.0        17.0      18.0              18.2                  49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  8.0          6.0-/A                      9.9                  13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           29.0        40.0      42.0              41.1                  34.6
SECONDARY                         16.0        17.0        ..              20.5                  28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       28.0        33.0      36.0              40.9                  85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.7         1.0       1.3               1.8                   9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         5.0        21.0      24.0              25.8                 118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         0.1       0.5               2.4                  39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 11.0        16.0      16.0              13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0         6.3       3.8                ..                   4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)  189761.4   220670.5  252235.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  31.3        32.6      32.0              29.4                  36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             74.0        74.0      74.0              70.5                  51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                11.0        11.0      11.0              11.6                  21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               43.0        40.2      39.2              37.9                  39.1
MALE                                57.1        52.3      51.3              51.3                  48.5
FEHALE                              27.9        27.1      26.2              23.7                  29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1.1       1.1               1.2                   1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7        26.3/h      .
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7        48.9/h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1         6.7/h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6        17.2/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      88.0             107.8
RURAL                               ..          ..      76.0              86.5                 192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (1S$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                ..                  182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      40.7              46.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      47.9              51.7                  33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
Ia   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  Solid fuel conversion factors revised, /d 1951-60;  Ie 1962;  /f 1958;  /, 1967;  /h 1964-65.
April, 1980



ANNE I
DEFIITTOS OFSOCAL IDtCAURSPage    3   of   5
aRon:-  Although the data are dras  tram  sources.. geerll  jdge t,he mos  unt-h-rtclssd  eibl itsoldas  bs noted that they may net be intte-
na.~ta1..1yc-putahis he..u.  o f the Iuh  f oteudnd-           deflitle.         denet    e  sdbydifeetcotiss in, -lletiag she dens.  Ths duna are  none-
theless, atefol todsscoi  orders at sagittud, Indica.te esed, and  ba-ete-ios ceeti  major differeenee betee-...                        ets
Theerfreea goep  ar  U   th  out cunao gna  of tie sub)sot ous.t ty u-  III a  -tuir  gro-p with somehat htgl-  --rrge heroes then the country geauP
at te nbj-a  cutry (_ua,y  tue "l Mtlisrlti  foneet     gop uber  "Middle Incm   loath Africa an.                          idsts    scae   eas   fsrne
oul-utrab         tfnshs     nrh           tesogopdt tha avrage  ar  PaPulati-n weighted artmtcmenfato   idi-at-e and sho    eely beh-
lout  bot atthecoatnirni   g.au. Ia. dlut   oc that ladicatar.  Sie   the coergeatca..i s-eggb  idiftrsdee-t                               m  heavi          thilt  of.
data uod is cot aiftfoa, c-tlo mut batratesd in relatig averges of one                       t.. tedican hr n   asee.Treaese   t  any.d usfu  In. apeieg belt  vau
of oa  tdicut-r at a toes among the  -auty aed  rtrnegasp..P.T-                                                               g....  y..f11   .pt.
L  UANDRiA (tho..su.d  qnhe.)                                                                ronaio  a   hsucn-Ppsantion usnadra  y -umr- so praticing psy-
Total - Tatulsrfc  urea coprising  aed urea and inlan  eaters.                                  tici_  qualifid  conamdil schoo  atuivrIty lens..
Agrtaulura  - Estimata of ariaeueae  used teporaily or p-eeeenly                            Paauiat-s  -e  eNsina Person  _ .Papulatln dtvidsd by somber at proticleg
f-a  -tps, pustuass, sarhro aud kit~hesgadseo  ta lie fallow; 1977 data,                    male ued female gradsate nurses  patitl nuss,_d ..ssistasnrss
dNy PtP, CAPITA_(tIJI$) - GNP per capita e            tiae   a---rre tknabt paices, o-1-        ura,adrural) iie   yterraetssu     of'V leepitu  beds.
auas   y tame  .--vnua  method as lurid lush Atlas (1976-7g betas); 1960,                 avilahle in public ted Priests ge-er1 aed apatai.id hespita1 andre
i9li, ad 1978 data.                                                                           hahilitstiseae-tere.   Hfepitalsuree.ttabliheet. persstly staffed
EsERGY CONIIs I  PEa CAPITA - Or-ol --soptioao  omrileeg   aa                                   byatln emphsis.ttbihsspaidgprcpaynatd
and itgnits, petanloum, saturolgae and hydra-, oealgsr aud geaByna   le-   cn a  s t iscded.   ana  hospitals,.heeer, isetlde health ae   -adi"a
..d 1i                                  d I..'N2. ~~~~~~~~~~enes  a  prasatysttfe   y    hyitn(bat by a a-di.s   sisat
ttriity) to kiloges-  af coaI equinales Peace.pits; 1960, 1970, end 1978                      tremidwife, er.) ehiah often in-parit  --ssdetia med p-eide 
data,                                                                                         laise.d  -sge of mdical facilitisa.  PFr  tattatical p.rps. .         orhenb hampi-
sale isciade WHO. yrinatpul gessal uod np-ialie-d hospital,  an drua
POPULTIONii  AND VITAL. STATISTICIS 
h,spitls loa  or rural- hoeplnao. and sdir-I amd matsesityetse.
Total P.aultin., Mid-er(ilos  -  so   ul   ; 6, 1970, aed 1978                              ad iesie    art fsainal led - Tntel enbe  of sdmlasuea to o  diecheages
data.                                                                gram~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f    hespitele divided by the tmber ef beds.
anlng   -tuniris; 1960, 1171,ad17   as                                                    Aveage lies  nftosehld  erasno   esld)-nal ura. ad eseel-
Population Paa(ecti.ns                                                                        A  eobl  ueit   f a -etPo  inivdual   h. share living quattea
Pa    L.noni  ysan 2000 - C-rret popola~tisa, Projcti-d- ar   ae  e   90              td their male meals.  A bcsder at lodger say or may ace ha included in
toa  ppylalas, by age and sa dtermrai               tyanfetility t55.                   the has...heldfa  saiataca  parpees.
Pa aiar Parmtr -o e--nlity cares comprise of three 1oc1-              aac           Aveasnmerom-essarra - tona, urban, and roaI - Annauga  te
log lif  enetu         tf birch iconeusieg aith c-utty's Per c pita  bcme                 he  ft pe-..na P.  roel  Ia all urbas, ad tonal  eccopled aaett
leve, and femal  life enpecta..cy etbiliing at 77.5 Years.  The pare-                   dwlig.e sti-sly.                 1 Iwelige seclde tn-pere-et stauctune  sa.d
senate for fertility rat  ulc hav  three Ion-s  -ssaiag decline In                        utnaphe  Paris.
fertility accortding tu in-um  leve  aed past family planatg prtfo.  anc...             ic.e.s te tisottriity fop-st.nef dwaliia ..    total,  nbn  and runel -
tuch cou.nery is ites assigned or  sf tb... nine c-bieanlas of mota.lity                  C.veisldwlig    ihelcrct   s  iigqatIaa   ecm
an.d f-ctilityt-rads  for p-j)ti-j-pupoe.                                                  oftat].  eaba,imed tota   dwmiity rspcIvely.mg
ittiseury osealatien -In a  taioay Population, iha-  Is no greth sis-
the hieth  atet is equal nothe death rt, sad als  the  g  a9.tr-ctoesre.-    EDUCDATION
males ustent.  Trhis is achievd usly  fte- fe-tilityp rtesdt lm   te                    Adloste  Isesilmem   ttiss
the  _saeea   leel -faim  met -sprnd-tias rtet, whtsabgemsta                              Primar  sehea  - tetal  mal  sa. d female - G.... total, male ed female
ofesnaP"'sitef snatly.  The stationar  popo1atiam  els  maweaieta   l   gsa   hepiayi la   etnae  of teap-totlt
estimated     the baeio of sha. psajeuted naannita             f the papaletien             prmary enits-e-ga peplati-sa; mesmly imalade  ehtids  aged 6-11
is the yeer 2000, aed the rtst of denline of fertility rtet te replete-                     years hoe  djuatd Esr difft cet 1egtha ef pelmar  ed...nios; ton
set level                                                                                     -mtries withbaier          d .d..atise  arelise -y seemd ill pera..et
Tea  atatis...ny papraLithe  ie seaubed - The Year whe. atti-ta y PePolatios                    isee eo   papil  are he     en shav  the sf8i`ial saes  see
ties bee beet  reahed.                                                                    Sene.d..   ao4.heli- total, male sad fausle - C.mpoted aabove; secoada
Populainlass                                                                                     edsatie   rqieat lens fea  years efapproved primary imatrtina;
Per am. kas. - Kid-peso pepalatio  Per squaa  hil-t-ne  lilT  hectares)  f                    prvdsgars, aimi   an .te the  ta-ifsi   iseatnoti... f- atpopi
tonal ae.usly o8 12 te 17 year   g age] es_repeadesasen                                                                                                          ..sensg .eeaIy
Pe   u  I t si-ultu-l land - Csapoted as above tnt- gicltna           d                 mlW.ded
nely.                                                              Tons~~~~~~V ..tioslseeima    arom  of aattedmr      .-'fttiesa  iaetitutiis
Poaainionian Iruotr5 scet)- Cidrn(-byas,eaigam 11                                         tanldp  tobe til hdati, oetherprgm    hith operate indepe-
64 year), and retlee'd (IT  er   a   vr   slrntgso   id%-y                      POPe-         detlyerm  depatuta= ef..ee.adary tastitntits
lantois; 196~t1,1971, and 1978 data.                                                        Ppal-*.soh-  taie    -               ram ....sa   seeday - Total etodest  enanld is
Psuainlatb tan  (rerc..st) - total - iAne.l growth  fas   ateal mid-                       pemr    Ed  sadr   evl   iie   y  ubr   fte eei   h
yerpepolaions fan11-I  19601-71, and 1970-78.                                               carreypeeding leel.4    ...diddb.-                        f  h-ith
P     Gruatie i tum    l te (rec..i  - neha   A-Iin     growth atea. of unha  p.p.-O     Adult literay rt  (eet)-Litentst adn1te (able te aad nod w-its)
mimest tar 19f11-6l0,t1961-7G,  .ed 19701-78..asapercntge  ef ntal. adat popolatie  aged 11 years sadovr
Cead  BMath lat  leer  _honsd) - aaoal live births per thousaad at mid-yea
papolation; 1960, 19701..nd 1979 dana.                                                  CONISUMPTION
Trade teeth laET   (evethona-d) - Aua-  deaths Per th....nd of eid-yer                      Pana..gEr Cars (per tho..e.ed eelto)-Peesege  .t cr  eetee. meter
populatn.      91  17,ad178dt.cr  seatieg lee  than eiht prae    mniadas a-bal.a.e.. hearses and
lines Repreduntine late - Average saero d.            gees            ill bes  is              military vehicle..
her  ,-rIa aepeduntiv  peaedt  she: paaleas  paset  ge-epecif... f.r-                     ladis taivr  (ear theusad  selnir   - All types .o...niver  f nrdb
tiiyrtes; .u.aly fiv-       a averges endin,g in, 1960, 197,te197htdaastgarlpbiaeatnadatpaaia;noueol-
Poiy  l gen  - Acceturp    dsoa  (ehos..ed.) - danoa  nuber  f sane pt.e.               testd e...mi-er  in  -eties atd is, years whet registria  of radio  e
of binth-eo_toldevce  sdenasie   tntioa   aiypae                            egea.           meis effeet; data f- retest Yeses sty sa  be comparable since meat
PaiyPFU                           ta-en (naa  of mantld wmn       ennrg   fmrid                -eumrbe  ah1iehed lieseieg.
wees olf cild-heating ag  (li-44 Ysua) who.s  birth-not-l d .vi.e  to                      TV Re.,veestee  thaesaed onaltine) - TV --i-tnr  fE- broadcast to
all marrie  women ins sage.. goP.                                                    geseralKpeblie  e   hasasad pplatioe; e..nldes onlic....ed TV rcivers
PFOtD dND NUTRITION hti     itameisedu  years whnmrgitatn f TV sate was in effant.
K-.-. i-U-ti-(per tbnoaaad soaltion) I,bow the -veesg tieW
lae   fPn   rdnto                                                       f aia(96-W1.-ldnofprnpt   an  tiam at "daily geserel inteemat nwpaper * d  tend as a periJd,In   peb-
prodacin    aalfodsu ditiss               ndci.o.. setldos eed adPfend end 1                liratiom  deiled prImaily to reoneding gseersl sae 't is eassidered
in  -s ca1nd-c Yee basis.. C ...ditisnovrprimar  gond  (.g.  sges                           to he 'daily  it it  ppar  atles  fo            tims  ksh
instead  ofsga   bih ar  edible ted notain  tstrise            (e.. eae  ae.   d          Cbems_      a   -tedm        e  Capita aPt Tea  - B..sed os the nuber ef
teat ar   elded) .  AgXgregte paduction of saah   -stry is hb-d amik'-                                         t~    h   .,jldi                       .t-.t-
natel avras  ado..er pries nights; 1961-65, 1971.sd  98  aa                               tieee   meild dsit gteya,    ldn    dmsin   odev-nn
Percaie  cmi  ofainin(amenet of rnteame-ta) - Competed ftea                            n    oisaie
enentgy equivalent  ft set fond sapplise avilable In a_stry per rApita                LABOR FORCE
per day.  Available sapie            rs  dometin pendeoia,imetTles                      Itel LabePot(tn             d) - Icasonitally active  esm.  inaluding
eaot,1sad  hbnesi  stank,   etepplits eslde salam  teed, sfl,                          sad  tone  sa smplnyed ha  t eacdiag those=ine,,etudette, rtc
qs"ntie  use  infdpeiesn . sd lessee is dienribstise.  teqains-                          1s  ctoei   aiu   estrts  or  sa   aprbe                  I16,17   a
estswe   esiaedb            Ch based na physielogieal seeds far mesl atii-                17 aa
city sad health ..c.eideregeai tese talt            -nture, body weights, age           P 78l deret     Pnslba  oitopsnnaeoft51lbs     rs
aed  ss dstniutia  ofpopulatias, and a11ming 1i peneest far meets  n             Ornlur   a en  - Labor fera  is taing, f_netry, beaning and
2hosehold level; 1961-li, 191., sa  19177aa                                                fishing asp-eeng  at  total leb-  fnrte; 1960, 1970 aed 1979 date.
Per istt  enaniy of prtein (erase pea daY) - Prosols oetnet of per saPin.              Indasey  p....ne ~I- Lhe- forte in m.inig   nnttuntin,a, eaf-t-arieg
net supply of food per day.  let supply offod is defined as above.tE.-                    aedeanriity wt erdgsa  ptetags of total labor force; 1960.
qolemets   o  al  n-ntris established by USDA proide tot m.isenm171sd17  dat.                                           g
6lewme  o  I  gam   f total1 prote IPer day and 20 grams at animal sa             190d Petceto  late d pert st  -       ,ml,ad female - Participatin 
poles pestin, of whiob II gee   hbsld he animal protein.  Th... ensad-                    aaimiey rtes.  st. naputda  toa,  ae,ad female labor ft s
urds are Inoe  than those of 75 gra-  of total poteis ted 23 taem  of                     p-eetagse of total, niean  ftamale ppatoof all  geecaetiey
anma  protein as  n oerge far the wand, prepo..ed by PAO is thn Third                    1960, 1970, aed 1971 deas.  Thass are P110   pricipetiat totes  -efir-tlng
Onn,id rood lovey; 1961-li, 1970 sad 1977 dots.                                             aE-ama  t-etore of the popoatie..  and me.g time treed   A f. en nti-
Pe   .Peto  antei. _oenlY faum atin   adpus -d    .    Petein supply of fond de-           matesse8a   uioleoea
rinad fromusimala ad pu1ses i  grama pe  dey; 196-6,1971 sad 1977 data.    taneomin  temdny tatin - tonn ofppltiasdan 1) sad 65 andoe
Chld(ara1-)  eeaity late,aanbuad  - A-..aI deaths Pet thansd is                          otesellhttre
uge group 1-i  ss  iohilde  inhibi  age letp; for meet devsing none
tinto danaderive  trmlife nables; I1911, 1970 end 1977 data.                            INClf  DISTRIIBUTION
77101211                                                            Pernentuas o~~~~~~~f Private I-em  (both in cash sad hind) - te-ivd byorinbet
Lifo tesciocc ut  inib (earn)    Averge toaer at  esas  f life  sanug            Ipret  rihs   21 percet, po-vot 21percet, and PooetA-                     paea
anbirth; 1960, 1970 and 1971 data.                                                         of  hneod.
Inat -otalitYlam   pee thouns...d) - Aennal dothm at infaste  ade- one Year    POET  TARGE  GROUPS
afeoprtheosd lint hitha.                                                            Eteimatd Absolu-te Pev-ty TI-a  Leve  (11$ar  sita) - orb. asadaul-
Numbr a  prpla  totl,  rban  so  rual)  iobaesnnabe ooes  te  ats .    stritise.elly adeqoate diet plu ..n....tia1 ann-fond raqineta. is set
sae   upy (Includes tananed suf aewaesorotrae  bat                       i-otmnae      fPsdb
ou.te  eah an than ftra  prte-td bnrh- es  spig,sd ...sitary wells)                            istimed Relative Povety,  en-   Level (US$pe   os it)        ehm sd  ea
pracennag.. of their  epet     popbunan.   I  a                  uramaepublin                 .- tot l.rltive povety iseses lee  is. ste.-third efaveesgapecit
fa..nnin or statdpot locate dnomaethail  eseer  from a hoses maY be                         persml tean  nf the noontry.  Irban leve  is dsived from  b.the mel
uaid,n,d an,~ bing withi Ia reasonble access off. thatbu          narlass                  lee   lbajemn   o h,,Ig"her, coat.f living be  tbha-osa
resaneblo aceswId inply that the.ooecif   orebea t.  Ithe h..:eheid                     Taimae   eaaieglwaslt   oet    ae   ee   aeet      e
do nt hae t  sped adisproporint-at P       ni tfhe day is f-trhieg the                an--r---Pre--f--p--i--uba-adtoa)-hsae---                               oat   ee"
to_ily' .. sane  osdada.
dIspoa  us. pecaae1f their -enpa  ine populotions.  tEo-rn  di.-                                                            Innicsd Soola1 Dtat  Divisies
pu -lna  iald  the  oian   -esd diupo...i,iole _ an  ish-n  trreeteor                                            t        Anonoeeysis and P-je-ti-a  Depee-et
ofhuan'crtaadwtts-wate  by wator-brue  systems orthe  s f                            .Apr,il, 1991
pin privian and sisil_r inetallantioo.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOHIC DEVELOPMENT DMTA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1978:  US$ 180
b/                                                                                                      c
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978/79                                                             ANNUAL ARTE OF GROWTl (%. constant pricos)
US$ B3n.        %                 1955/56-1959/60   1960/61-1964/65   1965/66-1969/70   1970/71-1974/75   1975/76-1977/78
GNP at market Prices                 117.08       100.0                      3.7                3.6               3.7                2.8                5.6
Cr.as Donestic Inveatnent              28.28       24.2
Grosa National Saving                 28.11        24.0
Current Account Balance  d/            0.50         0.4
OUTPUT. LAbOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)           Labor Force             V.A. Per Worker
USS Bln.            %               Mil.         7.           US$        7 of National Aver ae
Agriculture                          24.5             46.6             130.0      72.1            188                64
Industry                            11.8              22.3              20.2      11.2            582              199
Services                            16.3              31.1              30.2      16.7            542              186
Total/average                       52.6             100.0             180.4     100.0            292              100
GOVERNBENT FINANC                                               */
Ceneral Govern-ent                                            Centril Government
Rs   ln.           % of  GR                                                    1 onf GDP
it;8/79     1978/79  1974/75-1978/79                          1978/79    1978/79   1974/75-1978/79
Current Receipts                   183.65        19.1         18.3                                107.71      11.2          10.6
Current Expenditures               177.26        18.4         16.7                                108.99      11.3          10.1
Current Surplus/Deficit              6.41         0.7          1.6                                - 1.28      -0.1           0.5
Capital Expenditures  f/            78.41         8.1          7.2                                 57.34       6.0          5.1
External Assistance (net) A/         8.15         0.8          1.4                                 8.15        0.8           1.4
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES          1970/71      1973/74     1974/75      1975/76     1976/77      1977/78      78/79   Sexteber 1978   Sentember 1979
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of pertod)
Honey and Qu.si Money              121.4        198.4       220.3        254.7       308.9        370.4       445.6         398.5          473.7
Bank Credit to Gover-.ent (net)    52.6          87.3        95.3        101.1       110.2        134.7       153.9        139.5           161.7
Bank Credit to Consaercial Sector   64.6        107.0       126.7        153.9       185.1        212.2       253.3         225.8          273.8
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                                            January 1979    January 1980
Money and Quasi Honey as 7
of GDP                           30.1         33.5        31.5         34.5        38.8        41.5         46.3
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                  100.0       139.7        174.9       173.0        176.6       185.8        185.8        185.3           224.0
Annual percentage chungea in:
Wholesale Price Index                7.7         20.2        25.2        - 1.1         2.1          5.2          -           0.4            20.9
Bank Credit tc Cov-rnnent (net)    10.8          12.3         9.2          6.1         9.0         22.2        14.3          16.9           15.9
Bank Credit to Corenercisl Sector   19.4         22.6        18.4         21.5        20.3         14.6        19.4          15.6           21.3
a/  The per capita GOP estimate is at market pricen. calculated by the converaion technique used in the World Bank Atlas, 1979.
All other conversiona to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period  overed.
b/ Quick Estimates.
S/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one oboervation before first year and one ob,ervati.n
after last year of listed period.
d/ World Bank estiftes; not necessarily consistent with official figures.
e/  Transfers between Centre and States have been netted oat.
f/ All loans and advances to third parties have bee- netted out.



ASNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BAISUtC  Or PA $NTS                     1976177    1977/78    1971/79    1979/-  0 h           R N DISR XRIPTS (AVEiAGi  1975176 - 1978/79)
Exports of Goods                         5,753       6,315      6,976       7,800           Engineering Goods              671         11
Imports of Good.                       -5,928      -7,188      .8,488    -I,00              Tea                            420          7
Trade   lance                           -  175     -  873      -1,512      -3,200           GM_                            499          8
XFS (not)                                  379         692        882       1,050           Clothing                       37B          6
Leather and Leather
Resource Balaftcg                          204      _             630     -2,150                     Products              319          4
Jute Manufactures              251         4
Interest Payments (not)  i                -182      -  89         130         400           Iron Ore                       270          5
Other Factor Payments (net)                       -                -          -             Cotton Textiles                248          4
Net Transfer.   j/                         695       1,077      1,000       1,000           Sugar                          224          4
Others                       2,649         45
Balance on Current Account                 717         807        S          -750
Total                        5.929        10
Official Aid
Disburmeenta                          1,955      1,628       1,695       1,370           UTEUIh  DIBT, &a3    31. 1979
Aortization                           -560        -645        -702    -   687                                                USS bilion
Transactions vith DD7                     -337        -330       -158         -             Outstanding and Disbursed                  15.5
All Other Items                           -200         616         199    _  -183           Undieburaed                                 5.2
outstanding, including                    20.7
Increase in Reserves (-)               -1,575      -2,076      -1534    -   250                Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)                3,747      5,823       7.357       7,607                                            b/LI
Net Reserves (end year)  I./             3,276       5,668      7,357       7,607           DEFBT SERVIC8 RATIO FOR 1978/79        15.0  percent
Fuel and Related MAterials                                                                  IRRD/IDA LENDING. DECUER 31. 1979
Imports                                  1,581      1,811       2,043       4,050                                                US$ million
of which: Petroleu                   1,581       1,811       2,043       4,050                                            IBRD            IDA
Irports                                     37          32         24         -             Outstanding and Disbursed        689             4,286
of which: Petroleum                      21         18         n.&,                      U lndisbursed                    614             2,621
Outtetanding. including       1,303              6,907
Undisbursed
June 1966 to aid-December 1971              U081.00 - Re 7.5
Rs 1.00 - USS0.133333
Kid-December 1971 to end-June 1972    : US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - USS0.137376
After  nd-June 1972                         Floating Rate
Spot Rate nd-Doecber 1978                   US*.OO -Re 8.188
Rs 1.00 - US0.122
Znd-Dc_er 1979                          : US$1.00 - Rs 7.907
R.s 1.00 - USS0.126
b/  Ratimeted.
/  Figr   givn cover *11 investment income (nt)*  Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charge. paid to DO, end major receipt is intereat earned on foreign assets.
ligures given include morkers' remittances but exclude official grant assistatnet, which is
includ  within official aid disbursements.
/ ltcud a net use of IDe credit.
Amortisation and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 18
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of August 31, 1980)
US$ million
Loan or                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower         Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
41 Loans/                                               1,163.2
64 Credits fully disbursed                                      3,803.4
342-IN      1972   India    Education                  --         12.0    4.82
378-IN      1973   India    Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                 --          8.0    1.59
390-IN      1973   India    Bombay Water Supply I   --            55.0    3.75
456-IN      1974   India    HP Apple Processing
& Marketing             -          13.0    6.80
1011-IN      1974   India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD 52.0          -       16.85
482-IN      1974   India    Karnataka Dairy            -          30.0   19.56
502-IN      1974   India    Rajasthan Canal CAD        --         83.0   32.62
521-IN      1974   India    Rajasthan Dairy            --         27.7   14.36
522-IN      1974   India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy    --            16.4    6.17
526-IN      1975   India    Drought Prone Areas        --         35.0    4.93
1079-IN      1975   IFFCO    IFFCO Fertilizer          109.0       --       4.08
1097-IN      1975   ICICI    Industry DFC XI            95.6       --       2.95
532-IN      1975   India    Godavari Barrage
Irrigation             --         45.0    5.97
541-IN      1975   India    West Bengal Agric.
Development             --         34.0   10.86
562-IN      1975   India    Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD                       24.0    3.79
572-IN      1975   India    Rural
Electrification I        --         57.0    5.82
585-IN      1975   India    Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                --         40.0   19.62
598-IN      1975   India    Fertilizer Industry        --        105.0   42.58
604-IN      1976   India    Power Transmission IV   --           150.0   68.39



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN     1976   India    Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.          --        4.0      1.97
610-IN     1976   India    Integrated Cotton
Development            --       18.0    11.82
1251-IN    1976   India    Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation           145.0       --      96.17
1260-IN     1976   India    IDBI II                   40.0               19.74
1273-IN     1976   India    National Seeds I          25.0       --      23.55
1313-IN     1976   India    Telecommunications VI  80.0                  23.24
1335-IN     1976   India    Bombay Urban Transport 25.0          -        8.85
680-IN     1977   India    Kerala Agric.
Development            --         30.0   26.06
682-IN     1977   India    Orissa Agric.
Development                       20.0   12.71
685-IN     1977   India    Singrauli Thermal
Power                            150.0   79.85
687-IN     1977   India    Madras Urban
Development            --        24.0   11.30
690-IN     1977   India    WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research        --        12.0   12.00
695-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          --         4.0    0.00
1394-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          14.0      --      14.00
712-IN     1977   India    Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.            --         10.0    7.36
720-IN     1977   India    Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation             --        23.0   15.63
728-IN     1977   India    Assam Agricultural
Development            --          8.0    7.04
1473-IN     1977   India    Bombay High Offshore
Development           150.0      -       22.74
736-IN     1977   India    Maharashtra
Irrigation             --        70.0   42.14
737-IN     1977   India    Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension        --        13.0    9.96
740-IN     1977   India    Orissa Irrigation          --        58.0   41.35
1475-IN     1977   ICICI    Industry DFC XII           80.0      --      21.93
747-IN     1978   India    Second Foodgrain
Storage                --       107.0   87.54
756-IN     1978   India    Calcutta Urban
Development II         -          87.0   43.75
761-IN     1978   India    Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research               --          8.0    7.39



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN      1978   India    IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                 25.0       --     24.65
1549-IN      1978   TEC       Third Trombay
Thermal Power         105.0       --      88.13
788-IN     1978   India    Karnataka Irrigation    --           117.6   94.22
793-IN     1978   India    Korba Thermal Power        -         200.0  167.16
806-IN      1978   India    Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture          --         14.0   13.88
808-IN     1978   India    Gujarat Irrigation         --         85.0   74.22
815-IN     1978   India    Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries              --         17.5   16.47
816-IN     1978   India    National Seeds II          -          16.0   15.77
1592-IN      1978   India    Telecommunications VII 120.0         --      59.39
824-IN      1978   India    National Dairy            --        150.0  138.16
842-IN      1979   India    Bombay Water
Supply II              --        196.0  192.10
843-IN     1979   India    Haryana Irrigation         --        111.0   69.23
844-IN     1979   India    Railway Modernization
& Maintenance          --        190.0  166.07
848-IN     1979   India    Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage             --         38.0   31.58
855-IN      1979   India    National Agricultural
Research               --         27.0   26.31
862-IN     1979   India    Composite Agricultural
Extension              --         25.0   20.96
871-IN     1979   India    NCDC                       --         30.0   20.79
1648-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  50.0       --     50.00
874-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  --        200.0  177.14
889-IN     1979   India    Punjab Irrigation          --        129.0  115.98
899-IN     1979   India    Maharashtra Water
Supply                 --         48.0   47.59
911-IN     1979   India    Rural Electrification
Corp. II               --        175.0  172.86
925-IN     1979   India    Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry               --         23.0   21.39



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower       Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN     1979   India      ARDC III                  -      250.0      161.06
1743-IN     1979   India      Thal Fertilizer         250.0      -        250.00
963-IN     1979   India      Inland Fisheries                  20.0       20.00
954-IN     1979   India      Maharashtra
Irrigation II                 210.0      198.69
961-IN     1979   India      Gujarat Community
Forestry                        37.0      34.93
981-IN     1980   India      Population II                     46.0       46.00
1053-IN*    1980   India      Farakka Thermal
Power                         225.0      225.00
1003-IN     1980   India      Tamil Nadu Nutrition              32.0       32.00
1004-IN     1980   India      U.P. Tubewells                    18.0       17.82
1011-IN     1980   India      Gujarat Irrigation II            175.0      175.00
1027-IN     1980   India      Singrauli Thermal II             300.0      300.00
1012-IN     1980   India      Cashewnut                         22.0       22.00
1028-IN     1980   India      Kerala Agricultural
Extension                       10.0      10.00
1046-IN     1980   India      Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewer                      80.0       80.00
1843-IN     1980   ICICI      Industry DFC XIII       100.0               100.00
1887-IN*    1980   India      Farakka Thermal
Power                 25.0                25.00
Total                                  2,653.8  8,401.6
of which has been repaid             1,027.5     64.4
Total now outstanding                  1,626.3  8,337.2
Amount Sold                   133.8
of which has been repaid   120.3        13.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/    1,612.8  8,337.2
Total undisbursed (excluding*)           576.3  3,348.9
*    Not yet effective
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1980)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Year                   Company                         Loan     Equity      Total
1959        Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5       -          1.5
1959        Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                 0.9        -          0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4       -          1.4
1961        K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                          0.2        -          0.2
1963-66     Precision Bearings India Ltd.              0.6        0.4        1.0
1964        Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.               0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75-79  Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.             11.8        1.3       13.1
1964        Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0       0.3        1.3
1967        Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.1       0.1        1.2
1967        Indian Explosives Ltd.                     8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70     Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                 15.1        3.8       18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                            6.6         -         6.6
1978        Housing Development Finance
Corporation                                4.0       1.2        5.2
1980        Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.            7.5       1.1        8.6
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS             61.1       11.5       72.6
Less:  Sold                                  5.9        1.7       7.6
Repaid                              19.1         -        19.1
Cancelled                            6.2        1.3        7.5
Now Held                            29.9        8.5       38.4
Undisbursed                         10.5        1.1       11.6



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding reason-
ably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$729 million in FY80, compared to US$538 million
in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal year through
August 31, 1980 totalled US$131 million, representing an increase of about
51% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$3,925
million as of August 31, 1980, reflects the lead time which would be expected
given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980 .
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843   Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing.Date: December 31, 1985
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 are also ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed-to encourage the
pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The
project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector investment studies
and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing with the state joint/
public sector.
Cr. No. 947    Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been started under this project
after the completion of the Second ARDC Project towards the end of 1979.
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September 1979, satisfactory progress was being made in
the construction of bag storage warehouses, despite problems of land acqui-
sition at some sites. However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and
port silos is not expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays
in the employment of consultants and the longer time required for the prepa-
ration of technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
Septemher 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but con-
struction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe winter
conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the last
two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is scheduled
for completion by December 1980.
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project;    US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date:  October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, altho'igh as of
November 1979, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment and local production of electro-mechanical switching equipment
were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced growth rate for the installa-
tion of direct exchange lines. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts
and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project;    US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date:  March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1743   Thal Fertilizer Project; US$250.0 million loan of August 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 31, 1980 (expected);
Closing Date: November 30, 1984
The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a
change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphta and delays in completion of
engineering contracts. However, project construction is now proceeding
satisfactorily and commissioning is expected within the next six months.
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer
production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-project
preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further, some of the
sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration
by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects
to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the
project is likely to be delayed by about 18 months.
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Delays in project implementation were encountered as a result of
frequent changes in management in the early stages, and these have necessi-
tated an extension of the closing date by 18 months to June 30, 1981, to allow
for completion of works and withdrawal of the credit. Progress is improving,
however. As of May, 1979, construction on 36 of the 39 markets envisaged under
the project was underway or completed, and trade had shifted to about half of
these. An additional five markets may be included in the project at the
request of the State government.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 9 'of 18
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979,
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899    Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 mil-
lion credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily. The water treatment
works were successfully completed on schedule at the end of 1979. Completion
of construction of the project sewerage works is scheduled for mid-1980.
Financial performance of the project entity is satisfactory. Implementation of
Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing Credit 390, is proceeding to schedule.
Preliminary work in connection with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been
made to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
Cr. No. 1046    Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: September 31, 1985
Implementation of this project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Detailed construction programs have been prepared for rural schemes, and pre-
paration of tender documents for urban schemes have been completed.
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
the severe floods of September 1978 and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consultants'
services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts. Staff
shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more exten-
sive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
Physical progress is generally satisfactory and costs are within
appraisal estimates on most components. However, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction on one of the three sites and service
areas will result in about 15 months delay in the completion of the final
sections of these areas. Inadequate attention and staff has been given to
the financial analysis and marketing strategies required to ensure that anti-
cipated cost recovery in the sites and services and slum upgrading components
and thus replicability is actually achieved. However, there is still ample
time to deal effectively with these problems; technical assistance is being
sought to strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coopera-
tive scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative societies
(DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Karnataka 923,
Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response had been excellent and
project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to speed up the
establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS is good and con-
struction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a satisfactory pace.
Limited milk processing capacity has been the major constraint to DCS formation
in all three projects. Under the National Dairy Project, three subprojects
with an estimated total cost of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been
appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a further eight subprojects are
in various stages of preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy
equipment is well underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a
result in the start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 12, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)          Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million creALt of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889    Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of
March 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954    Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit
of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011   Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Nagarjunasagar compo-
nent of Loan 1251 where water losses have proven higher than anticipated.
Specific efforts are underway to redesign this project so that it can
achieve its original objectives.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project will not
fully disburse by the closing date, and GOI's request for an extension is
expected.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date:  September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028   Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit
of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
These eight credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the reformed extension
system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, and Orissa, in particular, significant gains have been made
under the projects. In West Bengal, where a change in government brought a
review of the organizational principles underlying the new extension system
and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a recent Cabinet deci-
sion has reaffirmed the State Government's commitment to the project and
revised implementation plans are under preparation. In Bihar and Madhya
Pradesh, staff shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts,
have hampered project implementation, although progress in areas where regu-
lar extension visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the system
itself. In Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite
Agricultural Extension Project, important early administrative and financial
steps have been taken to pave the way for effective operation of the reor-
ganized extension system. In Kerala, project implementation has just begun.
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects in FY80 is expected to meet or even
exceed appraisal estimates, although corresponding disbursements may lag



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
somewhat behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of the
Project Unit are being recommended to expedite further progress under the
project.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29,-1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
As of October, 1979, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns had begun in the three participating States of Haryana, Orissa,
and Uttar Pradesh. Consultants were being recruited to assist NCDC and State
Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institutions. Initial project
preparations have been completed on schedule; disbursements are therefore
expected to follow the appraisal targets.
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.  The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date:  May 17, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for sawn-
wood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
Cr. No. 925    Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961    Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects were designed to expand the social forestry program
in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages,
and supply raw materials to cottage industries. The projects provide for
large-scale tree plantations on public and village lands, primarily along
roads, rails and canals, and on village common lands and degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by CR. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the
second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The bus procurement program supported by the project has proceeded
on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies having been ordered and 589
already in service. Total fleet strength has increased from 1,530 buses at
the inception of the project to 1,900 buses in September 1979, in accordance
with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity expansion is lagging somewhat behind
fleet expansion, but should match fleet size by early 1980. However, delays
in construction of new workshop facilities have been more substantial and will
not be fully recoverable. Traffic management civil works are also somewhat
behind schedule, although efforts are being made to speed up the works program.



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, harbor construction at Mangrol and Veraval are under
way, and although some delays have been encountered, the project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and no major problems are evident. In Andhra Pradesh,
preliminary work on implementation is progressing satisfactorily, and harbor
works at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada are scheduled to commence shortly.
Cr. No. 963    Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Madhya
Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries, improve-
ments to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the establish-
ment of training centers. The project became effective in May 1980, and the
initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the establishment of State
Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and State project monitoring
units, are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date:  August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648   Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr.         US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
No. 874         May 22, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 1027   Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing
Date: March 31, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
Ln. No. 1887   Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and        US$225 million credit of June 26, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053   December 10, 1980 (expected); Closing Date:  March 31, 1987
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 supports the construction of
the first three 200 MW generating units at the second such station, at Korba,
together with related facilities and associated transmission. Loan 1648/
Credit 874 support similar investments at Ramagundam, and Loan 1887/Credit
1053, at Farakka. The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been
carrying out construction and operation of these power stations. Loan 1549
is supporting the construction of a 500 MW extension of the Tata Electric
Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help meet the forecast load growth
in the Bombay area. All these large-scale thermal power projects are pro-
gressing satisfactorily. Although the transmission project financed by Credit
604 suffered delays in preparation of technical specifications and evaluation
of bids for higher sophisticated equipment, the project is now progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 911    Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0
million credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
financed by the Rural Electrification Corporation. There are now thirteen
State Electricity Boards (SEBs) eligible for onlending, compared with six at
the time of appraisal. The project got off to a slow start, due principally
to the need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to interna-
tional competitive bidding, but the position has improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed. Credit 911 provides continued support to
the Rural Electrification Corporation's lending program, and is helping to
finance about 1,700 rural electrification schemes in fourteen SEBs, including
the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is at an early stage
of implementation, and procurement is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore were commissioned in June 1978. Most contracts for
Phase III of Bombay High development have been laid, construction should be
completed by mid-1980 and the loan should be fully disbursed by its original
closing date.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Cr. No. 981    Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of mothers
and children and the lowering of fertility. Early implementation works have
started in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
Cr. No. 1012   Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10,
1980; Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
Implementation has started on this project which is designed to
expand cashewnut production in the States of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh
and Orissa.
Cr. No. 1003   Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block is proceeding
according to schedule.
Cr. No. 1004   Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Implementation is underway on this project.



ANNEX III
INDIA
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About one year
(b)  The agency that has prepared the project
Government of Orissa; Project Preparation and
Monitoring Cell (GOI)
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
the first mission to consider the project
November 1979/March 1980
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
July 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
October 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
February 1980
Section II  *  Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III :  Special Conditions
(i) GOO to stockpile materials essential for emergency repairs
near the weir sites (paragraph 40).
(ii) GOO to provide sufficient funds and materials to execute
the project in accordance with the five year project
implementation program (paragraph 45).



________________d'O    _______________                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD    15010
tC                            RH.                                                                                                                                                                                                            AUISLJST t   s  .     _A:199
~~~Sj  ~~~~~ ~CHINA                                                                                                         9WD
PAKISTAN                           BHUTAN
X         /                  u             t  v i )f                                                                               : RNA  R>,                                                .  H                         D
EHIHA gNH -,I S, pH,HOH-d ,                                                                                                    PATIRSL.
77~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
MAHANADI BARRAGES PROJECT
L?                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED RARRAGDS  EXISTING WEIRS
-H                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED CANALS  -EXISTING CANAlS WITH SYPHONS
-Vi  x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~NEW SECTA                                                                                                       EXISTING DRAINAGE CANALS
HLD DELTAIPROJCCTAHEAI             ROADS
5  5             HG           IS                                                     CCCS.15:55; 5  REHS DEIFENED                 RAILROIADS
MILES.
-  5AREAS FLOODED              . -RSS
/~~~~~~~~~~~SGDROS  5  10 15                                                   )                      <
0 4A    TOWNS AND CITIES



