FFICTI           CREDIT NUMBER 1078 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Mahanadi Barrages Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1078 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     "    -                  , 1980, between
INDIA, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B) the Project will be carried out by the State of Orissa,
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to the State of Orissa the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the State of Orissa;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Orissa" means the State of Orissa, acting by its
Governor, a State of India or any successor thereof; and


﻿-2-
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Orissa of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the' Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to sixty-three million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 63,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawt from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March I and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1


﻿-3-
and September 1 commencing March 1, 1991, and ending September 1,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable
on September 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause Orissa to perform in accord-
ance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obliga-
tions therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Orissa to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Orissa in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof that:
(a) Orissa shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement .or obligation of Orissa under the Project Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that Orissa. will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant


﻿-4-
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event specified in
paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and
Orissa.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, Co be included in the opinion or opinions to be
iurnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by Orissa, and is legally
binding upon Orissa in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.02. The date 4P/k'-               is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary in the
Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi


﻿-5-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works, gate            52,590,000         85%
manufacture and
erection thereof
(2) Equipment, materials          1,540,000         100% of local
and vehicles                                   expenditures
(ex-factory)
or 70%
(3) Drainage and                  1,540,000         100%
Water Management
(4) Unallocated                   7,630,000
TOTAL        63,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "local expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the


﻿- 7
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures: (a) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $1,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after August 1, 1980; and
(b) related to drainage and flood protection works to be
carried out under Part B of the Project unless the Association has
approved said works.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that th
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Mahanadi and Birupa Barrages
The construction of two barrages one each on the Mahanadi and
Birupa Rivers near Cuttack, including the replacement of three
canal head regulators and the construction of the head canal
required for linking them to the existing canal system, the
preparation of the construction site including the construction of
access roads and the provision of staff housing.
Part B:   Master Drainage Plan
The preparation of a master plan for drainage and flood
protection works in the Mahanadi delta area, including the imple-
mentation of selected works identified under the master plan.
Part C:   Water Management Pilot Operations
The carrying out of water management pilot operations,
including the construction of watercourses and drains, and the
introduction of the Rotational Water Supply System (RWS) in an
area of about 1,000 ha suitably located.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1986.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    JW      day of 2   -9
198 0L.
FOR SECRETARY


