OFCIALTS        CREDIT NUMBER 1078 IN
Project Agreement
(Mahanadi Barrages Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF ORISSA
Dated                              , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1078 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        1a2<                 , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and the State of Orissa, acting by its Governor
(hereinafter called Orissa).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixty-three million three hundred thou-
sand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 63,300,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that Orissa agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter s,t forth; and
WHEREAS Orissa, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Orissa shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out


﻿- 2-
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Orissa undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or in-
stallation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable
in a currency freely usable by Orissa to replace or repair such
goods.
(b)  Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Orissa
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Orissa shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) Orissa: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Orissa
and the Association, Orissa shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and


﻿-3-
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by Orissa and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.05. (a) Orissa shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
(b) Orissa shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Orissa of its obligations under
this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Orissa shall at all times during the execution
of the Project stockpile such materials, and maintain such equip-
ment and personnel, at the site of the existing weirs, as shall be
necessary to make emergency repairs, if any, to such weirs.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Orissa shall cause each of its various depart-
ments or agencies responsible for carrying out any part of the
Project to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 3.02. Orissa shall cause each of its various depart-
ments or agencies responsible for carrying out any part of the
Project to: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
for such part of the Project as the department or the agency may
be responsible for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
nine months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, -of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information


﻿-4-
concerning the accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the. Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of Orissa thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Orissa of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-5-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For Orissa:
Secretary to the Government of Orissa
Irrigation and Power Department
Bhubaneswar
Orissa, India
Cable address:
CHIEFSEC
Bhubaneswar
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Orissa may be taken or executed by
a Secretary to the Government of Orissa or such other person or
persons as Orissa shall designate in writing, and Orissa shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF ORISSA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, Orissa shall prepare and forward
to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. Orissa shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   The civil works of the two barrages and the three head
regulators included in the Project shall be carried out under one
contract, and the manufacture and installation of the spillway
gates for the two barrages shall be carried out under one separate
contract.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply and installation of the spillway gates to be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding: (i) bidders
shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for the imported goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-
shelf price of other goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the
importation, or the sales and similar taxes levied in connection
with the sale or delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall
not be taken into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿-8-
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of spillway gates and installation thereof
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, goods manufactured in India may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
India if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of India and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in India equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the impOrtation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿-9-
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, Orissa may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2%
to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or
group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to
give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by Orissa,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Construction of link canals and procurement of equip-
ment, materials and vehicles shall be carried out on the basis of
competitive bidding procedures of Orissa, satisfactory to the
Association, advertised locally.


﻿- 10 -
2.   Works involving riverbed preparation and the construc-
tion of access roads, site buildings and staff housing may be
carried out through piecework contracts or departmentally.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Orissa shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, to-
gether with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before they are issued to
the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Orissa
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
Orissa and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Orissa shall furnish to the Association, promptly


﻿- 11 -
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Orissa and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, ,.
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, Orissa shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform Orissa
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198 .
FOR SECRETARY


