Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLIL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 11500
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SHABA POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION
(CREDIT 1224-ZR)
AND
SECOND POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1712-ZR)
DECEMBER 28, 1992
Industry and Energy Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Zaire (Z)
Value of US$
1984                              40.5
1985                              55.8
1986                              71.1
1987                              131.5
1988                              274.0
1989                              454.6
1990                              2000.0
1991                              61901.0
1992                              135000.0
MEASUREMENTS
GWh  gigawatt hour         1,000,000 kilowatt hours
kV    kilovolt             1,000 volts
kW    kilowatt             1,000 watts
kWh  kilowatt hour         1,000 watt hours
MW    megawatt             1,000 kilowatts
MWh  megawatt hour         1,000 kilowatt hours
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACEC                       Ateliers de constructions electriques de Charleroi (Belgian firm)
CCCE                       Caisse centrale de cooperation economique (French aid agency)
EdF                        Electricite de France (French power company)
GECAMINES                  La generale des carrieres et des mines (Copper mining company)
GOVERNMENT                 Government of Zaire
IDA                        International development association
OPEC                       Organization of petroleum exporting countries
REGIDESO                   Regie de distribution d'eau et d'electricite (National water utility)
SNCZ                       Societe nationale des chemins de fer zairois (National railways)
SNEL                       Societe nationale d'electricite (National power company)
UNDP                       United nations development program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 28, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Zaire
Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1224-ZR)
and Second Power Prolect (Credit 1712-ZR)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on
Zaire - Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1224-ZR) and Second
Power Project (Credit 1712-ZR)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part
II contributed by the Borrower.
Some physical components of the first project at the credit's closing
were still not completed. These as well as a substantial part of the second
project are expected to be completed in about 1994 provided the political and
economic turmoil in the country permit the foreign contractors to resume their
work. The institutional objectives were also only partly achieved. Therefore,
OED rates the two projects as unsatisfactory and their sustainability as marginal
at best. OED will audit these projects of which the second was considered an
operation complementary to the regional Ruzizi II hydroelectric project shared
by Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire which OED is also auditing.
The Project Completion Report provides an accurate and informative
account of the two projects' preparation and implementation. It is quite candid
about some of the shortcomings of IDA's intervention.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SHABA POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION
AND SECOND POWER PROJECTS
(Credits 1224-ZR and 1712-ZR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE   .           .........................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                              ........ 1
Project Identity   . ...............................................   1
Background . ................................................... 1
Project Objectives and Description ..................................   3
Project design and Organization  ....................................   4
Project Implementation  .              .........................................   6
Project Results .................................................   9
Project Sustainability . ...........................................  11
IDA  Performance .           .............................................    11
Borrower Performance .                .........................................   12
Project Relationship .           ...........................................    13
Consulting Services  .           ...........................................   13
Project Documentation and Data  ..................................   14
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .... 15
Shaba Power System Rehabilitation
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION   (tables) ........................   26
IDA Related Credits . ........................................... 26
Timetable ....................................................  27
Credit Disbursements . ........................................... 28
Project Implementation  ..............                     ...........................   29
Project Costs and Financing  ...........                    ...........................   32
Project Results . ...............................................   34
Status of Covenants  .           ...........................................   36
Use of Bank Resources  ..............                      ...........................   46
Mission Data  .................................................   47
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SHABA POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION
AND SECOND POWER PROJECTS
(Credits 1224-ZR and 1712-ZR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Shaba Power System
Rehabilitation and the Second Power Projects in Zaire, for which Credit 1224-ZR
(US$17.65 million equivalent) and Credit 1712-ZR (US$50.33 million equivalent) were
approved in 1982 and 1986. The Credits for the Shaba Power System Rehabilitation and for
the Second Power Projects were closed on June 30, 1987 and 1992, respectively. Both
Credits were fully disbursed. The PCR covers the period 1982-1992.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Division of the South-
Central and Indian Ocean Department, Africa Region (Parts I and III), and SNEL, the
national power company of Zaire and the implementing agency of the Borrower (Part U).
The PCR is based, inter alia on the President's Reports, Staff Appraisal Reports, the
Credit and Project Agreements, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower,
supervision reports, internal Bank memoranda, and interviews with Bank staff previously
involved with the projects.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SHABA POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION
AND SECOND POWER PROJECTS
(Credits 1224-ZR and 1712-ZR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Objectives. The Shaba Power System Rehabilitation and the Second Power Porjects
provided foreign exchange to assist SNEL, the national power company of Zaire, to (i)
improve the reliability of supply and make optimal use of the electricity generated in the
Shaba and the Kivu regions and in the operation and maintenance of the Inga I and Inga II
hydroelectric complex; and (ii) strengthen its planning capabilities, develop a national tariff
system, improve financial policies and upgrade staff skills.
2.    Implementation experience. Despite some progress made in institutional building,
overall IDA's experience with these Credits was disappointing. Implementation delays and
cost overruns arose because of insufficient project preparation, consistent underestimation of
the rehabilitation and repair works and of the logistics and administrative difficulties, weak
Government commitment, overestimation of the executing agency's capacity to implement
projects, insufficient supervisions and particularly on site, and civil unrest. Both projects have
benefitted from supplemental financing. The Second Power Project provided additional
funding for the Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project. Additional funding for the
Second Power Project itself was provided under the SNEL Technical Assistance Credit (2293-
ZR) approved in 1991. However, the Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project is not fully
completed, 15 out of 17 units in four hydropower plants were rehabilitated and put back into
service. For the Second Power Project, only one unit out of three has been rehabilitated and
put back into service. Both Credits have been fully disbursed and SNEL and its consultants
estimate that both projects could be completed in 1994 if (i) additional funding is provided
without delay; and (ii) the contractors return to the site which they left after the September
1991 civil unrest.
3.    Results. The objective of improving the reliability of power supply to Zaire's key
mining industry was met, although some additional work remains to be done on some units
of the hydropower stations in the Shaba Region. Both projects helped preserve some key
sector assets and in particular the Shaba hydropower stations and the Inga I and Inga II
hydropower complex. Positive results were achieved through the implementation of the
technical assistance package which covered many areas ( organization, management, power
planning, accounting, revaluation of assets, tariffs, billing and dam safety). Without IDA's
assistance, it is unlikely that Zaire would have developed a reasonable master plan for the
power sector which prevented the financing of uneconomic projects. However, despite strong
objections from IDA and despite agreements and assurances to the contrary, the Government
proceeded with the extension of the Mobaye hydropower station in the Northern Equator
Region. The size of the technical assistance provided (which absorbed almost half of the
resources made available under the Second Power Project) may have been overwhelming to
the executing agency and beyond its absorptive capacity.



iii
The unfavorable macro-economic environment and the deteriorating social climate had unfortunate
consequences on the financial situation of the executing agency as inflation eroded the real value
of its tariffs and of its accounts receivables, which increased sharply. SNEL and the Government
remain out of compliance with a number of major covenants of the Credits and, in particular, the
settlement of Government's arrears to SNEL.
4.     Sustainability. The sustainability of the economic benefits of the projects is doubtful
because of the sharp drop in economic activity and its consequences on the financial situation of
the executing agency. Lack of maintenance and of foreign exchange to purchase spare parts is
becoming a major problem. Accordingly, the same causes that led to the need of rehabilitation
and repairs of sector assets are likely to recur. Given the size of Zaire, poor communications
and the centralization of decision making in SNEL's headquarters in Kinshasa pose additional
risks to sustainability. SNEL and IDA should have put more emphasis on strengthening regional
management within SNEL, and less on headquarters functions.  In time, private sector
participation will be necessary for the power sector in Zaire to develop on a sustainable basis.
The sustainability of institutional strengthening is itself questionable in view of the high staff
turnover encouraged by low staff incentives in a highly inflationary environment.
5.     Lessons Lear_nd.     Beyond the specific lessons learned from the implementation of
the Shaba Power System Rehabilitation and the Second Power Projects which are given in the
text, the findings of this PCR are consistent with IDA's sector wide experience suggesting the
following:
a)    it is difficult to implement a project smoothly when the project objectives
do not correspond to the priorities of the Government and the implementation
agency in the sector;
b)     rushing project preparation to meet emergency rehabilitation requirements may
be counterproductive because of the impact shortcomings in design may have on
project implementation and costs;
c)     because of insufficient preparation, the focus of technical assistance shifted to
solving immediate problems, rather than helping to build local capacity. As a
result, the cost of technical assistance was eventually much higher than initially
estimated and its impact much lower;
d)    the major objective of the two projects was to rehabilitate existing facilities,
which were in a state of disrepair for lack of maintenance. Yet no serious effort
was made during project implementation to build up a maintenance capacity.
Further rehabilitation will therefore be needed;
e)    the most basic covenants aimed at building up autonomous utilities were
consistently ignored during project implementation and there was no attempt to
exercise contractual remedies; and
f)    supervision, especially on site, was insufficient. In light of project difficulties
and the overall conditions in Zaire affecting the projects, more time should have
been allocated to supervision.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SHABA POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION
AND SECOND POWER PROJECTS
(Credits 1224-ZR and 1712-ZR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Name               : Shaba Power System Rehabilitation and Second Power
Projects
Credit No.         : 1224-ZR, 1712-ZR
RVP Unit           : Africa Region, Country Department HI
Country            : Zaire
Sector             : Energy
Subsector          : Power
2.    Backeround
2.1    Electric power is available to consumers in Zaire primarily in two areas: Kinshasa and
the surrounding areas of Bas-Zaire in the west, and in the Shaba region in the south-eastern
part of the country. Although the national power company, SNEL, which is responsible for
the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity throughout Zaire, had five regions
and four subregions, they were not interconnected and in 1979, 95% of all electrical energy
sold by SNEL was concentrated in the Southern (Shaba) and Bas-Zaire regions. The Shaba
region alone accounted for 69% of SNEL's total sales and in the region, one consumer, La
Generale des Carrieres et des Mines (GECAMINES) consumed 57% of the total 3,626 GWh
sold by SNEL in 1979. GECAMINES mines copper and cobalt which are exported. These
exports used to account for about two thirds of Zaire's foreign exchange earnings. In the
other regions, i.e. Kivu, Kasai Oriental, Kasai Occidental, Equateur, Haut-Zaire and
Bandundu, electricity was available only in small isolated areas from local hydro and diesel
installations. In 1979, only about 2% of the estimated 26 million inhabitants had access to
electricity, and the average estimated per capita consumption of electrical energy was 156
kWh.
2.2   The demand for energy by the mining industry in the Shaba region had been met by
the existing hydroelectric plants, in particular, Nseke, Nzilo, Mwadingusha and Koni. However,
in the early eighties, not only was the Shaba system energy deficient, but the mechanical
and electrical capability of the equipment had deteriorated to such an extent that the supply
was unreliable and power was frequently interrupted. The danger of a serious system failure



2
increased with time because of the age of the system (25 to 50 years in 1982) and because of the
lack of spare parts and adequate maintenance. Since copper and other minerals from the Shaba
region were Zaire's main source of foreign exchange, it was important to the economy that the
mining industry, and in particular GECAMINES, be provided with a reliable power supply. In
addition to maintaining the supply capability of the existing four hydropower stations to meet the
expected growth in demand for electricity in the Shaba region, the Government considered three
alternatives (i) the Inga-Shaba direct current transmission line; (ii) imports from Zambia; and (iii)
the construction of the Busanga hydroelectric station with an installed capacity of 200 MW.
2.3   In 1974, the Government chose to build the 500 IV, direct current, Inga-Shaba
transmission line. It also embarked on a major construction program consisting of the 1,400 MW
Inga II hydroelectric plant in the lower basin of the Zaire river, the 500 kV direct current Inga-
Shaba transmission line (about 1700 kms long) and the strengthening of the Shaba high voltage
system. This came to be known as the 'Systeme Inga-Shaba' (SIS). The SIS was to supply the
mining industry in the Shaba region as well as other industries the Government wished to attract
to use the abundant power. However, the load forecast used to justify the construction of the SIS
was based on overly optimistic expectations of the expansion of the economy and new industrial
development in an export free zone (Zone Franche d'Inga, ZOFI), both of which did not
materialize. The Inga-Shaba direct current transmission line itself, was experiencing construction
and financial difficulties and its completion was five years behind its 1977 schedule. Eventually,
the line was commissioned in 1982-83 at a cost of about US$2 billion, which contributed heavily
to Zaire's debt burden.
2.4    The delays in the construction of the Inga-Shaba line and the problems associated with
power supply from Zambia left the mining industry with only one option: the rehabilitation of
the existing hydroelectric power plants. Furthermore, even after the completion of the Inga-
Shaba transmission line, the hydroelectric facilities remained necessary: (i) to provide a backup
in case of failure of the direct current transmission line whose length made it vulnerable to
periodic failure due to such causes as adverse weather, difficult (and possibly inadequate)
maintenance, and operational inexperience; and (ii) to maintain the electrical stability of the
system.
2.5    The Shaba Power System Rehabilitation, which was the Bank Group's first operation in
Zaire's power sector, was well focused, addressed the most urgent needs of the sector and fitted
well with the overall macroeconomic objective of the Government. It was, however, beset by
logistical and administrative difficulties, implementation delays and an apparent lack of
commitment to the project from both the Government and SNEL as both were preoccupied with
the construction and management of the Inga-Shaba transmission line.
2.6   In 1985, when the Second Power Project was prepared, nearly all SNEL's power plants,
including the largest ones (Inga I and Inga II), but particularly the isolated plants dating from the
1960's, were in need of rehabilitation because of the company's limited technical capability and
irregular maintenance during periods of foreign exchange scarcity. The four hydropower plants
of the Shaba region which were being rehabilitated under the first power project (Cr. 1224 ZR)
were in need of further rehabilitation. The supplemental financing was provided under the
Second Power Project (Cr. 1712 ZR), which also included funds for the systematic review of
further maintenance needs and for urgent repairs of the Inga complex, and for the rehabilitation
of the Ruzizi I hydropower plant in Kivu.



3
2.7    The Kivu region in eastern Zaire shares an interconnected power network with Burundi
and Rwanda which are supplied primarily by Zaire's Ruzizi I hydroplant and several smaller
hydroplants in Rwanda and Burundi. To meet growing commercial and household demand, the
supply of power to this network was expanded through the joint effort of the three countries to
further develop the potential of the Ruzizi River. In 1982, IDA approved financing for the
Ruzizi H hydroelectric Project (Credits 1419 BU, 1420 RW and 1421 ZR), recognizing that
regional development offered the least-cost solution to the needs of Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire's
Kivu region. It was also recognized that in order to make optimal use of the power from Ruzizi
II within the interconnected network, the three national transmission and distribution systems
would require rehabilitation and expansion. IDA financing for this purpose was provided under
the Rwanda Power Project (Cr. 1495 RW) and the Burundi Power and Transmission Project (Cr.
1593 BU). The Second Power Project, by providing funds to rehabilitate and expand the Kivu
region's transmission and distribution system and renovate the Ruzizi I hydropower plant,
completed the second phase of the regional development effort by increasing the availability of
power to Kivu and making supply more reliable for the interconnected network as a whole.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
A.    Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1224-ZR)
3.1   Proiect Qbiectives.    The main objective of the project was to improve the reliability
of power supply to the mining industry in the Southern region through the rehabilitation and
repair of SNEL's generating stations at Nseke, Koni, Nzilo and Mwadingusha and transmission
system. Other objectives included the strengthening of SNEL's management, accounting and
maintenance procedures and the development of a medium and long term energy policy for the
Government.
3.2    Project Description.   The project consisted of the following elements:
(1)    Repairs to the generator cooling systems of the Koni and Nzilo generating
stations; replacement and repairs to the air, oil, and water supply systems and the
electrical service systems in Nseke, Koni, Nzilo and Mwadingusha generating
stations; supply of small items of consumables, small tools, safety equipment and
vehicles, and replacement of deteriorated high voltage transmission system
controls and protection equipment in sub-stations;
(2)    Provision of consulting services to: (i) assist in the procurement and supervision
of project implementation; (ii) identify measures to be taken to improve SNEL's
medium and long term planning, organization and financial management; (iii)
examine and make recommendations on changes in the tariff structure and the
revaluation of SNEL's assets; and (iv) study the movements of the arch dam at
Nzilo and draw a program for rehabilitation;
(3)    Provision of training advisers and training aids for SNEL's school at
Sanga and scholarships for refresher courses; and,
(4)    Development of an energy policy, a study of the pricing of energy
resources and provision of technical assistance to the National Energy
Commission.



4
B.    Second Power Project (Credit 1712-ZR)
3.3    Project Obiectives. The main objectives of the project were:
(a) to make optimal use of the electric energy generated in the Kivu (Zaire)-Rwanda-
Burundi interconnected system through the rehabilitation of the Ruzizi I power station and
the distribution networks in Bukavu, Goma, Kiliba and Uvira;
(b) to continue the institutional development of SNEL through strengthening its planning
capabilities, developing a rational tariff system, improving financial policies, and
upgrading staff skills;
(c) to complete the rehabilitation of power stations, transmission and distribution
networks in the Shaba region; and
(d) to help SNEL in the operation and maintenance of the Inga I and Inga II hydroelectric
complex and the Inga-Shaba System.
3.4    Project Description. The project consisted of the following:
I. Rehabilitation and extension works:
- rehabilitation of the Ruzizi I hydropower plant;
- rehabilitation and expansion of the transmission and distribution network in
the Kivu region and interconnection with Ruzizi II, 110 kV transmission network
(rehabilitation of the 6.6 and 15 kV distribution network and extension of the 15 kV
lines in four towns (Goma, Bukavu, Uvira and Kiliba);
- completion of the rehabilitation of the Shaba power system;
- emergency repairs and operational improvements for the Inga I and Inga II
hydropower facilities;
- radio communication equipment for urgent operational needs of SNEL;
II. Technical and institutional assistance to SNEL, including studies; and
I.Assistance for SNEL's training needs.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.1    The Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project was designed mainly to provide a reliable
power supply to the mining industry in the Shaba region. Prolonged neglect of maintenance and
the lack of foreign exchange for the acquisition of spare parts led to such a deterioration of the
region's generation capability, that emergency measures were necessary to avert a possible
breakdown of the system with grave consequences to the economy of Zaire which depended
crucially on exports of copper and other minerals produced in the Shaba region. In January 1980,
the Government of Zaire approached the Association for financial assistance for the rehabilitation
of the power system of the Shaba region. In March 1980, SNEL requested an engineering firm



5
to study the physical condition of the generating plants and of the entire power system in the
Shaba region and to make recommendations for its rehabilitation. Their report, dated May 1980,
stated that while the appearance of the facilities in general may give a good impression because
of the cleanliness and good order in which the sites were maintained, in reality the four
generators at Nseke, which alone produced 60% of the energy for the region, were in extremely
poor condition. The stator windings of Unit no. 4 had failed in 1978 and, although temporary
repairs were made, the unit was not returned to service until August 1980. The engineering firm
reported that further failures could occur in any of the units at any time. It also reported that a
general lack of maintenance of the region's system and equipment, and the unavailability of
replacement and spare parts was another serious cause for concern. The generating equipment
had not had a major overhaul for 8 to 10 years, and the supply of spares for most items was used
up. The operators were reluctant to take equipment out of service as long as it was running
because, if dismantled, there was a strong possibility that the equipment would remain out of
service due to the lack of an essential part.
4.2    The manufacturers of the original generating units recommended the complete
replacement of windings for all four stators, and in April 1980 SNEL entered into a contract with
Ateliers de Constructions Electriques de Charleroi (ACEC), a Belgian firm, for the completion
of this work at an equivalent cost of US$9.2 million. Because of the need to meet the demand
for energy, only one unit could be taken out of service at a time, and therefore the work could
not be cornpleted before 1984. Furthermore, GECAMINES had expressed its concern over the
possibility that a unit may fail during the period when another had been dismantled for repair,
and would have liked the generators repaired only after power was available from the Inga-Shaba
direct current transmision line.
4.3   It was necessary to first dismantle the units before determining the full extent of repairs
needed. The sequencing of the rehabilitation work on the different units was difficult because
of the need to assure a continuous power supply to the mining industry and the uncertainty about
the completion date of the Inga-Shaba transmission line. The conceptual foundation of the project
was sound. However, there have been unforeseen logistical and administrative difficulties which
were to prove important for the timely implementation of the project. At appraisal, SNEL's
implementation capacity was weak and this weakness contributed, in part, to the implementation
delays the project experienced.
4.4    The project was timely but the emergency may have been exaggeratedl/. The repairs
to the generators were scheduled for completion by end 1984 (with two units of the Nseke power
station fully repaired in 1983), before the Inga-Shaba direct current transmission line was
operational. Only the technical assistance was supposed to extend until end of 1986. In June 30,
1987, the Credit was entirely disbursed and the closing date that came due, was not extended.
Although some repair work remains to be done, 15 out of 17 generating units were rehabilitated
and returned to service. Expected completion for the remaining work is scheduled for 1994.
I/ This may be safe to say in retrospect, but; (i) the SIS was behind schedule and later
experience proved that it was not reliable; (ii) the value of secure power supplies to
Gecamines and to Zaire at large dwarfed the cost of rehabilitating the Shaba hydropower
plants; and (iii) a major expansion of Gecamines' demand was forecasted but later proved
over-optimistic.



6
4.5    SNEL was responsible for the implementation of the project for which IDA's contribution
was US$19 million (or 48.7% of total project cost). With the lack of sufficient qualified staff
and the difficult communications between Kinshasa and the Shaba region, the executing agency
was too stretched and could not cope. In addition, excessive centralization coupled with poor
communications hampered day-to-day decision making at the far away project sites. The
important technical assistance provided under the credit and from other sources was not
specifically addressed to the strengthening of SNEL's project implementation capability and IDA
supervision missions paid too much attention to the implementation of the technical assistance
package and too little to the execution of the physical components, even though these were
essential for the achievement of the primary objective of the project. In retrospect, IDA
responded in a timely fashion to a perceived emergency situation. Had it delayed involvement
and the power system in the Shaba region failed, the Bank Group's credibility would have
suffered.
4.6   In 1983, IDA approved a Credit to help finance Ruzizi II, a power plant on the Ruzizi
river. The project was a regional project designed to supply power to Zaire, Rwanda and
Burundi. Originally, the Ruzizi II project was to include, in addition to the power plant,
transmission and distribution works in Zaire and assistance to SNEL. It was, however, decided
that these works were more suitable for separate financing since they were related but not entirely
dependent on Ruzizi n, and further preparation work was required. Furthermore, the Ruzizi II
project, as defined, was considered a large enough operation. After appraisal of the Ruzizi I
project, preparatory work started under a PPF advance, granted by IDA at the request of the
Government on March 8, 1983 for US$440,000. The advance funded engineering studies for the
transmission and distribution networks and the rehabilitation of the Ruzizi I hydropower plant,
which was owned by Zaire, but supplied power to Rwanda and Burundi.
4.7    The conceptual foundation of the Second Power Project was appropriate and clear. The
project was consistent with the priorities of Zaire's power subsector and served to strengthen
regional cooperation by making power supply more reliable to the interconnected network linking
Zaire, Burundi and Rwanda. Its scale and scope were appropriate in light of its objectives.
However, to make for timely achievable objectives, the scope of the project should have been set
in light of the implementing capacity of the executing agency. As was the case in the Shaba
Power System Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1224 ZR), the Second Power Project experienced
delays in completion and cost overruns.  More efforts should have been put into better
ascertaining the extent of the rehabilitation of the generating units at Ruzizi I and providing
sufficient funding for unforeseen works and spare parts.
4.8    Lessons should have been drawn from the implementation of the Shaba Power System
Rehabilitation and used in the design of the Second Power project. The project should have been
appraised only after substantial completion of the previous project since it was clear at that time
that SNEL was overstretched and was struggling with numerous problems (tariffs, billing,
collection, accounting, management, training reliability of supply, ...).
5.    Project Implementation
A.    Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Proiect (Credit 1224-ZR)
5.1     The Credit became effective on March 1, 1983, one year after the presentation to the
Board, because the OPEC Fund, which was to contribute US$5.0 million towards the financing
of the project, withdrew shortly after signing. The OPEC Fund's contribution was replaced six



7
months later by a Credit of US$6.9 million extended by the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE), the French aid agency. The CCCE Credit became effective in August
1984. The project was also co-financed by Belgium. With the withdrawal of OPEC Fund, the
Credit Agreement was amended on February 22, 1983 before it became effective and IDA
financed the repairs of the generating stations at Nseke, Koni, Nzilo and Mwadingusha (including
equipment, vehicles, consumables, labor and consultants) and a number of studies on: (i) tariffs;
(ii) the value of SNEL's assets; and (iii) the movements of the arch dam at Nzilo and consultants
and experts to improve SNEL's management. The Credit also included US$4.7 million which
were not allocated, including US$1.29 million for emergency repairs. Belgium financed the
repairs to stator windings of the Nseke hydropower station and CCCE approved a Credit for the
acquisition of vehicles and spare parts, a training program at SNEL's school at Sanga and
technical assistance to the National Energy Commission. The project was scheduled for
completion on December 31, 1986 with the rehabilitation and repair works and the technical
assistance completed by end 1984 and end 1986, respectively. However, full project completion
is not expected before 1994. Time and cost overruns were experienced in the subsequent IDA
financed project in Zaire (Cr. 1712 ZR), confirming the overestimation, at appraisal, of SNEL's
implementation capability.
5.2    Procurement of parts and supplies was designed to be carried out by SNEL with the
assistance of engineering consultants. Installation of these supplies was foreseen to be done by
SNEL's own staff. However, in 1984, when SNEL's personnel situation was re-evaluated, it was
found that SNEL needed to use the services of a competent contractor. Following tendering and
the selection of a general contractor, transportation of materials from Europe to the sites in Shaba
proved to be a bottleneck. The route to Shabal/ required many modes of transportation and
transfers, including sea (Anvers-Matadi), railway (Matadi-Kinshasa), river (Kinshasa-Ilebo),
railway (Ilebo-Lumumbashi), railway and road (Lumumbashi-power plants). The inherent
complexity of a multimodal route and seasonal problems caused delays in project implementation.
There have also been delays in the manufacture and repairs of turbine parts, in the effectiveness
of many contracts and in securing Customs clearance (up to a year in one instance). Another
problem was caused by the unreliability of the Inga-Shaba d.c. line. The line was in service in
1984 and the amount of power transmitted in 1985 was about 160 MW. However, because of
the importance of the loads supplied in the Shaba region (GECAMINES mines and smelters),
SNEL was obliged to keep some reserve generation capacity in the region, to avoid a total
collapse of the system when the line went out of service, as the connection with Zambia was
limited to 110 MW. Therefore not many units could be shut down simultaneously for
rehabilitation, which extended the implementation time of the works. The September 1991 social
unrest further delayed the project as contractors suspended their activities in the country. The
contractors have conditioned the resumption of the work to: (i) the settling of their financial
claims (approximately US$1.0 million); and (ii) the situation in the country becoming normal.
The latest consulting engineer's assessment (April 1992) indicates that unless a new supplemental
financing is provided, unit 3 at Nseke (60 MW) and unit 4 at Nzilo (25 MW) will not be operable
in the foreseeable future. In addition, repairs will be necessary for other units at Nseke and
Nzilo.
5.3    The project was designed based on a 1980 study of the physical condition of the
generating plants and the entire power system in the Shaba region, carried out by a well known
I/ Aside from the "Voie Nationale", there are routes via Dar-Es-Salam (Tanzania) and South
Africa that were and are much used by Gecamines.



8
engineering firm which was also in charge of the supervision and inspection of the manufacture
and supervision of the installations. This study, however, was not able to assess the whole extent
of the repairs needed and additional work was identified only after the units were opened. The
supplementary equipment and works together with the additional costs created by delays, resulted
in overruns on the allocated IDA credit amounts. IDA agreed to provide the equivalent of US$
5.25 in supplemental financing and, because it was felt that the processing of a distinct
supplementary credit would require a long time and that funds may not be ready in time to
continue works without interruption, the additional funding was added to the Second Power
Project (Credit 1712 ZR). The rate of return was reassessed at 12% during the appraisal of the
Second Power Project (Cr. 1712 ZR), and was found acceptable.
B.    Second Power Project (Credit 1712-ZR)
5.4    Although the Credit was approved on June 19, 1986, it was not signed until April 23,
1987, due to the difference of opinion between IDA and the Government on the economic
justification of extending the Mobaye hydropower plant and the associated transmission and
distribution networks in the Northern Equator Region. The Credit only became effective on
November 13, 1987 after Government and SNEL fulfilled the conditions of effectiveness, namely
the presentation of an action plan to reduce Government's arrears to SNEL and the signature of
a subsidiary loan agreement.
5.5    The project was originally scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1990. Actual
completion of the physical works financed under the project is now scheduled for April 1994,
more than three years behind schedule. To permit the continuation of the rehabilitation works,
the consulting engineer's contract had to be extended. Funds were therefore made available
under SNEL Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 2293 ZR) which was approved on August 20,
1991.  Under this Credit, US$1.35 million were allocated for the Ruzizi I engineering
supervision. Since part of these funds will be used to settle previous claims made by the
consulting engineer, and the rehabilitation works are expected to last until, at least, April 1994,
it is difficult to predict whether this allocation will be sufficient and whether a further interruption
of the works will be experienced. Following the civil unrest in the country in September 1991,
all contractors left the project site. In addition, some equipment ordered for the generating
stations (stator windings) could not be shipped to Zaire because companies refused insurance
coverage. All contractors presented claims, arguing the change in the working conditions and
supplementary expenses incurred as a result of the force majeure imposed by the civil unrest in
the country and conditioned their return on the site to the return of security and to normal
conditions living conditions.
5.6    Other major reasons for the slippage in the implementation of the principal physical
project components include: (i) unexpected complications encountered as the first unit was
disassembled. The units had not been maintained since their installation in the mid-1950's, so
it is not surprising that the full extent of the rehabilitation work needed could only be evaluated
after dismantling them. In retrospect, a wider margin for this type of contingency should have
been included in the project. In addition, there should be a period during which the reliability
of each unit put back in service would be tested before the next unit is removed for rehabilitation.
In this context, useful lessons could have been drawn from the implementation of the Shaba
Power System Rehabilitation Project and used in the design of the Second Power Project; (ii)
poor performance of some contractors; (iii) poor communications among contractors, consulting
engineers, and SNEL management which seemed to have been out of touch with the situation;



9
(iv) weak supervision by SNEL and engineering consultants paid by the man-month; and (v) the
change in customs regulations in mid-1989 that led to materials being impounded at the border.
5.7    The major cause for the delay experienced in the rehabilitation and strengthening of the
Kivu grid distribution systems was the underestimation by the consulting engineer of the number
of parts (bends and wiggles) that would be needed in the final alignment of the distribution lines
and the resulting under-ordering of the stronger poles needed to withstand lateral stresses.
5.8    The other major objective of institutional strengthening was carried out by consultants.
This assistance provided during the implementation of the project helped SNEL in the
identification of critical operational and management problems including dam satefy, improvement
in the management of the Inga I and Inga II hydropower stations and technical assistance in
training, tariffs, audit and inventory management. The consultants performed satisfactorily,
except in the control and supervision of the physical components of the project where their
performance was not fully satisfactory.
5.9    The closing date was extended from June 30, 1991 to December 31, 1991 and finally to
June 30, 1992. The Credit has been totally disbursed on June 30, 1992, but, according to SNEL
and its consultants, an estimated SDR 355,601 of additional funding is necessary to complete the
project. SNEL has committed itself to pay out of its own funds (from its exports of power to
Zambia and Zimbabwe) the remaining claims that could not be covered under the Credit.
6.    Project Results
A.    Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1224-ZR)
6.1    The project objective to increase the reliability of power supply to the mining industry
was met although additional work remains to be done on some of the generating units at Nseke,
Koni and Nzilo power stationsl/. The achievement of this objective was facilitated by the
marked fall in Gecamines' demand in recent years (the peak demand is now 60% of what it was
in 1986-87). At appraisal, the economic rate of return of the project was estimated at 16%. This
rate was reassessed during the appraisal of the Second Power Project at 12%. It is now estimated
at 8.9%. The variance between the rates is explained by the postponement of project completion
through delays and through cost overruns as well as by the fact that the energy produced by the
project is much less needed than when the project was appraised. Gecamines can draw power
from the project facilities but also from the Inga-Shaba direct current transmission line and from
the interconnection with Zambia.
6.2    Positive results have been achieved since the management and organizational assistance (
was introduced in 1982, but the execution of new programs and systems had experienced setbacks
because of a lack of physical and human resources. Further technical assistance to deal with
these problems was provided under the Second Power Project (Cr. 1712 ZR) which continued
actions already engaged under the Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1224 ZR) and
1/ There was a marked improvement in the reliability of supply to Gecamines in 1989 to mid-
1991. This was not so much because of the work on the Shaba plants, but because SNEL's
management was taken over by an ex-Gecamines electrical engineer who put a high priority
on it and because IDA helped him identify and deal with the problems on the SIS and on the
intra-Shaba grid. This was clearly important in terms of attaining the project objective.



10
initiated new ones. Without the project, it is unlikely that Zaire would have developed a
reasonable power system master plan which prevented the financing of a long list of uneconomic
projects. However, the Mobaye hydropower station in the Equator region was expanded despite
strong objections from IDA and it is fair to say that without the IDA's involvement, many more
millions of dollars would have been spent on uneconomic projects.
6.3    The last supervision report on Credit 1224 ZR (08/01/1988) indicates that the covenanted
rate of return for the Southern region of at least 4% in 1983 and 6% in 1984 and thereafter, has
been met by SNEL. SNEL was not, however, successful in the settlement of Government
receivables. The covenant requiring the Government and Government owned and controlled
entities to pay within 30 days amounts due for their electricity consumption, has not been
respected because of poor Government budgeting practices. Payments by parastatals, particularly
those of Gecamines, were usually on time. Only Regideso (the water company) had substantial
unsettled arrears owing to unpaid compensation for facilities taken over by SNEL. At December
31, 1991, accounts receivables stood at 9.3 months billing (7.1 months for the Government and
parastatals and 10.7 months for private consumers). Collection has also deteriorated due to the
economic and political situation in the country (high voltage consumers: 65%; medium voltage
consumers: 57%; and low voltage consumers: 29%). SNEL's financial situation is preoccupying
because: (i) the inflation, Zaire has known in recent years, has eroded the real value of SNEL's
tariffs and accounts receivables; (ii) The country's economic crisis has created financial
difficulties for several large SNEL's consumers. This had repercussions on the level of arrears
and translated into a strong social pressure against tariff adjustments; and (iii) to finance the
budget deficit, the Government had requested large fiscal adjustments and lagged in the payment
of its electricity bills. For instance, in December 1989, SNEL was requested to pay 66 billion
Zaire in taxes and penalties, an amount higher than SNEL's total revenues for the years 1986,
1987, 1988 and 1989 combined.
B.    Second Power Project (Credit 1712-ZR)
6.4    One unit (Unit 3) has been rehabilitated and put back into service. Units 1,2, and 4 will
have to wait until the contractors return to the site. Spare parts are available on site but some
are believed to have deteriorated as a result of storage problems.
6.5    SNEL and Government have not complied with a number of major covenants of the
Credit (reduction in accounts receivable and in particular, settlement of Government arrears to
SNEL, financial ratios, audit, sectoral investment program). Power tariffs, never high enough
to meet the cost of supply, have fallen markedly in real terms as a result of rampant inflation.
SNEL took a number of steps to improve its billing and collection performance, and as a result
SNEL's total collection increased from US$10.7 million in the first quarter 1989 to US$20.5
million in the third quarter 1990. SNEL's sales are about 4,300 GWh per year, so collections
in the third quarter of 1990 reached the equivalent of about US 1.9 cents per kWh sold, or about
1/3 of estimated long run marginal cost (LRMC). Unfortunately, results in the last quarter 1990
were compromised by the rapid inflation (the devaluation in real terms of SNEL's accounts
receivables in October and November probably exceeded the value of collections during the same
period), and the Government's fiscal problems (reflected in a build-up of arrears and additional
tax claims). In dealing with SNEL's billing and collection problem, SNEL's management has
sensibly put a priority on the large high and medium voltage accounts. The results in these
categories appear generally satisfactory, subject to the understanding that arrears from
Government and bankrupt parastatals are largely uncollectable.  Government arrears are
uncollectable in the sense that they are eventually resolved through a compensation agreement



11
setting them off against sometimes arbitrary assessments of taxes due by SNEL. SNEL is also
unable to cut off power to parastatals providing essential public services (such as water). A
number of initiatives had been envisaged to deal with the more untractable problem of low
voltage consumers. New computers have been ordered. Three pre-payment meters (activated
by a magnetically coded card) have been installed on an experimental basis and an additional
3000 ordered. SNEL plans to put them in the neighborhoods with the worst collection problems.
With the help of consultants financed by the Credit, SNEL plans of putting one of the six
Agences Principales that are responsible for low voltage consumers in Kinshasa under
management contract with a private (and presumably foreign) firm. A second Agence Principale
would remain under SNEL management but be given the same equipment and vehicles as the first
and its performance would be measured against that of the privately-managed pilot. Experience
gained in these two would then be applied in the other four.
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1    The sustainability of the economic benefits from the projects is in doubt because of: (i)
delays in project completion and cost overruns; (ii) the lack of sufficient foreign exchange for the
purchase of spare parts, given the difficult economic situation of the country; and (iii) weakening
of the financial, human resources and management of SNEL by high inflation, low productivity,
and high turnover in the company's management. SNEL's capacity to regularly maintain the
power system as a whole, and the rehabilitated assets in particular, is therefore diminished.
Additional risks to sustainability are represented by the poor communications in Zaire and the
centralization of decision making in SNEL's headquarters in Kinshasa. SNEL and IDA should
have put more emphasis on strengthening regional management within SNEL, and less on
headquarters functions. In time, however, private sector participation will be needed for a more
sustainable development of the power sector.
8.    IDA Performance
8.1   IDA performance on the project was mixed. On the one hand, the emergency nature of
the Shaba power system rehabilitation may have been exaggerated and more efforts should have
been made to ascertain the extent of the required rehabilitation and repair work with more
precision. The logistics involved should also have been studied and the issues addressed. The
experience that was available from the Shaba project should have been used in the design of the
Second Power Project which should have been simpler. Furthermore, when it was discovered
that the Government, despite its agreements with IDA, proceeded with the extension of the
Mobaye power station and was not complying with other covenants of the Credit Agreement, the
Credit should have been suspended. On the other hand, despite delays in implementation,
aggravated by the civil unrest the country has known in recent years, the dialogue between IDA
staff and the executing agency yielded several institutional benefits. With IDA advice and
assistance, SNEL formulated a priority investment program and thus avoided costly investments.
It also improved its accounting and training, and the integrity of major assets was preserved,
notably at Inga. Without IDA's intervention, the power sector would have been in a serious state
and the economy of Zaire would have suffered as a result.
8.2    Sixteen supervision missions, shared equally between the two projects, were fielded
between 1983 and 1990. Given the complexity of the projects, IDA's supervision effort was not
adequate for at least two reasons: (i) the projects' management was weak and IDA had no reason
to expect or think otherwise; and (ii) the visits to the far away sites were few and the supervision
missions took place, mostly, in Kinshasa. Given the multitude of institutional and financial



12
problems of the executing agency, attention focused more on the technical assistance package than
on the physical components even though they were critical for the achievement of the objective
of the project. With the long implementation delays, supervision of the projects also suffered
from lack of staff continuity.
8.3    The lessons learned are the following:
a)     More efforts should be put into (i) ascertaining with as more precision as
possible, the amount of rehabilitation and repair works needed; and (ii)
addressing the problems of logistics that were to prove so important during the
implementation phase of the projectl/;
b)    In rehabilitation projects of this kind, the level of contingencies should be
set high enough to accomodate for works and repairs that could not
reasonably be foreseen before they are actually carried out;
c)    In view of the weak implementation capacity of the executing agency and poor
communications, a simpler design should have been adopted for the projects;
d)     Better reporting arrangements by the consulting engineers should have been put
in place;
e)    The size of the supervision missions should have been commensurate with the size
and composition of the projects that had important components in several distant
areas. More site visits should have been undertaken;
f)    Supervision efforts should have primarily concentrated on the components which
were critical for the achievement of the projects' objectives;
g)    IDA should have exercised its contractual remedies for Govermnent non-
compliance with the Credit and Project Agreements, particularly when the
Government decided to ignore its agreement with IDA and proceeded with the
extension of the Mobaye power station in the Northern Equator Region.
9.     Borrower Performance
9.1    The performance of the borrower has been inadequate. The commitment of both the
Government and the executing agency was not strong enough as their attention was concentrated
on the construction of the Inga-Shaba system. Uneconomic spending, in particular for the
Mobaye power project, has taken away considerable resources which could have been invested
more wisely in the sector, such as acquiring spare parts for vitally needed maintenance and
paying Government arrears to SNEL. The institutional and financial weaknesses of the executing
agency were known at appraisal and a substantial technical assistance package was financed by
IDA and other donors, CCCE in particular. This technical assistance, however, was mostly used
to solve immediate problems and little attention was paid to institutional building. Physical
implementation itself has not been fully satisfactory due, in part, to the difficulties resulting from
1/ The Bank had major projects on-going with Gecamines and with SNCZ in the Shaba
region, and not enough was done to organize a joint approach to issues that cut across sectors.



13
the country's inadequate manpower and management capability and from the economic crisis and
its political and social consequences. The deterioration of the transport and telecommunications
network has resulted in severe logistics problems for the distant projects' sites. Recruiting and
retaining qualified staff have also been difficult. Furthermore, high inflation deprived SNEL of
important resources by lowering the real value of its tariffs and of its accounts receivables. The
ability of SNEL to maintain and operate its widely dispersed assets is therefore diminished. The
focus and the responsibilities for the projects were diffuse and SNEL relied heavily on the
consulting engineers. The deployment of SNEL's staff on the sites has not been well thought
through and the executing agency reacted only after the problems became acute.
10.   Project Relationship
10.1   The supplemental financing for the Shaba Power System Rehabilitation, provided under
the Second Power Project (Credit 1712 ZR), may have weakened the incentive of the executing
agency to properly implement the project because it showed that it could confidently approach
IDA for supplementary funding. A large number of contract addenda were authorized which
might be explained by the fact that nobody knew what work would be needed until the units were
taken apart and studied, and there was no way a contract could have been written to cover all the
contingencies and still maintain some sort of discipline over the contractors without requiring a
large number of step-by-step approvals.
10.2  IDA relationship with the Government and the executing agency were courteous, but
became strained after the start of the Second Power Project when the economic justification of
the extension of the Mobaye power station and its associated transmission and distribution system
became a major issue. Despite assurances to the contrary, the Government proceeded with the
extension. Furthermore, on several occasions, IDA drew the attention of the Government and
the executing agency to their obligations under the Credit and Project Agreements. In particular,
the covenant on the reduction of arrears to SNEL, from the Government and from municipalities
to 2.5 months sale by end 1989 has not been complied with and no credible plan has been
developed. Per SNEL's October 31, 1990 figures, overall arrears stood at the equivalent in
nominal zaires, of 3.4 months of sales, while those of the Government were equivalent to 14.6
months of sales.
10.3   Coordination with cofinanciers of the Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project (CCCE
and Belgium) was handled by IDA's supervision missions which visited the representatives of
Belgium and CCCE in Kinshasa and coordinated with them. More coordination should have
taken place particularly through joint meetings with SNEL and the cofinanciers. Belgium and
CCCE contributed to the supplemental financing of the project by funding the replacement of the
stator windings and the modernization of three speed regulators, both at Nseke, in the Shaba
region.
11.   Consulting Services
11.1   The feasibility study of the Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project could not assess
with more precision the amount of rehabilitation and repair work to be done on the 4 hydro-
power stations in the Shaba region. During project implementation, the consulting engineer was
not always on site and its relationship with some contractors was difficult, which may have had
an effect on the progress of the works. Some contractors, themselves, proved difficult. Other
consulting firms employed under the technical assistance package performed satisfactorily but
here also with delays and contract addenda. IDA was actively involved in reviewing the progress



14
and recommendations of studies in several areas, including accounting, audit, dam safety, tariffs
and asset revaluation.
11.2   Under the Second Power Project, the performance of the consulting engineer in charge
of the supervision and control of the rehabilitation work in the Kivu region was hampered by
payments arrears, difficult relations with some contractors and the vagaries of supply and
communications. Other activities by consultants included the finalization of the long term
electricity master plan which was a major initiative recommended and supported by IDA. Other
donors looked to IDA for leadership and followed the preparation of the electricity master plan
as well as IDA's discussions with the Government, SNEL and the consultants. The preparation
of the master plan also included a systematic review of the rehabilitation needs of physical
facilities, a training plan, audits and improvement in the management of Inga I and II.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.1  Section 5.01 of the Credit Agreement for the Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project
was amended in February 1983 to reflect the substitution of CCCE for the OPEC Fund. Some
categories of expenditures which were to be financed by IDA (training, a number of vehicles,
consultants for the development of an energy policy and pricing of energy resources) were alloted
to CCCE. Remaining IDA expenditure categories were increased so that the amount of the
Credit remained unchanged (SDR16.4 million). Supervision and preparation of the project
completion report would have been greatly facilitated if, prior to the granting of a supplemental
financing, a complete review of the project had been made. The inclusion of additional funding
for the Shaba rehabilitation and repair works in the Second Power Project made monitoring more
difficult because it was not frequently reported upon and the reports that were made were
sketchy.
12.2  There was no evidence that the monitoring system for the Second Power Project which
was designed at appraisal had been followed or reported upon. Consulting engineers' contracts
did not apparently include the submission of periodic progress reports. The supervision reports,
themselves, were not comprehensive and project follow up was difficult. Project costs and
project financing, especially the financing of local costs and the amounts actually contributed by
co-financiers, were not reported upon and were difficult to put together.
.1'



15
PROJECr COMPLEMION REPORT
ZAIE
SHABA POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION
SECOND POWER PROJECr
(Czediu 224-ZR and 1712-Z'R)
PART H. PRO        REVTEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.           INT RODUCTION
Zaire has enormous untapped energy resources, its greatest potendal being hydro-
generated electric power. In addition, oil is available just off the coast of Zaire and there are
other potential sites further inland. Zaire's luxuriant forests as well as charcoal in Shaba region
are other sources of energy for Zaire.
Electricity production in the country is about 5,000 GWh per year, which is less
than 1% of the estimated potential of 530,000 GWh for the entire country.
The state-owned Socidt6 Nationale d'Electricite (SNEL) is responsible for the
generation, transmission and distribution of electricity throughout Zaire. The main areas of
electricity generation and consumption in Zaire are the Bas-Zaire region in the west and Shaba
in the southeast. Shaba alone accounts for nearly 60% of the total energy produced by SNEL
and in the region, one consumer, La Gdndrale des Carrieres et des Mines (GECAMIINES),
consumes nearly 55% of the total energy produced by SNEL. Less than 5% of Zaire's
population has access to electric power.
In the late 1970s it was realized that the generation capacity of the four Shaba
stations, i.e. 450 MW, would not sustain an increase in power demand from GECAMINES,
which provided 65% of the country's foreign exchange. The Government's strategy in meeting
this challenge was to develop production capacity at the Inga site and build the necessary
infrastructure to supply Shaba from Inga.
In order to guarantee the reliability of such supply, it was necessary to identify
and carry out rehabilitation works on the Shaba stations and network, and to provide adequate
instimtional assistance to SNEL so as to enhance its understanding of the various parameters of
its management.
2.           PROJECT OBJECTIVES (Appraisal Report, para. 4.04, p. 11)
The main objective of the project was to rehabilitate the generating stations and
the existing transmission and distribution system in the Shaba region as soon as possible, to
prevent failure of the supply of energy to GECAMINES.
The project was also to ensure that adequate funds were available to maintain the
Shaba system at an effective level of operation.
The project was also to:
-      improve the training of SNEL's staff
-     provide technical assistance to improve management
-     provide realistic asset values in SNEL's financial statements, with a view to
establishing a basis for future tariffs; and
-     examine the relationship between the tariffs and consumer categories.



16
An electricity planning advisor was also to be provided to SNEL to improve its
capability in planning the most efficient use of its resources.
Lastly, an energy study was to be undertaken and an advisor provided to assist
the Government in formulating its energy objectives.
3.            THE PROJECT
3.1           According to appraisal reports for Credits 1224-ZR and 1712-ZR
The project consisted of the repair and replacement of parts and equipment in four
generating stations and the Shaba transmission network, which had greatly deteriorated owing to
a lack of maintenance and spare parts.
It had been determined that the Shaba system, only 25 to 30 years old, could be
restored to satisfactory operating conditions with the expenditure of a reasonable amount of
money for repairs and the purchase of spare parts.
Miscellaneous repairs were necessary to the air, water, oil and electrical service
systems at the four plants. However, the largest item was the replacement of the windings in the
Nseke generators, which had failed owing to age and inappropriate selection of insulation
material. When the units were manufactured in 1957, a new type of insulation was used and,
over time, it had deteriorated, leading to failures.
Because of the size of the Nseke units (60 MW), it was decided not to take more
than one unit out of service at the same time and that the repair period, primarily for the
rewinding of the unit, was not to exceed nine months. Other repairs were to be carried out once
the unit was restored to service, in accordance with the operating program.
Some repairs were expected to be delayed because of the long delivery time
required for the special manufacture of special items no longer regularly available.
Following is a partial list of items which were to be repaired or replaced:
(a)    Nseke generating station
-      replacement of stator windings in the four generators
-      repairs to headgates
-      painting of the penstocks
-      replacement of defective parts of the four turbine governors
-      complete replacement of transformer oil (found to be too acid)
-      repair of the air conditioning system in the control room
(b)    Nzilo generating station
-      study of the movement of the Nzilo dam and proposal of remedial measures
-      repairs to headgates
-      replacement of generator coolants
-      replacement of air compressors
-      repairs to diesel stand-by unit



17
replacement of batteries
replacement of terminal connections
(c)    Mwadingusha generating station
replacement of defective parts for the automatic control of the headpond gate
two new turbine runners
repairs to bearing cooling water systems
new air compressors
modification of the high voltage switching station (circuit breaker, disconnects)
for the new transformer already delivered
replacement of cables from generating units to transformers in switchyard
replacement of batteries
(d)    Koni generating station
-      replacement of seals in penstock expansion joints
-      replacement of pipes in generator cooling system
-      repairs to governors
-      replacement of air compressors
-      replacement of collector rings and brushes on generator exciters
(e)    High voltage transmission system
-      as the equipment in switching stations and sub-stations were as old as the
powerhouses, many items of control and protective equipment had to be replaced.
SNEL has had the same problem with the lack of vehicles that arises in all
developing countries. A component of this project was therefore to replace about 50% of
vehicles in the Shaba fleet, i.e. the supply of more than 100 vehicles and mobile equipment as
well as spare parts and adequate tools for their maintenance. A large share of the vehicles and
equipment was to enable SNEL to transport personnel and carry out brush clearing operations
along the transmission line routes during the dry season and thereby reduce the power
interruptions caused by bush fires.
Another project component covered the supply of consumables such as:
-      paper for recording instruments
-      signalization lamps
-      silica gel
-      transformer oil
and numerous other items required in the normal day-to-day maintenance of the four generating
stations.
Sufficient supplies were to be provided for three years' requirements.  In
addition, small tools were to be provided to augment the existing equipment in the workshops,
as well as items of safety equipment such as hard hats, protective equipment for welding, gloves,
etc.



18
The training component consisted primarily of assistance to the Sanga training
center, identification of SNEL's training needs, establishment of internships outside of Zaire for
staff and the purchase of training aids.
The main aspects of the component involving consultants were as follows:
(i)    preparation of bidding documents for the purchase of supplies and supervision
of their commissioning
(ii)   supervision of repair works under way
(iii)   study of the movement of the arch dam at the Nzilo generating station
(iv)    study of SNEL's tariff structure and recommendations on any changes to the
various categories of consumers, including a review of the value of SNEL's
assets in order to establish a reasonable base for the tariff studies
(v)    provision of an expert to the National Energy Commission
(vi)   technical assistance to SNEL.
Additional goods and services had been identified during the dismounting of the
units. These had been taken into account during appraisal of Project 1712-ZR and mainly
involve:
(i)   additional repairs to the turbines, generators, hydromechanical and electric
systems of the machinery at the four generating stations
(ii)    modernization of governors
(iii)   replacement of the shaft of unit 4 at Nseke
(iv)    repair and replacement of dam gates at Nzilo and Nseke
(v)    financing of additional repairs
(vi)   supervision of additional repairs.
3.2           According to Credit Agreements 1224-ZR and 1712-ZR
According to the Credit Agreements, project objectives are as follows:
Part A:      Rehabilitation of stator windings in the four generators at Nseke
Part B:      Repairs to the four Shaba hydroelectric generating stations (Nseke, Nzilo, Koni,
Mwadingusha)
(1)    Repairs to the generator cooling systems at Koni and Nzio
(2)    Repairs to the basic elements of the four stations, excluding dams
Part C:      Rehabilitation of the Southern Region high voltage transmission system
Replacement of controls and protective equipment in the high voltage switching
stations and substations which form part of the high voltage transmission system
Part D:       Maintenanc
Maintenance of the generating stations, high voltage transmission system and
substations rehabilitated under Parts A and B of the project



19
Part E:      Training and studies
(1)    Review of the training program at the Sanga training school; training
assistance for said school (six man-years to review training programs)
(2)   (a)    study of electricity tariffs for various categories of consumers
with a view to eliminating disparities
(b)    study to determine the value of SNEL's assets
(3)    Study of movements of the arch dam at Nzilo and preparation of a
rehabilitation program for said dam
Part F:      Improvement of SNEL's management
(1)   Improvement of financial controls
(2)    Studies to identify measures to be taken to improve medium- and long-
term planning, organization and financial management and actions to
ensure that the improvements can be sustained.
(3)   Implementation schedule for the above.
Part G:      Development of an energy policy and Dricing of energy resources
(1)    Preparation of a medium- and long-term energy policy
(2)    Study of energy resources in accordance with IDA's terms of reference.
In addition, Credit Agreement 1712-ZR included under Part E of the description
of the project 'carrying out of repairs to the Southern Region Power Network of SNEL'
(Schedule 2 of the Credit Agreements dated April 23, 1987).
3.3          Comments
It appears from the two preceding paragraphs that there were sometimes marked
differences between the appraisal report and the credit agreements, with the description of works
in the appraisal report being more detailed. In fact, project execution was very close to the
appraisal report. However, certain areas were only partially carried out and in other instances
execution exceeded the appraisal estimates.
4.           PROJECT EXECUTION
4.1          DescriDtion of works
The physical aspects of the project included:
-     rewinding of the generators at Nseke;
-      complete rehabilitation (overhaul) of the generating sets, ancillary equipment and
high voltage sub-stations for the Nseke, Nzilo, Koni and Mwadingusha
generating stations in Shaba;
-     rehabilitation of the following high voltage sub-stations:
0     west sub-station (Kolwezi)



20
*     central sub-station (Shituru-Likasi)
*     southern sub-station (Lubumbashi)
recruitment of consultants for studies and supervision of works;
replacement of vehicle fleet for SNEL's Shaba Regional Department;
the following additional works:
*     rewinding of a generator at Nzilo
*     reconditioning and modernization of turbine governors at the Nseke,
Nzilo and Koni stations
4.2           Completion date of works
The project was ultimately completed in three phases:
1.    The first phase saw FOB procurement, under 34 contracts, all completed within
the contractual periods;
2.     A transportation phase, FOB European port to CIF Lubumbashi, under a contract
with a local carrier; the equipment, grouped into lots, was shipped as it became
available.
Shipments from Europe to Matadi did not take longer than scheduled. However,
local transit via the national system posed many problems raised earlier in Part
I of the PCR. The delays were considerable (more than one year) in relation to
the two months contracted.
3.    A phase of works carried out by two contractors, one for the rehabilitation of the
generating units and HV transmission stations and another for specific works at
Mwadingusha.
The completion dates for the works by generating station and by unit are given in the
statistical information section.
4.3          D2etails of project implementation
4.3.1        As described in para. 3.3 above, there were discrepancies, in some cases sizeable,
between the appraisal report and the credit agreements. With respect to project implementation,
the discrepancies were even greater; certain planned action was not implemented and other action
carried out had not been planned. This was attributable to the fact that, at the start of the
rehabilitation and after one machine had been dismounted in each station, it quickly became clear
that the funding provided beforehand for purchases of spare parts would not prove sufficient to
take care of the complete rehabilitation of each unit.
4.3.2        It was therefore necessary to redefine the status of requirements for each machine,
which led to:
(i)     relatively sizeable amendments to the contracts with the main suppliers



21
(ii)     the redefinition of priority actions aimed essentially at giving preference to
production components, i.e. the generating units proper and also the protective
mechanisms (organes de garde) (bottom and headgates)'
(iii)    the postponement of certain action, such as work on the dam gates at Nseke,
Nzilo and Mwadingusha
(iv)     the adoption of conservative measures to regulate the speed of the units while
waiting for supplementary financing for the modernization works, which have by
now become more than merely desirable, at Nseke and Nzilo.
4.3.3        In terms of both actual work to be carried out and the time required to complete
the work, certain rehabilitation objectives necessitated the simultaneous shutdown of both Nzilo
and Nseke. The GECAMINES requirements with respect to maintaining a minimum spinning
reserve precluded these shutdowns, especially since, as described earlier, the fire that broke out
at the Mwadingusha generating station resulted in an even greater power deficit, bringing it down
to an amount very similar to that of a Nseke unit. Consequently, most of the action that called
for the shutdown of the two units simultaneously in the largest generating station had to be
postponed, and some of this work (bottom and headgates of units I and 2 at Nseke) had, as of
the writing of this report, still not been carried out.
4.3.4        In general, the overall picture for the five years and three months it took to carry
out the works is satisfactory, 15 units having been rehabilitated, The average length of time it
took for rehabilitation by station is about:
15 months for Nseke
15 months for Nzilo
7.5 months for Mwadingusha
14 months for Koni
The total rehabilitated power capacity is 450 MW, broken down as follows:
Nseke               240 MW
Nzilo               100 MW
Mwadingusha          70 MW
Koni                 42 MW
452 MW
5.           Proiect results
5.1           Postponement of the rehabilitation of the Shaba generating stations would have
resulted in a significant increase in project costs because the equipment would have deteriorated
further. The stability of Shaba's energy supplies - and hence Zaire's position on the copper
market - could not have been maintained without the availability of the Shaba stations.
1/    For example, the credit agreements provided for the procurement of two new turbine-
runners in Mwadingusha to cover the repair of runners by unit pair. Once the first
two machines were dismounted it was found that the runners could not be repaired; it
was therefore decided to order three additional new runners.



22
The alternative, which was to import energy from Zambia to meet Shaba's needs,
would have been untenable. All of Southern Africa is faced with the problem of drought and
there is little hope of any improvement in the near future.
With the availability of the Shaba stations, SNEL was able to develop a policy
for the export of energy to Zambia and Zimbabwe.
The revenues generated by such exports are helping to fund SNEL's operations
and development.
For purposes of comparison, the cost per kW rehabilitated at Shaba is US$77.
This cost represents less than 12% of the amount that would be entailed to procure and install
new equipment, which, depending on the installed power, would be about US$660 per kW. Even
though certain further work is still needed to complete the rehabilitation of the generating
facilities, the project has already guaranteed the reliability of the installations for a period of some
20-25 years, at a cost considerably lower than a new generating station.
The rate of US$77 is an average for all installed power in Shaba, and a brief
examination of expenditures for the individual generating stations shows that per-kW costs
increase in inverse proportion to the power of the units, despite the fact that the largest amount
of work was undertaken at the generating stations producing the. highest power.
The following are the approximate costs:
Nseke:       US$50/kW
Nzilo:       US$62/kW
Koni:        US$96/kW
Mwadingusha: US$105/kW
6.           Evaluation of the performance of the parties involved in the project
6.1          Consultant for the rehabilitation of the Shaba stations
6.1.1        The consultant performed its work satisfactorily and played very little role in the
increased costs and the time lags. It should be pointed out that, (a) the scope of the consultant's
services was considerably altered in the course of project implementation. Its responsibilities
originally consisted essentially of assistance with 'the procurement of spare parts for the
generating stations and high voltage transmission stations at Shaba" and (b) the commissioning
of the new equipment was carried out under the supervision of the engineering consultant who
was asked to assign to yhis task one person only. Following the procurement phase and after the
shipments of the equipment were already under way, SNEL decided to entrust all the works to
a single company on the basis of limited competitive bidding, to which the Bank did not have any
objection. The consultant thus performed some services that had not been planned at the outset,
which necessitated the preparation of the first amendment. The initial project implementation
timetable was not accepted by the Bank because it would have taken too long. This program of
work did not provide for the simultaneous execution of the work in the eastern (Nseke and Nzilo)
and central regions (Koni and Mwadingusha) because only one person had been assigned to carry
out the supervision. A new program was drawn up which provided for the simultaneous
execution of the work in the eastern and central regions. These simultaneous works (eight units
in one place and nine in the other) in two areas that were far from each other and connected only



23
by poor-quality roads (270 km in the case of the Mwadingusha and Nzilo generating stations and
320 km in the case of the Koni and Nseke generating stations) would have required the presence
of two supervisors. The World Bank refused to bear the cost of these services and asked that
SNEL designate a Zairian counterpart assistant to the consultant's supervisor. This measure,
which came into effect on August 7, 1987, i.e. two years after the start of works, had a positive
impact, particularly with respect to the equipment that GECAMINES had undertaken to repair.
A second supervisor was necessary, however, and would have also been able to train the SNEL
counterpart assistant. There is no doubt that the additional costs attached to a second supervisor
would have only been marginally more for SNEL compared to the additional expense ultimately
entailed by its inability to exercise rigorous monitoring with only one person. This meant that
an emergency measure to be taken at one generating station might have to be postponed for
several days, resulting in the costly and demoralizing idleness of the contractor's staff (ch6mages
techniques). An additional problem was that telecommunications between generating stations
were virtually impossible. A project for the rehabilitation of these facilities was carried out with
Italian funding, but the system did not become operational until March 1990.
6.2    Contractors for the rehabilitation of the units and stations
The performance of these contractors can only be described as unsatisfactory
overall, in terms not so much of the quality of their work per se but more in terms of the
following:
(i)      the general organization of the work sites;
(ii)     the lack of initiative in promptly dealing with problems that arose and in
suggesting solutions;
(iii)     the failure of the contractors' main office to delegate sufficient responsibility to
their assembly technicians.
Certain assembly technicians were also insufficiently skilled, which resulted in
personnel switches, which were disruptive because they interrupted the continuity
of the work.
T-he supervision missions carried out by the contractor's Project
Manager were too infrequent and of too short duration.
It should be noted, however, in the contractor's defense, that its
performance was affected by abnormally long delays in services over which it had no control,
such as:
(i)     long delays in the procurement of the spare parts needed for the rehabilitation
(startup of the site had been scheduled to coincide with the arrival of the first lot
of equipment, which was to have arrived at the site three months after shipment,
whereas the average shipment time was 6 to 12 months;
(ii)     abnormal lengths of time taken to recondition parts, which would have cost too
much to replace, in the Ateliers de l 'Ouest (AO);
(iii)     delays in the availability of the units and the requirement set by GECAMINES
with respect to maintaining a minimum spinning reserve, which made it possible
to shut down two units simultaneously, which would have made it possible to
recondition the parts for one unit while dismounting the other, thereby making
up at least some of the repair time;



24
(iv)     the consultant not being present for the reasons referred in paragraph 6.1 above.
All these elements were bound to have a demoralizing effect on the contractor's
staff, who were subsequently little inclined to make an effort to make up for even a small
amount of the delays which were beyond their control.
6.3    Contractor responsible for the work at the Mwadingusha yenerating station
The performance of this contractor was evaluated in terms of both the project
studies and input supplies and the execution of the on-site works. The company experienced
major delays, for which it was not responsible. They were attributable to large losses of
equipment while in transit locally and to the time it took to reorder and receive the items
involved.
It should be pointed out, however, that the work done by the contractor called
for the complete shutdown of the station. It therefore 'took advantage' of the shutdown
following the fire in the cable tunnel. Had this incident not occurred, it is not certain, given the
constraints imposed by GECAMINES, that this contractor would have experienced the same
problems as those encountered by the contractor responsible for the rehabilitation works. The
fact remains, however, that the contractor was always constructive in dealing with the problems
encountered.
6.4           Evaluation of the Bank's performance
It can be difficult for the Borrower, as represented by the government of a
country, to make an evaluation of the donor, but as this is one of the objectives of the completion
report, the Borrower's comments are as follows:
(i)     The Borrower regrets that the World Bank did not require from the outset a
single general contractor to handle everything, from procurement to assembly,
and industrial-scale commissioning. Additionally, the requirement that the
Borrower pay for transportation out of the local counterpart portion of the
funding resulted in the breaking of bulk transport that was particularly
detrimental to the contractor.
(ii)     The Borrower regrets the lack of coordination among the various donors and
specifically, in this case, the World Bank (IDA), CCCE (France) and Belgian
Assistance.
The Borrower feels that although the World Bank did indeed have contact with
other project donors, a meeting was never held of all the donors with the
Borrower to decide together on the optimum utilization of the funds as a whole.
It is true that the Belgian credits were primarily instrumental in putting the IDA
credit in place and later in the signing of the agreement and the amendments.
But the IDA credit did not become operational until CCCE financing had
replaced the OPEC financing; it would have thus been possible at that time to
decide on the optimal allocation to the various project categories. This does not
appear to have taken place. For example, a proportion of CCCE's financing,
i.e. F 21 million (currently equivalent to US$4.2 million), was allocated for the



25
procurement of vehicles. The vehicles contract was tied, with the result that
most of the vehicles supplied were ill-suited for local conditions and quickly
deteriorated.
It should be pointed out that the consultant had prepared documents for
international competitive bidding (Contract RRS 25), in accordance with the
guidelines established by the World Bank. The terms of reference for the
vehicles took account of a survey conducted at GECAMINES as to the type of
vehicle most resistent to local conditions. The issue of regular maintenance and
spare parts was also decided on.
Had there been proper coordination of the financing with the Borrower, it would
have been possible to leave the procurement of vehicles under the IDA credit and
to award the tied procurement contracts with French companies out of the CCCE
credit (e.g. contract RRS 03 for the supply of turbine and gate parts for Nseke
and Nzilo).
(iii)    The Borrower would have liked more higher-level supervision missions, which
would, for example, have made GECAMINES more aware of the problems
caused by the long time it took to recondition the parts belonging to the units
undergoing rehabilitation.  There were of course other Bank missions to
GECAMINES but there was apparently no coordination with those in charge of
Credit 1224-ZR.
There were three missions to the Shaba Region at the most and the last one, in
December 1990, was more like a project completion mission because all the
rehabilitated units were by then back in service.
(iv)     The World Bank may not perhaps, in the case of this first project, have
sufficiently drawn the Borrower's attention to the meaning of it 'not objecting"
to the contracts, which could mean that the commitments made exceeded what
was possible to finance under the credit, with the consequences this could have
for SNEL's consultants and contractors, given the latter's inability to provide the
additional financing out of its own funds.



PROIECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SHABA POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION
SECONID POWER PROJECT
(Credits 1224-ZR and t712-ZRI
PART III:. STATISTICAL INFORMATION (TABLES)
1. IDA Related Credits
Crcdit Number               Project riti                          Approval           Purpoce                               Status
Date
Cr. 1224 ZR                 Shaba Power System                    04/01/82           Improve the reliability of upply      Credit closed on 06/30/1987. Project
Rehabilitation Project.                                 to the mining industry in the          substantially comnpleted. Experieaced
Southern agion of Zaim and            cost overruns nd implementation delays.
strngthen the executing agency.
Cra. 1419 BU, 1420 RW,
1421 ZR                     Ruzizi n Regional Hydroelectric Projcct  12/06/S3        Expand the supply of electricity to Burundi, The project has been completed and the
Rwnda and the Kivu Provinces of Zaire. project completion repot prepared in April       t-i
in April 1992.
Cr. 1712 ZR                 Power U                               06/19/86           Rehabilitation of the Ruzizi I        Credit filly committed; works on-going
power station and the Kivu region     with cod overruns experienced.
power network.                        Credit wu closed on June 30, 1992.
Cr. 2293 ZR                 SNEL Technical                        08/20/91           Protect and preserve key ector        Aasisace is on-going. Closing date:
Assistance                                               aswes and stregthen SNEL's            June 30, 1994.
managemaet and technical a
financial capbilities.



27
2. ITaht bl
A. CREDT 1222ZR
Planned           Actual
Identification                -                02/01/80 to 02/10/80
Apprisal                    10/80              11/03/80
Credit Negotiations         01/11/82           01/11/82 to 01/14/82
Board Approval              03/16/82           04/01/82
Credit Signature            06/09/82           06/09/82
Credit Effectiveneasi       07/01/82           03/01/83
Credit Closing              06/30/87           06/30/87
Project Completion          12/31/86Y          03/941
1/ The project was iitially cofi6naced with the OPEC Special Fund and Belgium.
In 1982, the OPEC Special Fund withdrew from the 'roject and waa replaced by CCCE which
approved a loan of 35 Millions FF towerda the financing of the project on IV17/1982.
I/ Tbe rehabilitation and repair works were to be completed by end December 1984 nd the technical asistance by end December
1986.
_/ Although the project is substantially completed with 15 out of 17 unit rehabilitated and back into service, the conslting engineer's
latest report (April 1992) indicates that the date of the lst quarter 1994, put forward for the Hli completion of the project, is
conditional on the availability of approximately USS 1.0 million in supplemental financing.
B. CREDIT 1712-R.
PLanned           Actual
Ne-appraisal                04/12V83           1984
Appraisal                   November 1984      11110-20/S4 & March 86
Credit Negotiationsl'       April 1985         04/28/86 to 04/30/86
Board Approval              June 1985          06/19/86
Credit Signature            July 1985          04/23/87
Credit Effectiveness        September 1985     11/13/87
Credit Closing              06/30/91           06130/92
Project Conipleo            12/31/90W          04/16194F
1/ Te first round of negoistions, in July 1985, was terminated because of the lack of clarity on procurement arrangements and on
SONATRAD's role. The SONATRAD issue was resolved, and a purchasing Agreement betwen SNEL and SONATRAD wa signed
on April 7, 1986. This agreement, which was prepaed with Bank Group asistance, stipulates that SONATRAD will act as SNEL's
purchasing agent for contracu estimated to cost in excess of USS3 million and for goods common to SNEL and to other public
enterprises. During negociations, a supplemental letter was agreed, which pecifies the review proceu by which SONATRAD's
intervention threshold will be revised every six months, after performance reviews to which the Bank will be aociated. As it turned
out, SONATRAD never intervened in the procurement arrangmenut for the project.
!' Appraisal Report (June 2, 1896)
1/ Estiumted



28
3. Credit Disburnements
(USS million)
A. CREDr 1224ZR
1983     1984      1985      1986      1987
Apprisal Estimate            3.0      12.0       17.9     18.7      19.0
Actal                        1.55      4.66      11.88    16.06    17.65 1/
Actual as % of Est.           52%       39%       66%       90%      93%
Date of Final Disbursement: January 31, 1988
i The difference between estimated and actual amounts is due to exchange rate movements of the SDR, the curmncy of the IDA
Credit, vis-a-vis the USS, currency used in the Bank's disbursement profile.
B. CREDrr 1712-ZR.
(USS million)
1987     1988      1989      1990      1991      1992
Apprisal Estimate            7.0      20.0      31.0      36.3      37.3       -
Actual                       7.39     21.95     32.96    40.89    45.72       50.33 1/
Actuala % of EAt.            106%      110%     106%      113%      123%       -
Date of Final Disburement: June 30, 1992
1j 'Me difference between estimated and actual amounts is due to exchange rate movements of the SDR, the curmncy of the IDA
Credit, via-a-vis the USS, currency used in the Bank's disbursement profile.



29
4. Proiect Inolementstion
A. CREDrr 1224-ZRt
Works and SuoDlies:
- Supplies and works for the rewinding of the alternators at Nseke hydropower station.
Contract signed on April 14, 1980
Addendum No. I signed on December 9, 1981
Addendum No. 2 signed on July 25, 1985
Addendum No. 3 signed on June 7, 1988
- Works on the High Voltage Substations.
Contract signed on January 25, 1985
Addendum No. I signed on August 19, 1985
Addendum No. 2 signed on lune 7, 1988
- Supplies and works for the rewinding of alternator No. 4 at Nzilo.
Contract signed on June 7, 1988
Addendum No. I signed March 10, 1989
- Supplies and works on the auxiliary services of the Mwandingusha hydropower station.
Contract signed on May 15, 1984
Addendum No. I signed on March 24, 1988
supplies:
34 contracts were signed with different suppliers. The most important of these contcts are:
- Replacement for the turbines at Nzilo.
Contact signed on August 16, 1982
Addendum No. I signed on September 21, 1984
Addendum No. 2 signed on June 7, 1988
- Replacement for the turbines at Nacke.
Contrct signed on August 16, 1983
Addendum No. I signed on November 30, 1984
Addendum No. 2 signed on June 7, 1988
- Replacement of alternators in the hydropower sations.
Contract siged Janusry 25, 1985
Addendum No. I signed August 19, 1985
Addendum No. 2 signed August 25, 1986
Addendum No. 3 signed May 31, 1988
Addendum No. 4 signed June 7, 1988
Transpoort Inunce and quality control:
- Maritim  nd aurface trnsporttion.                                                                               - 
Contrct signed on December 12, 1983
Addendum No. I signed on June 7, 1988
- Inurnce.
Contract signed on August 21, 1984
Addendum No. I signed on June 7, 1988
- Quality control (supplies).
- Conact signed on August 21, 1984



30
Completion of the Rehabilitation of the Hydropower Stations
Description                    Planned Completion         Actual Completion
N'seke Power Station (repair of the generators)                   _
Unit 1                                           01/31/83                  05/26/87
Unit 2                                           07/31/83                  07/29/88
Unit 3                                           01/01/84                     I/
Unit 4                                           12/31/84                  03/01/90
Other repairs                                    1231/84
N'zilo Power Station
Miscellaneous repairs                            12/31/84
Rehab. Unit 1                             Not foreseen at appraisal        04/20/89
Rehab. Unit 2                                                              03/13/90
Rehab. Unit 3                                                              06/12V88
Rehab. Unit 4                                                                 1/
Mwadingusha Power Station
Repairs to switchyard                            12/31/84                  03/31/88
Miscellaneous repairs                            12/31/84
Rehab. Unit 1                             Not foreseen at appraisal        04/06/88
Rehab. Unit 2                                                              07/09/88
Rehab. Unit 3                                                              04/14/88
Rehab. Unit 4                                                              04/21/88
Rehab. Unit 5                                                              12/07/88
Rehab. Unit 6                                                              02/18/88
Koni Power Station
Miscellaneous repairs                            12/31/84
Rehab. Unit 1                             Not foreseen at appraisal        05/13/89
Rehab. Unit 2                                                              07/15/88
Rehab. Unit 3                                                              06/20/87
I/ The units were put back into service on 08/19/89 and 07/01/87 respectivly, but were withdrawn shorthly
afterwards for additional repairs. The latest consulting engineer's assessment (April 1992) indicates that to put
them back into service, a supplemental financing of approximately USSl.O million is necessary.



31
Consultants
Contract Signature     Date of effectiveness
Consulting engineer                    04/28181              April 1980 1/
Management Consultant                  11/05/82                 12/01/82
Tariff Study                           10/26/83                 11/28/83
Study on the Movements of the          12/08/83                09/20/83 ll
Nzilo Dam
Planning Advisor & Power               08/16/83                09/20/83
Development Master Plan
Revaluation of Assets                  06/01/83                 10/24/83
Training Advisors
Energy Advi or
Inga Panel
Source: SNEL and consulting engineer
I/ The dale of effectiveness comes before the date of signature of the contract. Either there is a
transcription error, or the consultants started work before their contracts were signed and the
effectiveness was retroactive. 7his is unusual.
B. CREDIT 1712-ZR.
Major contracts signed:
Contmctor               Date
Abay-Cetil              12/16/87
ACEC                    12/16/87
Alsthom-Jeumont         12/16/87
Electrobeton            03/11/88
ACEC                    08/01/91



32
5. Proiect Costs and Financin:
CREDIT 1224-ZR.
A. Project Costs
(USS million)
Item                  Appraisal       Actual Cost
Estimate
Repairs to Nseke Generators        15.00 1/           14.13
Repairs to Equipment & Supply        6.43             17.16
of Consumables
Vehicles                            4.07              2.63
Training                            0.60              0.61
Consultants                          3.50             4.89
Technical Assistance                 3.50             6.13
Price & Physical Contingencies      5.90 I
Total                                39.0             45.60
1/ Includes price and physical contingencies.
Z/ Remaining price and physical contingencies have not been specifically allocated to the other
components.
B. Project Financing
(USS million)
Appraisal                           Actual
Estimatc
__________________   Foreign          Local      Total      Foreign      Local        Total
IDA                       17.0        2.0        19.0       23.25         -          23.25 I/
OPEC                      5.0          -          5.0         -                  _
CCCE 2V                          -                 -         6.90                     6.90
Belgium                   6.7              _      6.7        13.15        -          13.15 3/
SNEL                      5.0         3.3         8.3          -         2.30         2.30 3/
Total                     33.7        5.3        39.0       43.30        2.30        45.60
1/ This amount includes US$5.25 million in supplemental financing, provided under the Second Power Project
(Credit 1712 ZR) and USSO.35 million provided under the SNEL Technical Assistance Credit (2293 ZR).
/ CCCE was not a co-financing partner at the time of project appraisal.
It substituted the OPEC Fund when the latter withdrew from the project.
3/ SNEL's estimates.



33
CREDIT 1712-ZR.
A.      Project Cost
(USS million)
Item               Appraisal Estimate       Actual Cost
Rehab. and Extension of Trans.
and Distrib. network in
Bukavu, Goma and
Interconnec. with Ruzizi nI
Rehab. and Extension of the         14.12                  15.00
Trans. and Distrib. network in
Uvira and Kiliba.
Rehabilitation of Ruzizi I
Supplemental financing for the      17.08                  12.63
Shaba Project (Cr. 1224 ZR).
Emergency repairs and oper.
improvements on Inga I and
Inga II.
Telecom. Equipment.                  0.098
Technical Assistance & Studies       8.85                  25.52
Training                             0.82
Refund of PPF advance                0.94                  1.53
Total                               41.91                  54.68
B.      Project Financing
(USS million)
Appmisal                          Actual
Estimate
Foreign      Local      Total     Foreign     Local        Total
IDA             37.0                |   37.0      51.68        -          51.68 I
UNDP            0.6           -         0.6         -          -
SNEL                         4.3        4.3         -         3.0         3.00
Total           37.6         4.3        41.9       51.68       3.0        54.68
1/ Includes US$1.35 million provided under SNEL Technical Assistance Credit (2293 ZR).



34
6. Proj ltR
CREDIT 1224ZR.
A. Financial Impact
In 1982, SNEL was not required to meet an overall rate of return because of the
uncertainty about the correct value of SNEL's assets and the impact of the "Systeme Inga-Shaba".
However, IDA obtained the agreement of the Government that it would enable SNEL to adjust
the tariffs of all consumers to a level sufficient to achieve a rate of return for the Southern region
of at least 4% in 1983 and 6% in 1984 and thereafter. SNEL attained the targeted rates of return
for the Southern region in 1983 through 1986, based on estimated revalued assets.
B. Economic Impact
lI                       I    Appraisal Estimate      Estimated Actual
Economic Rate of Return | 16 % in 1982, 12% in 1986      8.9%
1.    At appraisal, the economic rate of return was estimatedc at 16% (Appraisal Report No.
3400a-ZR of March 15, 1982). This rate was reevaluated during the appraisal of the Second
Power Project (Credit 1712-ZR) which included supplemental financing for the Shaba Power
System Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1224 ZR) and was found to be 12% (Appraisal Report No.
5706-ZR of June 2, 1986). Since costs, tariffs and the benefits to be expected from the project
have changed, the rate of return is recomputed on the basis of the following:
2.     Te economic rate of return is the discount rate at which the present economic value of
the project's investment and operating costs equals the present value of savings and revenues
expected to be obtained from the project.
3.     The capital cost of the repairs, spare parts and new equipment, exclusive of the technical
assistance and training components, is estimated at 1986 prices. The economic life of the project
is assumed to be 15 years.
4.     The benefits are assumed to be the revenues from the sale of electricity which is available
due to the rehabilitation program. With the commissioning of the Inga-Shaba direct current
transmission line in 1983, the rehabilitated hydropower plants in the Shaba region would only
supply part of the demand and would otherwise be on stand-by. In addition, the demand has
fallen markedly in recent years and the peak demand in the Shaba region is now 60% of what
it was in 1986-1987. This is compensated to some extent by the increase of exports to Zambia
and Zimbabwe (around 100 MW). Units had been put into stream as soon as rehabilitated and
it is assumed that 47 MW had been available in 1987, 146 MW in 1988, 236 MW in 1989, 310
MW in 1990 and 315 MW in 1991 and thereafter. It has also been assumed that the availability
is 70% and the load factor 30%.
5.     The average tariff in the Shaba region has been estimated at USc1.00/kWh.
6.     Operation and maintenance costs are US$1.0 millionlyear.



35
CREDIT 1712-ZR.
A. Financial Impact
SNEL was to produce, for each of its fiscal years beginning 1987, funds from internal
sources equivalent to not less than 30% of the annual average of capital expenditures incurred
or to be incurred during the previous fiscal year, the current fiscal year and the next following
fiscal year. The condition was complied with in 1987 and 1988 but not in 1989 and 1990. The
1991 audited financial statements are being prepared, but the target will most probably not be
attained.
B. Economic Impact
The economic rates of return that were computed in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
of the Second Power Project (Cr. 1712-ZR) related to the rehabilitation of the Ruzizi I hydro
power plant, the rehabilitation and extension of the distribution network in the Kivu region and
the rehabilitation of the Shaba power plants and transmission system.
At appraisal, the rate of return for the rehabilitation of the Ruzizi I hydro power plant
had been estimated at 21.1%. With completion delays and cost overruns experienced by the
project, only one generating unit (Unit 3) out of four has been rehabilitated and put back into
service. Units 1, 2, and 4 are awaiting contractors to return to the site from which they withdrew
after the September 1991 civil unrest.
The rehabilitation and extension of the distribution network in the Kivu region is still on-
going. The rate of return has been estimated, at appraisal, at 15.6%.
The rate of return of the Shaba power plants and transmission system had been estimated
at 16% in the SAR No. 3400-ZR dated March 15, 1982. It was recomputed during the appraisal
of the Second Power Project (SAR No. 5706-ZR of June 6, 1986). The project is substantially
completed with 15 units out of 17 rehabilitated and put back into service. The rate of return is
now estimated at 8.9%.



36
7.     Status of Covenants
CREDIT 1224-ZR
Covenants                                      Remarks
Credit Agreement
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure       The covenant has not been respected because
that any entity owned or controlled by the    of poor Government budgeting practices
Borrower pay within 30 days of billing        which leave insufficient funds for payment.
amounts due for electricity supplied by       Parastatals' payments, particularly those of
SNEL.                                         Gecamines, are usually on time.  Only
Regideso has substantial unsettled arrears
owing to unpaid compensation for facilities
taken over by SNEL. An action plan to
address this and other bottlenecks in
payment procedures were to be submitted to
IDA, as a condition of effectiveness of the
Power II Project.
.01 h. Remedies of the Association can be     Following the devaluation of the zaire in
applied if the CCCE Loan Agreement shall      September 1983, and its subsequent floating,
have failed to become effective or any        the Banque du Zaire provided the Caisse
conditions precedent to initial disbursement  centrale de cooperation economique (CCCE)
under said Loan Agreement, if any, shall not  a repayment guarantee and its credit became
have been fulfilled prior to July 31, 1983, or  effective in August 1984.
such other date as shall be agreed with the
Association.
Project Agreement
Section 2,02 (a). In order to assist SNEL     Implemented satisfactorily.
in carrying out the Project, SNEL shall
employ, or continue to employ, advisers,
consultants and experts whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association; the advisers, consultants and
experts listed in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement shall be employed on or before
the respective dates specified in said
Schedule.
Schedule 2.
1. Engineering consultants to continue to     Consultants (Tractebel) were satisfactory to
assist in supervising the carrying out of     the  Association  and  their  work  was
Parts B through D of the Project (repairs of  satisfactory until 1986. Because of need of
four generating stations and transmission     substantial  amount  of  additional
systems).                                     rehabilitation  works  which  were  not
identified   at  the  beginning,  their
performance was downgraded to "relatively
satisfactory".



37
2. To be employed not later than December
31, 1982:
(b)    financial consultants for Part 3 (2)   E (2)  (a), (b) - On June 10, 1983 IDA did
of the project; a) a tariff study, b)         not object to the contract with
revaluation of assets                         Helios for revaluation of assets.
The report was completed in April
1986, reviewed and accepted; its
recommendations were
implemented. On June 29, 1982,
IDA did not object to the contract
with EDF for the tariff study. EDF
submitted their interim report in
May 1984; and their final report in
June 1985, however, the inadequacy
of recommendations on tariff
structure required additional work
undertaken under Power II.
(c)    Engineering consultants for Part E     E (3)  On June 29, 1983.  IDA did not
(3) of the project (movements of the          object to the contract with the
Nzilo Dam).                                   consultant  (Hydro   Quebec).
consultants completed their work
and recommended further field
investigations; the Bank did not
object to this proposal (12/07/84)
and agreed on the amendment
signed on 02/14/85; HydroQuebec
evaluated the geological data from
SNEL which was obtained at the
end of 1986 through Gecamines'
geological services.
(d)    Consultants, experts and an adviser    F (1)  On April 20, 1984 IDA  did not
to assist in carrying out Parts F (I)         object to the contract for a planning
and F (2) of the Project.                     adviser from Tractebel, who started
his mission in May 1984. However,
due to lack of experienced staff in
SNEL, it was clear that SNEL
needed assistance by consultants for
the preparation of the Long term
Power Development Master Plan.
In June 1985 IDA agreed that SNEL
award preparation of the plan to
Tractebel; the July 1986 mission
discussed with government and
SNEL the preliminary draft.  In
1986 a second amendment (further
services on the finalization of the
plan,  investigation   of  hydro
resources and extension of the
contract of the planning expert by
two years) was approved by the
Bank. The Master Plan was to be
completed by October 1986. This



38
completed by October 1986. This
was delayed.  In January 1987,
SNEL proposed that Tractebel also
review the feasibility of converting
one circuit of the Inga-Shaba 500
KV  DC  Line.  The study was
completed and discussed in July
1987; the conversion was dropped.
The financial adviser for the DRS
was replaced in July 1986.  (2)
Management and Computer
consultants are satisfactory (contract
signed November 5, 1982 with
Sema-Sobemap), and on July 15,
1983 IDA did not objeact to an
amendment of the contract for phase
2 which covers personnel,
procurement  systeems,  assets
management, analytical accounting
resulting in a 'tableau de bord.'
3. Consultants and experts to be identified  F (3)  On June 10, 1983 IDA did not
in carrying out Part F (3) of the Project          object to SNEL's choice of a
(implementation of studies under F (2).            coordinator for the accounting and
computer divisions (Mr. Legru from
Sema-Metra - Sobemap).
Section 2.Q2.  (c) (i) Not later than       Partial  implementation  in  June  1983
September 30, 1983, SNEL shall (i) review   (schedule 2 - above); on May 16, 1984
in detail with the Association the measures  proposals  for  a  follow-up   of
identified and the plan of action prepared on  recommendations made under the F (2)
the basis of the studies to be carried out  component were approved by IDA.
under Part F (2) of the Project...
Section 2.04. (a) SNEL shall furnish to the  Self-insurance accepted for this project;
Association, promptly upon their preparation  issue was to be studied under Power II.
the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents  and  rehabilitation   and
procurement schedules for Parts A through
F of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) SNEL shall furnish to the  Contracts and procurement documents have
Association, promptly upon their preparation  been submitted in due time; however
the plans, specifications, reports, contract  evaluation of the tenders look longer than
documents  and  rehabilitation  and         expected, resulting in a delay of about 6
procurement schedules for Parts A through   months; 40 contracts have been approved by
F of the Project.                           the Bank.



39
(b) SNEL shall (i) maintain records and       Monthly and annual progress reports of
procedures adequate to record and monitor     SOBEMAP (part F2) are submitted. SNEL
the progress of Parts A through F of the      has  also   complied   with  reporting
Project.                                      requirements for the progress of the project,
with some delays.
Section 3,01. (b) SNEL shall employ on a      The financial director already in post for
permanent, full-time basis, a qualified and   more  than  four years  was  appointed
experienced financial director, acceptable to  administrative  manager  and   SNEL's
the Association.                              administrative  and  finance  director in
December 1982. He was acceptable to the
Association.
Section 3.03. SNEL shall ensure that the      No data was submitted to verify that this
level of inventory for the Southern Region    covenant has been met.
will not at any time fall bellow the
requirements for said Region for the next
twelve months.
Section 3.04.  SNEL shall take out and        Satisfactory
maintain insurance against appropriate risks
with responsible insurers...
Section 4.01. SNEL shall maintain records     SNEL maintains separate accounts.
adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently   maintained   appropriate
accounting practices its operations and
financial condition, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
recording all of SNEL's operations for each
of its regions, including the SIS.
Section 4.03.  SNEL shall: (a) have its       Accounts were reviewed for 1981, 1982 and
accounts and financial statements (balance    1983. Audited accounts were received for
sheets, statements of income and expenses     1984, 85 and 86, but have consistently been
and related statements) for each fiscal year  late due to delays in closure; certification
audited, commencing fiscal year 1981, in      not  possible  due  to  unreliability  of
accordance  with  appropriate  auditing       accounting results.
principles  consistently  applied,  by
independent auditors acceptable to the
Association.
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as
available but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year
the report of such audit by said auditors on



40
the separate accounts of each of its
regions including the SIS accounts....
Section 4.04. (a) SNEL shall carry out a       This was much delayed. The review was
review of all its assets in order to determine  substantially completed in 1986 and 1987
the current value thereof and to estimate the  accounts adjusted accordingly. Anomalies in
remaining period firing which said assets      valuation of Inga II plant required separate
will continue to operate efficiently; such     study.
review (i) with respect to the SIS, shall be
completed by January 1, 1984 and the
results thereof incorporate into the SIS
accounts for fiscal year 1984, and (ii) with
respect to all assets of SNEL, except the
SIS, shall be completed by June 30, 1984
ccounts for fiscal year 1984.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, SNEL shall: (i) carry out annually a
revaluation of the economic value of its
fixed assets; (ii) prepare annually a separate
set of accounts on the basis of said
revaluation.
Section 4.05. SNEL shall exchange views        Non-Compliance.  The final version was
with the Association with respect to the       submitted to SNEL in 1985. An updated
recommendations made pursuant to the study     study is underway.
provided for under Part E (2) (a) of the
Project and shall, taking into account the
comments of the Association, promptly take
all measures necessary to include those
recommendations in its tariffs and tariff
structure for fiscal year 1984.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Association    SNEL attained the targeted rates of return
shall otherwise agree, SNEL shall from time    for the Southern region in 1983 through
to time take all measures (including, but not   1986 based on estimated revalued assets.
limited to, proposals for adjustments of its
tariff and tariff structure) as shall be
required to earn an annual rate of return for
the Southern Region of at least four per cent
(4%) in fiscal year 1983 and six per cent
(6%) in fiscal year 1984 and thereafter.



41
7.    Status of Covenants
Credit 1712-ZR
Covenants                                    Remitks
Development Credit Ayreement
Section 4.01 (a).                           Non-Comianc.
GoZ to transfer to SNEL, by June 30,
1988, as a contribution to its capital, title
to the Inga I hydroelectric facilities and
the Inga-Shaba transmission line at their
respective values in use, as well as any
other assets operated by SNEL but
financed by GoZ.
Section 4.02.                               Non-ComRliance.
Proceeds of any grant, loan or credit       Several loans are at less than 5%, but
received by GoZ for the financing of the    average is 8-10%.
1986-1992 investment program of SNEL
to be made available to SNEL on a
reimbursable basis and with interest at not
less that 5 % per annum.
Section 4,03.                               Non-comuliance.
GoZ to establish and carry out an action    No credible plan for reducing
plan to reduce the amount of receivables of  Government's arrears has been developed.
SNEL from the State and from                Per SNEL's 31 October 1990 figures,
municipalities to four months' sale by end-  overall arrears stood at the equivalent in
87, three months' by end-88 and 2.5         nominal zaires of 3.4 months' of sales
months' by end-89.                          while those of the State were equivalent to
14.6 months' sales. The corresponding
figures in real ternis would of course be
much higher.
Section 4.06.                               Non-Compliance.
GoZ to exchange views with IDA on any       SNEL's 1990 investment budget includes a
proposed power investment exceeding         $6.6 million project to be financed by
$5,000,000.                                 Gecamines. (GoZ proceeded with the
Mobayi project in spite of assurances given
in exchange of views).
Section 3,01.                               Non-Compliance.
GoZ to have a study on urban households     Not carried out. Funds reallocated.
energy needs carried out.



42
StiLon 2.02.                                 Complignce
Procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services to be financed out of
the Credit in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
Section 3.01.                               Non-CompHan.
SNEL and SONATRAD to carry on their          SNEL financial, economic, technical and
respective operations in accordance with     commercial performance is clearly not up
sound administrative, financial, economic,  to the industry standards. As all contracts
technical, commercial and, in the case of   of the project were below the threshold,
SNEL, public utility, practices under the   SONATRAD has not had a role in the
supervision of qualified and experienced    implementation of the project and has not
management assisted by competent staff in    been supervised by the Bank.
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02.                                 uasi-Complanc.
SNEL to operate and maintain its plant,      Lack of financial resources makes it
machinery, equipment and other property,     difficult for SNEL to maintain properly
and make all necessary repairs and           and in due time to buy spare parts for its
renewals, in accordance with sound          equipment or to make the necessary
engineering, financing and economic         changes to improve performance of the
practices.                                  installations.
S2ection 3.03.                              Non-Compliance
SNEL to take out and maintain with           SNEL's assets in operation are not insured
responsible insurers, or make other         through a commercial organization against
provision satisfactory to the Association   usual risk. SNEL is considered as self-
for, insurance against such risks and in     insuring its assets through a provision for
such amounts as shall be consistent with     unforeseen repairs, although the adequacy
appropriate practice.                       of this provision in the case of large loss is
questionable. Contractors are required to
obtain standard transit and other insurance
coverage and are also subject to decennial
liability in accordance with Zairian general
law.
Section 3.04.                               Non-ComRpline
SNEL to complete, by December 31,           SNEL indicated it has completed
1987, the implementation in the Kivu        implementation, but no report was sent to
Region of its improved program of           the Bank and substantial under billing of
customer listings and of collection         MT consumers was detected in 1990.
procedures.



43
Section 3.05.                              Delayed Compliance.
SNEL (a) to exchange views with IDA on     Exchange of views were held in October
its long-term development plan during its  and December 1987 and January/February
preparation; (b) to furnish such plan to    and April 1988. Except for the second
IDA by September 30, 1987 for comment;     phase of the Mobaye project, Government,
and (c) to exchange views with IDA         IDA and SNEL are in agreement on the
annually until June 30, 1990.              long-term development plan. Exchange of
views were held with respect to the 88-90,
89-91, and 90-92 PIPs.
Section 3.06.                               Compliance.
SNEL to complete by September 30, 1987,    Consultants to SNEL (Tractebel) carried
a systematic review of its needs for       out the review within their work in the
rehabilitation of physical facilities.     long-term development plan.
Section 3,07.                              Delayed Compliance.
SNEL to furnish by September 30, 1987, a   SNEL provided in October 1987 and
draft long-term master plan for training    February 1988 two versions which
activities.                                required further elaboration; the training
plan has been revised with respect to
Bank's comments.
Sections 3.08 and 3.09.                    Not aligabk.
SONATRAD to exchange views with IDA        SONATRAD was not involved in the
on its operations and on its participation in  procurement for this project, because the
the carrying out of the Project, to let IDA  lots were below the threshold level of
examine any records and documents          US$3 million defined in the
relating to such participation, to have its  SONATRAD/SNEL Purchasing
commercial operations externally audited   Agreement.
quarterly and to furnish the reports of such
audits promptly to IDA.
Section 4.01. (b)                          SNEL: Delayed Compliance.
SNEL and SONATRAD to have their            SNEL's accounts have been audited
respective accounts and financial          externally since 1981. 1991 accounts are
statements including, in the case of SNEL,  being prepared, and audit will follow.
the Special Account, audited for each fiscal  SONATRAD: Non-Compliance.
year by independent auditors; furnish to    SONATRAD is not involved in the
IDA not later than six months after the end  implementation of the project, thus so far
of each such year, certified documents and  not supervised.
the audit reports.



44
Section 4,01. (c)                           Not applicable.
Conditions on use of Special Account.       SNEL has not opened a Special Account.
Section 4.02.                               Not applicable.
SNEL to ensure that the price of energy     There have been no such industrial
from Inga II to industries in the Inga Free  consumer.
Zone cover long-term marginal costs.
Project Agreement                            CompliAnce.
Section 4.02 (c)                             Original agreement, satisfactory to IDA,
was in force. The threshold was US$3
SNEL and SONATRAD shall not modify           million.
or deviate from the Purchasing Agreement.
Section 4.03.                                Compliance.
During the preparation of SNEL's long-      Exchange of views carried out;
term development plan, GoZ, SNEL and         electrification project rescheduled.
IDA to consult on the timing and financial
impact of the program for the
electrification of Kinshasa.
Section 40.4.                               Partial Compliance.
Upon the transfer to SNEL of title to the   Some of the assets have been transferred.
assets financed by GoZ but operated by      Mobaye has not yet been transferred to
SNEL, SNEL to: (a) assume the               SNEL.
responsibility for their operation and
maintenance under conditions which ensure
the lowest costs thereof; (b) adjust its
accounts to reflect its from 1988 through
1997 an amount equal to one tenth of the
principal amount of the original debt
incurred for the construction of the Inga II
hydroelectric facilities, multiplied by the
rate of utilization of such facilities during
the twelve months immediately preceding
each of such payments.



45
Section 4.0S.                              Near-Compliance
SNEL to consult IDA on any capital        Except for the G6camines financed project
investment of more than the equivalent of  noted under DCA section 4.06. (Mobaye
$5 million.                                hydroelectric project is implemented by the
Government outside SNEL).
Section 4.06.                              Non-Comgllance.
SNEL to reduce its receivables from       (See Section 4.03 of the DCA).
customers to not more than four months'
sales by the end of 1987, three months' by
the end of 1988 and 2.5 months' by the
end of 1989.
Section 4.07                               Non-Compliance
SNEL to maintain that its internal cash    Covenant complied with in 1987 and 1988
generation to be more than 1.5 times the   but not in 1989 and 1990. 1991 audited
estimated maximum debt service             financial statements not yet analyzed.
requirement.                               Target will most probably not be attained.
Section 4.08.
(a) SNEL to produce, for each of its fiscal  Non-Complian.
years beginning 987, funds from internal
sources equivalent to not less than 30% of  Same comments as above.
the annual average of capital expenditures
incurred or to be incurred during the
previous fiscal year, the current fiscal year
and the next following fiscal year.
(b) Before June 30 in each of its fiscal
years, SNEL to review the adequacy of its
tariffs for the current and next following  Semi-annual adjustment was not made in
fiscal year.                               mid-1990.
h:'8_.Dh



46
8. Use of Bank Resources
CREDrr 1224ZR.
FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FYt   FY    PtY   1/    FY    FY
75-   80    81    82    83    84    85   86         87    88           92    93
76
Identification        10.1   8.2
Appraisal                          36.7  10.2
Negotiations                              5.9
Supervision                               0.2   3.3   9.9   2.0   12.6  8.3   0.7
Project                                                                                       0.8   3.2
Completion
Report
1/ Between 1988 to the present (June 1992), the Shaba Power Systen Rehabilittion projed wa rsupervid under the
S3eond Power Projeat which was closed on 06/30/1992 nd under SNEL's Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 2293
ZR). Therefore, the use of Bank resources is higher thun suggested by theabove figure. In addition, since an
additional financing for the Shaba project was provided in the Second Power Project (Cr. 1712 ZR), the time it has
taken to prepare and appraise this supplemental financing should also be added. However, there is no rational way
of allocating the time taken in preparation, appraisal and supervision between the Shaba project and the other two
Credits.
CREDIT1712-R
FY    FY      FY     FY      FY     FY      FY     FY    FY       FY
84    85      86     87      88     89     90      91    92       93
Pro-appraisal    0.2   4.1
Appraisal             35.6
Negociations          1.7   22.7
Supervision                   0.3    5.7   10.9   10.8   25.3   2.5    0.6
Project                                                                            6
Completion
Report



47
9.   sioa Dd
CREDIT 122SZR
Stgm of Projes Cycib       MyeWYGr                  No. of       Days io    Spcu;eio           Purfommao        Type of
Petaw        Fiel      R.p-uId I/          RaIig Slow al   Probim
Tlhrmb Aabmn
Idmaiflcdo                 02/01/80                   2            11       EN, FA
App la                      11/03/80                   3           25       EN. PA, C
Supervion 1                05/01/83                    1           6        PA                  I                RR. CL PM
Supegvison 2               04/05/t4                    2           11       EN. PA              2                AC, RR4 PP
Supwa 3                    OVUM4/5                     2           15       EN. PA              2                AP. AC, RR
Superviuon4                07/08/8S                    3           15       EN. FA. DC          2                AP. AC. RR
Supaviuioo5                 11/26/15                   3           14       EN. PA              2                AP, AC, RR
Supyvula6                  07/15/16                    2           22       EN, PA              2                AF. AC, RR
Supaviiom 7                O1/04/87                    1           14       EN                  2                AF. AC. RR
Superviiom                 08/01/11                    1           14       PA                  2                AP. AC. R
it DI- Ns,i PA- _,.1 Am- F DC-  vbaleCs   f
211 - No PrA1 rin  o    II 2- 2-Moduw _P11.
31   -    of Reau CL- Cmpamms &b vep dam  m
A.- Avflhh Fak8 PF- FPom-    Pamnse AC- Aa*dp.d CaMphdau PU- PFt  MmW.o L
CREDIf 1712-Z7
dag Of Prjai  Cych         MUadhwe                    No.  Dqf       i b     Spedasaln  P     * n c                 Typ of Pob
P-"aLW                     NA                          NA           NA       NA
AppmWi                      MOV.4 & Ubnmu 6             6           NA       E.PA,TE EBC
&V4viel I                  07/997                       I            6       EN                  2                   Al.PM,CD
9wnihn 2                   01411t                       I           NA       FA                  2                   AF,PK DI
SqnvSSel                    I lot"                      2           is       EN ,BC              2                   AP, PM, Di
S&wwvIW   4                024/39                       2           10       EN, DC              2                   AF, P,M DI
&avkik                     OSC31S                       I           14       EN                  2                   AF, PM. Di
S&wavW= 6                   lit"94                      3           14      EN, PA, BC           3                   AF, PU, Cl, FF. WP
&Wwuvw   7                 04/23/                       3           14       EN, FAh BC          3                   A, F,P4 CL. FP. WP
&ovwunS  3                  II 12@                      2            14      PA, BC              3                   AFl PM, CL, FP,P W
J/ IEN - Eoglaw FA - Fn n   Am13i EC - Em=      TI - TmWka lae
22 - MokwaM P,abeb   3 - Sa. _P
3/ AF - AveLibb Fuc*  PM - Pgoj Mouixaq Di - Dmwkpo bw- CL - Como  lwkb Wh  do.mXau WP   - Wotk PhJnF FF - FP
ftI



