Document of          FIrLE   COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3231-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR THE
SHABA POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
March 15, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALEENTS
Currency Unit     -        Zaire
Z1.0O              -       US$0.18
US$1              -        5.5 Zaires
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
MEASURE!IENTS
gigawatt hour (GWh)       -       1,000,000 kilowatt hours
kilovolt (kV)             -       1,000 volts
kilowatt (kW)             -       1,000 watts
kilowatt hours (kWh)      -       1,000 watt hours
megawatt (MWh)            -       1,000 kilowatts
megawatt hours (MWh)      -       1,000 kilowatt hours
tetrawatt (TI)           -        1,000,000 megawatts
tetrawatt hours (TTh)    -        1,000,000 megawatt hours
tons of oil equivalent   -       10,500,000 kilocalories
(toe)
ABBREVIATIONS
ACEC           Ateliers de construction electriques de Charleroi
0elgian power engineering company)
CCCE           Caisse centrale de cooperation economique -(French aid agency)
GECAMINES      La generale des catrieres et des mines -(Zairian copper company)
SIS            Systeme Inga-Shaba -(Inga-Shaba system)
SOFIDE         Societt  Flnanciare de Developpement Economique -
(Zairian Development Finance Corporation)
SNEL           Societe Nationale d'electricitg -(National Electricity Company.)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
SHABA POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Zaire
Beneficiary:             Societe Nationale d'Electricite
Amount:                  SDR 16.4 million (US$19.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Co-lenders:              Belgium (US$6.7 million equivalent) and the OPEC Special
Fund (US$5.0 million).
Relending Terms:         US$18.0 million of the IDA Credit would be on-lent to
SNEL at an interest rate of 11.6 percent per annum with
SNEL assuming the foreign exchange risk. The loan would
mature in 18 years with a three year grace period.
Terms of the on-lent Belgian funds would be the same as
the terms to the Government (20 years with 10 years of
grace and no interest). The OPEC Fund loan would be
passed on to SNEL at an interest rate of 9.25 percent
with maturity in 18 years and a three year grace period.
Project Description:    The project would rehabilitate the electrical generating
stations and the transmission and distribution system of
the Shaba region to minimize the risk of failure of the
supply of energy to the mining industry and particularly
to Gecamines. Subsequent maintenance would be supported
under the project by provision of vehicles, small
equipment and spare parts, and a reserve for unforeseen
repairs. SNEL's financial management, and its planning,
operating and maintenance capabilities would be
strengthened by the services of long term technical
experts. The project would also include the services of
consultants for project implementation; energy policy
formulation; and studies of training needs and the
electricity tariff structure.
The main benefit of the project would arise from the
maintenance of the level of Gecamines' production by
minimizing the risk of serious outages. Risks inherent
in the project are physical and institutional. Physical
risks are small, given the absence of civil works, and
relate mainly to the unknowns associated with rehabili-
tation works. The reserve for unforeseen repairs should
alleviate this risk. Institutional risk relates to
SNEL's ability to administer the project. The project
would, however, employ experts with extensive experience
to assist SNEL with project implementation and to
strengthen SNEL's financial management, and its plan-
ning, operating and maintenance capabilities.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:      Total project costs, net of taxes
and duties, are detailed in the table below.
Local    Foreign   Total
…---   US$ Million------
a)  Repairs to Nseke generators         2.5         9.2     11.7
b)  Repairs to equipment                0.5         4.8      5.3
c)  Vehicles                            0.1        4.0       4.1
d)  Supply of consumable stores         0.1         1.0      1.1
e)  Training                            0.1         0.5      0.6
f)  Consultants (including PPF)         0.4         3.1      3.5
g)  Technical assistance                0.5         3.0      3.5
Total base cost                4.2        25.6      29.8
Physical contingencies             1.1          4.1      5.2
Price contingencies                  -          4.0      4.0
Total Project costs            5.3         33.7    39.0
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign   Total  Percent
IDA                             2.0        17.0       19.0      49
OPEC                             -          5.0        5.0      13
Belgium                          -          6.7        6.7      17
SNEL                            3.3         5.0        8.3     21
Total                  6.3        30.7       39.0    100
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY                       FY      FY       FY       FY      FY
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
-----------------US$ Million----------------
Annual                       3.0      9.0     5.9      0.8      0.3
Cumulative                   3.0    12.0    17.9    18.7    19.0
Rate of Return:    16 percent for 77 percent of project costs
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 3400a-ZR dated March 8, 1982
Map:                IBRD 15493 R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR THE SHABA POWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following  report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Zaire for the equivalent of SDR 16.4
million (US$19.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to finance the Shaba
Power System Rehabilitation Project. US$1.0 million of the credit would finance
an advisor to the National Energy Commission; US$18.0 million of the IDA Credit
would be on-lent to the Societe Nationale d'Electricite over 18 years with a
3 year grace period at an interest rate of 11.6 percent. The project would be
co-financed on a parallel basis by an allocaion from a Belgian Government
concessionary loan equivalent to US$6.7 million and jointly by a loan from the
OPEC Fund for International Development of US$5.0 million. The Belgian loan is
available to Government for 20 years with 10 years grace without interest;
on-lending terms to SNEL of the Belgian loan would be the same as those to the
Government. The OPEC Fund loan has a 20 year maturity with 5 years grace and a
service charge of 0.75 percent; the OPEC Fund loan would be on-lent for 18 years
with 3 years grace at an interest rate of 9.25 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The last economic memorandum (Report No. 3287-ZR) was distributed on
June 8, 1981 and focused on developments in 1979 and 1980. The period since
then has witnessed a number of important developments regarding Zaire: on June
22, 1981, the IMF approved an extended arrangement for SDR 912 million in
support of a medium-term (1981-83) economic recovery program; the economic
situation, performance and prospects of Zaire were reviewed at a meeting of the
Consultative Group later that month; and, in early july, Zaire negotiated a new
debt rescheduling agreement with the members of the Paris Club. These develop-
ments and others are reflected below. Country data are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of area and the
fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita, estimated at about
US$260 in 1980, ranks among the lowest in the continent.  Approximately
one-third of its population of about 28 million live in urban areas, and the
population density is 12 persons per sq. km. Urbanization has been proceeding
at a rate of about 7 percent per annum, or more than two and half times the rate
of population growth. Although agriculture (commercialized and subsistence)
normally accounts for 25 percent of GDP, it provides employment and income for
more than three-quarters of the population. The mining and mineral-processing
industry normally accounts for about 24 percent of GDP; it has traditionally
been the largest source of public revenue and provides more than two-thirds of
the country s export earnings. 1/
1/ The shares cited are 1977-79 average based on official estimates, which are
believed to understate subsistence agriculture and, therefore, total GDP.



- 2 -
4.      When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared for the
change, both technically and institutionally. The first 6-7 years following
independence were marked by violent political strife and a severe disruption of
the economy; but after the restoration of political order and stability in 1967,
GDP grew by about 7 percent in real terms annually until 1974. Since then,
however, Zaire has been experiencing serious economic difficulties, which have
brought about a continuous decline per capita income.
Beginning of Current Difficulties
5.      Although the downswing of the Zairian economy started in 1975, the
current difficulties of Zaire are in many respects the result of developments
which took place in earlier years. Among these are: the progressive
accentuation of the country's dependence on the mining sector, accompanied by
the relative neglect of agricultural production; heavy external borrowing during
1973-74, mostly from private banks, at average terms inconsistent with Zaire's
level of development and for projects with long gestation periods and uncertain
economic benefits; and the attempts to drastically change the ownership
structure of the economy through the zairianization and "radicalization"
(nationalization) measures of 1973-74. Though since rescinded, the
zairianization and nationanalization measures had particularly adverse and
lasting effects on the economy: they seriously damaged private sector
confidence both at home and abroad, severely disrupted the transport and
marketing links between urban centers and the interior, and resulted in the
neglect of the country's productive capacity and infrastructure. The
deterioration of Zaire's terms of trade in 1975, owing largely to the fall in
the international price of copper, was a major contributor to both the severity
and the duration of the crisis.
6.      During 1975-77, the first three years of the crisis, Zaire's
commercialized GDP declined by about 10 percent in real terms. The Government
ran large budgetary deficits, domestic prices quadrupled, the overall balance of
payments deficit averaged more than US$450 million per year, and Zaire
accumulated about US$800 million of arrears on external debt, including
commercial credits and invisibles. Zaire adopted two stabilization programs,
with IMF support, during this period (in March 1976 and April 1977), but these
could not be fully implemented and failed to improve the situation.
7.      In 1978, commercialized GDP contracted by about 6 percent in real
terms. The overall budgetary deficit attained a record level of about Z 530
million, equivalent to about 12 percent of commercialized GDP; and deficit
financing, together with the worsening shortages of basic consumer goods, fuel
and int-ermediate products, pushed the annual inflation rate to about 50
percent. Between November 1, 1978 and January 2, 1979, the Government devalued
the zaire in four stages by a cumulative amount of 50 percent, or from Z 1.0 =
SDR 1.0 to Z 1.0 = SDR 0.5. Although the overall balance of payments deficit
was reduced to about $330 million, the deficit was financed primarily by a
further accumulation of arrears: total arrears (on public debt, short-term debt
and private non-guaranteed debt) increased from about US$800 million at the end
of 1977 to more than US$1.3 billion at the end of 1978. Two debt rescheduling
agreements with the Paris Club during 1976-77 proved inadequate to alleviate the
debt situation.



-3-
Developments in 1979-1980
8.      Although the economic and financial situation of Zaire remained
difficult in 1979, the deterioration decelerated in several respects. According
to official estimates, commercialized GDP rose marginally (by 0.2 percent) and
the budgetary deficit was smaller both in nominal terms and as a proportion of
GDP than the year before. However, the budgetary deficit was again financed
entirely by recourse to the banking system.  This plus the acceleration of
credit to the rest of the economy continued to exert pressure on prices, which
rose by more than 100 percent in the capital city during the year. The balance
of payments also remained under strong pressure, as evidenced by a further
accumulation of external payment arrears. On December 31, 1979, arrears
(including those on short-term commercial debt and invisibles) amounted to about
US$1.8 billion. The zaire was devalued by another 25 percent against the SDR on
August 27, 1979 and by another 30 percent on February 22, 1980, modifying the
rate to Z 1.00 = SDR 0.2625 = US$0.34 and bringing the cumulative devaluation
since November 1, 1978 to 74 percent.
9.      In August 1979, Zaire adopted a new stabilization program designed
essentially to contain the overall balance of payments deficit, curb the rate of
inflation (to 50-55 percent) and thereby create the conditions for a resumption
of economic growth. To these ends, the program called for, inter alia, a marked
reduction in the budgetary deficit and its monetary financing, a substantial
deceleration of domestic credit expansion, improved foreign exchange management,
and a flexible exchange rate policy. In support of this program, on August 27,
1979 the IMF approved a Stand-by Arrangement in the upper credit tranches of SDR
118 million for a period of 18 months. The implementation of the stabilization
program encountered some difficulties in 1979. However, Zaire met all the
performance criteria in 1980 and was able to purchase the full amount under the
Stand-by. The program contributed, inter alia, to reducing the inflation rate
from more than 100 percent the year before to 47 percent, or below the level
envisaged in the program.
10.     At the end of 1979, Zaire's external public debt, including undisbursed,
amounted to approximately US$4.6 billion. With the help of a banking group,
Zaire negotiated debt rescheduling agreements with the Paris Club (December
1979) and the syndicated banks (April 1980). The Paris Club agreement covered
debts totaling US$1.3 billion and comprising all arrears outstanding (including,
for the first time, arrears on insured short-term debt) as well as maturities
falling due in 1980. The syndicated banks agreed to reschedule all their
outstanding credits to Zaire (about US$400 million, of which US$290 million in
arrears) over a 10-year period, with a moratorium interest rate of LIBOR plus
1-7/8 percent during the first five years and LIBOR plus 2 percent thereafter.
During 1980, Zaire made a serious effort to respect these agreements; its actual
external public debt service totalled US$315 million, compared to US$168 million
in 1979.



11.     In 1980, the external resource constraints of the Government remained
very tight. Export growth was held back by the deterioration of the world
cobalt and coffee markets. Disbursements of medium and long term aid remained
unchanged, but debt service payments nearly doubled (to 20 percent of exports of
goods and nonfactor services) and net transfers were negligible or nil.
Nevertheless, the supply situation eased somewhat.  While official imports
(imports with officially acquired resources) declined in real terms, total
imports cleared through customs registered a gain. Thanks to this gain,
according to official estimates, commercialized GDP registered an increase of
2.3 percent in real terms. The economic situation was also helped by an
increase of 17 percent in Gecamines' copper output, although heavy taxation and
the bearishness of the cobalt market caused a serious delay in the company's
rehabilitation program.
12.     During the years 1979-80, Zaire took a number of important steps under
the Mobutu Plan, which the Government views as a broad-based and multipronged
effort to achieve recovery in dialogue with and with assistance from the major
donors. These steps include the installation of an expatriate deputy governor
as well as technical advisers, all proposed by the IMF, at the Bank of Zaire.
Zaire also appointed an expatriate controller general, proposed by the UNDP, to
the Ministry of Finance. In addition, as part of an effort to reform its
customs operations, Zaire transformed the Customs Division of the Ministry of
Finance into a public organization known as the Office of Customs and Duties
(OFIDA). This new undertaking has received substantial technical and
administrative support from Belgium. Also noteworthy is the creation of a
Central Pay Directorate which is functioning with the assistance of French
experts. Moreover, the Government reaffirmed through various actions its
commitment to expanding the role of and its reliance on the private sector.
Seven inefficient "commodity offices" were dissolved; some agricultural producer
prices were raised; under a scheme of "development agreements", an effort was
initiated to involve private industry in the rehabilitation of agriculture and
related infrastructure; a new investment code was promulgated; and a number of
reforms were undertaken in the management of state enterprises.
13.     In 1979, national and international attention concerning Zaire was
directed to the preparation of a medium-term public investment program (PIP),
and the Bank was asked to assist the Zairian authorities in this endeavor. In
August 1979, the Government completed such a program for the period 1979-81,
focusing largely on rehabilitation needs in priority siectors such as
transportation and agriculture. The execution of the PIP during 1979-80 was
constrained primarily by the shortage of resources and the execution of certain
on-going projects which had not been included in the PIP: only 40 percent of the
PIP could be executed in its first two years, compared to about 60 percent
foreseen under the program. Nevertheless, the experience proved valuable. The
preparation of the PIP constituted a first step toward the establishment of an
investment programming and budgeting process in Zaire. This process has been



- 5 -
yielding some of the desired results: technical experience has been building up;
programming and follow-up procedures are slowly being institutionalized; and the
agencies whose cooperation is crucial to the process are slowly being sensitized
to the importance of this very cooperation. In early 1981, the Government
prepared a new PIP for the years 1981-83, drawing on the experience with the
first program (see below).
Recent Developments and Steps toward Recovery
14.     The year 1981  witnessed a number of national and international actions
to set Zaire on the path to sustained economic recovery. First, Zaire focused
its investment program for 1981-83 more firmly on the priorities for recovery,
namely, the rehabilitation of existing productive capacity (especially mining)
and related infrastructure (especially transportation). These two sectors
account for nearly two-thirds of the program. Zaire also continued the process
of institutional reforms initiated in 1978-79. For example, it established an
External Resources Coordination Committee to deal speedily with all matters
relating to external assistance and particularly with project implementation
bottlenecks as they arise. The permanent members of the Committee include the
representatives of the UNDP, FED and the World Bank. In addition, a major
reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture, in cooperation with the Bank, is
being studied, and a review of the tax system is under way in cooperation with
the IMF.
15,.    In mid-1981, the Zairian authorities drew up, with the cooperation of
the IMF, a new program of economic and financial recovery covering the period
1981-83. In conjunction with this program, the Zairian authorities took a
number of interrelated steps toward stimulating and expanding supply, keeping
the growth of demand within appropriate limits, and improving foreign exchange
management. On June 19, 1981, the zaire was devalued by a further 40 percent
vis-a-vis the SDR as part of a flexible foreign exchange rate policy involving
frequent adjustments in the rate. Interest rates were adjusted upward and will
be reviewed periodically. And the existing price controls on most goods and
services were removed in order to stimulate the private sector.  In support of
the medium term program, on June 22, 1981, the IMF approved an extended
arrangement for the three year period ending June 21, 1984 in an amount
equivalent to SDR 912 million. In addition, Zaire has prepared an Agricultural
Action Plan whose specific prescriptions, some of which are still being worked
out, are designed to bring about improvements in the following key areas: (i)
strengthening of institutions; (ii) policies for pricing, marketing, credit and
foreign exchange allocation; (iii) implementation of on-going projects; (iv)
investment programming for the sector; and (v) research extension and training.
It is the Government's intention to revitalize and develop this important sector
by relying on the private sector, limiting the Government's role to the
provision and maintenance of the necessary infrastructure.
16.     The economic situation and prospects of Zaire were the subject of
discussions at the meeting of the Consultative Group for Zaire held during June
1981. The participants expressed satisfaction with the improvements which had
taken place in the economic situation and management. They agreed with the
overall priorities of the public investment program and with the thrust of the
Government's policies, especially those designed to liberalize the economy and
stimulate the private sector. After a review of the Agricultural Action Plan,



- 6 -
it was decided to convene a meeting on agriculture in mid 1982, given the
importance of this sector and the need to assure follow-up as well as
coordination of policies and actions, both internally and externally.l/ The
Consultative Group also reviewed the priorities within and government policies
in respect of the transport sector. A number of participants indicated their
intention to increase their overall assistance to Zaire in 1982 and beyond. In
July 1981, shortly after the meeting of the Consultative Group, Zaire
successfully negotiated with the Paris Club the rescheduling of maturities
falling due in 1981 and 1982, including the postponement of some of the already
rescheduled maturities. Under the terms of the new agreement, contingent on
compliance with the EFF, the debt service due in 1981 was reduced from US$700
million to US$490 million. If the delays in the signature of the bilateral
agreements are taken into account, the debt service effectively due was about
US$370 million, equivalent to 24 percent of exports of goods and non factor
services.
17.     Although management and institutional reforms continued during 1981, the
physical progress of the economy toward recovery was slowed down due to a
combination of external and internal factors. According to preliminary
estimates, the weakness of the copper, cobalt and coffee markets caused a 17
percent decline in merchandise exports in nominal terms. Merchandise imports
fell 13 percent short of the projections under the IMF program and were about 8
percent lower in real terms than the level of 1980. Zaire also experienced
growing difficulties in meeting its debt service obligations and began
accumulating arrears in the second semester of the year.  Developments in the
external sector (a major source of government revenue) had a very negative
impact on government finances. This, coupled with a weakening of budgetary
discipline, caused the budgetary deficit and its bankiing-system financing to
exceed the program targets for September 30, 1981. Consequently, Zaire was not
able to purchase the third tranche under the IMF program.2/ However the
inflation rate was reduced somewhat during the year and, despite the above
difficulties, the Government continued to refine its Agricultural Action Plan,
started updating the public investment program once again, reaffirmed its
intention to improve the management of Gecamines and Sozacom (the state mining
and mineral marketing companies, respectively), and ainounced it intention to
transfer the ownership of 37 public enterprises to the private sector.
1/  As of this writing (end-February), the meeting is tentatively scheduled for
mid-June.
2/ As of this writing, the IMF has not reviewed end-December performance under
the program, although the trends which caused problems on September 30 are
believed to have persisted in the last quarter.



-7-
18..    Zaire retains a significant potential in mineral resources, energy and
agriculture. Its difficulties of the last few years have been aggravated
considerably by exogenous factors such as the protracted weakness of copper
prices and, more recently, those of cobalt. Economic developments in Zaire will
continue to depend on the vagaries of world commodity prices. Adjusting to the
resource constraints and other difficulties brought on by the crisis has been
seriously hampered by the overall weakness of institutions, the inadequacy of
administrative controls, and the deficiencies of economic decision-making.
While overcoming these difficulties will take time, through the cooperation of
the Government with the major donors, including the IMF and the Bank, a set of
actions aiming at the progressive de-control of the economy has been mapped out
for setting Zaire more firmly on the path to recovery. Achieving the desired
recovery will require perseverance on the part of Zaire as well as continued
efforts by the donors to keep the external debt burden at a manageable level and
to replenish the project pipeline which has been severely depleted in the last
few years (from US$1.2 billion in 1975 to an estimated US$550 million at
present).
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
19.     Since 1969, Zaire has received 22 IDA credits totaling US$306 million
for transport, agriculture, development finance company operations, water supply
and education projects. The Bank has also extended grants totaling US$400,000
as contributions toward the cost of two planning assistance projects in Zaire.
In 1975, the Bank made a loa.n of US$100 million for the Gecamines Mining
Expansion Project, which was cofinanced by the European Investment Bank and by
the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, and which provided for special repayment
arrangements linked to the project's export earnings. The IFC, which has a
US$760,000 equity participation in the Societe Financiere de Developpement
Economique (SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million loan for an offshore oil
production project in September 1978. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1981 and notes
on the status of ongoing projects.
20.     A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been institution
building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was established in 1970 with
assistance from IFC and IDA. The major transport agencies, ONATRA, Societe
Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois (SNCZ), Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF),
Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVM) and Office des Routes (OR), received technical
and financial assistance from the Association, which also helped establish the
National Livestock Development Authority. In the case of Gecamines, the Bank
loan originated a fruitful dialogue intended to strengthen the management and
planning of the company.
21.     In general, project implementation has been difficult due to the
country's inadequate manpower and management capability and, in recent years,
because of the economic crisis. In the last two or three years, release of the
required budgetary funds has been difficult periodically because of budgetary
cornstraints. Lack of foreign exchange to finance spare parts and fuel, and the



- 8 -
deterioration of the transport network and marketing system have resulted in
severe supply problems for most projects. Recruiting and retaining adequate
staff has become increasingly difficult. In January 1980 the Bank undertook
with Zairian officials an overall review of Bank Group projects which for the
first time provided an integrated view of implementation problems. This has
resulted in an acceleration and improvement in the utilization of the Bank's
assistance, particularly in the agriculture sector.
22.     Eight credits and one loan have been totally disbursed:  Credits 152,
292 and 536-ZR (First, Second and Third Highway Projects); Credit 255-CK (River
Transport Project) and Credit 571-ZR (Rail-River Project); Credits 190, 271 and
463-ZR (First, Second and Third SOFIDE Projects) and 'Loan 1090-ZR (Gecamines).
Completion reports have been issued for all projects except Gecamines, and
Performance Audit Reports have been issued for the first SOFIDE and the first
Highway Projects. The conclusion of the audit and completion reports was that
the Bank Group's impact on institution building had been mixed. SOFIDE was
evolving as an effective and competent institution, and the Office des Routes,
the highway agency, had been able to establish an effective administrative
set-up.  On the other hand, ONATRA's performance had not improved as a result of
the first River Transport Project but did improve under a follow-up project;
implementation by RVF and RVM had disappointing results, but financial ^-sults
of operations had'improved. All entities had encountered operating dif-.culties
beyond their control as the economy deteriorated, financial resources grew scarce
and the problems besetting the investment environment were exacerbated by the
Government's zairianization/radicalization measures. Bank Group support to
SOFIDE and the OR is continuing under Fourth and Fifth SOFIDE Projects (Crs.
71n and 998-ZR) and a Fourth Highway Project (Cr. 916-ZR). RVF and RVM
received assistance through a second River Transport Project (Cr. 571-ZR);
and ONATRA will benefit from a recently approved Modernization Project.
23.     In the past three years, the Bank Group's main efforts have been
directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development of the
agriculture and transport sectors, in part through the design and implementation
of appropriate new policies. Investments in industry were also emphasized
through assistance to SOFIDE. Our lending will continue to support the
transport sector, in particular the Voie Nationale, and to assist the
development of the agriculture sector within the framework of the new
Agricultural Action Plan (see para. 15 above) through the strengthening of
agricultural institutions and the financing of projects designed to increase the
production of both foodcrops and industrial crops, and to promote the export of
industrial commodities. In addition, support will be considered for the mining
sector.



PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
24.     Zaire has enormous, diversified, but still largely unexploited energy
resources. In addition to some petroleum and coal, and almost unlimited wood
resources, it possesses the largest hydroelectric site in the world, Inga on the
Zaire river downstream of Kinshasa. Despite its resources, energy consumption
remains low at 0.178 toe per capita per year. The overall energy balance sheet
of Zaire reveals a series of disequilibria. Even with huge and diversified
resources, supply remains substaTitially below potential demand for all types of
energy. The structure of consumption shows substantial scope for the
replacement of oil products (largely imported) by hydroelectricity and local
fuels. Finally, the share of households in total consumption, in particular
that of electricity even in the main cities, remains minute. The development of
the sector undoubtedly suffered from the general economic and financial crisis
which has now beset the country for almost a decade, but also from ill adapted
policies.
25.     Only about one quarter of Zaire's energy supply comes from commercial
sources. Of these, petroleum provides almost 60 percent, hydroelectricity about
30 percent, the remainder being local and imported coal. For petroleum, proven
recoverable reserves amount to 9.5 million tons, and possible reserves to 41
million tons.  Output for 1981-83 is estimated at 1.5 to 2 million tons per
year. Domestic crude oil output currently is roughly equivalent to consumption,
but most of it has to be exported because of technical constraints in Zaire's
only refinery and a mismatch between refinery output and demand. Zaire must
therefore import the major part of the refined products it consumes.
Hydroelectric potential, present in most parts of the country is enormous,
totalling about 530 Twh/year; current production however is only 4.0 Twh. Coal
reserves are estimated at more than 700 million tons but are of low quality;
output is insufficient and about 50 percent of supply is imported. Non
commercial sources of energy are wood and vegetable waste, the annual
conlsumption of which is about 9 million tons and 2 million tons respectively.  A
conservative estimate of Zaire's wood potential for energy is 150 million cu
m/year dry wood representing a renewable energy source of 10 million toe
annually, almost 3 times current energy consumption from non commercial sources.
26.     As noted above, overall consumption remains low, with a large suppressed
demand reflecting technical and financial constraints on supply. About 36
percent of Zaire's energy demand originates in the mining sector, mostly from
Gecamines. More than half of the mining consumption is electricity, which
underscores the need for a reliable supply. The mines are also the major
consumers of coal together with the Shaba cement plant and SNCZ the railway
company. Other industries, for the most part located in western Zaire close to
the capital city, are also large consumers of electric power and of petroleum
products. Those which rely on the latter have suffered from insufficient supply
of oil products, and are now seeking substitutes such as electricity and
firewood. The transportation sector consumes mostly oil products; its
consumption is low and severely constrained. Domestic consumption relies almost
entirely (97 percent) on non-commercial sources,essentially wood in the form of
charcoal, and small quantities of kerosene and electricity. Lack of power
sources and distribution facilities limit access to electrical power to about 2
percent of the population.



- 10 -
27.     Responsibilities for the various energy sub--sectors are divided among
several government ministries. The Ministry of Energy has overall
responsibility for energy policy formulation and implementation; controls
supply, storage and distribution of petroleum produc:ts; and supervises the
Societe Nationale d'Electricite (SNEL). The Ministry of Mines supervises
petroleum exploration, production and the export of crude; the Department of
Economy and Industry has authority over pricing. The Ministry of Portfolio
exercises financial supervision over energy companies (petroleum, electricity)
which are totally or partly Government owned. As a step toward creation of a
coherent sector policy, the Government established in February 1980, a National
Energy Commission (Commission Nationale de l'Energie) composed of technicians
and officials from the departments and companies active in the sector. This
commission, placed under the authority of the Minister of Energy, has the task
of coordinating the energy activities of the various departments and defining a
national energy policy. The proposed project would finance the services of an
Energy Adviser to the Commission to assist in carryiLng out the studies required
to develop such policy (see para. 45).
The Power Sub-Sector
28.     The Societe Nationale d'Electricite established in 1970 is responsible
for the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity throughout
Zaire.  Administratively, SNEL is organized into five geographical regions which
are not fully interconnected and four accounting suib-regions. The operation of
SNEL is hindered by severe shortages of qualified staff; under its current
organization some 40 percent of the senior categories of management are either
vacant or held by persons with multiple responsibilities. Lack of adequately
trained staff has resulted in poor financial controL and accounting. SNEL is
endeavouring to improve its financial management through the use of expatriate
advisors and technical experts, the adoption of a standard accounting plan, a
partial audit and the strengthening of its financial department. The proposed
project would support this effort by providing for technical assistance through
the services of management, financial and training experts (see paras. 41-44).
29.     The SNEL system is almost entirely based on hydroelectric production; a
number of small thermal plants with an output of about one percent of power
production service small towns throughout the country.  In addition to the SNEL
system, private systems, often serving a single population or entity, account
for about 6 percent of total production. Total production of all systems was
4 Twh in 1979. About 65 percent of total electricity consumption is
attributable to large industry/mining, and 25 percent to small industry,
commerce and local governments; the remaining 10 percent goes to households.
Distribution to households is quite limited (see para. 26 above). Power
consumption is also regionally unbalanced. Only two regions have well-developed
regionally interconnected systems with major operating plants. The Western
System covers the regions of Kinshasa and Bas-Zaire, supplying the main
agro-industrial and manufacturing area of the country; the Shaba system,
covering the southern portion of Shaba province, supplies the mining industry
and major railroad facilities. Together, these two regions account for 933 MW
or 89 percent of SNEL's total installed capacity.



- 11 -
30.     The Shaba System.  Shaba's four hydroplants (Nseke, Koni, Nzilo and
Mwandingusha) came into operation between 1932 and 1957. The plants' capacity
utilization is high due to steady demand from the mines, and their current
generating capability is just sufficient for the present level of copper and
cobalt production. Regular major overhaul and consistent maintenance have not
been carried out over the past ten years. Consequently, the mechanical and
electrical capability of the equipment has deteriorated to such an extent that
power is frequently interrupted. Over 1976-1979 power outages of varying length
and severity averaged more than once every other week; most important  the four
generators of the Nseke station which produce 60 percent-of the electrity for
the Shaba region are in extremely poor condition and liable to fail at tny time;
one of the units already failed in 1978 and could not be returned to ser ice
until mid-1980. The danger of a serious system ailure increases with time
because of the age of the system and lack of spare parts and adequate \
maintenance.  A complete overhaul and provision of spare parts, as included in
the proposed project, is now indispensable to ensure proper functioning.
31.     Failure of the Shaba system, particularly of its generators, would
interrupt the supply of electrical power to the mining industry and principally
to Gecamines, the Government-owned mining company, which in 1979 accounted for
about 60 percent of total SNEL sales and about 80 percent of those of the Shaba
system. Undisrupted operation of the mining industry in Shaba is essential to
the economy of Zaire which derives over 65 percent of its foreign exchange
earnings from exports of minerals. The proposed project would rehabilitate the
Shaba power system to maintain this crucial power supply.
32      A 1700 km direct current transmission line from the Inga II
hydroelectric station to the Shaba region is being constructed. The line was
scheduled for completion in 1977, but construction, financial problems and
unrest in the area have caused delays.  Construction was expected to have been
sufficiently advanced by the end of 1981 to enable testing in 1982 and final
commissioning in 1983. Even when the Inga-Shaba line is completed, reliable
local generation from the four existing power plants will still be needed to
maintain system stability, minimize frequency variations during changes in load,
and provide an alternate emergency supply to the area, given the vulnerability
of the new line.
33.     Investment Planning.  Government has given high priority to investment
within the subsector. Development of the Inga site, near the mouth of the Zaire
River began with the construction of the Inga I hydroelectric station (350 MW)
from 1972 to 1974. The construction of a second Inga station has been completed'
and its eight 175-MW units are scheduled to be ready for operation in 1982, but
there will be no demand until the completion of the Inga-Shaba transmission line
in 1983 (paragraph 32 above).  The power needs of the Shaba region to be met
from the Inga II/Inga Shaba line are not projected to exceed at most 20 percent
of that system's capacity in the medium term (see para 52 below). In order to
use this excess capacity, the Government is discussing with foreign firms and
aid donors the possibility of constructing power-intensive projects such as an
aluminum smelter and a fertilizer plant near Banana, at the mouth of the Zaire
river. Other possible uses for the Inga power currently being pursued include
electrification of the railway fron Kinshasa to Matadi and of some existing
industrial plants such as textile mills, which currently use oil or other forms
of energy.



- 12 -
34.     SNEL is planning a number of investments throughout the country.  Among
the most important are the rehabilitation and strengthening of the Kinshasa
distribution network ($22.5 million) which should permit expansion of supply to
industrial and domestic consumers, some of which are currently using fuel, and
the expansion of the hydroelectric station supplying the diamond mines at
Mbuji-Mayi. A review and assessment of SNEL's investment program would be
carried out in the framework of the energy policy studies under the
supervision of the energy advisor to be financed under the Project (see para. 45
below). Additional support for medium- and long-term planning in the
electricity sub-sector would also be provided under the Technical Assistance
component of the Project (see para. 44).
35.     Tariffs.  Despite the wide discrepancy in the cost of generating
electricity by hydro and diesel plants, the same tariff structure applies to
consumers in all parts of the country. Moreover, the price of low voltage
electricity is lower than that of medium voltage. As a consequence, many small
industries and commercial establishments, which would normally use medium
voltage, remain on the low voltage rate. Another unusual feature of SNEL's
tariff is that the selling rate to low voltage domestic consumers is 8.5 times
greater than that to large consumers using high voltages, whereas in most
countries the rate is about 2.5 times greater; this puts an undue burden on
small consumers. A review of the tariff structure would be financed by the
proposed project (see para. 43) and the recommendations of the study would be
incorporated into SNEL's 1984 tariffs after consultation with the Association
(Section 4.05 of the draft Project Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.     The proposed project was identified in 1980 following a Government
request for IDA assistance to meet the urgent needs of the Shaba power system.
The project was appraised in November 1980. Negotiations were held in
Washington from January 11 to 14, 1982; the Zaire delegation was headed by Mr.
Djamboleka Loma Okitonogo, Secretary of State for Finance. A report entitled
"Staff Appraisal Report Shaba Power System Rehabilitation" no. 3400a ZR dated
March 8, 1982 is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Supplementary project data are contained in Annex III.
Objectives
37.     The proposed project would be the first Bank group operation in the
power sector. Our lending strategy for Zaire aims at concentrating our
assistance on those key areas of the economy which are the base of Zaire's
economic recovery efforts. From that standpoint, maintaining a reliable power
supply to the Shaba mining centers is essential, as are in the longer term the
strengthening of SNEL and the development of adequate policies for the energy
sector.  The project has two objectives.  Firstly it would minimize the risk of
power failure to the Shaba mining industries by (i) rehabilitating the
electrical generating stations, and the transmission and distribution system of
the region, and (ii) providing the means for subsequent maintenance of the
system at the level necessary to ensure effective operation. Secondly, the
project would initiate a program for the strengthening of SNEL's organization
and management and the development of energy planning and policies, through a
multi-pronged program of technical assistance.



- 13 -
Project description
38.     The project would include the following components:
(a) Rehabilitation of Generators and Transmission System
- Replacement of the stator windings in the four generators of the
Nseke generating station;
- Repairs to the generator cooling systems of the Koni and
Nzilo generating stations;
- Repairs to the air, oil, and water supply systems and -the
electrical service systems in all four generating stations;
- Replacement of deteriorated high voltage transmission system
controls and protective equipment located in the substations;
(b) Maintenance
- Supply of consumable stores, tools and safety
equipment;
- Supply of vehicles for maintenance of both generating stations
and transmission lines;
(c) Technical assistance
- Provision of consultants' services to assist in procurement of
materials and equipment, and to supervise project implementation;
- Identification of training needs and priorities within SNEL;
- Technical assistance for the strengthening of SNEL's financial
management, operating and maintenance capabilities, including an
electricity planning adviser and a financial manager for the
Southern (Shaba) region.
- Consulting services to examine and make recommendations on changes
to the tariff structure, and the revaluation of SNEL's assets;
- Study of movements of the arch dam at Nzilo and establishment
of a program of rehabilitation;
- Adviser to the National Energy Commission to oversee energy
sector studies.
39.     Rehabilitation.  Inadequate maintenance of the four generating stations
of the Shaba region has resulted in such deterioration that they now require
extensive repairs. In addition, because of their advanced age, controls and
protective equipment in the switching and sub-stations of the high voltage
transmission system need to be replaced. The project would provide the
materials and equipment to carry out rehabilitation works including the complete
replacement of the windings of the four generators of the Nseke station as well
as miscellaneous repairs to the rest of the system.



- 14 -
40.     Maintenance.  SNEL's maintenance record has been poor owing to a lack of
foreign exchange for equipment and supply purchases. The project would
provide vehicles, spare parts, small tools, safety equipment and a three-year
supply of consumable items. A contingency of $1.5 miLllion equivalent is also
included for unforeseen repairs or maintenance during the immediate
post-rehabilitation period (1985-86).   The Government would be required to make
available to SNEL, as necessary, the foreign exchange needed by SNEL to operate
and maintain the equipment and facilities rehabilitated or repaired under the
project (Section 4.02 of the draft Credit Agreement), and SNEL would ensure that
once IDA financing for consumables is no longer available, the level of
inventory would at no time fall below the estimated requirements of the Shaba
Region for the next twelve months (Section 3.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
41.     Consultants for Project Implementation.  The original studies on the
rehabilitation requirements of the Shaba system were carried out by Tractionel
Engineering International of Belgium. SNEL has retained the services of
Tractionel to supervise a US$9.2 million contract with Ateliers de Construction
Electriques de Charleroi (ACEC) for the supply and installation of new stator
windings on the Nseke generators. SNEL has also negotiated a contract with
Tractionel to plan, schedule, design, and supervise all of the remaining
rehabilitation work in the Shaba power system. It is estimated that this
portion of the work would require 118 man-months at a total cost of US$1.3
million; an advance from the Project Preparation Facility in the amount of
US$500,000 has financed start-up work under this contract. The average cost per
man-month is estimated to be about US$11,000 including air travel and overseas
allowances. Tractionel is acceptable to the Association. SNEL would employ, or
continue to employ for project implementation, consultants and experts whose
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment are
satisfactory to the Association. (Section 2.02 (a) of the draft Project
Agreement).
42.      Training. SNEL has excellent facilities for training and as of November
1980 about 60 people from various sections of the organization were
participating in training programs. However, current programs need to be
reviewed and adapted to SNEL's future requirements and priorities. Two advisors
would be provided under the project to review the present program, identify
training needs and establish priorities.  Financing  would also be provided for
teaching aids and post graduate training abroad. SNE]L would employ by December
31, 1982, training advisors in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the Bank guidelines for use of
consultants. (Section 2.02 (b), and Schedule 2 of the draft Project Agreement).
43.     Engineering and Financial Studies. Approximately 60 man-months of
short-term consultants' services would be used to: review SNEL's tariff
structure and recommend changes (see para. 35); revalue SNEL's major assets to
establish a reasonable base for determining tariffs; and study the movements of
the Nzilo dam. The cost of consultant services is estimated at US$12,000 per
man-month including expenses, travel, housing and a contingency of US$500,000
for equipment and subsurface drilling if necessary. Financial and engineering
consultants for these studies would be employed by December 31, 1982 and in
accordance with the Bank guidelines for the use of consultants. (Section 2.02
(b) and Schedule 2 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 15 -
44.     Technical Assistance to SNEL.  SNEL's effective operation is hampered by
a shortage of qualified senior level staff (para. 28). To address this problem,
the project would provide $3.5 million for longer term technical assistance,
to strengthen SNEL's operating capability in several key areas (management,
finance, planning, operations and maintenance). The proposed technical
assistance program would be implemented in two stages. In the first stage, the
program would address several critical and urgent problems which have already
been identified. It would finance the recruitment of an electricity planning
adviser and a financial manager for the Shaba region who would complement SNEL's
accounting manager, financed by French aid. In addition, a firm of management
consultants would be retained to study SNEL's management,financial and
commercial organization, operations, procurement, personnel policy, capital
expenditures and financing including SIS assets. The second stage of the
program would consist of the implementation of an agreed plan of action
consisting in the recruitment of additional experts and the carrving out of
measures in specific management aspects of SNEL and power sub-sector related
issues identified under the first stage. All consultants and experts carrying
out the technical assistance program would be employed in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants and key technical assistance staff
under phase one would be appointed by December 31, 1982. (Section 2.02 (b) and
Schedule 2 of the draft Project Agreement). Not later than September 30,
1983,SNEL would review the measures identified in the plan of action and take
into account the Association's comments (section 2.02 (c) of the draft Project
Agreement). No withdrawals would be made for expenditures relating to
implementation of the plan of action until it has been approved by the
Association (Schedule 1 para. 4 (c) of the draft Credit Agreement).
45.     Advisor to the National Energy Commission.  To assist the Government in
devising sound energy policies, the project would finance an energy advisor for
two years and, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, a
series of studies to establish medium and long-term energy policy, including a
master plan for the medium term development of electricity generation and
distribution.   The energy advisor, whose qualifications, experience, selection
and terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Association
would be employed by the Government by December 31, 1982 on the basis of the Bank
guidelines for use of consultants. (Section 3.03 of the draft Credit
Agreement).
Cost Estimates
46.     The total cost of the project is estimated at US$39.0 million with a
foreign exchange component of US$33.7 million (86 percent). These costs are net
of identifiable taxes and duties since Government has notified the Association
of its willingness to exempt the project from these costs. The estimated
project costs are based on December 1981 prices and include the actual contract



- 16 -
price for the supply and installation of the stator windings of the Nseke
generators and estimates, prepared by the consultants and SNEL, for the cost of
the remaining replacement parts, consumable supplies and other components. The
cost of materials for the Nseke generators is firm but contingencies have been
included for the installation cost under this contract and the remaining items
to be purchased. Contingencies for international price escalation for
manufactured goods at the annual rates of 7.8 percent for 1982, 8.0 percent for
1983 and 7.5 percent for 1984 were applied on a cumulative basis on the cost of
all goods and services. Because of the high local inflation rate, all costs
were computed in US dollars and it was assumed that the progressive devaluation
of the Zairian currency would compensate for the increase in local costs. A
detailed breakdown of costs is shown in the Credit and Project Summary.
Financing
47.     External financing would cover 84 percent of foreign exchange and 79
percent of total project costs. The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 16.4 million
(US$19.0 million) would finance 49 percent of net project costs including 38
percent of local costs. The repairs to the Nseke generators and the supervision
of this work by Tractionel would be financed partly by a Belgian Government Loan
of BF276 million (US$6.7 million) which is part of a larger amount of
concessionary bilateral aid already available to the Government of Zaire, SNEL
will provide all local funds pertaining to repair of Nseke (US$3.3 million
equivalent) through internal cash generation from the Shaba region, and the
remaining foreign exchange (US$5.0 million total) which cannot be financed under
the proposed IDA Credit (see para. 49 below). The IDA Credit would finance all
foreign exchange costs of the Technical Assistance component and vehicles;
the foreign exchange cost of all other components would be financed jointly
(37 and 63 percent respectively) by an OPEC Fund loan of US$5.0 million and the
IDA Credit which would also finance all local expenditures for these other
components. Conditions of effectiveness would be that effectiveness conditions
of the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement have been fulfilled and that BF 276 million from
the Belgian Loan have been allocated by Government to SNEL for the purposes of
the project. (Sections 6.01 (b) and (c) of the draft Credit Agreement).
48.     The IDA Credit to Zaire would be on standard terms.  US$1.0 million
would finance the advisor to the National Energy Commission and the energy policy
studies and the US$18.0 million would be on-lent to SNEL over 18 years with a
3-year grace period at an interest rate of 11.6 percent, with SNEL assuming the
foreign exchange risk. Signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and SNEL would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01 (a) of the
draft Credit Agreement). The Beleian Funds would be on-lent to Government for 20
years with 10 years grace and no interest, and on-lent to SNEL on the same terms.
The OPEC Special Fund Loan to Government would be for 20 years with a 5-year
grace period and a service charge of 0.75 percent; these funds would be on-lent
to SNEL for 18 years with 3 years grace at an interest rate of 9.25 percent.



- 17 -
Procurement
49.     The contract for repair of the Nseke generators was awarded prior to
project appraisal on the basis of negotiations with the original supplier; total
cost of the generators' repairs (US$11.7 million) is reasonable and contracting
with the original supplier was advantageous given its past experience with the
generators. The remaining items to be financed jointly by the OPEC Fund and the
Association would be procured following Association guidelines and procedures.
Many of the items to be purchased, especially the spare parts, are proprietary
in nature and can only be supplied by the original manufacturer of the
equipment. Nevertheless, attempts would be made to obtain as broad a response
as possible for the supply of each type of equipment, and the possibility of
requesting proposals for substituting equipment from other suppliers would be
investigated. Other items, such as air compressors and batteries, and
consumable items (lamps, transformers, oil, lubricants and charts, etc.) would
be grouped to the extent practical, and purchased either in accordance with the
Association's guidelines for international competitive bidding for contracts
over US$100,000 or on the basis of international shopping procedures for
materials and supplies having a value of under US$100,000, with at least three
independent suppliers submitting quotations.
Di_sbursements
50.     The proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed over five years on
items other than for rehabilitation of the Nseke generators as follows:100 percent
of total expenditures for technical assistance to SNEL (US$3.5 million); 63 percent
of foreign expenditures for equipment (US$2.9 million) and consumable stores
(US$0.8 million), 100 percent of foreign expenditures for vehicles (US$4.1 million),
63 percent of foreign expenditures and 100 percent of local expenditures for con-
sultants'services and studies (US$1.4 million) training (US$0.4 million) and the
energy advisor (US$0.6 million); and 100 percent of local expenditures for labor costs
of repair to equipment (US$0.7 million). US$500,000 would be used to reimburse the
acdvance from the Project Preparation Facility. Unallocated funds total US$4.1 million.
Disbursements for local labor used in force account works would be made against
statements of exDenditures based on timesbeets for the works performed, certified
by the consultants. Disbursements would be made only for those local costs certified
by the consultants as actually having been part of the project and for the local
expenses of the consultants; the maximum amount in local currency would be limited
to US$2.0 million equivalent. (Schedule 1 para. 4 (b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
SNEL Financial Structure
51.     Currently, SNEL is not financially viable; this is for the most part due
to the fact that its assets are artificially inflated by the work in progress
fcr the construction of the Inga Shaba system.  This system, which was initiated
irL 1974, comprises the Inga II hydroelectric generating station, the Inga-Shaba
direct current transmission line and the Shaba high voltage line (see paras. 32
and 33). SNEL was given responsibility for carrying out the program and work in
progress appears in its accounts. The cost of the program at end 1979 was
valued at about US$1,015 million. In view of the long construction period
(1974-83), revaluation of the 1979 cost on the same basis as SNEL's assets
increases the cost to US$2,990 million. Additional construction and further



- 18 -
revaluation are expected to bring the total value of the assets to US$4,500
million by the time they are operational in 1983. As of 1979, the financing of
the program comprised some US$840 million in long term borrowing and US$85.0
million in Government grants, which by 1983 are expected to reach US$ 1,000
million and US$100 million, respectively. The Government is now meeting these
obligations as guarantor under lending agreements for these assets and would
continue to do so since it is unlikely that SNEL would be able to meet the debt
service requirements in the medium term as long as capacity utilization remains
at its present low levels.
52.     At the time of the Government's decision to construct the SIS program,
it was known that the capacity of Inga II greatly exceeded the expected
requirements of the main consumer, Gecamines, but it was envisaged that other
major industrial users of electric power would be attracted to the country.
Although the possibility of setting up new energy intensive industries, such as
aluminum smelters, continues to be discussed with foreign organizations, no such
projects have as yet been established. Since, even by :L984, it is unlikely that
more than 15 to 20 percent of the capacity of the SIS will be required or used
for the Shaba region, meeting the full operating and depreciation costs of the
SIS assets would require a four hundred percent increase in tariffs (from
US$0.013 to US$0.059) which cannot be regarded as a reasonable charge on SNEL's
Shaba consumers and primarily Gecamines. Government subsidies for operation and
maintenance of the SIS assets will therefore continue to be necessary.
53.     In order to clarify SNEL's financial position, :Ldentify the origin and
extent of the Government subsidy and improve accounts as a management tool,work
in progress for SIS would be established as a separate accounting unit within
SNEL. When operational, the SIS "region" would supply bulk power to other
regions of SNEL. It was agreed that SNEL will prepare each year separate income
and fund flow statements and balance sheets for each of its regions including
SIS; the last mentioned would show the subsidy to be paiid to SNEL by the
Government each year (Section 4.01 of the draft Project Agreement).
Tariffs and Bate of Return
54.     SNEL's financial position is weak and will remain so, even excluding
the charges pertaining to SIS; in addition, the company suffers from
shortcomings in its financial management which the proposed project aims at
correcting progressively (see paras. 43 and 44 above). As a result,attaining a
reasonable rate of return for SNEL as a whole during the project period does not
appear possible. The case of the Shaba region, however, is different. The
present tariff structure and level of demand yield a financial rate of return on
Shaba region's revalued assets of about 1 percent. Following negotiations, a
tariff increase has been implemented that will enable the Shaba region to
achieve a rate of return of about 2.6 percent on revalued assets in 1982. It has
further been agreed that the Government would allow SNEI. to adjust the tariff to
all consumers to achieve a rate of return of 4 percent in 1983 and 6 percent in
1984 and thereafter (Section 4.01 of Draft Development Credit Agreement and
Section 4.06 of the draft Project Agreement). These rates are low but take into
account the region's limited load growth possibilities and the high cost of the
SIS power. Tariff increases of about 50 percent in 1983 and 42 percent in 1984
are expected to be required to achieve the agreed rate of return.



- 19 -
The resulting high voltage rate of under US$.0264/kwh in 1984 would not be
excessive by comparison with other African countries and would not adversely
affect Gecamines, the major purchaserof power in the Shaba region (see para. 31
above) whose production cost is not particularly sensitive to the cost of
electricity.
55.     The Shaba region of SNEL has in the past generated a significant
proportion of SNEL's total revenue, and it is expected that the region's
revenues will maintain a level sufficient to meet its own operating, maintenance
and project related financing needs with a surplus available for general SNEL
usage. The largest element of the Shaba region cash flow is represented by
sales to Gecamines which yield almost 80 percent of regional revenues. To
ensure an uninterrupted cash flow to the Shaba region, Gecamines must pay its
electricity bills regularly. Agreement would therefore be sought during
negotiations that Government would ensure that all entities under its ownership
or control pay to SNEL within one month of each billing date all charges
incurred by them for electricity consumption (Section 4.03 of the draft Credit
Agreement).
Financial Accounts and Audits
56.     The latest  complete accounts for SNEL are those for the year ending
December 31, 1979; these accounts received only partial auditing and are known
to be subject to extensive qualifications including major omissions related to
construction of the SIS assets. The omissions and lack of appropriate index for
asset revaluation make these accounts an unreliable basis for future estimates
and tariff decisions. These and other deficiencies are mainly due to a shortage
of adequately trained accounting personnel. Proposals, including the
recruitment of high level staff,will be made under the Technical Assistance
Qomponent of the project (para. 44 above) to strengthen SNEL's financial
management. It was agreed that commencing fiscal year 1981 SNEL would have its
accounts and financial statements audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association (Section 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
57.     It was agreed (see para. 53 above) that separate annual accounts would
be kept for each of SNEL's regions. To strengthen the financial management of
the Shaba region and ensure the appropriate accounting of SNEL's operations in
the region, SNEL will shortly recruit a financial manager for the Shaba region
to be financed under the Credit (para. 44 above). The separate accounts for
each of SNEL's regions,including SIS, would be audited by external auditors
acceptable to the Association in the context of the audit described in para. 56
above.
Economic Analysis and Justification
58.     The rate of return of the project is estimated at 16 percent on 77
percent of project costs for which benefits have been quantified. The major
benefits of the project for the economy arise from maintaining the level of
Gecamines production (and therefore of its exports) through the reduction of
power outages (see para. 31 above). There is clearly a substantial economic
benefit in ensuring a reliable power supply to Gecamines, whose annual foreign
exchange sales are worth some US$1.2 billion. Although the Inga-Shaba System



- 20 -
will, by 1983 or shortly thereafter, provide an alternative source of energy to
the existing sources in the Shaba region, the proposed project is nevertheless
necessary because the Inga-Shaba line may yet encounter further unforeseen
delays, and in any case is vulnerable to periodic outages because of its route
and its 1,700 km length.   Moreover, there must be at least 250 KW of local
generation available to maintain the electrical stability of the Shaba system
when using power from the Inga-Shaba line. There is no viable alternative to
the project for ensuring an adequate supply of power to Gecamines; construction
of new generating facilities would entail considerably higher costs to achieve
the same benefits and would allow the present unacceptable power outages to
continue or increase during a lengthy construction period; and provision of
energy from Zambia is on a net zero interchange basis and cannot be considered
as a long term solution since no increase in supply from Zambia is envisaged.
Risks
59.     There is some risk that an increase in rehabilitation works would be
necessary. Because of demand on the system and the lack of an alternative power
supply, generators can only be shut down and disassembled one at a time. The
precise extent of rehabilitation work required would therefore not be known
until that time. In addition, although thorough rehabilitation works would be
carried out, the possibility of a failure in the system after the rehabilitation
period remains greater than for a newly constructed system. Based on experience
for similar projects, however, these risks seem adequately covered by
contingencies, in particular by the additional amount of US$1.5 million
equivalent provided for unforeseeable repairs.
60.     The major risk relates to SNEL's capability to implement adequately the
proposed project given its current organizational and managerial shortcomings.
This risk is minimized by the extensive use of consultants with experience in
the design of hydroelectric plants and related facilities and through provision
of experts to strengthen SNEL's financial management, and its operating and
maintenance capabilities.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHO'RITY
61.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Zaire and
the Association,the draft Project Agreement between SNEL and the Association and
the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
62.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Special conditions of credit effectiveness would be: (i) fulfillment of
conditions precedent to effectiveness of the OPEC loan (para. 47); (ii)
allocation of 276 million Belgian francs to the project (para. 47); and (iii)
the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and SNEL
(para. 48).  A condition of disbursement for the second phase of the Technical
Assistance component would be the Association's approval of the plan of action
to improve SNEL's management capabilities and financial controls (para. 44).



- 21 -
63.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 15,1982
Washington, D.C.






ANNEX I
-22-                                                        Page 1 of 5
TAILE 3A
ZAIRE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAIRE                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)'
TOTAL           Z345.4                                MOST RECENT          LOW INCCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     310.0             1960  /b   1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 100.0       170.0    260.0                 238.3                  794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RILOGLMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      97.6       105.4    102.5                  70.5                  707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 17756.0    21638.0  27509.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 15.7       21.6      32.7                 17.5                    27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     49.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      139.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                       7.6         9.2      11.7                 27.7                   55.0
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    58.0        69.0      86.3                 73.7                  130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YnS.                        44.1        44.3      44.7                 44.8                   46.0
15-64 YES.                        52.9        52.9      52.6                 52.4                   51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.0         2.8       2.7                  2.9                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.2         2.0       2.7                  2.6                    2.8
URbAN                              ..         5.2       7.3                  6.5                    5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.1        47.1      45.9                 46.9                   46.9
C51UDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    24.2       21.3      18.1                 19.3                   15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.0         3.0       3.0                  3.1                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERICENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PIIODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        101.0       101.0      88.0                 89.5                   89.9
PEt CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRUIENTS)                 100.0       101.0    104.0                  90.2                   92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         36.0        37.0      36.0                 52.7                   52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      13.0        13.0      10.0                 17.8                   16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    35.7        31.6      25.4                 27.3                   20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   40.0        42.9      46.8                 45.8                   50.8
INFUT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..          ..        ..                   .
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        11.0      16.0                 23.9                   27.4
URBAN                              ..        33.0      43.0                 55.0                   74.3
RURAL                              ..         4.0       5.0                 18.5                   12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         5.0      22.0                 26.2
URBAN                              ..         5.0      67.0                 63.5
RURAL                              ..         5.0       6.0                 20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        37621.6    29300.8  15529.3                31911.8                13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    3511.7      5067.3   1938.0                3674.9                 2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           230.9       320.0    339.0                1238.8                 1028.4
URBAN                            57.2        96.8     145.0                272.8                  423.0
RURAL                           770.5      1066.7   2622.5                1745.2                 3543.2
ADMIISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..         6.1
RURAL                              ..          ..       6.0
AVERAE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..        .                     ..
RURAL                              ..          ..        .                     ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBA                                           ..        .
RURAL                              .           ..



ANNE I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
LAIWg -OIL INDICATORS DATA SHIT
ZAIRE                         REFERENCE CROUP1 (WEIGHTED A7lACes
- MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)_
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDOLE INCOtE
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUITH OF SAHILRA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAMEA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                60.0        88.0      90.0                 56.4                   73.7
MALE                 88.0       110.0    103.0                  70.7                   96.8
FEMLE                32.0        65.0      77.0                 50.1                   79.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  3.0         9.0      19.0                 10.0                   16.2
MALE                  4.0        13.0      23.0                 13.6                   25.3
FEMALE                1.0         4.0      14.0                  6.6                   14.8
VOCATIONAL ENItOL. (1 OF SECONDARY) 27.0        10.0      13.0                  8.0                    5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO        -
PRIKARY                           40.0        43.0       ..                  46.5                   36.2
SeCONDARY                         20.0        20.0      27.0                 25.5                   23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PEiRCENT)      31.0/c      13.0      15.0                 25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         3.0       3.6                  2.9                   32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        3.0         2.9        4.8                 32.8                   69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         0.3       0.3                  1.9                    8.0
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  1.0         9.2       1.8                  2.8                   20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1         0.1       0.1                  1.2                    0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LAIOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    8215.5       9464.8  11395.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 46.4        44.5      42.8                  34.1                   36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            83.0         79.0      75.4                 80.0                   56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                9.0         11.0      12.8                 1.6                    17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               46.3        43.7      41.4                 41.7                   37.2
MALE                                51.9        49.8      48.2                 54.3                   47.1
FEMALE                             41.2         38.0      34.8                 29.2                   27.5
ECONOFIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1.1       1.1                  1.2                    1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF   USEHOLDS    ..         ..         ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HWSEHOLDS      ..         ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIKATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URAN                                ..         ..        ..                 136.0                  381.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      80.0                 84.5                  156.2
ESTIKATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVeL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..       76.0                 99.1                  334.3
RURAL                               *-          *-     43.0                  61.2                  137.6
ESTItMTED POPIULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URUAN                               ..          .         ..                 39.7
RURAL                               ..         ..      80.0                 68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-eighted arith atic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicstors depends on availability of data and to not uniforn.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, betw-en 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962.
May, 1981



- 24 -                                                                          ANNX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notea:  Although the d.ta are dran from  sorc.geealyjuge   he enathorIttIv    ad tltahibl, it  hould else ha -etd that they  ey eat ha lte-
aatsllyconp.tahle  beaa f the  ako  etadr                ddeftaile   and oecpe  oead hy different  cenntirin  is celleatIt the dat.  The dat  ar. me.
Ihele..a.. uafu1l.t desc.r1be orders of nagntude, indictet trarde, and cenctnl    etain major diff--ce  bartes r tniris.
The  eeec  gop   r  (if the ean  coutry grout of the auhiect coutry  ed (2) a coutry group 'ith .omehet htgh.,  -ra  geaem- than tha estey £00P
of the  a c  con     cy(etpt for 'Capitil Sarplu  Oill taportere" grap ehe.  "Hiddle Inconu North AfriCa ee   iddle lASt" IN cbes   begn. of stronge
sul-utrs   ffi-ti.ie).  In the reference grosp date the average  are Pepu1etin wetghtd erith_ic  en  fee eah indiostee end  h-  only
maJority of th.rn . tosalee ira  group h.s data for that iadiceicr.  Since th  coverge of  -onneean   the tndi.t.tr. d.pede en the senlehillty of date
and Is nor ut for,caution Ontb ha eorold in relati.gev..ra5e of one tindicator no soother.  Thee. e--Sgm  arm only aef.1 ine carIeg the "ein  of
one indiicator atetine   -9on  the onu..try and reference grcops.
LAND ARIA (thouada.,n)P.p.1  'o  per Hopia S.1Bd -  -tetl                                                                                   na. md rurI - Pepel.tten (totl.1
Total - Toad  suf: e. a. ...aprie log land ere .nd blend wer                                        rb!tei end iruoml lteided hy thtb.  ospseti-. nwhe    ef    pina b.da
Agti-elit.1s  - tEtinate  of-nrclurlao  umd toepor.ily or petnaenny                                availahis In pnhiit sd pni-ete g-nra1 end ep-aisilNd hpita1 endwe
for oropa. paturen, tarket and kitcbac garden. or to lie fal.o; 1978 data.                      hablitetien  cetsr..  Hespital. are  tabei bh1 mn    presemeetly stafed
hMya  leat ro.p..      ote   fttbejhl~ t. pan..aWng pele1p.ily enta-
IMP PER CAPITA (US$) - iGNy per -pite estimate  atcret marke  prices, -1-                            dial crel are not  ocladed.  Luesa hepital., bo-r.   eele."  hmat
oultrd hy eMe  ovr to ehod en World HooktAtlas (197_-79 bmei.); 1960,                              end msdirsl catre ment peem-cly st.ffmd by a phymInta  Ibme by 
1970, asd 1979 date.                                                                              medical  ..eitem, mar...  iW.fe. etn.)  hich effen ga-ptOmt   en
dation end prenid. a limted  -es ofmdical feaIlitim..  F-e egtl.-
ENERGY CONSUMPFTION PER CAPXTA - Annua  conesption or -coeinrij energy (oral                         ticel purpose. erhee heepleele Inted. "         peeegn/gse blhptal.3
And lignite, petrllnam, ntura  gen asd hydro-, rooler and geotherma  rIo-                          end   -1m hoepitei1lna o-     r - i -   eaitlssa   edim-l sad   etennity
t icity) in kilcArem   of ...eI oqai-eot per -spita  1960, 1970, cod 1979                        Acenter..  Sp-ilelled h-epitele  -e  Imis dad amly  ."Fe toteD
dam..                                                                                           Ad i.o. eer Hocpite1 led - Total  .. r  of edaisei-   n0  dde%..as.
9 ro  bempitel. dbided hy the e.".  of bade.
POPULALTION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total Pop.l.tioc, Mid-Test (thousand)  - A. oi Jdly 1; 1960. 1970, and 1979                   HOUSING
data.                                                                               Morse. tiesf tbof Hon-1eheld.(r'eese.'  oeh.eeld) - otl,he.                      a-
tlbs  ouato    rercr  of. toa)..  tt   fohn  ottl.nuai                                   Ahoehold coetnso=ed           rs  of = Idedul L=   .)0shr  le..qetV
diffe...nt deficitine of uranora  ay  ffnct comperahility of dota                                n   hi   o    el.Ahadoe  tda   e   rmymth   alddI
soon.g coun tries; 1960, 1970, and 1979 data.                                                     the hahld for ettigielpuyne
PouelcProJectio..A.  oe. namhr of persm  no   o.   oal  ean   o  onm*a                                                                                            e
Pcpletor n yar  10  - Curren.t populatioc pro) ectione am  hs...d cc 1980                 her of p.rsen  pen rom Sn all erba.~ an  r-ra  enied csemagmel
total Pepularlo- by agred nr-l-d thei   -trfality  nd friiy retes                            dweing., reepseti-ely.  fyte1linse emaied  ne-psenen  snet-tam  NW
Projetio    par -etor   to   r    ity tms    npleo      f thee..rnese-a                             .rniedpers
Ing lifeanpeten...y  t birth incre...ing nub ....try'. Per capita Incm                       wosiointrcn    ereg  fdslm. -ttl  fc. ned rrai -
lor, adfenair life en teceny  tahillinig at 77.5 y o   rha par-Cernnoaldeligswtheserafyg  linigjaresa  P.ees
etrfofetlity ot   iohave three 1-1l.mesigd-cIcein                                    of total, urhon. and rurs  dwIllg.,  egeisy
fer~tilitfy accord2ing to inom   leve  en  pan:t famiy  IlannIg performanc.
inch  ...ctry Ia thoraegedc o  th.e  nine cbinaic   fmraly                                UICT
a  _ frilitp troode for redacttion   stpAos                                              Mstd Earo11eet Oties
Stationary PcPnltio._ n-Icee ti ...ry population thor.         sEn roth eioca                   PIryme school - rentl, male sd fain-  taMes tetea. mel.-  faD
the bihirti eis equlcthdohraean  neth.getutcrs -                                                enr11men  of all  geo at the pli-sny mI.I as pe-enta             of reepetm
maiernnaat   TIn Inahieved Only aft- fertility rtes. deoline to                            primay eth..Il-aeppltlen;   -11aly IeIndn  bhilde.- ega  H6
thr re Icnn  leve c.f uittne  reproduction rune, eborn...h ga eioYear  han adieted for diff.esmt 1emgthe ef pTi-"r sdnetgaag fe
of nnnaiosiel   m l.The etatic...ry populetior  la  one,                                        c-ttri.e  ith -ni-er-aW dnaiem    eeilmt -.Y   -Ae 100 jemrost
otimnted  -c the basin of the projcted theracttiertice of the popsietiosince eon  pnpil. men ha1m  ertehvethe offleta  sbsol an.
to rho pat 20001. ad the  ett  of decline of fe-nility tre cc replac-....o sbo -ttl  mels an  Hals  - te."ted se ehan; eeseds
oem  level.                                                                                     edntia qursatlet Ione years of appo," prIamo  ienmtgoin;
trrctnn-           orinc  Ia  --ah.d - The year wicottono -oltc                                    provides genorl.  'met_inl. er teache  triing Heatotise  fno Vpoik
dec hen been tenobed.                                                   usua~~~:;lly cf 12 to 17  sare of ege; aoreepnndemo  eseem  er.  mae
.Popaion Doety                                                                                        cinded.
P.r en. he. - Mid-year pcpslavico per eqoere kilometor ) 100 heototee) of                       Ve...tiema env1lnot (retrat of -seedry) - VectIenal inetitetd..
totl  aan  190,170ad 1979 det.                                                                   dam. tmcheloe.I  imdnetlri.e oi ther progn   whieb  p..Oat. jepend-
Per  Sti.  a               1iulnullnd - Computed em  bh- for agricuIltura  lund                   nyoasd-rrmet   f  sodery leetinatlen.
only', 190, 1970 and 1979 data.                                                               p`rti-teahor rtnin   eone              - o    -son -ry - Tnta  etdace enrlle  i
Porulation Ace  trcue(percen)   Children  10-14  er)  orngge(15-                                     P imery ad ..... dary levae dinided by n.b.e of -eahe-  in the
61yar)  an.r. ted76;yst nd            ove) .. percen.togs.  of md-y-a  pops-                     -errepondIag level.
leIc   190I      90:n   99da.Aul ieayrt   rret    it...ste ed.1ts (shie te  -se  sa   -Wnis
Popu ,llto  booth Rote (per ... ) - tota   - Annual growth ttee of itel. mid-                             percetage nf tet.  adult popaletlon agd 15 years endnar
year popolatice for 1950-60. 1960-70, and 1970-79.
Poni lonIreh Rote (Poos    - urhe  - Anoa ..      rr,th ltew  of urban cope-            CONSUMNPTION
lutioe.fo I I195-60. 1960-70, and 1971-79                                                      sssmeCe.  fn   heneand  ...,alaon) - Psasme-  -se  a.rO.e mete
Crude Hirnh Rot  (per h.... d) - dAt-I li-s birtbn per thousand of mid-per-ar  seNalting ieee 1 rh"n  ight peemam;  -neid.s  .b.1--a  hease  ed
population; 1960. 1970, and 1979 deto.                                                          nilitsryv-hirlne.
Crude Det Rt (rer thoen...d) - hA-se  dotlh  par th-nod. of sid-rear                            audi Hnivsr   'Pr thnaem  onenai"  - aIlt tpe  of  selrof.mreI
populeeton; 1960. 1970,. ad 1979 data,                                                          broadcasts an gaere  publi. Per thesaad ef pnpl.stIe;  -mledsn
trues  . ertdutli_t H    -Aersge nubhr of daughter. s  oa   ill boor In                            lico. drmevrsi.ase. ad                 I   nas.6msgdaete    drd
hr norma  reproductive PerIod if she mperieooe  pro....t uge-eptifito f or-sn-                         s. is effti; dana fa  r eeet year. y me       t se   ha  a.h. W sHen-
tIlyrn;usaly five-ye-  avrgeeding In 1960. 1979, and 1979.                                      nencnnrs   hltoe i=              nig
PFcily Plu-it -     Accopt:rn. Annual (th ....nde  - Annual conhr of IooPeonTV R e. ivsrs (esr thooo    pcUlti-  - TV .sei-en  for beasd4a  en
of birth-control d tios under asepi... of _atio_l teniy plenin ;progron                         gemra1 puhlir per thoumad pep.Utanf; smlede  inln...e W~ TVsneIwe
Poily Pano-so    Irreno  earriod 0mv    Percen.tage of maried                                    in rnutriee etA  in pears whnre-       trt    of TV sestea- in off-at.
..me  ofobhi!d-benring age (15_-11 . yet)  h. use birth-cotroI dnri-s to                     Neenrn"Ioaiafreweeadrm L"tan   - lhows thenm .n-
ul  mried  -no  ines  age grop.                                                              t-leionof "daily gmlrl Inesrset ...."papr  daigd an aP-raie
publicat.ion  devted prianrily to rseeedingsee    ms. it In nnmedwnd
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                                   to he 'daily" if ft app..e  ti leat f-n  tl.   mek
loden of Food Proutinpe-         ert  (1162-1      5-       nd   op.cuit. anua                  Cinac  Aonnua AttenAnt.. p- Cari1s one ea   - &-Mn em the   -b- of
pr-duction of ni.   ed1      eoitr.Pou1n  etue    eda ffedIndticitat  Ied duia  theyer,in indn  edmeine  Wo drie-in ein
to on ta;lndue. yearh hsi:,. Cooi togoorpiar                 ,nde. (eg.  uoonesdfhiso
instead of nuga)  Ibolav  edbeed  n i    tur ie.rr  (e.g. cofs  n
tea ore marluded).  Aggregate prodoonin of eac .      onryi  based cIABOR FORCE
uatlai  uog  produce r price neighta; 196 1-60. 1970.nd 1979 done.                            Total Labor Force feh-nad.) -                     -ntoal   ci- persos  iaed
Per capita suIpply of calorie  (pnotofroiemned                   Cnu    from ..nnd-frts p. and nnf pioyed  .a  Dfoldina  eIeamionme. o                             tmi.1se
ane rgy oqIven  ofnrfo  eple    rilehls inocuany per ..pita.vro    oaeine   l   ge   iaiiim    nCnn   esra    e
per day.  Arailbleh     -nppliee c-prieo d-nsi production, imports l.na                       net n..mparal; 1960. 1970 mm  1979da.
saee  and ohanoen it stock.  Oat  upplie_xlude animal feed, aoe                         PF.-sI. op.-t) - yal1 !leh- ferre mepereetaS. of total laborfoe.
quati.nin ned in food Pencee..Ing. and losses in dietrihution. Roqire-                      AgriIt.lnr. Conroset  - bthefen   n  amn ffereJey.  tanim  s.d
na.ee simetrd by PAl hose d on physiologicl            o   nra   ri                   fishing as percentage of tona  lbho  foras; 1960. 1970 end 1979 data.
Vity ond healeh ...neidoing      oorsrnltepaur,hdfy wghta. rg                                nuty(enc)-thefrs  nmnn.eeOuto,mmfaaisa
and sea distributir of Population, endOlotn  10 percent for vee  rs atnd es-nrieiny,tintr- and gas .s per.tenia    of  ntel. l.ha   foon.; 1960.
h ...ehcld levl; 1961-651 970. and 1977 data.                                                 1970  nd 0979 data.
F.r tacit. eupplo of nrnri    nsptdy)- P-oteic  -oct"u  of pr .ePit.                          P-rtilip.tion Rote fpr ...teg     - tenel. mal., s.d  falm  - ytIcipmta  or
ne .apply of food per day.  ntsplof food ie  dfiudshos-o-atvtyrt.  r   onoe   e  ea,   ae  edcl   lbhrfen.
qn=ronrn f fr oil... cutries estebli.hed bUSApoiefeinunPercetages of total, mee s Id=al    pnpeltine of all a.. repetinalyt
ulonnr   f 60 grno nf noeal protein Per dy and DO goon  of nimaI and                          1960. 1970,. ad 1979 dan.  Thea. are b.dA on ILO's p.rticipteel     rate
pulee prtelin, of whioh 10 gr-   should ho animal protein.  The.. egn-                        reflectingag-o  etruatare of tla popaletoo   . ca  long it.  tred.  A
nede are lowe.r thou those of 75 gEat_  of totalpoti  no.0gaeo                                      siaesmsfn   ainlsur
anima  proteiua  ovrge for th,  -ci. pr-po...d by PAO In the Thtrd                          Pc-ntnhc Onedon   Loto -Rtain ef pnpinetin under 15 sod 65 sod e
Worl  Pod    rva; 160-60  1970 und 1977 dto.                                            toth  tota  lenrforce
PI, taPir. ponteir sunypiron animal and onlso    PootoIn supply of fod de-
rived ftn  aini  andpu.. in gEmal erday; 1961-65, 1970 en  1977 dutn.                     INCOME DSITRIBUTION
Child no   -)  otlt  R-on. Ire  thousand)   A--' d-etb  per th-oun.nd itn                        ecnero  Prvte  I"e iob-in  ltb sad kind) - R.ateFe  by riehet
agogocp 1-  yearn  In c'hildren in thie age group; fore      1tevlping tru-                  5 peonen,t. richet 20 pecnt   nneoHpercet. sd pone-t 40 peroft
tries data d-iv-d fron life tables; 1960, 1970 erd 1979 dnu                                      f bo---holds.
HEALTH                                                                                          POVERTY TARGET  MUoeS
Life Eonct-yo at tieth (yearn) -tA-vorn  nubor of  -oot  of life remining                       The following  esiee    re  sr ppenmnts-t aene    of pormty L-nI.,
at- birch;1t.960.S1970 ned 1979 dat.                                                             adeol   einrrrd0t   esdrhseol
If sat ife tyn Roe (pr th ....d          A -   IAna  death. of infente coder one year          Estmae Absoluto.b     Pevee,tld lnbm tno-Id.gIg santnita     rned ua
of age pot thoasend lire births.Abselnte pnverty lne   i-mi inthee io    is-ee  b.1gm .6mb . mdnS
Anees t  See Wnor(pecentof  opusint-totl.l  .be           ..ad .rra  - StN-          eawtea           deqeate din.t pits .sstLae oe-f nod  nqnireat   Is met
be  ef. people (total, urban, nodrua)wtresnbeec                      toms
-h -fth t Z f        pting.,  M   ... it.ly"-t                   _BLIfetmmted Rolnti- P.vry nom   .erl fOg on    eia  - othe end nunl -
Ieonae   ftei -troporvepo-ltins                               h-:ebreenoi yb.personal mooe of the tnontry.  Orin level Is darivd fro  the -.ra.
cnided se  elg wihin ros tuabl  sree  cf  thathaue   Inerlafa                                eieo PoplationZ, gal   Aben-te  e           t,In t    annl~= l   fonob S   st
tubrofpol  (rual  uran  and rural) served by etocrecs disposal. ant
hdocegso,tei  cse tlve .. pulain. pt  fncrhn d.yinpe   may Include.
and naste-waterby otphor yietn  or nbc use of pit privI.. and mimic                                                                                                        - tancsd  oiiOtstna
lar Ionailatio.                                                                                                                Ec_onl  Analysis end Prej.ntisn.       eatsn
PoruLanltin pre  Phy.ici.. - Population dividwd by conber of Preoicing phy.l-                                                                          K5y 19R1
cis..c. qualfiedrfrom . medloo1 sobh001 at .oiv-ity leve...
Pnpuletior nor Nrsin  P erson - Popaletiun divided by camber nf poscatioig
male end finni  grad sate nureon. practical nue.ad ... initouet



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                               Page 4 of 5
ZAIRE - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Amount
(million US$ at      Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)          Annual Growth Rates (%)
current prices)               (at current prices)               (at constant 1970 prices)
1980                            1980                      1978        1979       1980
1/        594.
Gross Domestic Product-           5,948.0                           100.0                     -5.3         0.3        2.4
(GDP Comercialized)              (4,749.7)                           -                       (-6.3)       (0.2)      (2.3)
Agriculture                     1,760.4                            29.6                      0.0         3.1        2.3
Industry                        1,408.7                            23.7                     -8.6        -6.4        4.3
Services                        2,563.4                            43.1                     -5.1         4.7        4.5
Consumption                       4,456.5                            74.9                    -12 02       -3.2        3.9
Gros. Investment                  1,241.5                            20.9                    -52.0-       43.5       37.2
Exports of GNlFS                  2,154.4                            36.2                     27.0       -17.0        2.7
Imports of GNlFS                  1,904.4                            32.0                    -21.8        -6.7       -5.1
Gross national savings            1,502.0                            25.3                      8.7         6.0        0
PUBLIC FIN1ACE 3  (Central Government)                  (million )                           Z o
A c t u a 1                    (at market prices)
1977         1978          1979            1977        1979
Current revenues                              731.0       1,930.0       3,738.6           13.3       22.4
Current expenditures                        1,145.2       2,171.0       3,456.5          20.9        20.8
Current deficit                              -414.2        -241.0         282.1          -7.6          1.7
Capital expenditures                          113.8         129.0         246.4           2.1         1.5
Overall deficit                              -528.0        -370.0         35.7           -9.6         0.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                                   1978             1979                1980
(million 9 outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                                     1,854.5          2,084.9             3,367.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector                              1,578.3          2,062.2             2,329.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                               641.0            878.7             1,014.3
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money (as % of GDP - market prices)          33.8              18.8               20.2
Consumer Price Index (1975 . 100)A/                         453.4            912.7             1,339.0
Annual percentage changes in
Consumer Price Index                                       48.5            101.3                46.7
liank Credit to Public Sector                                49.6              30.7               13.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                20.1             37.1                15.4
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average
exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/     At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will
not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
2/     Figures for 1977/78 are inconsistent with other trends in the
economy and should be used and interpreted with caution.
3/     Cash operations only; excludes foreign grants and expenditures
financed by foraign sources.
4/     Consumer price index for the city of Kinshasa.
February 22, 1982



ANNEX I
- 26 -                               Page 5 of 5
ZAIRE - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                 1978         1979        1980
(million US$ at current prices)
Exports of goods and services                     1,665.0       1,914.6    2,087.1
of which:  Merchandise F.O.B.                   1,575.4       1,834.0    1,953.6
Imports of goods and services                     1,786.6       1,967.3    2,219.9
of which:  Merchandise F.O.B.                   1,024.6       1,106.9    1,201.3
Net transfers                                        38.8          67.6       133.3
Current Account Balance                             -82.8          14.9         0.5
Public Capital (net)                                122.7         -49.6        23.8
Private Capital and
errors and omissions                             -369.4        -220.4      -278.5
SnR Allocation                                        -            20.4        20.6
Other Financingal/                                  405.0         297.2       265.5
Net international reserves (- * increase)           -75.5         -62.5       -31.9
EXCHANGE RATES:
January 2, 1979-August 27, 1979                          X 1.00 _ SDR 0.5
August 27, 1979-February 22, 1980                        X 1.00 = SDR 0.375
February 22, 1980-June 19, 1981                          H 1.00 = SDR 0.263
Since June 19, 1981                                      H 1.00 = SDR 0.158
Average exchange rates
1978                                                   US$ 1.00 = x 0.836
1979                                                   US$ 1.00 = H 1.729
198C                                                   US$ 1.00 = X 2.800
1981                                                   US$ 1.00 = H 5.407
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1980)           million US$      %
Minerals and Petroleum                 1,536.6      78.7
Others                                   417.0      21.3
Total                                1,953.6    100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT, June 30, 19812/                     (million US$)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                         4,175.1
Non-Guaranteed                                          350.0
Total outstanding & Disbursed                         4,525.1
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 198-3/                               %
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                            16.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                               3.3
IBRD/IDA LENDING                       US$ million          SDR million
(As of September 30, 1981)             IBRD    IDA         IBRD    IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed               84.18   170.01         -        .03
Undisbursed                            e       106.74        -      22.57
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed        84.18   276.75         -      22.60
1/ Includes payments arrears, debt rescheduling, emergency
assistance, and profit on gold sales.
2/ These figures show the position as at June 30, 1981 after
account is taken of the estimated effect of the Paris Club
Agreement of July 1981.
3/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor
services. Represents actual payments.
February 22, 1982



ANNEX II
- 27 -                                Page 1 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of September 30, 1981)
Loan or
Credit      Fiscal                                     Amount in US$ million
Number      Year       Borrower                   Bank         IDA 1/   Undisbursed
Prior
to June   Congo &    Transport       91.58 2/
1960      Otraco      Infrastructure
One Loan Fully Disbursed                         100.00
Seven Credits Fully Disbursed                                  83.00       0.10
272       1972       ZAIRE       Education                    6.50       1.29
398       1983       ZAIRE       Livestock                    8.50       0.75
571       1975       ZAIRE       Rail-River II               26.00       2.16
625       1976       ZAIRE       Water Supply                21.50       0.58
624       1976       ZAIRE       Education II                21.00      19.25
660       1977       ZAIRE       Cotton Reha-
bilitation                  8.00      4.80
697       1978       ZAIRE       Ituri Livestock
Development                 8.00      3.76
710       1978       ZAIRE       Fourth DFC                  10.00       0.47
796       1978       ZAIRE       Oil Palm                     9.00       8.95
902       1979       ZAIRE       Railways                    20.00      19.98
916       1979       ZAIRE       Highway IV                  26.00      16.61
998       1980       ZAIRE       Fifth Dev. Finance          18.50      17.59
1040       1981       ZAIRE       Smallholder Maize           11.00      10.45
Total (less cancellations):                     191.58      277.00    106.74
- of which has been repaid                      107.40        0.25
Total now outstanding:                           84.18      276.75    106.74
Amount sold:                     54.47
- of which has been repaid       54.47
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                84.18      276.75
Total Undisbursed:                                0,.0                 106.74
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium.



ANNEX II
- 28 -                                 Page 2 of 9
B. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS EXPRESSED IN SDR (As of September 30, 1981)
Credit       Fiscal                                      Amount in SDR Million
Number      Year       Borrower   Purpose                Original  Undisbursed
1089        1981       ZAIRE       Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar    20.20       20.17
1152 1/     1982       ZAIRE       Kwango-Kwilu
Technical Assistance   2.40        2.40
Total (less cancellations):                              22.60      22.57
- of which has been repaid                                0.00
Total now outstanding                                    22.60      22.57
Total now held by IDA                                    22.60
Total undisbursed                                                  22.57
1/ This credit was signed July 23, 1981, but is not yet effective.



- 29 -                                ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (As of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                             Type of        Amount in US$ Millions
Year       Obligor                Business       Loan  Equity   Total
1970        Societe Financiere de
Developpement(SOFIDE)   DFC            -      0.76    0.76
1979        Zaire Gulf Oil Company  Oil Company  2.50   -          2.50
1979        Zaire Petroleum Company Oil Company  1.61   -          1.61
Total gross commitments                 4.11  0.76    4.87
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                              0.83   -       0.83
Held by IFC                            3.28  0.76    4.04
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (As of September 30, 1981)
Credit 272-CK          First Education; US$6.5 MilliLon Credit of December
17, 1971; Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing date:
December 31, 1981
The project consisted of (a) the construction or rehabilitation,
equipping and furnishing of educational institutions to train teachers for
primary level; for secondary-level general and technical education, and
middle-level industrial technicians; (b) the carrying out of a management study;
and (c) the carrying out of a survey of manpower needs. Due to considerable
price increases, the Government and IDA reduced the scope of the project in 1976
to include four institutions: one secondary technical school and three
higher-level teacher-training institutions. The revised project is
substantially completed and will close on December 31, 1981.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weakness in
project execution.



ANNEX II
- 30 -                            Page 4 of 9
Credit 398-ZR          Livestock Development; US$8.5 Million Credit of
June 21, 1973; Effective Date: February 14, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project was designed to increase beef production in the Shaba
region and to help establish a National Livestock Development Authority (ONDE)
through the provision of technical support and funds for training Zairian
staff. Implementation is proceeding slowly and unevenly. Initially, a major
constraint was the poor performance of the consulting firm selected to implement
the project, which led to the termination of its contract in 1976. The project
was revised in January 1978 to develop a training program in animal production
and range management and to finance the foreign exchange element of current
expenditures on the three ranches. The management of ONDE has tried to improve
performance but limited managerial capacity, inadequate performance of staff and
lack of supervision capability still constitute major problems. The financial
situation of the project remains weak mainly because of the high cost of ONDE's
Central Administration. ONDE's role after project completion is being defined.
Credit 571-ZR          Railway and River Transport Project; US$26 Million
Credit of July 11, 1975; Effective Date: November 18,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project included: (a) technical assistance to ONATRA including a
comprehensive training program; (b) financing of a major part of ONATRA's
1975-77 investment requirements for river transport equipment, railway
improvements and track renewal; (c) additional river markings on the
Kinshasa-Ilebo waterway; (d) port studies; and (e) a preliminary engineering
study for the Ilebo-Kinshasa rail link. Project implementation was initially
slow due to a combination of management shortcomings and financial constraints
which improved during execution.   All procurement is now completed or underway;
and credit funds are fully committed. ONATRA's financial performance has
improved significantly as a result of tight controls. Operations have improved
in the ports, in river transport, in the shipyards and in the railway. Overall
project execution is satisfactory.
Credit 624-ZR          Second Education Project; US$21 million Credit
of December 28, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project consists of construction and equipment for five new
rural primary teacher training schools, the rehabilitation and re-equipment of
six agricultural technician training schools and one higher agricultural
institute, technical assistance and fellowships for these institutions, and
evaluation of the new programs promoted in the project and the carrying out of
preinvestment studies in preparation for further education projects. Because of
implementation delays and exceedingly high of inflation the total cost of the
project substantially exceeds available funds and agreement has been reached
with the Government to reduce the scope of the project. The civil works
component will be deleted. Consideration is being given to use of remaining
funds for priority equipment and training needs; discussions with Government are
underway.



- 31 -                            ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
625-ZR         Water Supply Project; US$21.5 million Credit of June 18,
1976; Effective Date: August 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981; Cofinanced by ADB and BADEA
The project comprises construction and expansion of production and
distribution facilities in six major cities, the rehabilitation of existing
facilities, provision of engineering consultant serviLces for the six cities, a
comprehensive training program, and studies for additional water supply
projects. REGIDESO, the state corporation responsible for water supply is the
executing agency.  Construction works in the six cities and the training program
were satisfactorily completed, however the scope of the distribution components
was reduced due to cost overruns in Kisangani, Mbuji--Mayi, Mbandaka and Kamina.
Credit 660-ZR          Cotton Rehabilitation Project -- US$8 million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982, Cofinanced by Belgium
Project implementation has been very slow from the beginning due to
various administrative obstacles and the dissolution of ONAFITEX, the National
Cotton and Project Implementing Agency, in May 1978. Coton-Zaire, a public
enterprise, was created in December 1979 to replace the former ONAFITEX regional
Office. An Amendment Agreement reflecting these changes was signed on October
10, 1980; Government counterpart funds for investments were transferred to
Coton-Zaire and the technical assistance team was integrated in the company
with clear responsibilities. The cotton campaigns since 1979 have been carried
out on a regular schedule and production, although still very low, is
increasing. Producer prices were doubled for the purchases of the next campaign
starting in December 1981.
Credit 697-ZR          Ituri Livestock Development; US$8 Million Credit of
August 2, 1977: Effective Date: December 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by the
French Ministry of Cooperation, the Federal Republic
of Germany and Canadian International Development Agency
The project aims at improving livestock production in the Ituri
subregion through the provision of improved animal health and production
services, the training of staff and pastoralists, development of three ranches
to finish range cattle and rehabilitation of marketing and slaughter facilities
including two abattoirs. Project start up suffered from delays in the provision
of counterpart funds, supply shortages due to deterioration of the
Kisangani-Bunia road and lack of foreign exchange to import the necessary
commodities, insufficient support from central services in Kinshasa, and delays
in setting up of the training program financed by German aid. Constraints
remain the very high costs in the project area, high rates of inflation, the low
prices for beef, late receipt of government counterpart funds, and the so far
unresolved problem of incomplete exchange of bank notes in December 1979. The
ranch component has not yet started and it is envisaged to delete it. Despite
the constraints and the delayed start up remarkable results have been achieved.
They include:



ANNEX II
- 32 -                            Page 6 of 9
(i) the establishment and operation of a veterinary and livestock extension
serice; (ii) the implementation of a training program for extension officers and
livestock producers; (iii) the establishment of a livestock producer cooperative
which arranges the supply of veterinary products; (iv) vaccination and drenching
of about 200,000 cattle annually (two thirds of the project's objective); (v)
initiation of pasture development; and (vi) establishment of regular livestock
markets. Future emphasis in the subsector should be placed on expansion of
marketing.
Credit 710-ZR         Fourth DFC; US$10 Million Credit of August 2, 1977;
Effective Date: December 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
SOFIDE was established in January 1970 and the Bank Group provided a
substantial share of its initial resources through an IFC equity investment of
US$750,000 and a First IDA Credit of US$5 million. Three other credits of US$10
million each were granted in 1971, 1973 and 1977.  SOFIDE started operating on
July 1st, 1970, with a General Manager seconded by the Bank. In May 1973, a
Zairian General Manager, assisted by an expatriate Senior Advisor, replaced the
Bank-seconded General Manager. The institution has developed into a well run
and capable development bank, despite the policies of zairianization
retrocession which have disrupted the industrial and financial sectors. SOFIDE
has recently diversified its activities by increasing its operations in key
economic sectors, especially agriculture and transportation. SOFIDE has also
decentralized its operation and has recently opened three regional offices. In
1976, the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department conducted a project performance
audit of the First Credit to SOFIDE and found that SOFIDE had been generally
successful in fulfilling its objectives and had developed into a competent
organization. All funds have been committed and are expected to be disbursed by
the closing date.



33 -                           ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Credit 796-ZR          Oil Palm Project - US$9 Million Credit of June 8, 1978:
Effective Date: January 30, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985;
Cofinanced by African Development Fund (ADF) Banque Arabe pour le
Developpement Economique en Afrique (BADEA) and Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
The project consists of a five-year program to support the
rehabilitation of existing oil palm plantations through investments for
replanting and new plantings, renewal of oil mills ancd transport equipment,
improvement and expansion of social infrastructure; the employment of additional
staff, and training of staff. Effectiveness was delayed by the difficulties
which arose between the companies and the Government over the role of the
companies in the Project; by administrative bottlenecks, particularly in the
Ministry of Agriculture; and by the complex cofinancing arrangements. One of the
three companies which was to participate in the project has withdrawn and the
investment and financing plans were revised. The CCCE and IDA Credit Agreements
were amended accordingly, and BADEA is preparing an amendment to its Loan
Agreement. In the meantime, companies have begun planting programs out of
their own resources.  One company has already placed equipment orders for
vehicles and oil mill parts while the second company has not been able to decide
on the exact contents of its oil mill rehabilitation program. This issue is
expected to be solved by end 1982.
Credit 902-ZR          Railway Project: US$20.0 million, Credit of June 14, 1979;
Effective Date: January 27, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983; Cofinanced by the! Saudi Fund for
Development; Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau; the
OPEC Special Fund; and the African Development Bank
The Project supports the 1979-1982 investmient program of the Societe
Nationale des Chemins de fer Zairois (SNCZ) and includes trach rehabilitation,
equipment and operational investments to increase SNCZ's effective capacity.
The project finances: (a) renewing and upgrading 210 km of track and ballasting
another 285 km; (b) 100 ore wagons, 9 shunting locomotives and 12 passenger
coaches; (c) spare parts for locomotives and wagons; (e) extension of Ilebo port
facilities; (f) social infrastructure; and (g) middle/senior technical and
management staff training and consultant services. Effectiveness of this credit
was delayed in particular by slow progress in completing cofinancing
arrangements. Despite the financial problems owing to delays in freight rate
increases, SNCZ has been successful in increasing its carrying capacity.



- 34 -                            ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Credit 916-ZR          Fourth Highway Project: US$26 million Credit of
June 14, 1979; Effective Date: July 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by
the EEC Special Action Fund and the Saudi Fund
for Development.
The project was designed to finance 2.5 years out of a three year
road maintenance and rehabilitation program of the Office des Routes (OR)
(1979-81).  It comprises the maintenace and rehabilitation of about 40,000 km of
roads, including 800 km of paved road; strengthening and replacement of bridges;
construction of workshops and warehouses; procurement of motor and cable ferries
and replacement motors, and of highway maintenance equipment, spare parts and
fuel; improvement of the National Public Works Laboratory, and technical
assistance and training. Delays in cofinanciers' effectiveness and procurement
of equipment and spare parts slowed start up and will extend the project beyond
the time frame envisaged. Decentralized maintenance operations are being
carried out and effectively in Bas Zaire and Bandundu and will serve as models
for other areas. A fifth project has been appraised to consolidate
maintenance/rehabilitation activities and operations.
Credit 998-ZR          Fifth DFC; US$18.5 Million Credit of June 16, 1980
Effective Date: January 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
As of September 30, 1981 US$11.0 million of this Credit had been
committed under the investment component. SOFIDE has also committed funds in
excess of US$1 million for the working capital component and these are being
reviewed. Disbursement of credit funds is expected to accelerate rapidly
following a delay in credit effectiveness.
Credit 1040-ZR         Smallholder Maize Project: US$11 million Credit of
October 9, 1980; Effective Date: May 11, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987; Cofinanced by the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and African
Development Bank (ADB)
The project aims to improve existing farming systems in an area
covering about 26,000 km2 around Mbuji Mayi, increase maize production from
about 80,000 tons to about 120,000 tons per annum and increase the incomes of
about 53,000 farmers. The Project includes (a) provision of inputs including
fertilizer and improved maize seeds, transport, distribution and sales services
and storage facilities for inputs; (b) development of the private marketing
sector; (c) development of improved extension, training and research facilities;
(d) development of road and drinking water infrastructure; and (e) technical
assistance in support of the above activities.



ANNEX II
- 35 -                          Page 9 of 9
Credit 1089-ZR          Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar Project: US$26.4 million Credit of
January 7, 1981; Effective Date May 28, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986; Cofinanced by the French
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
The Project include (i) rehabilitation and extension of an existing
plantation, including provision of equipment for land preparation, cultivation
and harvesting; (ii) rehabilitation of transport infrastructure, and provision
of equipment for sugar cane transport and track maintenance; (iii) civil works
for the rehabilitation and expansion of processing facilities and construction
of offices and staff housing; (iv) design and implementation of an applied
research program on sugarcane; (v) purchase and installation of a data
processing and management information system; (vi) staff training; (vii) pilot
projects to promote food crop production. Project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily, and most procurement contracts have been advertised. Foreign
exchange allocations to the Compagnie Sucriere (implementing agency) for
operation and maintenance have been below the agreed level; Government has been
informed and has indicated that remedial action will be taken promptly.
Credit 1152-ZR          Kwango-Kwilu Technical Assistance Project: US$2.9 million
Credit of July 23, 1981; Effective Date
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Credit is not yet effective.



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)      Identification: 1980
(b)     Project Preparation Agency: Government/Tractionel
(c)     Appraisal Mission: November, 1980
(d)     Negotiations: January 11-14, 1982
(e)      Target Effectiveness: July 1, 1982
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
The Association would approve the plan of action to improve SNEL's
management capabilities and financial controls before its
implementation.
Section III: Special Conditions
A.  The Borrower shall:
(i)     make available to SNEL, promptly as needed, foreign exchange
required for SNEL to operate and maintain the equipment, property
and facilities rehabilitated or repaired under the project
(para. 40);
(ii)      appoint an Energy Advisor to the National Energy Commission by
December 31, 1982 (para. 45); and
(iii)      take all measures necessary to ensure that all entities under its
ownership or control pay to SNEL within one month of each billing
date, all charges for electricity consumption (para. 55).
B. SNEL shall:
(i)     ensure that its level of inventory would at no time fall below the
estimated requirements of the Shaba Region for the next twelve
months (para. 40);
(ii)      employ by December 31, 1982 two training advisors, financial and
engineering consultants and key technical assistance staff (paras.
42, 43 and 44);
(iii)      not later than September 30, 1983 review in detail with and take
into account comments of the Association with respect to the plan of
action to improve SNEL's management capabilities and financial
controls (para. 44);



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iv)     maintain separate accounts for the SIS assets and SNEL operations in
the Shaba region (paras. 53 and 57); and
(v)     adjust tariffs to attain rates of return for the Shaba region of
4 percent in 1983 and 6 percent in 1984 (para. 54).
C. Special conditions of credit effectiveness are:
(i)     fulfillment of conditions precedent to effectiveness of the OPEC
Fund Loan (para. 47);
(ii)     allocation of BF 276 million for the purpose of the project
(para. 47); and
(iii)     execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (para. 48).
D. A condition of disbursement of the technical assistance component is:
approval by the Association of the plan of action to improve SNEL's
management capabilities and financial controls before its
implementation (para. 44).
.



IBRI 15493R
2O.                                                     24T-         - -                                          28'                                  Aptil 1ns;
LALjKE M/NOB                                                                                                                                       L   ,Lf 
~~                                                                                 B~~~~kovj ( ~~~~~~ RWVANDA         j
v .-.       f          J
BUR:UND1 ,
diofo                                                                                                             :~~~~~~~~~~~ TNANIA
1, AKE
1A    CHCY                                                                                                   L
bT-Zi(       ~                - h.-        I                     $G                                                              l,LK
d~~~~~ --ply - 11. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~        A(
W~~~~, B ~ ~ ~     ~    EP 
j.dg  ,                                                   aniama~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aemah
.............SHAA
TANANIA ~ ~ ~        ~           ~          ~          ~          ~         ~         ~         ZAMI
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  h~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
B                                                        KILOMETEB.B~~~~~
VDAN                                                                                                                                        rA'



