IT NUMBER 1224 ZR
Development Credit Agreement
(Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1224 ZR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             9               , 1982, between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE (herei fter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSO IATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) Parts A through F of the Project will be carried
out by SNEL (as hereinafter defined) with the Borrower's assist-
ance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to SNEL part of the proceeds of the Credit as herein-
after provided;
(C) by an exchange of letters dated January 30, 1981
and May 4, 1981, between the Borrower and the Association, respec-
tively, the Association has granted the Borrower an advance
(hereinafter called the Advance) in an amount equivalent to
$500,000 to assist the Borrower in financing the preparation of
the Project and and the Association is prepared to refund such
Advance out of the proceeds of the Credit provided for herein;
(D) the Borrower has contracted from the Kingdom of Belgium
a loan (hereinafter called the Belgian Loan) in an amount of one
billion, two hundred million Belgian francs (FB 1,200,000,000) of
which the Borrower intends to allocate an amount of two hundred
and seventy-six million Belgian francs (FB 276,000,000) to assist
in financing the foreign exchange cost of Part A of the Project;
(E) the Borrower has contracted from the Organization
of the Petroleum Exporting Countries Fund for. International
Development (hereinafter called the OPEC Fund) a loan (hereinafter
called the OPEC Fund Loan) in the amount of five million dollars
($5,000,000) to assist in financing Parts B through E and Part G
of the Project on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
between the OPEC Fund and the Borrower, dated October 30, 1981
(hereinafter called the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon


﻿-2-
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
SNEL;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and SNEL of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and SNEL pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes any schedule to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "SNEL" means the Societ6 Nationale d'Electricit6
of the Borrower, a public enterprise organized and operating
pursuant to the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 78-196 of May 5, 1978
and the Borrower's Loi No. 78-002 of January 6, 1978 (which for
purposes of this Agreement shall be referred to collectively as
the "SNEL Statutes"), as such Ordonnance or Loi may be amended
from time to time;


﻿-3-
(d) "SIS Accounts" identifies the separate accounts record-
ing operations with respect to the SIS; "SIS" means the Systeme
Inga-Shaba comprising the fixed assets in operation and the assets
under construction of the Inga II hydroelectric generating sta-
tion, the Inga-Shaba 500 + kV transmission line and the Kolwezi
(Shaba) high voltage transmission reinforcement line together with
related liabilities;
(e) "Southern Region Accounts" identifies the separate
accounts recording operations with respect to the Southern Region;
"Southe.rn Region" comprises the assets located within SNEL's
region du sud, (except the Kolwezi (Shaba) high voltage trans-
mission reinforcement line), together with related liabilities;
(f) Ministere de l'Energie means the Borrower's ministry
responsible for energy;
(g) "National Energy Commission" means the Commission
established within the Ministere de 1'Energie for purposes of
coordinating the Borrower's activities in the energy sector;
(h)  "Zaires" and "Z" means the currency of the Borrower;
and
(i)  "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth *or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to sixteen million, four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 16,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-4-
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Advance shall be auto-
matically cancelled as of the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1992, and ending
February 15, 2032, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 2002, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of .1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. For the purposes of taking any action required
or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions, the
Director General of SNEL, and any other person authorized in
writing by him, is designated as representative of the Borrower in
respect of withdrawals under Categories (1), (2) and (3) of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and


﻿-5-
the Commissaire d'Etat charg6 des Finances of the Borrower,
and any other person authorized in writing by him, is designated
as representative of the Borrower in respect of withdrawals under
Category (4) of said table.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall (i) cause SNEL to carry out
Parts A through F of the Project, and (ii) carry out Part G of
the Project through its National Energy Commission, all with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) Under a subsidiary loan agreement (the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and SNEL on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, the Borrower shall relend to SNEL the portion of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit allocated to expenditures required for the
carrying out of Parts B through F of the Project; the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement shall provide, inter alia, that SNEL: (i) shall
repay the proceeds of the Credit relent to SNEL over a period of
eighteen years, including three years of grace, and shall pay int-
erest at the rate of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11 3/5%)
per annum on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time; and (ii) shall bear the risk resulting from fluctu-
ations in the value of currencies relent to SNEL.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or -any provision thereof.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause SNEL to perform'in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or


﻿-6-
appropriate to enable SNEL to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the National Energy Commis-
sion in carrying out Part G of the Project, the Borrower shall,
by December 31, 1982, employ an energy adviser whose selection,
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association; such employment shall be
made in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, through its National Energy
Commission: (i) exchange views from time to time with the Associa-
tion on the progress being made under Part G of the Project; (ii)
furnish to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
documents and reports for said Part of the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and (iii)
review with the Association with a view to implementation the
proposals for the medium-and long-term energy plan provided for
under Part G (1) of the Project and the recommendations and
conclusions of the study provided for under Part G (2) of the
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all measures required on its part in order .to enable SNEL to
adjust its tariffs for electricity and to carry out its obliga-
tions under Sections 4.05 and 4.06 of the Project Agreement.
(b) Without limitation or restriction on its obligations
under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall cause its
agency or agencies responsible for the setting and adjustment of
SNEL's rates for the sale of electricity to act in respect of
any application of SNEL for the setting and adjustment of such
rates within a period of not more than 30 days after the receipt
of such application by SNEL.


﻿-7-
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall make available to SNEL,
promptly as needed, the foreign exchange required to purchase
the equipment and materials necessary to ensure that SNEL is in a
position to fulfill satisfactorily its obligations under Sections
3.02 (b) and 3.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that any entity owned
or controlled by the Borrower pay within 30 days of billing
amounts due for electricity supplied by SNEL.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) SNEL shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of SNEL under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that SNEL will be able to perform its obliga-
tions un( r the Project Agreement;
(c) a representation made by SNEL in or pursuant to the
Project Agreement, or any statement furnished in connection
therewith, and intended to be relied on by the Association in
making the Credit, shall have been incorrect in any material
respect;
(d) the Borrower or any other author-ty having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action which would materially and adversely
affect the ability of SNEL to carry out the covenants, agreements
and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement;
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SNEL or for the suspension of its operations;
(f) the SNEL Statutes, or any legislation or regulation of
the Borrower governing the organization, powers or operation of
SNEL or any concession agreement between the Borrower and SNEL,
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of SNEL to


﻿-8-
carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations -set forth in
the Project Agreement; and
(g) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower or SNEL for the financing of the
Project, including the OPEC Fund Loan and
that part of the Belgian Loan made available
to SNEL for purposes of the Project, shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the agreements providing therefor; or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower or SNEL to perform any of
its obligations under such agreements; and (B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower or SNEL, as the case shall require, from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement and of SNEL under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and SNEL; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (d), (e) (f), or
(g) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development


﻿-9-
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of
the General Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and SNEL;
(b) the conditions precedent, if any, to the effectiveness
of, or initial disbursement under the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement
have been fulfilled, subject only to the effectiveness of this
Agreement; and
(c) two hundred and seventy-six million Belgian francs
(FB 276,000,000) out of the total amount of the Belgian Loan have
been allocated by the Borrower for purposes of the Project.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by SNEL, and is legally binding upon SNEL in accord-
ance with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SNEL and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and SNEL in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date        £?7       is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph (b) of
Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date eighteen years after the date of this Agreement, which-
ever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Commissaire d'Etat charg6 des Finances of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Departement des Finances
Botte Postale No. 12997
.Kinshasa
Republique du Zaire
Cable address:                       Telex:
DENFIN                             298 KIN/GOMBE
Kinshasa, Gombe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818'H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                              440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of


﻿- 11 -
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By             ov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /         ~~I
Regional/ice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation
of amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)     to be financed
(1) For Parts B through
D of the Project:
(i) equipment                2,500,000        63% of foreign
expenditures
(ii) vehicles                 3,530,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
(iii) consumable                 690,000       63% of foreign
stores                                   expenditures
(iv) labor                      610,000       100% of local
expenditures
(v) consultants'               520,000       63% of foreign
services                                 expenditures
and 100% of
local expen-
ditures
(2) (i) Training under              350,000      . 63% of foreign
Part E (1) of                             expenditures
the Project                               and 100% of
local expendi-
tures
(ii) Studies for                690,000       63% of foreign
Parts E (2)                              expenditures
and E (3) of                             and 100% of
the Project                              local expendi-
tures


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)      i be financed
(3)  (i) Consultants' and            860,000       100%
experts' services
for Parts F (1) and
(2) of the Project
(ii) Consultants' and          2,150,000       100%
experts' for Part
F (3) of the
Project
(4) Consultants' services            610,000       63% of foreign
for Part G of the                             expenditures
Project                                       and 100% of
local expendi-
tures
(5) Refunding of Advance             430,000      Amount due
(6) (1) Unallocated - for          1,290,000
emergency repairs
(ii) Unallocated               2,170,000
TOTAL    16,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "emergency repairs" means repairs of a non-
routine and unforeseen nature for which provision is not made in
standard public utility practices.


﻿- 14-
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such, taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to April 1, 1982;
(b) payments made for local expenditures in an amount
exceeding in the aggregate $2,000,000 equivalent; and
(c) payments made for expenditures under Category (3)(ii)
unless the plan of action prepared under Part F (2) of the Project
has been approved by the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, but subject to the limitation specified in para-
graph 4 (b) of this Schedule, if the Association has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any
Category or Sub-category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category or Sub-
category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category or Sub-category, to the extent re-
quired to meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category or Sub-category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet
other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further with-
drawals under such Category or Sub-category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category or Sub-category is


﻿- 15 -
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The principal objective of the Project is the rehabilitation
and repair of SNEL's generating stations at Nseke, Koni, Nzilo and
Mwandingusha in the Southern Region and the rehabilitation of its
transmission system in the Southern Region with a view to ensuring
a continuous, reliable supply of electricity to the mining indus-
try in that Region. The Project is also designed to strengthen
SNEL's management, accounting and maintenance procedures and to
develop a medium-and long-term energy policy for the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Rehabilitation of SNEL's generating station at Nseke
Replacement of stator windings in the four generators
at Nseke.
Part B:   Repairs to SNEL's four generating stations at Nseke,
Koni, Nzilo, and Mwandingusha
(1) Repairs to the generator cooling systems at
Koni and Nzilo.
(2) Repairs to the basic elements of the electri-
cal production systems at Nseke, Koni, Nzilo and
Mwandingusha, excluding dams.
Part C:   Rehabilitation of SNEL's Southern Region high voltage
transmission system
Replacement of controls and protective equipment in
the switching stations and sub-stations which form
part of SNEL's high voltage transmission system.
Part D:   Maintenance
Maintenance of the generating stations, high voltage
transmission system and sub-stations rehabilitated under
Parts A, B and C of the Project.
Part E:   Training and studies
(1) Review of the training program at SNEL's training
school at Sanga; provision of training aids for said


﻿- 17 -
school; and about six man-years of scholarships for
refresher training courses.
(2) (a) Study of SNEL's electricity tariffs and charges to
different categories of consumers with a view to
eliminating disparities.
(b) Study to determine the value of SNEL's assets.
(3) Study of the movements of the arch dam at Nzilo and the
preparation of a rehabilitation program for said dam.
Part F:   Improvement of SNEL's management
(1) Improvement of SNEL's financial controls and management
capabilities.
(2) Studies to identify measures to be taken to improve
SNEL's medium- and long-term planning, organization and
financial management and to ensure that adequate provi-
sion is made for maintenance of SNEL's assets; prepara-
tion of a plan of action on the basis of the measures so
identified.
(3) Implementation of the plan of action prepared under Part
F (2) of the Project.
Part G:   Development of an energy policy and pricing of energy
resources
(1) Preparation of a statement of medium-and long-term
energy policy to optimize the development and use of the
Borrower's energy resources.
(2) Study, of the pricing of energy resources in accordance
with terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1986.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed he Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 4!
FOR SECRETARY


