CREDIT NUMBER 1224 ZR
Project Agreement
(Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'ELECTRICITE
Dated                              , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1224 ZR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             9                , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION   (hereinafter called the
Association) and SOCIETE NATIONALE D'ELECTRICITE (hereinafter
called SNEL).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to sixteen million, four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 16,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that SNEL
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SNEL, part of the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be
made available to SNEL on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS SNEL, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts A through F of the Project
Section 2.01. SNEL shall carry out Parts A through F of the
. Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with.


﻿-2-
appropriate administrative, commercial, financial, public utility
and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist SNEL in carrying out the
Project, SNEL shall employ, or continue to employ, advisers,
consultants and experts whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion; the advisers, consultants and experts listed in Schedule 2
to this Agreement shall be employed on or before the respective
dates specified in said Schedule.
(b) Employment of the advisers, consultants and experts
referred to in (2) and (3) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
shall be made in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(c) Not later than September 30, 1983, SNEL shall:
(i) review in detail with the Association the measures
identified and the plan of action prepared on the
basis of the studies to be carried out under Part F
(2) of the Project; and
(ii) take into account the Association's comments with
respect to said plan of action.
(d) SNEL shall cooperate fully with such consultants and
experts in the performance of their services for the Project and
make available to them all information relevant to the Project.
(e) SNEL shall cause such consultants and experts promptly
to furnish to the Association copies of the documents prepared by
them for the Project, including reports and drafts thereof, and
estimates of costs, in such manner as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(f) SNEL shall not amend or waive any of the terms and
conditions of employment of the consultants or experts employed
under the Project, or grant any material extension of time or any
approval of sub-contracts or modifications thereof, or agree to
any substitution of personnel of such experts or consultants
without the prior concurrence of the Association.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) SNEL undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by SNEL to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, SNEL
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) SNEL shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and rehabilitation and procurement
schedules for Parts A through F of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) SNEL shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Parts A through F of the
Project (including their costs and the benefits to be derived from
them), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose their use in the Project, including, without limitation
to the foregoing, separate records with respect to (A) payments
made for local expenditures under the Credit, and (B) SNEL's
activities in the Southern Region; (ii) enable the Association's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in Parts A through F of the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of such proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning Parts A through F of the Project,
their costs and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived
from them, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by SNEL of any contract for goods or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the


﻿-4-
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between SNEL and the
Association, SNEL shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by SNEL and the Association of their respec-
tive obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit.
(e) SNEL shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of SNEL and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. SNEL shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, SNEL shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) SNEL shall at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) SNEL shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by SNEL of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operation of SNEL
Section 3.01. (a) SNEL shall at all times manage its affairs,
plan the development of its properties and facilities, and carry
on its operations, all in accordance with appropriate administra-
tive, commercial, financial, public utility and engineering


﻿-5-
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
maaagement assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b) Without limitation to The generality of paragraph
(a) of this Section, SNEL shall employ on a permanent, full-time
basis, a qualified and experienced fin.'Ancial director, acceptable
to the Association, who shall be responsible for SNEL's financial
management and accounting practices.
Section 3.02. (a) SNEL shall at all times maintain its
corporate existence and right to carry on its operations and shall
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, powers, privileges, licenses, concessions and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the conduct of such operations.
(b) SNEL shall at all times operate and maintain the equip-
ment, properties and facilities, rehabilitated or repaired under
the Project and shall ensure that suitably qualified staff are
readily available to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereto, in accordance with appropriate public utility and
engineering practices.
(c) Except in the normal course of its business, SNEL shall
not, without the consent of the Association, sell, lease, transfer
or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or assets which
shall be required for the efficient operation of its business and
undertaking.
Section 3.03. SNEL shall ensure that the level of inven-
tory for the Southern Region will not at any time fall below the
requirements for said Region for the next twelve months, estimated
in accordance with appropriate public utility practices; for
purposes of this section the term "inventory" includes consumable
stores and replacement parts.
Section 3.04. SNEL shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate public
utility practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SNEL shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting


﻿-6-
practices its operations and financial condition, including,
without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts recording
all of SNEL's operations for each of its regions, including the
SIS.
Section 4.02. SNEL shall: (a) maintain, or cause to be
maintained, as part of the separate accounts referred to in
Section 4.01 of this Agreement, sub-accounts and records relating
thereto, reflecting all expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and
(b) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure, and enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records.
Section 4.03. SNEL shall: (a) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, commencing
fiscal year 1981, in accordance with appropriate auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association; (b) furnish to the Association as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than six months after the end of
each such year (i) certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors on (i) the
separate accounts for each of its regions including the SIS
referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, and (ii) the sub-
accounts referred to in Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information, including
audits, concerning the accounts and financial statements of SNEL,
the separate accounts recording all of SNEL's operations for each
of its regions, including the SIS and the sub-accounts referred to
in Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. (a)  SNEL shall carry out a review of all its
assets in order to determine the current value thereof and to
estimate the remaining period during which said assets will
continue to operate efficiently; such review (i) with respect to


﻿-7-
the SIS, shall be completed by January 1, 1984 and the results
thereof incorporated into the SIS Accounts for fiscal year 1984,
and (ii) with respect to all assets of SNEL, except the SIS, shall
be completed by June 30, 1984 and the results thereof incorporated
into SNEL's accounts for fiscal year 1984.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SNEL
shall: (i) carry out annually a revaluation of the economic value
of its fixed assets, to such extent as shall be necessary to
reflect adequately, at the time of each such revaluation, the
current value thereof, in accordance with a sound and consistently
applied method of valuation acceptable to the Association; and
(ii) prepare annually a separate set of accounts on the basis of
said revaluation.
Section 4.05. SNEL shall exchange views with the Association
with respect to the recommendations made pursuant to the study
provided for under Part E (2) (a) of the Project and shall, taking
into account the comments of the Association, promptly take all
measures necessary to include those recommendations in its tariffs
and tariff structure for fiscal year 1984.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, SNEL shall from time to time take all measures (including,
but not limited to, proposals for adjustments of its tariff and
tariff structure) as shall be required to earn an annual rate of
return for the Southern Region of at least four per cent (4%) in
fiscal year 1983 and six per cent (6%) in fiscal year 1984 and
thereafter.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated
in respect of each fiscal year by relating the
net operating revenue for that year to the average
of the net value of fixed assets in operation at
the beginning and at the end of that year;
(ii) the term "net operating revenue" means gross
operating revenues less operating and administra-
tive expenses, including adequate maintenance
and provision for depreciation and taxes, if
any,. but excluding interest and other charges
on debt;


﻿-8-
(iii) the term "net value of fixed assets in operation"
means the gross value of fixed assets in operation
less the related accumulated depreciation, both as
revalued annually in accordance with methods of
valuation acceptable to the Association; and
(iv) the annual rate of return, the net operating
revenue and the net value of fixed assets in
operation as referred to in subparagraphs (i), (ii)
and (iii) of this paragraph shall all be determined
exclusively for the Southern Region.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of SNEL thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date eighteen years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
SNEL of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿9
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SNEL:
Societe Nationale d'Electricite
49, Boulevard du 30 Juin
B.P. 500
Kinshasa I
Zaire
Cable address:                      Telex:
SNEL                               21347 ZR
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of SNEL may be taken or executed by
the Director General or such other person or persons as SNEL
shall designate in writing, and SNEL shall furnish to the Associa-
tion sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   A/ Lj tL       /, 4jp2
Regioi(al Vice President
Eastern Africa
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'ELECTRICITE
By   <AuforizedR
Au~oizedReprtese:   ftive


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts C and E hereof, goods and ser-
vices shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, SNEL shall prepare and forward to the
Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. SNEL shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   Contracts for vehicles, equipment and materials will be
grouped to the extent possible in order to derive maximum bene-
fits from bulk procurement.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 12 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Zaire may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Zaire if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of Zaire and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Zaire equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3* In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods


﻿- 13 -
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evJ_ated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $100,000 each, which cannot be grouped pursuant to para-
graph A.3 of this Schedule, may be awarded through international
shopping on the basis of a solicitation of price quotations from
at least three independent reputable suppliers.
2.   Contracts for the supply of proprietary spare parts for which
immediate procurement is crucial for the timely execution of the
Project may be awarded to the original manufacturers; contracts
shall be furnished to the Association for its approval and
shall subsequently be awarded after having obtained price
quotations from original manufacturers and other reputable
parts manufacturers.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts (except contracts for pro-
prietary spare parts referred to in paragraph B.2 of this Sche-
dule) estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, SNEL shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, SNEL
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient


﻿- 14 -
time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommenda-
tions for award of the said consultants and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform SNEL
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, SNEL shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform SNEL and state
the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, SNEL shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform SNEL and state
the reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
Installation and repair work under Parts B through E of the
Project may be carried out by force account by SNEL in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Advisers', Consultants' and Experts' Services
(Section 2.02 (a) of the Project Agreement)
(1) Engineering consultants to continue to assist in supervising
the carrying out of Parts B through D of the Project.
(2) To be employed not later than December 31, 1982:
(a) two training advisers for Part E (1) of the Project;
(b) financial consultants for Part E (2) of the Project;
(c) engineering consultants for Part E (3) of the Project;
and
(d) consultants, experts and an adviser to assist in
carrying out Parts F (1) and F (2) of the Project.
(3) Consultants and experts to be identified to assist in carry-
ing out Part F (3) of the Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of    AdA4,
198
FOR SECRETARY


