Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10388-IND Type: (PCR)                     Report No. 10388
TWEDDLE, E/ X31707 / T9 073/ OEDD3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
(LOAN 2816-IND)
FEBRUARY 18, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onky in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(As of January, 1991)
Currency Unit - Ildonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$.         - Rp 1,845
Rp 1 mLllion -US$542
FISCAL YEAR
Governmenc of Indonesia: April 1 - Karch 31
Local Covernments: April 1 - Karch 31
PRINCTPAL -~BREVTATIQNS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB                   Asian Development Bank
BAPPENAS          -National Development Planning Agency
DGBH              -  Direccorate General Bina Marga (Roads)
DGBudger          -  Direccorace General Angaraan (Budget), Ministry of Finance
DGCK                  Direccorace General Cipta Karya (Human Settlements), MW
DGMDN                 Directcorate  General  Monetar  Dalam  Negeri  (Domestic
Monecari kffairs), Ministry of Finance
DGPajak           -  Directorace General Taxation, Ministry of Finance
DGEangda          -  Directorace General Regional Dev6eTopment, YHA
DGPUOD                Direccorace General Local Administration, MtHA
DGWRD             -  Directorata General of Water Resource Development, KM
DIP                   Daftar :slan Proyek (Development Budget Allocation
GOI                   Government of Indonesia
INPRES                Instruksi Presiden (central grant to local governments by
presidential instruction
IUIDP                 Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program
Jabotabek         -  Conurbation of Jakarta and adjacent local governments of
Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi
KIP               -  Kampung Improvement Program
LIDAP             -  Local Institutional Development Plan under IUIDP
4HA               -  Ministry' of Home Affairs
MOF                   Ministry of Finance
MPU               -  Ministry of Public Works
NGO               -Non-Governmental Organization
O&M               -  Operation and Maintenance
PBB               -  Pajak Bumi dan Bangunan (property tax)
PDAM              -  Water company
PDN                   Pinjaman Dalam Negeri (domestic loans)
PJH                   Local Investment Expenditure Plan under IUIDP
RDA               -  Regional Development Account
Repelita          -  GOI Development Plan
RIAP              -  Local Revenue Improvement Action Plan under IUIDP
TKPP              -  Tim Koordinasi Pembangunan Perkotaan (Interagency
Coordinacing Team for Urban Development)
UNDP                  United Nation*s Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ITHE WORLD BANK
Wachington, DC 20433
USA
Office of Directo-Genetal
Opeatnms Fvaluat,un
February 19, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Urban Sector Loan (Loan 2816-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Indonesia - Urban Sector Loan (Loan 2816-IND)" prepared by
the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed
by the Borrower.   No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FnR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UaN SC OND1 
IBM=
TABLE OF COUTEWSS
Pase No.
Preface ....................................... ............           .
Eval..mtion Sunary..ii
$.EvauainR SumaryPPU .................................................
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTM         ...      .  .1....     
Introduciou ......... ................. .
A.Project DescriptLon  .......1
B. Backgrou and Sector DevelopmaetCutax             ..       .                2
C. Project Orin. Objecctves and Desipi  . .  .         .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  3
Preparation and Aopraizal .3
Project Objec,-ves and Strategy .............. .   4
D. Project Results                                                            5
The Exp,enditu.re ?r-.ram...................                           5
Service-Coverage   .n Overvies   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Ff.ancin  the   sr:    ......  .          .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .   .  8
PoLicy Action ?!an    . .   ................ . .   9
(i)-form of L.ca  7.nanceas- Unfinished Buuiness  ...  .              .   9
Sumarv Over:evw o date .1.0
Concra1/Locai. -.ances  . .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   11
Crane Refor   .1.1..  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   LL
legional.Covermenc Botrowing .......... .  12
Local Resource Z(obilLzaclou .............   . 14
The Propertv Tax (1M5)   ... .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   14
Lcal Taxas and Charge ..............   . 16
Local Goverrment Financial Eanageasu  and Accounting            17
Regional Socio -demographic and Flacial Data B*se  .            17
(U.) Insitutionai  and Manpaver         .D.v.L..men....               1. I8
(i) The Integraced Urban tInfrasructure Planning (IMDP)
Process .2.1.....................   . 21
(W.)Sector CoordLnacion and Integration ......... .   2;
E. Disbuneueca  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   24
F. Procnc ......................... . 25
C. MOUito?iS and Reporting ...................   . 25
H. Complancewith Legal Covenants  ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   25
r. The& ole of ThelBank .ZE..  .     .. ..  .   ..  ..  .  ..  ..  .   ...   26
J. LessonsLLarned  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   26
Project Objectives and Desigm ............... .  26
The PolLcyAgenda ..................... .  27
The Technical Assistance Program  ... .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   27
The role of Bank Financing  ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   28
Keating the Urban Challenge ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   28
Th.s document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfiormance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont.)                       Page No.
II.  PROJECT EVALUATION BY THE GOVERIMIET .......... . . . ..      .         33.
A. Urban Developent Expenditure  . ...   3231
B. Local Gov>aormnt Capacity.           . ....    31
Sector Financing  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  32
Sector Institutional and Manpower Development . . . . . . . .  32
C. Sector Planning and Programing  . . . . . . . . .                    33
D. Overall Impact of Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
The Agenda ........................ .  34
I1I. STATISTICAL INFORMATIcw
Table I     Staff and Consultant Inputs                                 36
Table 2     Loan Disburse.. nt                                          37
Table 3     Compliance w.    'gal Covenants                             38
Table 4     Technical Ass.    ;e and Training                           39
Table 5     Studies Carriefr cat under the Project                      4]
ANNEX 1.    The Expenditure Program and FLnancing Plan                        51.
ANNEX 2.   GOI Statement of Urban Polici.s                                    52
ANNEX 3.    Policy Action Plan                                                6g



PR%JECT_COMP==0N REPORT
TNDONEStA
URBN SEC=OR LOAN
(Laan 2816-IND)
This is the Project coamietion Report (PCR) for the Urban Sector Loan in
Indonesia, for which Loan 2316 -IND in an amount of $270 million equivalent was
approved on May 19, 1987.   he Loan vas closed on  March 31. 1991, one year
behind scnedule.
The PCR was prepared Or' tne Infrastructure Operations Division, Country
V, Asia Region (Preface, Evaiuation Summary, Parts I and III)- It is based,
inter alia. on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement and project
supervision reports togecher with seccor reports previously undartaken by the
Bank and the Borrower. Prellainary and interim reviews have been made by the
Borrower. Part II s-.sariZes the Project Evaluation section of the Borrower's
PCR and a more thorougn GO: assessmenr of the issues affecting sector
performance and prospects :reoared as a basis for release of the fourth $25
million trancheunder tne :_A:  H.ousing Guarantee Loan which is also keyed to
the Goverrnencvs Statement-: ''ban Policies.  These documents are also
actacned.
Whilst longer than _sua.. -he report is intended to-provide not only an
assessment of the project  -_- a'-so of related sector performance to date and,
as such, :o contribute co _:re sector dialogue and lending operations.



- ii -
URL4N SECTOR LOAN
(*-an 2816-TND)
Exoendieure nroLgam Support
1.   The project was very timely in helping the Government of Indonesia to
implement a program of investment projects for urban infrastructure at a time
of severe budgetay  constraints.  More than this, it v   instrumental in
expanding sector expenditures tovards the level recommended by the Bank's
Urban Services Sector Peport (Report 4800-ND). As-such, it helped bring to
fruition the considerable project preparation effort which had been initiated 
in the early to mid-1980s and expanded basic-urban services appreciably
Disbursements on thi. program of investment expenditures were completed, as
expected, within two years.  x very satisfactory experience.  lowever, current
indications are that the increase in sector expenditures during the USL, could
not be sustained and that overaLl public expenditure levels in investment and
O&H in the infrastructure subseccors involved have declined virtually to the
low level following the collapse in oil prices in real, per-capita terms   the
event which sparked the need for the USL.
2.    Clearly, the appropriace level of expenditures on urban infrastructure
depends on many factors. Whilst, the impact in urban expenditures of falling
oll prices was short lived - due in large pert to the success of the
Gover=ente's stabilization measures, it appears that the expansion in urban
expenditures stimulated by -he USL was, itself, a tamporary aberration.
Adequate institutional capacity and appropriate financing arrangements to
sustain a soundly-based program of investments in local urban services
cogether with the required O&{ are not yet in place. Constraints which
continue to impair sector performaned are many and varied. There is a lack of
an adequate pipelLne of high quality investmeat projects, in part due to the
high cost and lengthiness :f actempts to institutionalize the Integrated Urban
Infrastructure Investment Program planning process (MIDP) cogether with the
dependence on, and disruptions in, donor financing for it.  Even with a
pipeline, implementation capability is probably not substantially higher in.
real terms than during the period covered by the USL - say Rp.l,000 to 1,200
billion per year in current prices. The conclusLon therefore has to be that
the expenditure lavel generated by the USL is noc sustainable given the lack.
of a sufficient project preparation capabilLty. Uith the governments
budgecary position improving, absorption capacity for a second USL probably
did not exist imediately following USL 1, particularly with the USAID HGL
coming on stream at that time.



- iii -
The Sector Pglicy AgendA
-     Ulehrs the USL was able to accelerate implementation of proviously agreed
-c*ns such as reform of the property tax (PBB) or systems already designed
su. as for improved local LAX adminL3sration or for infrastructure
maintenance management, much has been accomplLshed. In addition, a number of
important pollcy initiatives formulated under the USL are under
implemencaticn, either in free-standing project. such an the comunity-based
approach to kampung improvement in the Third Jabotabek Urban Development
Project, or the many refinements to financial and institutional arrangements
undar the current series of It'IDP projects being financed hy the Bank and
other donors.
4.    However, the policy agenc&a was neither prioritized into short-term and
long-term activities, nor  sanaged- as an interdependent paiage.  Without
question, there is considerable unfinished business on this agenda. This is
especially the case in terms of the financing arrangements for local urban
services. Improved allocation criteria for central government grants;
establishomt-of a viable credi  moachanism; and legislative action to expand
the local tax basa -are all essential c oupoents of.a satrategy to. enable the
sector to establish, over time. pricing policies which can manage the
increasing deuknd for basic uroan services more effectively and gonerate or
mobilize an increasing proportion of invesement capital requirements from
domestic savings and, facilUtace a more decentralized framwork for
administering local urban services in line with government policy.
5.    Moreover, whilst the Government had, at least initially, reached
agreement on an Action Plan and had established an institutional mechanism for
coordinating policy impiementation (TLm Koordinasi Pembangunan Perkocaan -
TKPP), it lacked the analyetcal basis for evaluating the implications of a
number of key policy reform options. Uncertainties over the form which
transitional arrangements should take to minimize the costs of
decentralization, and the Improving economic and budgetary situation have also
* undoubtedly affected the timecable for reform.  Koreover, as dalays affected
preparation of the pipelLne of investment projects, program implementation and
the timing of donor financing, became the dominant preoccupation of TKPP.
Other activities - the financial agenda, in particular - were pursued with
less vigor and TKPP's Steering Committee became less active. As a result,
concern began to mount amongst a number of agencies that this imbalance in
priorities was impairing TKrP's effectiveness as a policy forum for the
sector.
6.    A subsector Loan, such as one which would have addressed the issuies
relating to water supply tore explicitly, might have ptovided a more focused
agenda, albeit a partial one. Ie might have represented a more practical,
evolutionary approach to program, and eviintuAlly to sector lending, thereby
avoiding the considerable disrupction in program development which resulted
from the lack of a follow-on Bank financed operation. Interestingly,
considerable innovation in financial and institutional arrangements are being
undertaken under other Bank-financed urban projects, notabLy the East
Java/Bali Urban Development project. This might not have been possible,
however, without the debace on sector policies provoked by the USL.



- iv -
LAsson* learned
7.    The considerable policy analysis undertaken in the early 1980s
culminated in the Statemenc of Secror Folicies defined by the Government in
support of its request for the USL. This agenda is as relevant today as it
: when the USL was initiated, and even more urgent in view of the increased
pace of urbanization at presenct with urban productivity and the environment
now becoming pressing concerns. Clear and realistic expectations were not
established for progress towards establishing a decentralized framework for
delivery of local urban services. Not surprisingly, the USL has demonstrated
that policy and institutional reform is a gradual process, and that although
it is essential to have a clear scrategic vision of the direction of these
reforms, their implementation 1S necessarily uneven and fragmented, determined
by what is politically possible a, any point in time. Nevertheless, the
Oblueprin.e provided by the LSL continues to be very valuable in helping guide
the direction of urban policy.
S.    The sector is clearly under-funded.  However, it is the institutional
corstraints which appear to be most binding on the ability of the sactor to
absorb an appreciably higher 'evei of investment expenditures which would be
justified by demand. The firs: order of business, therefore, must be to
expand capability for project :repararion. The USL appears to have drawn down
a substantial part of the *;peilinee of projects which had been prepared
during the early 1980s. -he presene generation of projects is emerging all
too slowly. Indeed, it is couocful that a 3econd USL could have been absorbed
efficiently, particularly given that the USAID Housing Guarantee Loan (HGL)
came on scream immediately after the USL.  Secondly, implemencation capability
must be expanded, particularly a: the local level. These are essential
preconditions for a meani.ngful and sustainable development effort in the
sector. Continued attention must be focussed on the longer-term agenda of
improving cost recovery and local res6urce mobilization.  More effective
pricing policies are required co help increase cost recovery and to manage the
rising demand for local urban services more effectively and equitably and
improve local accountability.  :ncreasing use of credit would enable central
government resources to be utilized more efficiently.
9.    Although the USL was "erv successful in bridging a short-term gap in
budgetary resources, the long-cerm challenge of the urban sector is not
primarily to provide additional financing but to remove the institutional and
policy constraints which impede satisfying the rapidly increasing urban needs.
Subsequent operations and sector work have and will be structured with this in
mind and are more focussed on specific regions or specific subsector or policy
constraints. The key challenge in the financing area is to mobilize more
resources at the local level and to ucilize- the available central government
resources more efficiently. AC the presene time, althc-3h needs far exceed
the present level of expenditures, it is unclear that a much higher level of
expenditures could be implemented effectively unless accompanied by
institutional and policy reform.
10.   To meet the challenge of urbanization in the 1990s and beyond, and in
view of the mixed performance on policy implementation, a reinvigorated effort
and strong leadership is called for to fashion a renewed consensus on the



v 
Iportance of urban development in macro-economic mangenmnt and social
development. The Goverment has taken some steps in this direction and there
ero signs of a growing consciousness on tho part of senior policymakers of the
implications of the very high pace of urbanization nov taking place in
Indonesia and the urgent need to mnove forward with financial reforms and to
strengthen urban institutions.



Mil
U1tJ SECTOR LQU (LOM 2816-INID
t o.PfOJECTRVT9   RfMT RMENK g pPIMTTV!
A_ . ro i _ - _,lscrnt
Pr,1ec e 'denNFty
Projectc Nam                  Urban Sector Loan
oan No.                        2816-UD
Date of Loan Effectiveness    June 11, 1987
Date of Cmupletion            lurch 31, 1991
Closing Date                  Mrch 31, 1991
Project Coat                   $1,005.8 million equivalent
Foreign Exchange Component
(Appraisal Esctia:e)    $398.3 million equivalenc
Back Loan                      $270 million equivalent
Bank Loans, total Disbursed    $269.0
Bank Loan, Tocal Canceled      $1.0
RVP Unit                      Asia
Country                       IndonsiLa
Sector                         Infristructure
Subseccor                     Urban
Tntro.duction
1.    As the first, and to duce, only loan of its kind financed by the World
Barc  -h  Urban Sector l-uhn (USL) to IndoesiAL is of special interest to the
Bank. co the Indoneian Goverraonsc an  to the door c_mity involved in
ssisting igban daelopuenr.  It vas a lag  projecti providing $2?0 millLon
equivalent to supporc ths Gove rnmntes program for developing urban services.
It vs pramised oan th neued  o ixprove sector-officioey and the viev chat the
tim  was right to move beyond  trsdidtionalpoject specifice developmet and.
tovards a prograatic davelopment mode. To this end, it sought to lay cth
foundations of a process for moving the locus of formuation, implemenation
and financing of local urban serlvces to reSional gove?I=nts within a sound
policy framveork for tho seccor vhich ra: %d   to well-erticulated national
social and economic goals.



- 2-
3. Sakg1ound and Sector -eeouneCne
2.    The urban services sector in IndOn1sia has been ihe focus of
considorable policy analysis, both by the Bank and by the Governmen of
Indonesia (G00) directly. The iankas Urban Services Sector Report (Report
4800-IND) in 1934 asessed the a3ttus of urban sarvie delivery mechanisms and
identified the principal factors constraining soctor davelopmeat. In 1985,
the Governmnt published its National Urban Dov*lopant Stratagy (NDS) f/,
and in 1987, the Bank undertook a datailed review of local gover nnt finance
unmer che auspices of the Bank*s Public Sector Naagement Study (Report 7007-
IND) .
3.    The principal findings of tho polLcy analysis cried out by the Bank
called for: i) an expanding ievei of invesCMents in the sector; ii) upgrading
of the administrative capact'r of local gorverments as a *meas of establishing
an increasingly decenralli:ed {.-scitutional framework for devlopment and
coordination of local urban services; and iLi) a rationalized and strengthened
financing systea for local services including a. shft in the pattern of
f*inance away from central grants and towards preater local -financial
responsibility and resource mobilization.
4.    Endorsing this viev, -a NUDS report further asserted that urban
development in Indonesia cannoc be considered only in terms of the provision
of *basic- social services. The -A urban population &rovth which had been
projected at the time (over vi.ce the cocal national population growth) had
been fueled by the need t: c:eace about 1.8 millLon new jobs per year, almost
one chird higher chan acc'.-ai  ,o creation in che 1970s.  Indeed, the urban
labor force was estimated ra ze growing at about 4.7% annually - mostly, it
was thought, becaw o of higner labor force participation in the low-
productivity, low-wage service sector which had replaced agriculture as che
veuidual *employer of last resort6 21. The NUDS report comented chat the
need for efficient urban developmenc must be viewed as central to Indonesials
development and the drive for economic growth, particularly in the export-
orienced manufacturing sector, which is largely urban-based.
5.    By 1980 the urban population totalled 33 million (22.4%  of the total
population at the time) and. at an estimated 4t plus growth rate, was expected
co increase by 16 million people during the decade (half the cocal population
growth during the period) and by a further 23 million in the 1990s. The NUDS
project estimated that, during the period 1985-2000, urban areas would be
expected to. absorb at least 60% of total population growth, even under the
most optimistic assumptions about agricultural and natural resource
development. More probably this would be 70% or more.
I/     Project undertaken by The Directorate of City and Regional.
Plnning, Direccorace General of Human Settlements, Department of
Public Works.
Z/    UUba*& $ervices Sector Report (Report 4800-IND).



-3-
6.    More re^ent data indicates that the pace of urbanization has become
significantly more rapid still. The 1990 census indicates that about 55
million people (almost one third of the total population) nov live and work in
ath nation's towns and cities, considerably higher than the 48 million
projected (See Table 1). The very success of policies to diversify the
economy, and the resulting growth in urban-based, small-scale manufacturing
which now makes a major contribution to overall GDP, together with the limited
absorption capacity of agriculture, make it likely that this high urban growth
rate will cortinue, or even escalate further, for some time to come. On
present trends, by the year 2000 the urban population will have increased by a
further two thirds tC abouc 90 million as virtually all the total future
population growth (over three million persons annually) is likely take place
in, or move to the nation's towns and cities.
7.    Thus, Indonesia has now entered a phase of rapid urbanization similar to
that experienced by many countries in *economic transitione during the 1960s
and 1970s. Many of those countries failed to understand the need for a clear
guiding framework of urban policies to be implemented at the outset of this
process, and had great difficulty managing urban growth. Economic
infrastructure such as transport, power and telecommunications systems
deteriorated, and the growth and productivity of the urban economy did not
expand sufficiently to absorb che additional labor force. Social tensions
increased as urban institutions became overwhelmed by the demand for basic
services from the lcw-income segments of society which were least able to pay
for them.
8.    The purpose of this report, therefore, is to assess progress in sector
development in terms of the policy imperatives summarized in para. 3 above and
the role played by the Urban Sector Loan in supporting this effort. To this
end, the report will assess the extent to which: i) expenditures have been
adjusted in line with strategic assessments of requirements in the various
local service sectors; ii) a *sustainable- development effort is yet in place
through implemencation of key elements of an appropriate strategic agenda for
guiding and managing the urbanization process in Indonesia; and iii) a
consensus exists amongst policy makers over the significance of urbanization
in national development and the constraints which need to be removed. The
report is therefore somewhat longer than is usual for a PCR.
C. Projecr Qrigin. Objectives and Design
troaration and Aoiraisal
9.    It should be noted that the Urban Sector Loan (USL I) was not conceived
against the background of the above extensive policy analysis, but during
discussions with the Government, in February/March 1986, of the impact on the
development budget of sharply declining oil revenues. With a view to
obtaining funding required to support ongoing investment projects, many of
which were foreign-assisted, chree working groups chaired respectively by the
National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS); the Directorate General for
Human Sectlements (Cipta Karya. Department of Public Works); and the
Directorate General of Monetary Affairs (DGMGN), in the Ministry of Finance



- 4 -
(MOF), assisted by the Ministry of Home Affairs which has principal
responsibility for regulating the operations of regional governments, prepared
draft proposals for: i) a sector expenditure program: ii) a Sector Policy
Statement and Action Plan for reform measures; and iii) project management and
implementation arrangements. The project was appraised in November, 1986 and
negotiations were held in Washingtcn on March 30 - April 3, 1987.
Project Obiectives and Stratef
10.   The stated objectives of the Urban Sector Loan were to help GOI
maintain, in the midst of severe economic and budgetary constraints, the
momentum of its ongoing infrastructure expenditure program and to support an
action plan of comprehensive reforms which would, in the medium-to-long term
(i.e. 5 to 10 years, improve local resource mobilization significantly and
increasingly shift responsibilities for urban infrastructure planning,
financing and implementation, from central government to local governments.
11.   The project comprised two parts:
a) support for a two-year time slice of the Government of
Indonesials (GOI's) urban infrastructure expenditure program for
FY87/88 and FY88/89 estimated at about $960 million equivalent,
including investmenc and rehabilitation (80%), as well as
operation and maintenance (0&M) (20%). This expenditure program
consisted largely of projects already prepared and appraised by
donors; and
b) implementation of GOI's Action Plan for sector policy and
institutional reform which was designed to lay the foundations for
a substantial shift from Central Government to local governments
for planning, implementing, operating and maintaining and
financing local urban services. Specifically, the Action Plan was
formulated to strengthen: i) local resource mobilization in terms
of a) property valuation and tax administration; b) water
enterprise cost recovery and management; and c) local revenue
administration; ii) urban infrastructure financing arrangements
through: a) establishment of a loan fund for local governments and
enterprises; b) improved criteria for grant allocations; and c)
improved local economic and demographic information systems; iii)
medium-term planning and programming; and iv) sector institutions.
To provide intersectoral and interagency coordination - also
recommended by the Urban Services Sector report - the Government
established an urban coordinating committee (Tim Koordinasi
Pembangunan Perkotaan - TKPP).
12.   Support for the Action Plan comprised two components: i) technical
assistance, training and contract property valuacion for the property tax
(PBB) improvement program; and ii) technical assistance and training for the
sector financing reforms, improvement in planning and programming,
strengthening of water supply subsector management and development of urban
institutions and manpower. The project was expected to be completed by
September, 1989. The Loan's closing date was extended from March 31, 1990 to



-5-
March 31, 1991 so as to more fully implement the program of technical
assistance for the property tax (PBB) improvement program and a number of
institutional development efforts which were still ongoing at the time.
D. Project Results
The Exoenditure Program
13.   The recent expenditure program and financing plan provides a 'windows on
efforts towards sustainable progress in sector development. It is therefore
summarized below and elaborated in ANNEX 1.
14.   With a view to building on the considerable achievements during the late
1970s and early 1980s, project preparation efforts intensified and an
increasing volume of *high quality' investment projects was appraised for
foreign financing. On this basis, the urban expenditure program initially
proposed for Repelita IV, starting in 1984, amounted to Rp.700 billion per
year (US$770 million per year equivalent) in 1982 prices, compared to about
Rp.280 billion on average per year during Repelita III.
15.   Under Repelita IV, access co safe water supply, for which Rp.1,000
billion was allocated - up sharply (by 270% per year) over Repelita III, was
to be extended to 75% of the urban population from 47% in 1984; sanitation
facilities were to be made available to 60% of urban households by the end of
Repelita IV in 1988/9 compared to less than 30% in 1982; access for ehe low-
income population to communal sanitation facilities (MCKs) was to be increased
to 50% (from less than 10%); and solid waste management coverage was to be
expanded to 50% for household garbage and 100% for non-household garbage,
though no specific target was established for toxic wastes.
16.   By 1985/6, expenditures had increased by 20% in real terms - a
meaningful first step towards the indicative *resource constrained' program
suggested by the Urban Services Sector Report as necessary to deal with the
backlog and to accommodate growth. With the collapse in oil prices, however,
even these investment levels could not be sustained.
17.   Bank support under the USL was, therefore, very timely.  The USL enabled
the Government to expand the investment program to accommodate the
considerable demand for additional investment capital and to honor commitments
on donor-assisted projects underway. With counterpart resource constraints
virtually eliminated, Bank disbursements on project loans in the sector
improved markedly. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) also attributes a
significant (about 30%) improvement in disbursemenc performance to the USL.
Thus, the expenditure program was not only sustaired at a time of severe
budgetary constraints, but was increased markedly. Urban expenditures in
1987/8 posted an immediate 55% gain and, at the height of USL I, increased to
about 7% of total development expenditures, 0.55% of GDP. Since financing
constraints had been virtually eliminated by the USL, this level of
expenditures probably reflected the institutional capacity for implementation
of urban service investments which existed at the time, but exceeded the level



-6-
of expenditures which could be sustained on the basis of capacity for project
preparation.
18.   With the                       Flg. 1: Ltran Sector LOan
support of the USL,                          um, a P"
water subsector
investments were
expected to jump                    P"IS   e"o C62a
initially to about
43% of urban                 _C".101101
expenditures and
settle back to a                                                     W   \\_y (42 to
sustained 38%
share.  In fact,
during the two year         CI Co M3e
period covered by
the USL, water.
supply represented    e* , U *.  r C 9. 4.
about 35% of
overall urban
expenditures,                               c rC
somewhat lower than
projected, even
though fully 42% of
the USL itself was allocated to water supply projects (see Fig.l).
19.   To sustain the perceived achievements of increased investment levels
afforded by the USL, the target for tocal urban sector expenditures in
Repelita V, starting in 1989/90, originally amounted to Rp.9.28 trillion 3/
about 80% over actual expenditures in Repelita IV in real, per-capita terms.
20.   In fact, overall urban expenditures fell back sharply in 1989/90, the
year following USL support, by 15% reduction in real, per capita terms. Since
the USAID Housing Guarantee Loan (HGL) came on stream in 1989, this worsening
trend cannot be attributed exclusively to financial resource constraints.
1990 witnessed a further decline in real expenditures back to about the 1986
per/capita level following the collapse in oil prices (see fig.l). The
continued decline in actual expenditures - now lower than the traditional 5%
allocation of development expenditures - underscores the likelihood that
institutional constraints, rather than financial resource constraints alone,
are impairing sector performance.
21.   Two years into Repelita V, only 16% of overall targeted expenditure
levels have been reached - 11% for environmental sanitation and drainage and
9% for water supply. The virtual collapse of investment in water supply
continued in 1990 to less than half, in real per-capita terms, of the level
during 1987/88, the fi:st year of the USL. Present investment of about $3 per
capita per year equivalent (Rp.170 billion for 1990/91) is undoubtedly below
3/ excluding housing construction, but including shelter-related
infrascructure.



-7-
Fig.2 URBAN EXPENDITURES
700
.000
*3"4   VW~   ISIS   OW?    71    OWO   OW'so    We
the level needed to maintain che effective life of existing networks and to
meet increasing needs, not to speak of catching up with existing backlogs.'
22. The prospects for reversing this trend are not encouragiUng. Cipta Karya
anticipates that, based on che ongoing program (including foreign assisted
projects, in particular), expenditure levels for water supply, environmental
sanitation, drainage and KIP are unlikely to exceed 60% of Repelita V targets.
Service Coverage - An Overvi,ew
23.   During Repelita IV, urban water supply was reportedly extended to more
than an additional seven million people, human waste disposal was improved in
sixty two towns, solid waste improvements were made in one hundred ninety
eight towns and drainage systems were improved in ninety towns. An additional
6 million mostly low-income urban residents benefitted from the Kampung
Improvement Program (KIP).
24.   The impact of this level of investment in addressing service
deficiencies is less clear, however. For examrple, the additional seven
million wacer consumers served was less than the estimated urban population
growth durir.6 the period. overall service coverage (public as well as *safew
private supplies) would, therefore, have increased only marginally to about
50% of the urban population from 47% in 1984 - considerably lower than the 75%
i-arget for the Repelita. Moreover, adding 13 million new water consumers
during Repelita V will barely keep pace with expected increases in the urban
population. As a result, very little, if any progress will have been made
towards the target of 80% coverage of the urban population during the present
development plan. Rather, in 1994, at the end of the plan period, little more
than half the urban population in Indonesia will have access to a safe and
reliable source of water. Wiith the reducing level of public sector
expenditure noted above, significant improvement in drainage and solid waste
services are unlikely, and improved sanitation is being left primarily to the
initiacive of individual households and communities.



Einancing the Program
25.   The status of implementation of the package of measures which were
defined under the Action Plan co rationalize and strengthen local finances is
also illustrated in ANNEX 1. Suffice it to say here that the financing plan
for Repelita V is predicated on an unrealistic increase in the financial
participation by regional governments. Direct local financing (including
allocations of the centrally-administered property tax-PBB) taken together
with local borrowing, as envisaged, were expected to amount to Rp.5.7 trillion
- 62% of planned expenditures compared to Rp.O.8 trillion or about 25% of
expenditures in Repelita IV. By contrast, TKPP's monitoring data indicates
that, during the first two years of Repelita V, direct financing and borrowing
by local governments kave constituted a minor share (25%) of sector financing,
and their contribution to expenditures has reduced in each of the last two
years.
26.   Certainly, local governments are presently in no position to ^scale ups
expenditure. to the level required on a pay-as-you-go- basis. Moreover,
without additional local resource mobilization, the scope for additional
borrowing is limited. Unfortunately, the prospects for rapid increase in
local resource mobilization is limited with little progreds having taken place
on the lo.al finance reform agenda. As a result, the dependency on central
government grants (75%) - financed primarily by foreign borrowing (60%) is
likely to be reduced only slowly and the availability of central government
budget allocations will continue to sec an upper boundary on expenditures.
27.   For sector developmenc efforts to be sustainable, cost recovery and
resource mobilization in the seccor must be improved. The sector is simply
not capable at this point of generating enough of its investment capital
needs. Improved pricing policies would help stimulate improved cost recovery.
In addition, they provide a more efficient means of managing the increasing
demand for services which will result from the present rapid pace of
urbanization than supply constraints presently do and will improve local
accountability. Ultimately, sector financing is an issue of domestic resource
mobilization, and expanding the use of loan financing holds the key to sector
development and the decentralization objectives sought under the Covernment's
Statement of Policies for the sector and supported by the USL.
28.   It is clear that, in the near-cerm, central government grants will
continue to play a dominant role in financing local urban services in
Indonesia. The real issue is whether grants can play a key role in promoting
the emergence of more efficient financing arrangements in the sector.
Refinements presently under consideration relate primarily to providing more
flexibility in allocation arrangements as between sectors. The use of grants,
Ln part, to match - and thereby stimulate - local resource mobilization
efforts and as a means of helping local governments to leverage their resource
mobilization efforts into a larger investment program would provide major
additional benefits. This strategy would improve fiscal efficiency within the
sector and promote increased debt financing of investments as a less-
inflationary means than grants of scaling up public expenditures in local
urban service investments. As such, it would help establish an increasingly
*demand orienteds rather than *supply drivens approach to the sector. It



-9-
would also, of course, lessen the budgetary impact of an expanding urban
expenditure program. Provision of an additional, matchingu grant tied to,
say, a 10% addition to annual net local revenues on a three-to-one basis
(consistent with the present financing structure) would require less than a 5%
annual increase in grants. However, as illustrated in ANNEX 1, it could help
underwrite a considerable expansion in borrowing capacity and overall
investment levels.
Policy Action Pla
29.   The Statement of Sector Policies was elaborated in a letter dated April
11, 1987 from the Mir.ister of National Planning/Chairman of BAPPENAS (See
ANNEX 2). The Action Plan based on this Statement of Policies is detailed in
ANNEX 3. Performance to date on this plan is reviewed below in terms of: i)
the package of financial reforms; ii) measures to strengthen local governments
responsibility for infrastructure development and maintenance; iii)
implementation.of integrated local expenditure planning and programming; iv)
upgrading local institutions and manpower; and v) s.rengthening interagency
and intersectoral coordination arrangements.
(i) Reform of Local Finances - Unfinished Business
30.   Backzround  Resource mobilization and cost recovery at the local level
in Indonesia have traditionally been low by international standards. Only
about 2.4% of total public sector revenues are mobilized at the subnational
level and, notwithstanding good performance by individual local governments,
in the a6gregate, local *own sourcet  revenue growth has traditionally lagged
growth in regional GDP. With few exceptions, the general policy has been to
recover recurrent expenditures '/ and local governments have long been
heavily dependent on a fragmented and unpredictable system of earmarked
central government grants and transfer of the central government property tax
to sustain a generally inadequate level of expenditures.
31. The Banlc's Local Government Finance Report recommended reform of local
finances with emphasis on rationalizing the grants system and augmenting the
major existing revenue sources. This view was further endorsed by the NUDS
Report which recommended that, over time, local governments needed to be given
more latitude in determining their own revenue sources and in setting tax
rates. In the meantime, the report recommended that local finances should be
strengthened by more reliance on loans for capital investments and more
effective collection of existing taxes - particularly the property tax, and
that more effective arrangements should be implemented for conveying central
funding. The budgetary constraints resulting from the collapse in oil prices
in the mid-1980s made design of a package of reform measures an urgent
priority.
32.   The key elements of GOI1s action plan to improve local finances
included: i) preparation of specific proposals to improve allocation of
4/ for water supply, the national policy is to cover O&I together with
debt service or depreciation



- in -
resources under the grant system; ii) establishment of a viable source of loan
finance for local governments; iii) strengthening of the revenue performance
of local governments through improvements in the structure and administration
of local taxes and charges; iv) improved cost recovery and management of
regional wacer enterprises; v) full implementation of the new property tax
(PBB) law, including valuation and tax administration improvements, as well as
improvements in the assessment ratio; vi) establishment of an information base
on regional finances for the purposes of policy development and decisions; and
vii) a significant upgrade of local financial management and information
systems. Thase reforms were not intended to eliminate central government
grants and transfers. Rather they were intended to condition the local
finance environment for improved resource mobilization. Overall, the package
was intended to not otuly significantly increase the level of resources
available to local governments, but would also substantially increase local
discretion in their allocation. It is worth noting, however, that not all of
these efforts were initiated under the USL. Improved local tax administration
was initiated under a previous Bank Loan (Ln.2408-IND, Urban V). Legislation
reforming the property tax to a market value base from the old IPEDA system
was enacted prior to USL I. Improved financial management and accounting was
also initiated under a previous Bank Loan.
33.   In view of the central role attributed to this *finance agendas in
supporting an expansion of local urban services and in underwriting measured
progress towards decentralization, the range of activities are reviewed below
in some detail.
34.   Summa   Overvie'w, to date  A major aim of the Government's policy
statement was to set in place mechanisms to promote an increasingly
decentralized framework for che provision of local urban services. The
financial reform package provided a well-structured vehicle for this. Whilst
progress has been made to mobilize additional *discretionarys local revenues,
this was on a very low base. The increase in local revenues, net of recurrent
expenditures, is small in absolute terms and has not, by itself, enabled local
governments to expand local investments substantially. Ie is action on the
*structurals components of grant reform, establishment of a viable credit
mechanism and a revised local revenue code which will condition the financial
e.Lvironmenv for delivery of services in the 1990s and beyond. Whil3t,
establishment of the Regional Development Account has now been formalized 5/,
it is as yet unclear if the financial 'tncluding interest rate policies, in
particular) and operating policies wii2' support its ability to underwrite
substantial growth in viable, high priority sector investments. In addition,
although draft legislation is proposed to be presented as a package on
Central/Local Finances (grants) and on Local Taxes and Charges, it is far from
certain that legislative action will be completed during the present session.
It is not clear if the details of the proposed new vehicle fuel tax, under the
Local Taxes and Charges Bill have been worked out, or whether there exists a.
full consensus on reinforcing the role of level I local governments under the
Central/Local Financial Relacions Bill. If not, it could well be some time
before these reforms can be presented to a new legislature.  Against this
'/ MOF Decree 1021/KMK.013/1991 dated September 30, 1991.



- II -
background, it is clear from the above that considerable 'unfinished business'
remains on this financial agenda. Four major issues emerge which have limited
effective progress and are likely to continue to do so in the future: i) the
need for the government to return to basics and sort out the objectives it has
for local goverrment finances. This is particularly important for grants and
loans; ii) the need for adequate and up-to-date information on regional
finances. Reform of the structural components of the local finance system
will be difficult to design unless the effect of existing grant mechanisms,
for example, and the possible impact of proposed changes can be observed. GOI
is only now starting to put such a data base in place; iii) the need for
better coordination among government agencies. Recognition of the
interrelationships between loans, grants and local resource mobilization has
not been emphasized in the arrangements of supervising the range of activities
initiated, either by TKPP or by individual study teams. In short, the agenda
has not been managed effectively; and iv) the sustainability of the agenda,
particularly after the technical assistance ends is unclear.
35.   That said, the agenda does contain the right pieces.  The challenge for
the 1990s, therefore, is to formulate and implement robust and acceptable
reform measures.
Central/Local Finances
36.   Grant Reform  A proposal was formulated in 1988 by the Ministry of
Finance to consolidate the fragmented existing system of central grants to
local governments into: a) block grants - automatically fixed transfers based
on the size, functions and scacus of local governments. Within general
central government guidelines relating to the functions covered by the block
grant, local governments would have discretion in allocating funds. A
supplemental grant might be included to equalize for poor resource endowments
or high service costs due to physical conditions; and b) categorical
entitlement grants for develo2ment ex2enditures - based on defined policy
requirements including cost recovery, integrated investment planning, etc.
This proposal was broadly consistent with the objectives sought for grant
reform, but did not meet with widespread supporc from other key ministries
responsible for sector development. The lack of an urban finance data base -
a major deficiency which continues to this day to limit the Government's
capability for sector policy analysis - made it difficult to assess the impact
of the existing system, and to evaluate the implications of reform options.
With so many existing programs, there were many champions of the status quo.
Cabinet changes brought in new policy makers to the sector who were less sure
of the administrative implications of decentralization and, consequently, less
convinced about the urgency of major changes in financing arrangements for
local services.  As a result, the impetus for structural reform of the grant
system - the essential element of the decentralization strategy supported by
the USL - was lost, and with it, the prospects of major improvement in local
resource mobilization.
37.   Instead, attention shifted to incremental improvements to the existing
grant system and a number of modest but meaningful modifications have been
made co the INPRES (grants to local governments for direct implementation of



- 12 -
investment projects) to provide local governments with increased dLscretion
6/. Amongst these measures, the following are most notable: i) a new Inpres
Bantuan Peningkatan Jalan (roads) Dati I was implemented with simultaneous
reduction of the DIP Bina Marga for the provincial road betterment program.
Local governments' discretion in the utilization of these Inpres funds
(particularly Inpres Dati II, Inpres Peningkatan Jalan Dati II and Inpres Dati
I) was increased; ii) a special upoverty alleviation grant for rural and
urban water supply and other basic infrastructure is now in place; iii)
regulations governing Inpres Dati I and II have been amended to enable up to
250 of these grants to be used for operation and maintenance; iv) Inpres
grants are now being used as an incentive to promote local government
participation in identification and registration of properties under the PBB;
and v) establishment, by 1992, a new 'Inpres Perkotaans to help finance
approved expenditure plans (PJMs) formulated under the IUIDP process. If
implemented, this would consolidate present grant financing including DIPs for
local government infrastructure responsibilities. However, administrative
arrangements have yet to be formulated.
38.   Whilst these initiatives provide meaningful improvements to the grants
system, they dc not address the basic underlying problems of the
fragmentation, earmarking and. most of all, the unpredictability of *ad hoc-
allocation arrangements on the one hand and the lack of meaningful
accountability at the local level on the other. Legislation has now been
prepared by the Ministry of Finance, in consultation with the Ministry of Home
Affairs. This legislation would provide for a more sweeping reform of the
grants system. Reportedly, :here is now a basic agreement on the need to
reflect the very high present rate of urbanization in the allocation
arrangements of the grancs system, though details of an *urban weightings have
yet to be defined. It is understood that, in general terms, the legislation
would consolidate all grant financing for physical investments in the INPRES.
DIPs would be used for technical assistance.
39.   In the meantime, IN&?.ES was virtually doubled (88% increase) in
1990/91 - though the discretionary components increased by less than 80%.
However, DIPs also doubled (104% increase), thereby reasserting the dominance
of subsidies in the financing arrangements for local services and undermining
other efforts underway at the local government level to establish more
efficient pricing policies and to mobilize additional own source revenues.
40.   Regional Government Borrowing  Public investmee.ts in infrastructure
developmenc during Repelita III and IV have created an economic base which
offers significant scope for additional local resource mobilization, and the
capacity for increased debt financing of infrastructure investments. Indeed,
6/ In monitoring the urban expenditure program and financing plan, TKPP
has traditionally included only a proportion of the INPRES Dati I and
Dati II as attributable to the development of urban services. This
understates cencral government support for urban schools and health
facilities financed through sectoral INPRESs, though this is extremely
variable from region to region.



- 13 -
the scale of local governmenc borrowing has increased by an average of about
20% per year from 1983/4 to 1989/90 in nominal terms. As a result, by
1989/90, about 12% (Rp.88 billion - $49 million at the then prevailing
exchange rate) of additional investment expenditures cn local urban sarvices
was being financed from borrowing compared to 2  '(Rp.30 billion) in 1983/4.
41.  Whilst this trend is encouraging, current regulations effectively
preclude any significant *leveragings of lacal tax revenues, including
property tax transfers, through additional borrowing 7/. It will be
important that debt financing by local governments do not exceed prudent
levels, particularly since many lack experience in managing loans. Even so,
considerable scope exists for addicional debt financing and changes are under
consideration to bring *legal* borrowing limits more into line with repayment
capacity of regional governmens-. However, for credit to play a key role in
providing a source of discrecionary investment finance and sustaining
investmene levels needed to meet present growth in the urban population and
industry, credit policies, including any link between loans and grants, need
to be defined and mechanisms co expand local resource mobilization
sufficiently to. collateralize increased borrowing - including, in particular,
the proposed legislation governing local taxes and charges - need to be set in
place quickly.
42.   However, progress in reaching agreement in government over the role and
objectives of credit financing has been slow and difficul:.  Considerable and
lengthy debate has centered on the regional equity advantages of an
entitlement program of subsidized credit tied to the grant system compared to
the resource mobilization pocential and increased economic efficiency of a
loan program for financially viable projects with credit worthy borrowers.
The view that a loan program should be keyed primarily to resource
mobilization objectives ana should operate independently of the grant system
appears to have prevailed, but does not yet appear to be supported by a
sufficiently broad consensus. The financial policie. outlined in the RDA
Decree (see para. 34) indicate that concern remains, in particular, over
perceived equity implications of onlending rates at competitive interest
rates, particularly on local water tariffs. Moreover, increased borrowing by
local governments will heighten the clamor f.'r more decentralized arrangements
for implementation of investments which is not supported by all parties. At
the same time, however, financing plans for the current range of foreign-
assisted urban/regional projects now incorporate a substantial share (average
42%) of credit, ranging from about 13% in East Java/Bali to over 50% in
Jabotabek. The East Java/Bali regional/urban program is providing a spilots
experience with intermediation arrangements for channelling investmene credit.
43.   These arrangements can help to rationalize and systematize regional
government credit programs. However, the comparative advantage of public
sector management of such a credit facility over the long term is unclear.
Virtually no capability to evaluate the viability of local investment
proposals yet exists in the government unit designated to manage the single
7/ However, the Ministry of Home Affairs exercises considerable
flexibility in approving local government borrowing proposals.



- 1 4
local government loan program. Nor is it yet able to operate the financial
management and accounting system prepared, with consultant support, for
portfolio management.  Certainly, considerable additional lnstituzional
development and training will be required for this unit if a satisfactory
level of portfolio management is to be established. This is probably not the
most economically efficient or effective way to establish a *viableo credit
mechanism. Rather, consideration should be given to selectinl; an intermediary
from *knowns institutions in the existing financial system. Loan origination
could be contracted out to other qualifying and interested financial
institutions as criteria for loan approval are clarified, and rediscounting
arrangements are formulated, and as a *track record* of loan repayment and
debt management by regional governments emerges.
Local Resource Mobilization
44.   The Prooerev Tax (PBB)  The Local Government Finance Report noted that
with an effective tax rate of 0.1% and receipts of Rp.21 billion in 1981/82,
the property tax had considerable scope for improvement. The Urban Services
Sector Report conjectured that by early 1990s PBB could be financing about 33%
of all new investments. In 1986, GOI legislated a reform which consolidated a
number of taxes on land and buildings and established market values as the
basis for tax essessment.
45.   The USL assisted the Uovernmentfs initial implementation phase, and
included: i) identification, survey and valuation of the 50,000 high value
properties (HVP) in Jakarta and of 10,000 top value properties (TVP) in
Jakarta, Bandung and Medan, valuation training, and design of a computerized
mass appraisal system (CAMA); and ii) property tax administration,
particularly in the areas of collections, coverage of properties, and mass
appraisal.
46.   Much has been accomplished under this program, in part because of the
high caliber of Indonesian project managers, their direct oversight of the
program and their willingness to refine the program as needed and a clearly
defined link between the program and government fiscal targets. At an early
stage, a view emerged that the primary objective, for the property tax reform
component of the project, of resource mobilization called for placing priority
on increasing the collection ratio of the tax and the coverage ratio of the
cadastre. At the same time, improvements in property classification and in
the valuation ratio were necessary because of the change in the basis of
assessment from rental to capital values and to ensure equity in the
allocation of the property tax burden. The program of property valuation was
expanded, without increase in financing under the loan, to include valuation
of an additional 92,000 top and high value properties in Jakarta (52,000),
Medan (13,000), Bandung (12,000), Surabaya (12,500) and Badung/Bali (2,500).
A new system of collecting property tax through local Banks was tested on a
pilot basis in 1989 in Tangerang, a large and rapidly growing kabupaten
adjacent to Jakarta. Collections in Tangerang virtually doubled (82%) over
the previous year compared to average increases of 22% for Indonesia as a



- 15 -
whole /. This success has prompted officials to implement the new system
more widely, scarting with an additional twenty cities in 1990/91. The
longer-term training program initiated under che USL incluiing: i) an in-
country diploma course in valuation for 180 students; ii) a short in-country
course on property survey; and iii) longer-term (three year) training abroad.
47.   The effectiveness of the progr'm cannot yet be judged by increased PBB
revenues. Assessment of the new values for top and high value properties
included under the project has only recently been completed ard widespread
implementation of the new collection arrangements is at an initial stage.  In
keeping with the Government's decentralization policy, coadministration
arrangements are being phased in under which local governments take
responsibility for property registration and for collections. Following a
promising start, the registration work under local governments is reported to
require considerable supervision.  In addition, collections did not increase
in Jakarta when, in 1990, it took over responsibility for billing snd
collection. On the contrary, some 398,000 (almost 50%) of tax bills - many of
these were for higher valued properties - were returned, i.e., they never
reached the liable party. As a result, it became necessary at a late stage to
revert to central administration in order to maintain collections at previous 
levels. Clearly, transitional arrangements for coadministration must be
thought through more carefullv and, in some cases, should be scheduled only
when reasonLble collection performance has been established.
48.   However, for the effort :o realize its potential, the following issues
need to be addressed: i) the legal implicacions of assessing the property
rather than the taxpayer (owner, beneficiary or tenant) has not been tested;
ii) the project does not davelop a full property tax administration system
including: a) a method for identifying liability; b) linking taxpayers to the
local governrencs; c) developing a maintenance and management information
system to feed new information into the system (building permits,
subdivisions, demolitions, property transfers, etc.) and to handle objections
and appeals; and d) developing procedures to deal with appeals and objections;
iii) valuation training must be expanded and there is no training component
for the tax administration system: and iv) the MOF needs a full management
information system to support its administration efforts.
49.   In fact, much of the recent increase in overall PBB revenues has been
generated in the mining sector from ot.l production. Whilst, the urban
property cax has increased by an average of about 25% per year recently, this
has been due primarily to indexed increases in property values rather than the
impact of this program. The major investment under the program has been the
property survey and valuation work. However, no assessment was made at the
outset of the program of the severity of horizontal equity problems which
would have justified this priority over initiating the program with lower-cost
administrative improvements. Moreover, GOI reports that indexed increases
have, by themselves, brought property values in line with market values -
somewhat over market value for industrial and commercial properties and
8/ It is likely that a number of factors additional to the new collection
system contributed to the good performance in Tangerang.



- 16 -
somewhat under market for residential.  Without an increasi in the assessment
ratio, concentrating attention on increasing the coverage of the cadastre and
on collection performance through administrative improvements pv- likely to
represent the lowest-cost means of achieving a significant additional yield
from the PB.
SC.   Lgcal Taxes and Charee   Administrative improvements implemented on a
pilot basis under the MAPATDA program in five cities (kotamadya) and one
district (Kabupaten) under the Fourth Urban Development Project (Ln.1972-IND)
were extended to an aaditional ninety three level II regional governuents
under the USL. It has since been extended to all regional governments without
additional foreign financing. A conscious decision was made to focus the
project on level II, even though the more important revenues (by amount) are
collected by the level I governments. These improvements in tax
administration had four basic couionents: i) develop a unique taxpayer
registration number; ii) assess taxpayer liabilities; iii) design a tax
payment control system; and iv) reorganization of local tax department. The
program was. well conceived and strongly supported by participating local
governments which, in many cases provided additional financing from their own
resources to extend implementation of the program. During 1988/89,
substantial increases of 30% or more in local tax revenues are repdrted by
local governments in most provinces. Nine level II lozal governments in North
Sumatra posted gains ranging from about 20 to 96%. In four of seven local
governments in West Sumatra, increases of 14 to 43% were observed. In central
and West Java, increases of 15 to 45% were common. Following completion of
che USL, the Government extended the program to a further 100 cities and, more
recently to all remaining level II regional governments.
51. Notwithstanding this good performance, the potential additional yield
from improved tax administration is not unlimited. Legislation has,
therefore, now been prepared to reform the local tax code. This legislation,
prepared by the Ministry of Finance in extensive consultation with the
Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), is understood to be designed to: i)
rationalize the local tax base by eliminating a large number of *unproductives
taxes and concentrating administrative attention on a smaller number of whigh-
yields local revenue sources; and ii) add a significant local revenue source -
a tax on vehicle fuel. Under the proposed legislation, local governments
would be authorized to set tax rates within ranges to be prescribed by MOF.
This would contribute to improving local fiscal autonomy and would support the
government's decentralization objectives.
52. Local taxes are a significantly less important source of revenue than
service tariffs. A strategy of targeting service charges as a means of
establishing efficient pricing policies would represent a major improvement in
sector financing policies. It provides an important focus for local revenue
mobilization efforts, and prepares the basis for an increasingly prominent
role for credit in financing development of local services. With urban growth
at present high levels, there is now an urgent need for efficient pricing
policies to be used for the sound management of effective demand for local
urban services. Continued reliance on expenditure policy alone to guide
spatial policy is likely to lead to suboptimal allocation of resources because
of lack of reliable demand signals from efficient pricing. It is understood



- 17 -
that the draft legislation is silent on the principles of cost recovery and
pricing policies for services administered by regional governments. These
would normally be elaborated in implementation guidelines. The effectiveness
of these policies should be monitored on an ongoing basis.
53.   Local Government Financial Management and Accounting  The Local
Government Finance Report noced a need for: i) a system of medium term
programming of revenues and expenditures since annual budgets do not provide
for effective financial management; ii) a redesigned budget format to make it
a useful tool for policy and management; iii) improved cost accounting to
identify the costs of different services or functional areas of expenditure;
and iv) improved financial record keeping, local revenue administration and
audit. The report also noced that there was inadequate information on local
finances at the central level on which to base decisions and/or policies.
54.   Consultant assistance was contracted in May 1986 under the Fifth Urban
Development Project (Ln.2408-IND) to: i) introduce medium term financial
planning (5 years) to local governments; ii) improve the financial management
.-and budgeting system; and iII) Install a proper income (revenue) reporting and
control system. An additional goal of the Government, served by this
activity, is to put in place a uniform budget format and financial reporting
system for local governments. The system design was piloted in Ujung Pandang,
Semarang and Surakarta.
55.     The pilot has experienced considerable problems.  An evaluation of the
effort, undertaken at the Bank's request by the Departme-nt of Technical
Cooperation for Development of the United Nations (UNDTCD), indicated that
users needs are not adequately addressed. The system uses a coinercial
accounting package to provide service cost-based data which is required for
local management. Local officials, however, continue to rely on inadequate
reports in the t:raditional sectoral format. The system does not serve the
irformation neeos for oversight and policy analysis by the central agencies.
Neither does it serve the purpose of producing a *systemu for multi-year
planning. There is no forecasting component built into the system. There
were (reported) to be forecasting methodologies built into the Revenue
Improvement Action Plan being prepared under the IUIDP (RIAP) and other
financial management and planning systems being piloted including PAFPAK
(largely a program budgeting activity) activities, but these were in no way
integrated with this work. Nor have the revenue administration elements of
RIAP or MAPATDA or the budgetary implications of the POMIS infrastructure
maintenance management systems (see below) been integrated into the systems.
56.   The three pilot cities do not constitute an adequate test of the system
for the purposes of its application in all local governments throughout
Indonesia. The MHA has not yet issued a circular prescribing a new financial
reporting system. This suggests either that MMA has not yet made up its mind
as to whether this is the financial reporting system that it wants, or that it
doesn't have the central staff to lead this work.
57.   Rezional Socio-demographic and Financial Data Base.  This data base was
conceived as an essential componenc for the analysis of financial policy
reform, amongst other things, for the sector. Jo meaningful progress has been



- 18 -
made to establish such a regional data base.  The project design was too
comprehensive and orienced by technology considerations by the consultant
advisers rather than on the basis of local governments' functional
responsibilitie,, and how they operate.
tll) Institutional and Manpower Develooment
5P.   A major proposition of the Urban Services Sector Report was that the
strengthening of local governments is a pre-condition of sector development.
Uhilst, some 'deconcentrated. services are administered directly by central
government sectoral departments, Law 5 of 1974 established a decentralized
mode of administering urban infrastructure and services directly by regional
governments. Intergovernmental relations, including Inpres grants are
structured around coadministration* arrangements with local services being
provided by regional governments under the direction of the central government
- primarily agencies of the Ministry of Public Works. Given the pace and
spread of development, and the vast size and regional diversity, it is
generally agreed, even within government, that the point had been reached when
more initiative and responsibility for implementation of local services should
devolve to local governments, albeit under central guidance on policy and
resource allocations. To give meaning to this general objective required that
the role of regional governments be defined more precisely in terms of service
responsibilities and an inventory be made of manpower resources throughout the
sector.
59.   Initiation of the USL in 1987 was followed quickly by two importane
government regulations: PP14 in 1987 which confirmed local governments'
responsibility for public works including water supply,-irrigation and roads;
and PP 6 in 1988 which clarified and reinforced the role of the provincial
governor and the local mayor/bupati (together with their BA*PEDA planning-
boards) as the coordinating units for local development programs within their
areas nationwide and requiring che reporting/integration of central agency
activities to local governments ae the planning and all subsequent stages
60.   In support of these measures, the Minister of Public Works (MPW)
announced, in 1990, a program to deconcentrateu its large staff, and to
significantly revise MPW secondment practices to support provincial and local
government capacity requirements to execute the revised functional
responsibilities, as program structures for PP14/1987 are more clearly defined
in each subsector.
61.   In addition, a direccive (KepHin 5 of 1990) of the Minister of Home
Affairs, has now authorized full-scale implementation of the POMMS
infrastructure maintenance management system in eight cities and, more
significantly, instructs them to pilot a new local budget structure with three
categories (routine administration, 0&K and capital investments). These pilot
efforts dre intended to provide the basis for launching nationwide O&K and
budget structure revisions not later chan Repelita VI.
62.   The USL sponsored a review of existing human resources at the regional
governmene level together with training in a wide range of activities. A



-19-
detailed report of these training programs is retained on the projict file 9/
and is a-uarized h.-re.
63.   Overall, the evaluation of institutional development and training
programs under the USL concluded that the intensive packaging of human
resource, across many sectors at the same time, with fixed deadlines for
completion, coopourded the usual problems associated with use of T/A for
institution building. The approach was particularly questionable given the
*policy developments rather than sproject-baseds nature of the Loan. The pace
was forced. Training needs assessments were cursory in many cases. TORs were
hurriedly prepared and, in some cases should have been further refined (IUIDP
Training, Human Resource Development (HRD) in Spatial Management, etc). Usual
delays in mobilizing consultanc teams were exacerbated by congestion by the
sheer number of contracts to be finalized at key points. IUIDP consulting
teams were mobilized on average six months behind schedule (and well after the
technical teams involved in projece preparation) and the property tax (PBB)
training consultants were nearly tvo years late in starting. Even so, in
these two cases, in particular, training was underway before details of
related policies and new systems were piloted and finalized. Training tended
to be given off-the-job. Since many of the training programs were still
ongoing at the time of the review, 'the findings are necessarily inconclusive.
However, it is not yet clear .f the impact of these training oEforts is
sustainable in terms of the 'evel of institutionalization achieved and the
capability of the responsible agencies to monitor and maintain these
institutional development effor:s without substantial continued technical
assistance. What is missing, mosc of all, is an integrated urban training
strategy which relates to exisz.g operational functions and supports the
expanding mandate of local govern.ments. It must also be recognized, however,
that training must be complemenced by practical recruitment policies if a
sufficient base of management and cechnical expertise is to be established for
the sector. The management expertise, as well as the investment capital of
the private sector should also be tapped wnere possible.
64. With regard to rUlDP etalan., the East Java/Bali experience (not
necessarily typical) revealed a number weaknesses with the basic approach
adopted (see para. 72-76 below). Even though the IUIDP concept originated in
Cipta Karya, the agency was not well equipped to prepare training materials,
supervise consultants or mobilize technical teams at the regional government
level. The perception of IUIDP as anocher stop downs program remains, and has
impaired local participation. Final budgets for the work were probably
substantially inadequate. Few of the consultants had previous experience with
organization of training programs. Following a mid-term review, a draft
strategy for the future of IUIDP Training paid little regard to training
resources available in MHA, the Ministry to which regional governments are
primarily answerable. Budgetary constraints keyed to financing under the Loan
impaired the program in a number of regions, and continuation of the program
appears to be contingent on donor financing.  Project preparation efforts were
9/ Urban Sector Loan - EvalLation of manpower and Institutional
Development Componencs, Aide-memoire. David Watson, December 5, 1990.



- 20 -
not closely Ilnked to training proSrams but appear to have had a more
significant training offect ln some regions.
65.   Human ReSource Development (Nn) in SoAI  P        i   Following a major
restructuring of the focus of the assistance, it helped lead to an improved
understanding vithin the managing agency of its role and strengthened
interageny cooperation. However, the effort is unlikely to help achieve its
objective of establishing an enllghtened urban planning approach at the level
TI local goverrent level. Overall, spatial management issues continue to
emphasize rgulatory instruments without a clear reference to the effLcient
functioning of land markets.
6O.   Prover=  tax (PIS) Trainin  to date, has concentrated on the technical
aspects of the property tax - primarily valuation. Training in the
administrative aspects has noc yet been systematized. Modifications at
negotiations with the contractor set the pattern of overseas, Diploma and
shorter course technical training for existing and newly recruited valuation
staff. As in other training activities under USL, the experience and
capacities of the training contractor appears to have influenced the design of
syllabi for in-country programs more than dld a training needs assessment.
based on post-training functions or general career patterns of trainees. It
is estimated that national needs for a valuation program could be handled by
800 property surveyors and 200 valuers (40 property surveyors and 10 valuers
in DKI). The training program does not meet these targets. Moreover, given
the public/private salary differential for valuers, it will bo difficult to
hold trained people to the public service. though MENPAN's approval for the
*functionalization* of a cadre of valuation professionals should help reduce
attrition.
67. PBB officials have been receptive to recommendations in a recent
training program evaluation it requested including signLficant modifications
to the syllabi based on an assessment of the effectiveness of recent
graduates.
68. The POMMS (TInfrastructure Maintenance Management Svstem) training
program has facilitated important progress in a relatively short period in a
vital and long-overdue policy area. Training efforts have responded
effectively to the challenge of introducing an urban infrastructure and
equipment O&K management and budgeting system, with varying degrees of
complexity for cities of differing size, institutional and technical
capability.
69.   KAPATDA training for local tax administration provided an intensive
level of resident-for-a-time consultants which has, ovorall, proven effective
and was well received by the client local govenments which provided
significant addltional funding to complete installation of the system
nationwide following the USL.
70.  Training ln portfolio management and administration for local zovernment
landinz under the proposed Regional development Account (RDA), like a number
of ocher training efforts, was initiated before the related operational and
financial policies were defined. While much was achieved in the process of
4.



- 21 -
reviewing the existing portfolio - reducing the proportion of the portfolio
experiencing significant default rates from 65% to 20%, the systems designed,
and the training provided has not been fully institutionalized. No portfolio
management reports have been produced since the consultant contract was
completed, and no plans are proposed for this.
71.   The Urban Institutional and ManRower Development Study has provided an
invaluable inventory of human resources and arrangements which need to be put
in place to keep this inventory up to date. The study has already helped
provide the basis for a proposed Bank-financed project focussing on manpower
management. It is clear from the review of performance on the expenditure
program that considerable institutional capacity constraints exist in local
government's operational functions. These capacity constraints must be
addressed urgently if the sector is to respond adequately to the rising demand
for services. A more detailed assessment of the nature of these institutional
constraints as they affect the delivery of specific services will be
undertaken in Bank sector work programmed for 1992/3.
(iii) The Integrated Urban Infrtructure Planning (I!JIDP) Process
72.   The original objectives of the IUIDP emphasized an integrated approach
in the planning of urban service investments whether bv central line agencies
or respective local governments. Subsequently, with leadership from the
Ministries of Home affairs and Finance, devolution of responsibilities to
local governments for O&M and development became a major poL'cy theme. Thus
the IUIDP has been viewed as a key vehicle for implementing the Governmentes
decentralization policies. As such, it was expected to establish an
operational framework for secting local resource mobilization and
institutional development objectives within the context of an investment
program to upgrade/expand priority urban public services and it has assumed
the role of the major vehicle for donor financing in the sector.
73.   A major assistance effort has been mobilized for implementation of IUIDP
at the level of specific projects within particular regions. A technical team
has also been continued at an expanded scale LO/ and reporting to an
interministerial working group representing BAPPENAS, MOF, MPW and MHA for
overall guidance and support. Cipta Karya reports that, by 1991/92, IUIDP
will have reached all twency seven provinces by which time a total of 166
medium-cerm investment programs (PJMs) for level II regional governments will
be under implementation or preparation covering 18 metropolitan areas, large
and secondary cities and 500 towns. At present, 68 PJMs have been finalized
and 58 are being implemented with assistance primarily from the IBRD and the
ADB under several projects.
74.   Difficulties experienced with codification of IUIDP as a Gone size fits
all approach for local governments with widely varying regional
characteristics, investment needs and institutional capabilities led to the
10/   IUIDP Implementation Support Project (INS/89/014) financed bv
UNDP, TBRD and the Covernment of the Netherlands.



- 22 -
need for a more differentiated approach.  Cipta Karya reports that, whereas
IUIDP originally focussed on basic needs. it is now intended to reflect the
strategic development of particular regions, and gives emphasis to specific
national priorities such as poverty alleviation. Major difficulties have also
been experienced because of the lack of a clear link between the package of
local finance reforms and the IUIDP. In particular, the lack of a defined
*financial envelopes including, in particular, central grants created
considerable uncertainties in planning and prioritizing local investment
progrms. This remains a problem in that the channelling and control of GOI
financial resources remains fragmented and basically unchanged. At the same
time, Cipta Karya reports that IUIDP now gives more emphasis to demand surveys
including, in particular, analysis of the finances of local governments/water
enterprises and affordability of households based incomes and willingness to
pay. The quality of PJMs is, therefore, expected to continue to improve. The
perceived stop downs approach of the IUIDP is acknowledged by GOI, but is said
to have encouraged participating regional governments to increasingly promote
their institutional role and mandate as established in PP 14 of 1987.
75.   Without question, it is the expenditure programs (PJMs) which have been
the main focus of attention in the IUIDP. Even so, some gradual, but
important improvements in local capacity for financial planning are starting
to materialize in a number of provinces - notably East Java/bali.
76.   To be relevant in light of the urban challenge now confronting
Indonesia, IUIDP must change. Firstly, it must, in the major urban centers in
particular, reflect the increasing importance of urban productivity in overall
economic output by having a wider field of view to encompass additional key
economic (ports, energy and telecoms, etc) as well as social infrastructure
sectors. Secondly, ways must be found to speed up and reduce the cost of this
planning process. It remains almosc totally dependent on technical assistance
requiring donor financing. The fragmented packaging of this financing has
seriously disrupted and delayed project preparation efforts and is partially
responsible for the limited growth in urban expenditures. Thirdly, for many
smaller towns, investment priorities are more obvious and less comprehensive
than in large cities. Viable projects in these small towns should not,
necessarily, be delayed unduly pending full institutionalization of a complex
apparatus for IUIDP. Traditional implementation arrangements can aiso still
be used to good effect where implementation capability is particularly weak in
some places.
77.   Whilst, formulation of integrated expenditure plans (PJMs) are
important, they are meaningless without integrated financing plans. Without
reform of financing arrangements, grants - the major component of these
financing plans remain uncertain. The overall availability of grants will
vary due to macro conditions. However, the ad-hoc determination of grant
allocations to specific IUIDP projects has rarely been determined on the basis
of macro considerations. Defining and investment program without a clear
sense of the *financial envelopes ls rarely an efficient or prudent approach.
78.   Classification of Re2ional Governments  Only kotamadya and kabupatens
with administrative status (Kota Administratif) have an organizational
struccure designed to address urban development issues. While there 211



- 23 -
cities which had urban populations of 20,000 or more in 1980, only 78 had
administrative status. The NUDS report recommended that Kotamadya status
should be recommended to all cities with over 150,000 population on Java and
100,000 off Java, affecting 12 cities. The report also recommended that Kota
Administratif should be granted to cities over 75,000 on Java and 50,000 off
Java, affecting 168 towns. Naturally, there is strong resistance to the
establishment of new Kotas Administratif because of loss of revenues to the
kabupaten from which it is separated. The report also recommended that the
government should implement a comprehensive nationwide adjustment of Tingkat
II administrative boundaries by the end of Repelita IV to accommodate
expanding urban areas. Expansions are now required in 21 agglomeracions. If
this is not done the issue of uncoordinated development in urban
agglomerations will become more and more serious.
79.   A high-level forum (the Dewan Pertimbangun Otonomi Daerah - DPOD) has
recencly been reactivated for coordinating GOI's decentralization policy and
the strengthening of local governments. The first upgrading of a Kotip to a
Kotamadya occurred in 1990, and seven more - all provincial capitals - are
likely to be upgraded.
(iv) Sector Coordination and Integration
80.   The NUDS report recommended that, with expanded local responsibilities,
the Central Government's role should shift toward providing overall guidance
and support, initiating new techniques, and acting as a catalyst in
development finance. The report cautioned that true interministerial
collaboration held the key to effective coordination. The interdepartmental
committee established in 1981 as an initial forum for such purposes gradually
expanded its capabilities and influence until it was afforded the status of a
permanent committee. The report recommended that this committee be given the
status of a National Urban Development Coordinating Board with important
functions in formulating urban policy and in the process of development
budgeting.
81.   In 1987, GOI established the Tim Koordinasi Pembangunan Perkotaan (TKPP)
as an interministerial cask force to coordinate formulation and implementation
of policies for urban development 1'/. TKPP was organized under the
chairmanship of BAPPENAS (Deputy for Economic Affairs) with permanent working
groups for: i) Policies and Programs, chaired by BAPPENAS (Deputy for Social
and Cultural Affairs); ii) Program Implementation, chaired by DGCipta Karya,
MFW; iii) Financial Resources, chaired by the Directorate General of Monetary
Affairs in MOF; and iv) Institutional. Development, chaired by the Directorate
of Regional Administration and Finance, MHA. A number of special topic
working groups, e.g. for O&M, were also established. TKPP was also supported
by a secretariat under and Executive Secretary seconded from Mm and assisted
by a team of urban policy advisers. Over time, representation on TKPP was
expanded to add health and education to the basic urban infrastructure sectors
traditionally managed by Cipca Karya.
11/    Decree (Kep.16/KET/3/1987) of the Minister of national Development
Planning/Chairman of BAPPENAS.



- 24 -
82.    At the outset, TKPP was active on all fronts.  Over time, however, as
difficulties arose in a variety of institutional and financial issue areas -
the consultant policy advisory team, financed by the USL, was not effectively
used   and as delays affected preparation of the pipeline of investment
projects, program implementation and the timing of donor financing, became the
dominant preoccupation of TKPP. Other activities - the financial agenda, in
particular - were pursued with less vigor and the Steering Committee became
less active. As a result, concern began to mount amongst a number of agencies
that this imbalance in priorities was impairing TKPP's effectiveness as a
policy forum for the sector. Certainly, TKPP was not able to sustain the
consensus across the speccrum of policy reforms identified as needed in the
sector.
83. At the same time, it has become apparent that TKPP's field of view
should widen beyond the craditional, primarily MPV subsectors to other
activities which have an important influence on the urban economy and
environment. Indeed, a broader representation from within BARPENAS is needed.
84.   Recognizing these problems, TKPP is being restructured under the
Chairmanship of Deputy V (Regional Development), BAPPENAS. However, no clear
plan has yet been set in place to reinvigorate TKPP to clarify the
contribution of urban development to overall economic and social development
or to reestablish the policy analysis and forward thinking capability now so
urgently needed. Instead. the cechnical team 12/ established to support the
Interministerial working group (11G) formed to oversee and guide
implementation of the IIJIDP, process is being called upon to discharge a role
not originally defined for lt and for which it is not fully equipped.
85. Against this background, work must soon start to formulate a mid-term
urban development plan Zor Repelica VI, starting in early 1994, which reflects
present population growth trends and brings the urban development agenda back
into focus for senior policy makers.
E. Disbursements
86.  There is no corresponding disbursement profile for this loan. As
expected, however, the proceeds of the Bank Loan allocated to the Civil Works
(Category 1) and Import Goods required for the urban sector (Category 2) were
fully disbursed by March 31, 1989. Because of delays in finalizing terms of
reference and contracting the technical assistance, the Closing Date for the
Loan was extended to March 31, 1991 at which time the undisbursed balance
amounted to $11,536,278 million equivalent for technical assistance including
on property valuation work. Of this, all but $1 million was disbursed during
the grace period.
12/    IUIDP Implementation Support Project, (INS/89/014) established
with financing from UNDP, IBRD and the Government of the
Netherlands.



- 25 -
F. procurement
87.  The Project supported the ongoing urban expenditure program including
foreign assisted projects. As such, contracts for civil works expenditures
under the project were procured through LCB procedures prescribed by GOI, and
acceptable to the Bank, except where, under requLrements of donor financing,
ICB was required. The principal procurement issues arising under the project
related to the very large and diverse technical assistance program which
challenged the Government's ability to formulate and finalize terms of
reference, process procurement arrangements expeditiously and manage the
various studies. For example, a number of subsector strategy studies were
contracted too late to be able to make an effective contribution to the
formulation of the mid-term dev-iopment plan (Repelita V) for the period
starting in 1989/90 - following the USL. These problems were compounded by
the process of consultant selection (see below).
88.   Procurement of the expenditure program of civil works under Category 1
was not reviewed during implementation since the major share of these
investments were determined at appraisal of the USL to represent projects
which had already been appraised for by donors. As with other sector
adjustment loans, the procurement arrangements for imported goods under
Category 2 of the Loan were reviewed at appraisal, but not during
implementation.
G. Monitoring and Renorting
89.   The monitoring staff of TKPP has done a commendable job of establishing
a system for monitoring expenditures on local urban services. Given the
fragmented financing arrangements, this is a significant achievement and
should be maintained as a basic requirement of sector management. Whilst
recent data needs to be reviewed for consistency, the data base established
permits analysis of the scale, regional distribution and sectoral composition
and financing arrangements, for the entire urban system or for individual
regions.
90.  The large technical assistance program has also been closely monitored
by TKPP in terms of contracted schedules and disbursements etc. The oueputs
of these efforts in institutional development terms has, however, been less
systematically monitored, evaluated and documented by GOI.
H. Comoliance with Leeal Covenants
91.   Notwithstanding the comprehensive policy agenda the USL sought to
promote action on, performance of specific reform measures was not covenanted
under the Loan. Compliance on Loan Covenants has, therefore, been
satisfactory throughout. Only minor qualifications have been reported on
annual project audits. Submission co the Bank of these annual audits has been
consistently late, but not unusually so.



-26 -
L. The Role of The Bank
92.   The strategy work undertaken by the Bank undoubtedly contributed to the
formulation of a sound Statement of Sector Policies. For the purposes of USL,
this policy statement was translated into a comprehensive Action Plan and
timetable including on a number of key reforms which were promoted strongly by
the Bank, viz: grant reform, establishment of a viable local government loan
fund and legislative reform to expand the local revenue base. However,
consultant advisory services for these particular policy reforms were not
financed under the USL, nor has the Bank been kept closely informed of
progress on them. Technical assistance related to preparation of IUIDP
projects was supervised primarily by the Bank teams mose directly concerned
with the respective projects. This provided a more explicit operational
context and a substantially greater supervision capability with which to
monitor the effectiveness of this particular technical assistance and address
problems encountered.
93.   All components of the project have been supervised by the Asia Country
Department V. During project implementation, a total of seven supervision
missions visited Indonesia. Supervision became far less intense in 1989 when
it became clear that implementation of key policy reforms would not be
completed quickly and the prospects for a second Urban Sector Loan became
uncertain because of the improved budgetary situation and the depletion of a
viable pipeline. Nevertheless. and notwithstanding changes in Bank staff
involved in the project, the quality of the working relationship between the
Bank and the implementing agencies remained excellent throughout the life of
the project. Even so, a projecc of this kind called for very frequent
interaction with GOI which could have been more effectivety provided by
establishing staff capabilitv In the Resident Mission, in much the same way as
has been done for the transport sector.
I Lessons Learned
Proiect Oblectives and Design
94.   From the outset, the-e has been a lack of clarity, particularly in the
Bank, on the role of the Loan. The Loan was designed as a 'hybrid" under
which a policy agenda calling for formulation and, in some cases,
implementation of substantial structural reforms in the sector was *attached
to a program loan intended to provide budgetary support and fast
disbursements. The policy agenda was not prioritized, even into short-term as
compared to long-term objectives, and no performance criteria were established
under the project. There were no explicit linkages betweer. performance on the
Policy Action Plan and disbursements on the urban infrastructure investment
program and, whilst funding for the expenditure program was expected to be
fully disbursed within two years (FY1987/88 and FY1988/89 - the last two years
of Repelita V), technical assistance for the Policy Action Plan was programmed
over a three year period. Nor was performance on the Action Plan conditioned
under the Loan. This was probably just as well, since much of the policy work
was only just getting under way by the time disbursements on the expenditure
program were completed. It is not clear that tranching disbursements would



- 27 -
have made much difference as evidenced by the tranching arrangements under the
USAID HGL which did not improve policy implementation performance appreciably.
T=-EPolicy Arenda
95.   Policy analysis in the secr.or helped bring the interrelationships
between sector issues into clear focus and considerable importance has
consistently been attached to addressing the spectrum of issues which,
individually or in an interdependent way were identified as constraining
sector development. The sweeping, comprehensive range of the Action Plan
supported by the Loan appears to have been premised on the view that 'if we
are not doing everything, we are not achieving anything" and that a "robust'
consensus existed in GOI on the urgent need to reform institutional and
financial arrangements for sector development. However, the preconditions for
implementation of this agenda were not all in place. Whilst GOI had, at least
initially, reached consensus on a plan for implementation of this agenda and
an institutional mechanism was established for coordinating the program, it
lacked an adequate analytical base for formulation, review and implementation
of key financial policies in particular. As a result, the consensus over the
need for sector reforms could not be translated into action quickly and, with
the improving budgetary position, che impetus for reform eroded.
96.   Notwithstanding these concerns, the project has had a positive impact on
policy development in the sector. Certainly, it tabled a relevanc agenda and,
given the more rapid pace of urbanization now taking place, there are signs
that concern is growing over the need for action even on the more
controversial reform measures which, under any circumstanc?es, require
substantial gestation. Where the USL was able to accelerate implementation of
existing activities or policies already formulated, such as ia MAPATDA, PBB
and POMIS, etc. much progress is apparent.
97.   On the other hand, a subsector Loan such as one which would have
addressed the issues in water supply development more explicitly might,
arguably, have provided a more focused agenda, albeit a partial one. It might
have represented a more practical, evolutionary approach to program, and
eventually to sector lending, thereby avoiding the considerable disruption in
program development which resulted from the lack of a follow-on Bank financed
operation. Interestingly, considerable innovation in financial and
institutional arrangements are being undertaken under other Bank-financed
urban projects, notably the East Java/Bali Urban Development project. It
could be argued, however, that this might not have been the case without the
debate on sector policies provoked by the USL.
The Technical Assistance Profram
98.   The Action Plan called for ar. unprecedented program of technical
assistance including a number of areas of analysis for which in-house
supervisory capability in GOI was limited. Just as the policy agenda, itself
was not prioritized, nor was the technical assistance program. Considerable
technical assistance is also being provided by other donors and the overall
scale of technical assistance challenged che Government's management and
coordination capacity.



- 28 -
99.   Although, much of the technical assistance under the USL has provided
essential support and benefit, as elaborated above, there are few signs of
eaningful acteopts to lnstitutionalize the results and its impact is unlikely
to be sustained. In the formulation of Repolita VI, pipeline building will
require substantial T/A in the near-term if the sector is to become more
responsive to the scale of investment needs.
100. In effect, from a Bank supervision standpoint, the USL was a technical
assistance project, but beyond the Bank's capacity to supervise under anything
like normal coofficients. Issues relating to consultant selection absorbed a
disproportionate amount of supervision time and, all too often, diverted
attention away from the substance and impact of the assistance.
The role of Bank Financing
101. Ironically, and notwithstanding the decentralization objectives of the
USL, virtually all of the proceeds of the Loan (82%) were chaznelled to
projects implemented by central line agencies and the Central Government was
able to resume its dominant role in managing sector expenditures. The extent
to which central government expenditures should serve primarily to equalize
for local needs and resources is open to dbbste. Data indicates that central
government implementation was heavily concentrated in three (Jakarta, Aceh and
Southeast Sulawesi) of the five provinces which have had significantly higher
than average regional CDP per capita 13/.
102. In view of the need to reinvigorate the development effort to expand
social and economic infrastructure in rapidly growing urban areas, this is not
the time to restrict foreign financing unduly. Rather, a-id particularly in
view of the extraordinary need for investment capital, the time may now be
right to move beyond the symbolic and to structure financing arrangements
under future Bank lending in the sector primarily though credit and Inpres so
as to stimulate meaningful local responsibility and accountability
improvements in cost recovery and resource mobilization and to promote
continued reform of the grants system. For these resources to be used
efficiently, however, institutional capacity constraints must be addressed as
a first priority.
103. Not surprisingly, the USL has demonstrated that policy and institutional
reform is a gradual process, and that although it is essential to have a clear
strategic vision of the direction of these reforms, their implementation is
necessarily uneven and fragmented, determined by what is politically possible
at any point in time. Nevertheless, the "blueprint' provided by the USL
continues to be very valuable in helping guide the direction of urban policy.
Meeting che Urban Challenre
3/   refers to overall GDP per capita by province, not urban GDP by
province.



- 29 -
104. The princLpal lesson learned is that, although the USL was very
successful in bridging a short-term gap in budgetary resources, the long-term
challenge of the urban sector is not primarily to provide additional financing
but to remove the Lnstitutional and policy constraints which impede satisfying
the rapidly increasing urban needs. Subsequent operations and sector work
have and vill be structured with this in mind and are more focussed on
specific regions or specific subsector or pollcy constraints. The koy
challenge ln the financing area is to mobilize more resources at the local
level and to utilize the available central government resources more
efficiently. At the present time, although needs far exceed the present level
of expenditures, it is unclear that a much higher level of expenditures could
be implemented effectively unless accompanied by institutional and policy
reform.



- 30 -
Table 1: TOTAL AND URBAN POPt'ATION AND GROWTH RATES BY PROVINCE
Averag Annual Growth
1990 Census             1980       -      1990
Total        Urban       I        Total         Urban
Population   Population  Urban   Population   Population
Aesh                         3,416        540        16         2,7         8.8
North Sumatra               10,256      3,641        34         2.1         5.5
West Sumatra                 3,999        808        20         1.6         6.4
Riau                         3,306      1,049        32         4.3         6.0
Jambi                        2,016        432        21         3.4         9.0
South Sumatra                6,277      1,837        29         3.1         3.8
Bangkulu                     1,179        240        20         4.4        12.8
Lampung                      6,006        748        12         2.6         2.6
TOTAL SJ&A3              36.455      LIM                     Li Z        c,4
OKI Jakarta                  8.255      8,255       100         3.1         3.1
'West Java                  35,381    12,210         35         2.6         7.8
Central Java                28,522      7,699        27         1.2         4.9
D.1. Yogyakarta              2.913      1,294        44         0.6         7.9
East Java                   32,504      8,932        27         1.1         4.6
TOTAL JA.VA              i 7 r7   5 5 38.390                             5.3
(JAVA EXCL. JAKARTA)
West Kalimantan               3,239      647         20         2.7         4.5
Central Kalimantan            1,396      246         18         3.9         9.6
South Kalimantan             2.548       704         27         7.9         3.8
East Kalimantan              1,877       916         49        (1.0)        7.1
TOTAL KALIMANTAN          9      10    L=33
North Sulawesi               2,479       565         23         1.6         4.8
Central Sulawesi              1,711      281         16         2.9         9.3
South Sulawesi               6,982    1,686          24         1.4         4.4
South East Sulawesi          1.350       230         17         3.7        10.1
TOTAL  UAtS12 .22    27I Z    L                              1.9  S.
Bali                         2.778       735         26         1.2         7.3
'Jest Nusa Tenggara           3,370      583         15         3.2         4.3
East Nusa Tenggara           3,269       373         11         1.8         6.2
Maluku                        1,856      354         19         2.8         8.8
Irian Jaya                   1,641       396         24         3.4         5.3
TOTAL-EASTE   ISLANDS    2          2441                     L          Li
TOTAL INDONESIA            179J22   55660                       LQ          5.4
Source:  1990 and 1980 Censuses.



- 31 -
11. PROJECT EVAL-UATION BY THlE govEgNMENT
105. The following su-tarizes the Project Evaluation section of the Project
Completion Report dated May 23, 1991 by GOI.
A. Urban Development Expenditure
106.  Updated monitoring I&/ reveals the following actual expenditure levels:
(in billion Rupiah)
.. . --... ... .......... .................. ................. .................................  .....Q. _.................. .........
Sowces of Furds        19U6/1987    1967/1988    1988/1989    1989/1990
.__. ............ .... .....__._....................... .. ................ _.__.... .......................
Cantral Govt.          187 ("M)    401 (612)    46 (581)  429 (552) 572
l.gimnat Govt.         241 (56X)    260 (392)    343 (422)    320 (452) 43X
,_. ..... ....... .............. ..,,..................... ............................................... ............................................ ..............
O t a 1                428 1002    661 1002   809 1OS     749 1002 1002
B. Local Government Cagacitv
107.  The second objective of thc loan is to enhance local governments$
capability in planning & programming, mobilization of resources, institutional
building and manpower development.
108. Project reports indicace that progress is being made in enhancement of
local government capability in planning and programming. through
implementation of projects such as the improvement in tax administration and
property tax collection, and in the implementation of IUIDP.
109. Local Resources Mobilization Substantial progress has been reached in
Property Tax yields as a result of new legislation and improved
administration. The new PBB simplified the previous property based tax system
by consolidating land-related taxes, it broadened the base by reducing
exceptions, it changed the base from rental to capital market value, it
reduced equity distortions and it established strict deadlines and penalties
for non-payment, and although this is a cencral government tax it is collected
locally and a large percentage of the amount collected (approximately 65%) is
reallocaced to Level II local governments. Another 16% is reallocated to the
provincial level. The tax accounted for about 31% of non-grant Level II
revenue in 1987/88. During the period 1985/86 through 1989/90 the tocal yield
increased from Rp. 155 billion (about US$160 million) to Rp. 615 billion
(about US$330 million), an increase of more than twice. The corresponding
increase in the urban component of the PBB was from Rp. 34.1 billion (about
US$35 million) to Rp. 128.5 billion (about US$69 million), an increase of
approximately 97%.
110. Improvements in Municipal tax Assessment and Collection have also been
achieved under the MAPATDA program. Initiated on a pilot basis in five cities
and local kabupaten, the program is now being implemented in all Level II
"4/   TKPP letter dated August 5, 1991.



- 32 -
local governments. For the budget year 1988/89 percentage increases in local
revenues, excluding PBB (property tax), relative to the previous year, were
also impressive. In nine level II local governments analyzed in North
Sumatra, the range was from 19.9% to 95.9%; in four of sev6n Level II analyzed
in West Java, the range was from 24.5% to 47.6%; in nine L&vel II in Central
Java the range was from 16% to 40%.
111. Improvements in Onerations and Maintenance, on a trial basis, have been
significant. The Performance-Oriented Maintenance Manageme nt System (POMMS)
has been developed in eight study cities, with encouraging results.
Commitments to improve procedures have been made, and O&M allocations in
routine budgets were substantial for 1990/91. For five functions (public
works, city cleansing, parks, cemeteries, markets and fire-fighting) the
infrastructure O&M shares of routine budgets ranged from approximately 33% to
80% in six of the eight trial cities.
Sector Financing
.112. A draft law for increasing the cost effectiveness of local taxes and
charges has been prepared, together with a draft law on intergovernmental
financing which wouild further rationalize the system of DIP, Grant, loan and
'local revenue financing for urban infrastructure and services.
113. The analysis of options for lending for local government investment in
essential urban infrastructure is continuing. Almost all of the preparatory
work for one possible instrumenc i.e. the Regional Development Account
(including the design of the necessary system components, the drafting of
legislation, and initial staff training has been completed.
114. It is hoped that the participation of Level II local governments in the
financing of development will increase gradually. In 1988/89, the last year
of Repelita IV, for five cipta karya sub-sectors i.e. water supply, flood
control, sanitation (including local drainage, solid waste and human waste
disposal) the share of regional governments (Level I and II) in the financing
of local development (including technical assistance expenditures), was 41%.
This included funds from Level I & II budgets (APBD I & II), Inpres funds,
local water enterprises, central government loans to regional governments, and
centrally-financed regional subsidies (SDO I and 11). It is hoped that the
regional government share will increase to 53% in 1993/1994, the last year of
Repelita V.
Sector Institutional and Man2ower Development
115. Training in the urban sector has been evaluated in a series of
independent studies undertaken in 1990 and a number of problems have been
identified. Emphasis is to be placed now on the establishment of a more
fully-integrated urban training strategy, timely provision of training,
subject emphasis which reflect the operational needs of staff in the execution
of their ongoing activities, the preparation of adequate number of additional
staff co cope with the expanding task of urban management, and a fuller
integration of technical assistance and training. Initiatives in these
directions are being taken now by LAN (the national Administration Council),



- 33 -
Badandiklat (the training wing of the Ministry of Home Affairs), the
specialized technical training units in other Central Departments, and in the
IUIDP implementation support Project.
C. Sector Planninie and Progframminal
116.  The function of the inter ministerial TKPP (Tim Koordinasi Pembangunan
Perkotaan) was updated in August 1990 to focus on support for coordination in
the execution of all urban development programs. Deputy V of BAPPENAS, is now
the Chairman of TKPP and the Secretary of TKPP has the responsibility to
report directly to Chairman of the State Minister for National Development
Planning (BAPPENAS).
117. Local government capacities for planning & programming have been
improved. Although the quality of programing and project preparation still
is uneven among level II local governments, the improvement since the IUIDP
was initiated in 1984/85 is very apparent. Continuing institutionalization of
IUIDP is resulting in clearer and more systematic planning and programing
including local capacity for financial planning, systematic infrastructure
planning, and institutional development.  Through the IUIDP, local governments
are encouraged to prepare a medium term development plan (PJM), incorporating
a local revenue improvement action plan (RIAP) and a local institution
development plan (LIDAP). At the loan closing date (March 31, 1991), 58 PJHMs
had been prepared as a basis for investment funding, and a further 116 were in
preparation.
118.  The potential significance of the initial impact of the IUIDP is
amplified by proposals for its evolution. Although the program has been
focussed initially on seven subsectors, its principles and procedures are
intended to be extended gradually to other key local government facilities and
services. Together with related programs such as those associated with the
strengthening of local revenue administration (including PBB) and
implementation of PONMS, the IUIDP is to be integrated fully in the regular
activities of regional government. This should facilitate a basic
strengthening of local capacity for the planring and management of local
development. Guidelines and manuals for IUIDP preparation, appraisal and
implementation are being updated presently.
119. The role of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in the delivery of
public services is being activated. Potential participants include private
commercial enterprises, nongovernmental non-profit organizations, and local
community groups. There is already experience with private enterprise in
service areas which include water supply, public transport, toll roads, solid
waste management, health services and education. NGO's play active roles in
social services in some localities. There is a tradition of community self
help (gotong royong).
120. Options for more effective utilization of Technical Assistance in urban
programs and projects are being explored. Within a policy framework which
calls for optimal levels of assistance and cost-effectiveness in its usc, ways
are being sought to contract for such assistance through arrangements which
will ensure that consultants and advisors support, rather than dominate,



- 34 -
activities, and help to achieve real transfers of skills and experience. This
is particularly important at the local government level where client groups
often have had little opportunity to participate in local development
recommendations being made by consultants on their behalf. Efforts are being
made to plan, coordinate, monitor and manage technical assistance more
systematically.
D. Overall Tmnact of Project
121. Several shortcomings hinder assessment of the impact of the project.
There is a lack of thorough evaluation within GOI agencies on the project, in
general, and whether the responsible departments are satisfied or not with the
result of technical assistance, in particular. Moreover, the objective of
preparing an urban policy statement and policy action plan for Repelita V
(1989-1994) on which a possible USL-II could be based did not succeed. Even
so, the following general conclusions can be drawn:
a)  as a whole, the USL is regarded as successful in reaching the
objectives. Progress was made in most of the targets of the action plan
and expenditure program to support the Pelita IV urban development of
the government;               %
b)   the effort to enhance local government capability and capacity to
strengthen local finances through the property tax anid by the
improvement of tax adminiscration seem encouraging;
c)  the effort to enhance the local government capability and capacity in
planning and programming has been strengthened by institutionalization
of IUIDP in local governments. The implementation role of central
government departments Is being gradually transferred to local
governments, and the Central Governmentes role is more and more shifting
to technical assistance and guidance;
d)  institution building has been quite promising and the development of
local manpower in planning and programming and sector financing have
been supported by the training programs in several places. The need for
more operational and relevant training for urban development officials
have been taken into attencion in order that the training programs could
anticipate the growing and more complex development of urban areas; and
The Agenda
122. At the same time, GO0Is review of sector issues identifies the following
priorities:
i)   Urban Investment  Overall levels of investment in urban infrastructure
are low, and major differences exist in the coverage of basic
facilities and services including pocable water, sanitation, drainage
and flood protection, roads, transport services for passengers and
goods, reliable electric power, telecommunications and markets, etc.;



- 35 -
ii)  Pover=y Alleviati2n  NotwithstandLng considerable progress over recent
years, the impact of poverty in high-donsity urban areas (estimated by
GOt to effect about 9.7 million peoplo) with poor infrastructure and
services, often subject to flooding, continues to be especially severe;
111)  Infra~ture bottlenecks and SWUM=  Tho labor forcs is expected
to continue to grov rapidly. If unemployment and unAereployment of
socondary-school and university graduates as well and low-income in-
migrants is to be minimized, the delivery and 06&  of urban
infrastructure must be expanded and improved to support continuing
increases in -urban productivity through expansion in manufacturing
industries as well as service sectors.
iv)  The Urban  vironmenrt The risk of further environmental degradation in
and around the larger urban centers, in particular, is high and needs
to be addrexsed urgently;
V)   E  ancing Urban dev.lo r ment  The level of cost recovery in Indonesia is
low by international s cand.ards. Financing arrangements for local urban
infrastructure services do not enable the sector to mobilize sufficient
private domestic investment capital to supplement not internal resource
generation by responsible agencies. Complex issues remain to be
resolved in finding appropriate ways to achieve greater efficiency and
equity in an integraced system of taxes, user charges, loans, grants,
private equity partrcipacion and fuller mobilization of conmunity
resources. Without more effective instruments for mobilizing domestic
resources at a scale sufficient to keep pace with rapid urban growth,
development efforts will continue to be dependent on the Central
Governmenc and external credit; and
vi)  Istitutignal Constraints  The most binding constraints to sector
development are institutional. Broadening the institutional base for
formulating and implementing investment priorities represents the must
urgent priority for impro-ing sector performance.  Progress has been
slow in breaking the circular relationship between underdeveloped
management capacities ac che local level and the difficulty of
accelerating devolution of financial and management responsibility from
the central to tho local level. A guiding framework within which to
expand private sector delivery of infrastructure services is also
emrging only very slowly and needs to be supported by a clearer
regulatory environment and institutional developmenc within public
sector agencies most directly involved in promoting increased private
sector participation.



- 36 -
Table I
UB.NSECOR LOAN 
As S;*FP antid -wI-*l  Iil
MCOUgh ApPralsal  ........                          .  .,  .  33.5
Appraisal throuh Bowr& ApprovaL   . . . . . . . . . . . .  31.6
1cwd Approval through EffeccLveness        .     .              1.4.4
Spervision        ..................... .15.5
'.  ~Lan
No. of   Oays          Specialisacion    Porfoanuzc.          Typos of
3m;rmaer             Perigns   inFeld       Insrcd^               r            /a2S   /
mokb Appraisal:
.Yvea-br 1986       -  5          LO        LTS,PE
.prai.saL ohrough
im.X. Approval.:
.run  L987              10        15        MNE.FMA
supctsion:
3vw er 1987             4          8          .FNA                   L
.acs  L988              2          7        FNA, ECO                  1
ALLy L988               3          10        K,I FNA                  1
AprtL  1989             9          13      IME. EC,F NA               1I
DOcember 1989           2          5        PNA.ECO                   2
.U=h L990                          5        FM                        2
5i; L990                2         21         P   PL3  EC0            2
S_ebr 1990              2         14        FNP,IS                   Z
l/  ECO - EconoiaLc: FNA - FLnancial Analys; WE -  uniciap1 Engineer: U?N
- Urban Plaiure; tSS - tnduscrial Training Specialist; PtE - Principal
Irrtgation Engineer; ES - Insticutional Specialsc
-    2/      - ProbLem-freo  oe minor probLems: 2 -Moderaeo problem; 3 - Major
problems-
1/   I - n    aasemenc; T - Technical.



- 37 -
Table 2
UBaN SECTA
Lgani QtsbUrsemmne
-... * (SUS osulLon)-...-*    Actual as 
BAM Fn  Quarter Eiding         SAD Estimate I/       Actual    of Escimate
1987     June 1987                                    35.0
September 1987                               49.8
December 1987                               105.2
.March L988            112.0                 128.0          153%
1988     Jun 1988                                    170.8
Soptember 1989                              205.0
Decesber 1988                               207.5
Z(rch 1989            216.8                 235.8           111% 2/
1989     June 1989                                   240.0
Soepember 1989                              243.8
December 1989                               245.8
March. 1990           270.0                 247.2          93%
1990     June 1990                                   250.7
Spctember L990                              252.6
December 1990                               253.9
Z(rch 1991                                  258.5          95%
1991     June 1991                                    266.2          99%
September 1991
I/ No quacerly projeccions were Lncluded in SAM.
21  tncludes about USS5 milLion over the allocacion far the civil works
category.



- 38 -
iS5 COYENANT DATABASE       PAGE       I OF REPORT SOD4OA  RUN DATE 01/27/92
INDONESIA
REVIEW OF LOAN COVENANTS
LOAN/CREDIT: L-2816  PROJECT: uRBAN SECTOR LOAN  EFF: 06/11/87  APP: 05/19187  SECTOR: URBAN WATER
(AS OF 01/27/92
;GREErENT
TYPE OF      UPDATE  CUR ST
SECTION                 COVENANT    DATE    CODE    DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT                                 CURRENT COVENANT STATUS DESCRIPTION
OAN
ART. 3.05               1           11/30/87        2  MAINTAIN PMU WITHIN SECRETARIAT OF TIM KOORD-  IN COMPLIANCE.
INASI (T), ADEQUATELY St4FED WITH QUALIFIED
PERSONNEL INCL, PROJECT MANAGER WHO WILL BE
IEMBER OF T, SECRETARIAT,
ART. 3.06               I          11130/87            MAINTAIN AGENCY PROJECT MANAGER IN IMPLE-            IN COMPLIANCE.
MENTING AGENCIES (SPECIFIED).
ART.   01l              F 7         1b/30'/87       '  A) SPECIAL ACCOUNT OPENED.                           IN COMPLIA'NCE.
i AUTHORIZED BIUDGET FOR 1987188 INCLUDES
'LLOCATIONS FOR URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE EXPEND-
iTURE PROGRAM ACCEPTABLE TO THE BANK.
ARlT. 3.s!D             Fi         08/26i88         '  BORROoER SHALL REVIEW WITH BANK AT LEAST ONCE  IN COMPLIANCE
A jEAR PROGRESS MADE IN CARRYING OUT MEASURES
:N _OCAL RESOURCE MOBILIZATION
t*4#*STATUS CODESt**4*4 **tfifH COVENANT TYPE CODEStf*.... i..,*ff*#                   *f*+ff I*f*t4f#*COVENANT TYPE CODESf*#f#H*tf.4fff4ff+.
I=UNAVAILABLE             INSTITUTION-  I=CREATEiREVISE/UPDATE ORGANI-                              P4zSELF-FiNANCIN6 RATIO
.-IN COMPLIANCE           NAL:              ZATIONS:IMPROVE M6MT & MIS;                             F5=DEiT/EQUITY RATIO; DEBT SERVICE RATIO
:-PARTLH CDMPLIED                           ABREEMENTS SE-WEEN OR OITH                              ;^ =hRIC11'6 OF KODUCTS
4.NOT .11 CQMPLIANCE                        40ENC:E'                                                ;-PRiSih G; OF  3OCAL FlINDS
- TO BE iAIWEDiDELETED  9ANAGER-          u,=sJjc--<E S      :;E6EPR- wifEPiRE -ECTOh INVESTMENT PROGRAM
* NtO LC. GER rELE it    :AL:                                                                       F9=-, .  Ts,RFCsr:NG  r  LEVEL G' OUTTANDPIlt  ARREARS
'=TQ rE AiNENDED        i         lCL. 1;C:9E''  iATinN,                            i1l hSSET FEvALUATION; CEPRECIATION
-=NOT *,- :QE                              rEYELT . :: w -.Q :N; tSETEYEL:             TECHNIC-   7lzCONSTRU;Ti,:2N STANDAR5S
i4f4a tf t'',;                                CAL:         s E  tD HC.3z IT IGHON & MAPPING
F; -^;0xr. i> *'..:; "E 7 EF-                              -.  I'E SELECTIGN
-;hL'i:I-    T'-                                                         T4=DETAILED E-6INEERi16
'L-   e6REEME;r,T                                       T'J=ENSURE 0 s N PLAN & FONDING
:RATE =hipFt-; j; r   ;,;                               TT6=ENVIRCNpENT
93<6ST  'EC.   :! T. RATES                    OTHERS:   CTHi=OTmERS



^p4&~     18.AN #-L     _q-   ..                                                                                                  _~             .                .
i o w c W C I , i A B   'z  *o e                                    aWh s  qk              W           W 6 3 A L  # A )L
A0~ UM5~ 1*. 1|  __ _______________" Fa
maAc      tt            A v       l __ t_     - j -  -w w*S               _ e.
~OLGJIW'h m*aD"M                               CEU.mAL         010460C        41)0        0000mm          1          asse.o.
~~*)S* SAId SEMI  La  IJO S~~~~  O.MLaS3 ~4V Q*0"J~  &404UN0MI   CL*Kmcv               OuTuil       aaE5Ny
CQQ   fastAil"s  bo u   t  l  *l t t
_~~~~~~ _._____ |-__ _                                             ___._                                                            ______
*  W*..*.AJ.U.15                    A  a.5.0as n         5w)0.500am00  000.3001   341.1,0  66 ,3.501.3ABe              3s  U.U.1. .QSfftIl*1g.
Os)AA                                           saG    *O.ae.OO      a 4.000.hon   a.e.e44e             e             m         m.e          ,       _          m
.15 LAsSg.OndMAISsJ  BMWCSS
A   I1 .OD ad       05w400 "a "0                               5) 0000            " 00    S .s.aso           as 0        evf     ggA
maO     k cas          on50.n 5s    554 5" a s tm                   a0 *"     60.1e            "emas       A  e sas                  M 
J S..    A       ,|,_:z,     ,      ,, ,, -, A.4. ,  A   1*54 U 5 4 b *1A   Sir lO e SI $11logo De  is) Vn 55*g0   0  1.   sea .4 A" a.    *1 018  e " 00 . *J 0  eAO 4   c8ft1 aoASEI
41.54.0                         U840    08036800~~~~~~~~~~O   043 041  663044504        00$6    00              86450)       to 50#4    MIflUMiAO$. 
^00.4A...                      A     o d   Gas  p  fir wu s   a nss. * 4  m  no      au   n   4       *a0  so                  00m e "06    0 " 65    C    ) MA' S    ._.U em      s- S       (
_|@*Sona~~~~~~~~~~~~Lb                     3481nr11.104 1  M "l l*   Irs1 "S 61                                                                                         948 8 
r_ttS_                                                                                                                                                                                Ca        a
Oa be    .* I      .                   *   06*5p
Q.IAa                              _                                                                                                                                                      'C   r'
Pe.5451.A  4sAu                  A  w00058's HP   330.319.05    Ma.aga               n4101 m    M.W.0    so    W.Mt                SAM           SOS      CO      lO                      r 
WS ii04 VOIGIU     1A            A       *aeaoae6  up.  3.. 210e4o   ls  .bmooo .   0.0..1bs   am$*3e.406       ".50.08                           m       COUftIo
C000055 Md MA UWU4IARb  tkfbA    A
&PI DiSASOIA                         164.5.46 B  Si   353)001000   9*01.Owso00      64.264 "    etI.M." e.ii    Muse, ofe                                  OsPg
COw1dUgS PI ktiAIdWASbIA&   A
ti 1.0). AV*1~~~~~AA8A4    ibeeto41 for  36o 635400000   a1.4.50 Oa         150    IW.44..8m 5360                         de00       4eM       001ft"ASOo
4'1
.                                                                                                   s.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
U..6*.V   .4IIA*0 *ua^ r              se  oa   i    ae.os                   4*          e. aae.m               e.mae                             m       h5f
_.  _                                                                                              1!



S*a _ a . } *e-uue
&UMI3  CMI*"                        .                                                                                    _.  _____________
WgoU    AUalSMEI|I            a           .         '                   rnumeuauvW             *SSUSSEMENI                       SM
ft C I Cliii                   | _             RUA I AMG                                                    _    _               .                     PEMAB
aw_ mfn | a wnsn na
amiE Ew_6                      La   ~E4            agc             OJV    A*ALM               OMMC           shIU        a..             em
itame"~~~~~~~
a ~~~* vm..m   Cer.n Is.p Web.  *.                                                                                         .. 3  
ni~~~"ci #onsi  A    . a* || "*    ciaM   A]u
vapiavm  Sfl                u   #A6             CU11*4cw        cAw .s "    i..Au           cum"          C " ".  z"a ae _   e  IOL   c ="an." ;!
i"^| oa    U 0. 4;w dI 4m QP *        0.118 .........,. -101  I;C^^gl 
PI SAAAA UIAIA "                 A    me1i' to #W.  ".4 "       *                        * weOMs ee            ei.i *              *m e"    co                _    I
P&G      "8.0          ".0 as    84.048                 4* a* ou                   am                                                    1
rF ab^la ag ^ * e                           a..eeeee"       "b e s e2o.o    asesas          em          em             earn         em    gGima.t
PU SnA..luAVA4UWIg&J,5Iem        A    36.me" of $V    a &eeam ase                                ieenm         alMae                              m      EAt~Il
"V      a." I, "       w..uS        en e   . so                     emm"  | soaa seinu
efMD,A,mseM.dAeAa                              MB      eMO S          430M         145 44              em          e              em             ..    cc"U   .m"""*"nobe 4
.~~~~~~i                          mmmo                    Me                ..e  1e..   aZa . 4 .&       .      em           SM    C" f 5 M K AtI
an UAwA%0n ^#qMA S"                            lo       06 . " .m                      Ia -  44         am ea                      ge           Om
PI UI4AIA "IA^AAA                AW   "s                         soSe"e                           .               S..  e.                        em    c            A 
Ma      u"A" a         a"."40e nrS                      em"                        em"           em      O       eme W0
VS 6AnMA*AAft*S%.M               A     06445A44    V W    ea.maae00 em                  em    u11.33,a m       asl.e,s..           em           em    cOuft(nBmQaWE_
PI  i""   ars"iM~o                                       seem so as       e         36m same0 aea Cm                e              am am    OClIGEnwloe e
a   as Mr A .40a   e              es      ea  so              em.a         eM             em           em *"        ^ 
me      Stal1104       U.36M.04    see.111             ea ae ammsee   Goombee sum  
PI                      ~~~~~A flZSU Sm #.  eee.e,S.OQfJm          em0          em0   641.eleelrnm a   MIAMI*              es           em   WC POMMISIOAT
mo0     a4mass         aa6esOb    se3,111,41            em          e11            $ee           eON    eaouma. am
AUB      s..eso        aea.e1m   SSS.ee" GO                         em               m 1          41
tjvASM.wqv15A*meepeUu             A  asie0lueW  ir    ww.e.,i.aOi            em           em0  a".aseua.a  so    heaJ akeesbeuso            S.    Gaes3   GgaiftiKmeSAWs
ewFlvwu~~~~~~~~~~~~~m    8:m18 6 0.1,  33.4ef    1" a |za 416                                           a*"*o   e ambkt
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w   14o >"    ."0   $8.144 0                                                                      see           " 
w        Man n         awm           43         *so'    0"          ads            se
a wL_ 1~~~~~~ w_ F aseB~~~~~~UG  *  re.80 01,                46,111 46  aan.e eav              116* *|| X
1  t"s~4eo in.                                     ieG    e.aa.a.em       eassea       seSae.S              em         es        ea.es         ami ne M"          e
a * V_6Ss.I,- v_&d44S     r         A  ace aii   Dr ease ueume a.&e.,D                esem       a.em,eba         .sa.FSf ,l  eeU.e#           aeze.~ i    coPfausBAt
.  S                                                                                                                                                                                          t ..f3i



W~~~~~~~ ---                               -       ~    *1        -.-. .
*  etvmwa          *we         Me..          W.s                     s -.       -   '-    -of. CA P* *"                      *          . - .  .l 
IOVONO93,,~      1              q              ,      0 w                     Mep  _.-  "Il't _g ... .W ., ._ m                - -. .
.I                                                                                                                                                                    .9.. .
o Xl~~m*tIDU ;6|r 'u'            *        e     e          *6     e t*6       r    ee 'eteot9'O   66_9 *1   n    * 69,   Or .*9                         *   Oe -
*6  l0 *0               leO          96 606660   * 686669    *U6 ee l    @ifl                               wv     * row
@3ZJ1dNtee@ 'Ut           t owe          W. 66soweueeS weowo  "eu   WM a                                                    g9.o         9.. . 6B_
Onuoo we "* *t eeeM       OM **    *6   4efteso e6tfltor   ee              ae           socne'seq a efti*e   v                        01666J*t 3d
R~~~~~~~~~~a                      W.i            U  t'"    cot't t "I   ODe        we          MtaEoTC1,    Al lttwew M'  v.....
@IU'd~~~se*6                        et OwSe    of fS *69tMt66    *60    0*6         co ove09tl  a" St *09l   v            VI." VAVO WWEINIWV 1d
03IJia99o"     *6          *6u           *  m m     *eet w.*.    00"tr                  ee6e8e0 eeM tu .  * tot w,,  v    w. .    . ..... W *  e UWIG  d
*~~~~~~~IW           "        of      i     !.                     MN 'W o      o.     _   off     _    _     t'e    awc       e'
H  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0041 9C omm!t 
<  11:  a   W               "*          "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:W     :W$ W,                  W "@         wn"t        "
tSl g n                                                                                                         -!tt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ww m,,m 09~.
tn X                                                                                                                                                             m "_ e_ 
3  i  I      I    z   I    I                                               I                          Itintttw_E__*M||~~~~~*69U~6 ~~I ~~
#P09C1rAMUUVVAWW VAOOR tU
OHIfooU        *6           6           we         we           66*96    *6#9tI*  beefeon es a  e*t-w    v                      ew1M'-             1?tl
we         se                       se           to P"O    evet nwo'e' 00"iee Al to"Welf   v
oon6&6AWtiO
*6  *6   *6         66.           wet. erg  EU 6*606~~~9"'O  to III Va                      am3 3IN 93 "a4  O 0UU66"
1U111                                                           OD   *   *    ter ee  to w 6' *'*90  * 069199   6I V 6  V       *f t I twP* 06
UiVntfl    A            6rw1W    AZeVaM          WMV)l  AMMOM            ArW# 0#O *"9 M#   n               "f# tWV      l
egn  0    sno           am         74Dmo         a          ON)O         WRN         1           An      S"Vwa4
StVVN1                                         _ _______        ___       _                 amo mlv 33V!fI,WA     V          31101 lW ^U"
._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~im,fr .OV _                                                   IW'I'3te uUU
4p6-s6e"  NvI*D  No668'
jkOItM w jisa     w N u    dgit



qDOIWe%t,WW 11AM DON SAM SVNIW444.a
MWM*      *S_m                                                         __________________
ugaeC,MaIAsol               aa                                       *eeSOUN oeouaeuaaOIuU*fuu                                        '
fc mAu A=Sma           -  S                    aw    L u       abm.            U1    e         A  iusCI L oii            a4     A     1M
eaEE D i8              6       4 as       QMK*CE         BUW3~W        0UIM4M1    0iGW  Eo riall                @inlca AM
a . ~~~a                                                                    _=_ ____
*            ma   M&                A    m               u a              se      m       ma'              e             m            e              mnas
ea a MMWmat~~~mwe~m        A   ed.am a   W. 660.4004,0                                            a".8.3a   .ma.e  6m         em44         ads    co.ft Iigo                1
4.j~~ C.aeeu. Amas~~~~mm  Ow      - na a           .I*I))  .~~~m4ass8em                                      e4m          em       Obwski
* _  A g""  te.|,    w   Eb 4X"l,m.ad    "~ n                                                                                                                                        i| ~     | ,l     "*"@"n
e.g      C e       tu e.ea,ocoem                                                                                                                                                    140
*      l i.e.^a m m ..  Spi Lm ee
e a&wggOa anaSmm                          ml. 2,1 u.  sla"No.e.       18.20..eaem    M 4 340I 88        e            emo             mem                   C~Aflfl 
_ X                         *^^ ~~~~~~~~~"taX  Hp   ifew"o o   a  6 as     X   a as   61 bo  J" *A                                               c nM 2                       s 
C   ucicnmame  e                                                                                                                                                                     X
-414
U^ | a   e a s m   *Sa  e ms  t M l *| P g a m  m O z *a1
mNPAM0110                        A   heamw too ..11_  om a" U"AIs"                 iwela        m    .e        a eso        e       a.           a".    Cowefinoa le
meC.Pee  Mmb   W.                  A   dooa.mi   HP~  e em.10009 ass    lot"em        e.ec   'aceatleem          *ai.rnm      aAe411S m4       341443   COuftfW9MOAtE
to  w.woem.eeeAS."  loam.            A    aeenu46Hp 4  s   go *e.meem     ine.mme       l m        44      emA41        em.ud          em41.6 asem          COeuiAED0^1
is  AM amwsahaa bo-s haw411 d  W.n    aa.166em4                         ama.aem00    M606 as.W am                    cm             em           em
I** S #  3. e f m n m   C e ia   b .e w -I   A  m a m m a.D
r ~ ~ ~ ~~~~AS04*  a*    m ..oaem    ea seem                              51.018               em         em       l.eOSS          3., m CNt1IA
. .. .. . ..    -                              uer.    ,m  ,.s m      m. ..   aem  ase sea             e m.8       c m@           e m          a m    m neu m aa.m
.*     ...                           lbI ... .4 65    **5  S       SI *S_1 e       *5 _               em          *0g      a.as3j44s           0 aCIKh
. . ..r  .5.._         . .14_ .-.8 *... *w             am          em         ! .ea           SmWa      auwaza  m



0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~insgU~~~~o    gewestu.  mm.,.  me    me            mO~~f"'W     me           jeaIa,       JSt.t
-  ,          _  "  ta "        _  ._ _ _   _  _   _ . _    . .                    " ~~~~~~~~~~:v  ofat'"  "m-0  Am                    a nW                  1
g,tauwae~   eq i.ee          n    mue,        wesiW       muswe,~    me.            .me            eq"   "    e10 4  me1 .e.,m    v
o~~~~~~~m                                     em                       me      r    s Uftweegi   .eaee        web*t*e  e.t  -ow._r
El                                        me           me        *eDe*BmWe                                 s forlor      mem"  *u      aUt,                     .t,  ,Wt"tVW go"    of
gWLWImsno         0          me            mS          me            e #twt       mSWnW-n  "S*uSW*W   jU  et Wis*                          "
Z e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~su_o 0011. 91   v                                                                             P  "w sw aio*n ^   ew_,_"_0*
SW~~~~~~ 0
-    *r    I                                                                                                                                                                     . I    . 
^  a   i!   |        X w~~149814ts"                 " at" ate                                69t Ife6    "IIII         n"--Po       W    t "        wn                        _
}~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~0 os                                        09,0    so v_              Kret    001081,0   40091401 *e|se       ofw O"to                        ow-" Nt        to
0s      t      e            We          me .seew           u     mwte          esesee.       s o                             9.tie-e             .
tn ~  ~     ~     oU1o             me           me            me          w *   e        m ewu      eseosnlma    mece smte    a. eeswi         v       .eiws.uwwlt  t
in 
0           se  JIJto     *   e       *    e            m                         es   *t...  eseweS esa   eee DM   m     iet  ew e  gm  a             Sw    if   W   " *Aet  *
am  am               am         wwom           WNMW         I            a  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'ewW~Id
"s    w       ~     :e"         mesu           :erel    :emiu            mm:;    :n  me                                          4       a
aawmwgume         mie'..      eqme           weie        mm eme        tt ftt   me eese          me  s ettee diI eeqje                  |_,
-im vwcon "rno ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~* itt 
Angelloonesto~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ebte 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1941 1tw opf l dovben#t 
______ :slo ,                                                                        3Iifl= YIt#    .
_                       ~~~~~. -0d    _tU  INSIYJt
*                      @~~~~~I*tl*S k.W* .   -m e fft  1C*



-a  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tkne                                       srvsda OAUWC*A2
ua~~~Aaaa,uEu"~~~~~~~w.   o                      *s~~~ofaowousou           *svoosm   iuuuviaf
as e'meigcgmews              A        .ar.6"  g4 06.3"16      I4.nlos 8434                                    e                                   COifnagE
bg&nu.a MM.~VA~                           S~mIAMOS          JOS       68.w44 am          adsi        Ome            n           a a
ft  iMAIANt                               am       "ASISiIOE  O0 VAft   IibM6.64                So$  583M         inav                 efta
m1                                                              __ _ _           _        -              ___    _ _ _
a.  AM" m.yas inmmmbm &.W          a   411010 at ow   .ee.al.Itee  4.386.60Daees       a  It    imw  a"sas ase.    .t             *. doem               CbMWI1gD
~mgbe0.am                                     at    3ogisa              ads.   *0010              es         ow w            *e           e4 
Om ~ an-bw 0684 C6ofot                            *S          on_           *0 saaLSto
~~ _   'au  _                                                                                                                                                       I"
m se a-loydom abam   MA      S S    a  ta.604Go 14el  mAcm MSeam. am                 em9         *Im           see 
Cm     o.u.306        ne..o"        ."ass xs          Ml         to             so 
91~~~~~~~~~~~M6 aM    33M8a    "o"S U.s.a I.aASIftnas UulA 051                                                      es* 
4.m    Cm..a  b@ Wins oS
0    Af Mm.abam  Ae..Mab        A      .mcis esassew   eL"m"                         ow64 es    aaem                           GOram       em      OfE1gs 
bqm*.e ameo"       o.em        A   411.0110. ee.  aa.e.w4 s ee.41              54.4 4               1           1464e sfIS
4     mtmA     ouolo"              A64640iwe SA."Mime   O&O2 ua   ahAouhis  .al.9 em                               o.wS*          em          ow
Om~                                       mai a ee      fearn.eg    KM.aeMASS ames   au.ie3 ,    gam.                         tomO             ow.au
of  iss       _"" a aa                          4      16 " .036 "   41.86an.  se   OM"#- 39                       *"6             "       
go=.                              mm      616144e m an  mus"ea    OMuse                 emememo
ofaMs*e f* s#  4 US a  6"                                         SI664  "         aS a"              *" PLU*OSmis.as
# -e 5mm                              ..e .*             a bas  A      "an"        8,beO   .  sai.eo..em m   emeI...mm  .uaos  em  em  m       ml
See .                                         1       80L14          suim a                        Sols         01            C            014
UeeIiSeP'U~* SeE aain-ses  -ann*                                                                      "*                   
'1mm  &ljf  m.                   A eaoaseme  .l.Faaeu m  *el0  11 m*  F~  *                          em          emno em                    * ~       Gff
Subs.~# a. Se..(                                                        V .u e g k_
.1  uab                                                     14m           14m         eeaeoe            em       :0w              ow       S             I > 
.~~~~~~~~~~~9 .,m*  Jegu                                                                  em                                                                                     1. 
* __- _ UA4 Z w-  -.   |    .4.  -L ~.&-A  -.1d-LJ                               .-~U



DoL I{ws 
aSBgKA~ Mmt*egV sow.mdauw uA  .06 i                                                                  f        ons
^ a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
*    w_' _a                                                    .___________
t f g    ^A   $tSSIAanC    a                               *aaualUe*swl           *a*SUS|siM su
______________________  " f f MI      g  fCt   ON   4I      "     a  s 3 ads              _________
_  sWa M_Ul             .                        aj             =                                                                    m,UI _. _ _ msF
~,I.                                             131,11ROG              looni of_0 _                aR                        & U 
eaupaiMEI guee  ~As  alomeuse  a6v weOI                          seeU   Bac. as   WAN               6v an
a~~                                                                                                                    ~ ~~ ___________  _________
*I oI   SA*S.   A. | n w F .." hUS    l IMSh  "5B    S e        u     M        e"           e           *m.      im         a .    canpm
.   m"_ . CIK                                                                                                                           A"IS *l               4 
n _fzCO                                  o       * a .IA      asSala  ,mPal               S          SM           SM
~~~ 10                                                                                                                    Mu- 'aS~~~~~~~9306.OM0641 
430Cm aozinlIflW~ Mkn tII
0144110f SW  o01165           411  alsl*        'aAUZM006   acrid of 
85 ~~~hm~d0..Mm.I    A   elSua~~~~ sI   .mAme        makeft      SaaS.j           e  n                                $*s.    ~~
.,  HV    Us          M.&""    in.441, aW am                                                   1M
p  _gAgm.a                    A *n.anz eM  *D.5.4S           .m.m    4S*|    0.sAM                 M. as           emn        em       CCNtE
*44WCA"                       "La    3465359 IlSU  n5Mm    314.10.14414        aM          M a                             AmOIeon
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"* sic itso
afAtmA   .Aok                            tftN   2n.40 f       8.mzt    $4.m a            sea"ez                                       a                         , MAO.n
.. -.                                                                                                                               mal%r3.4
4-   V-o aiega.ea 
P  -t~     A  .^.                 A MD.  3 SM   W*.IU.M   11. 656            Cl.AN 13  S=.4CSCUs    a.m.a       usua            *JA    CMtfOWUU
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. _ut                                                                            "Vf 0
at   0VAAW                                 saG    IMMOMC$     'aM          0.1Me                        m            me.               SVS
Moe.-Z _CS  U
* . *F                                                                                                                             tt560 33O;
*         -             ,*   , ,,,,,_,,_,,, .S.    .~...   _ *_3 **    ,,t^ nmfl*@.S
.                  .-_.D_...                       ..    . -.      . _        . _       .4* . . _  _e.   _  .   6*              _     _           .



- 46 -
page a of 8
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
PROJECT COMLETtON RQORT
I | s     a I  aI
4g'1' 4
gC  _              _1212 2 
11s, 2t,83 22



- 47 -
Table 5
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Studies Carried Out under the Project
Advisory Services to Water Enterprise, Executive Summary, PT. Yodya
Karya/Unisystem/S. Pratama Sejati/W. Cipta.
Baudung PBB Improvement Plan Property Survey, Final Report, PT. Geo Jaya
Teknik
Broad Scale Institutional Action Plan for Repelits V Strategy Adjustment and
Institutionalization, Rennie Park Gmbh/BIEC.
East Java Bali IMP, Action Plan for Institutional Development Improvement,
DHV.
Eztension of Study on the Operations and Maintenance of City Infrastructure,
Final Report, PT. Perencana Aneka Sarana & DeLeuw Cather International Ltd.,
U.S.A., 1990.
Indonesia's Collection and Implementation Strategy for Property Tax Reform,
Final Report, Harvard International Institute for Development.
Installation & Implementation of the Municipal Tax Assessment and Collection
System 'MAPATDAO in 93 Cities Selected Government Level II Locations, Final
Report, PT. Arumtama Daya Cipta.
Installation & Implementation of the Municipal Tax Assessment and Collection
System 6M&PATD& in 93 CLties Selected Government Level II Locations, Final
Report, PT. Bumi Prasidi.
Installation & Implementation of the Municipal Tax Assessment and Collection
System *6MPATDAw in 93 Cities Selected Government Level II Locations, Final
Report, PT. Mega Data Utama.
Installation & Imp'ementation of the Municipal Tax Assessment and Collection
System "MAPATDAO in 93 Cities Selected Goverment Level II Locations, Final
Report, PT. Wimprosto.
Institutional Strengthening, Regional Cities Urban Transport Project, August
15, 1989.
Inventory and Classification for Urban Infrastructure Settlement Area (10
cities), Final Report, Sarana Multi Karsa.
IUIDP Guidelines 1988-1989, prepared by Working Group II, Urban Infrastructure
Implementation, DG Cl,ota Karya, June 1987.



- 48 -
I DP Guidelines in Repelits V, TKPP, August 1989.
ZUIDP Programming 1989/1990 (additlonal information of IUIDP Guidelines 1988-
1989, PWG II, TKPP, March 1988.
rUDP Training, Package A East Java, PT. Yodya Karya/DHV.
D XDP Training. Package B Metro & Large Cities, PT. Dacrea/IHS.
IUPD? Training, Package C Sulawesi, PT. Dacrea/Eng, Science.
tOPD? Training, Package D Sumatera, PT. Hasfarm Dian/Lenggogeni.
t=ODP Training, Package E Kalimantan, Lavalin/Lenggogeni/Indah Karya.
trlDP Training, Package F Support TSU, IHS/Planners.
Kalimantan tIDP Implementation, Final Reports (Palangka Raya, Pontianak,
Samarinda, Banharmasin), Lavalin Int./Indah Karya/Lenggogeni.
KIP Strategy for Repelita V, PT. Seecons/Trans Asia Urs. International.
Land Information System Extension, Final Report, Beture Setame/Prada
Cipta/Innerindo.
Munlcipal Financial Management and Accounting Extension, Final Report, PT.
Redecon.
National Policy on O&M (Omea Extension), PT. Perencana Aneka Sarana.
PBB Improvement Plan Valuation Project, Final Report, PT. Bintang Dharma Hurip
& PT. Equalindo Estima.
Preparation rOIDP Surabaya, Financial & Institutional Action Plans, PT.
Indulexcco.
Preparation of Medium Strategies for the Urban Road rUIDP, Rennie Park
Gmbh/BIEC.
Preparation of National Strategy Plan for Human Waste and Water Disposal
Subsector, Final Report, PT. Indah Karya/John Taylor & Sons/J. Montgomery
Eng/PT. Dacrea.
Preparation of Technical Planning Methodology for Urban Road Proposal vithin
=PD., Rennie Park Gmbh/BIEC.
Program for Financial Accounting Management System, Final Report, PT. Bina
Asih.
Property Survey and Valuation (Land and Building Inspection) of Top Value
Properties, Final Report, PT. Shantika Valuido Lestari.



- 49 -
Property Survey and Valuation of 700 Top Value Properties in Jakarta, Final
Raport, Infra Universal Penilai & PT. Haharani Dharma Sakti.
Property Survey and Valuation of 815 Top Value Properties, Final Report, PT.
Graha Karya Reksatama.
Property Survey of 1250 Top Value Propertias in Jakarta, Final Report, PT.
Izmar Infos Sarana.
Property Survey in Medan (1551 properties), Final Report, PT. Ujatek Baru.
Property Survey (Land & Building Inspection) 1250 Top Value Properties in
Jakarta, Final Report, PT. Tribina Matra Consortium.
Property Tax Survey in Jakarta Pusat, Infra Universal Penilai & PT. Desa Kota.
Property Valuation of 1375 Top Value Properties in Bandung, PT. Satyatama
Grahatara.
Property Valuation of 1250 Top Value Properties in Jakarta, Final Report, PT.
Sarana Penilai.
Property Valuation of 1250 Top Value Properties in Jakarta, Final Report, PT.
Asian Appraisal Indonesia.
Property Valuation of 1250 Top Value Properties vith Additional Toll Road &
Cengkareng Airport, Final Report, PT. Ujatek Utama.
Property Value of 1525 Top Value in Medan, Final Report. PT. Saran Mulia
Perkasa.
RDA Operationalization, Final Report, Price Waterhouse Siddik.
Regional Financial & Demographic Information System Project, Final Report,
Pr.. Vidco Data.
RNM Monitoring & Development Unit (PMDU) Establishment, Final Report, GWE &
Unisystem.
Solid Waste Management Strategy Implementation Support, Final Report, PT. Bumi
Prasidi/Beture Setame/Trans Asia Urs. International.
Spatial Planning & INuDS Support to Sector Programing Activities, Final
Report, Kinhill Ltd.
SUDP Preparation Finalization and Priority Design, Project Preparation Report,
PT. Indulexco & Sir MacDonald.



- 50 -
Support Study for Master Planning for Water Supply Subsector Policy,
Alternative Strategy Report, PT. Indah Karya/Sir MacDonald.
Training and Supervision of the Installation and Impleenntation of the New
MuLicipal Taz Assessment and Collection System *MAPATDA- at Selected Cities,
Final Report, PT. Suaber Sarana Soepurna.
Urban Institutional and Manpover Development Study, PT> Hasfarm Dian/DHV.
Urban rV Mapping Project Completion Report. Hunting Technical Assistance.
Urban Sector Drainage & Flood Protection Study, Haskoning/PT. Raya Consultant.
Urban Sector Loan Quarterly Report, PT. Bina Asih Consultant.
USL Financial Statement and Audit, PT. Bina Asih Consultant.



-~ 51 
THE EXPENDITURE PROGRAM AND FINANCING PRIM
1.    The expenditure program which the Bank has been supporting through its
urban lending operations and which is under review here does not constitute
the totality of investment expenditures made on the development of utility
infrastructure and other local urban public services in Indonesia. It
comprises the principal subsectors of level II local governments and their
water supply enterprises and includes investments and O&M on: water supply,
drainage and flood protection, human and solid waste disposal, urban roads and
low-income community upgrading (which itself represents a microcosm of this
range of services). This spectrum of subsectors embraces the major "basic
needs" in urban communities. However, it excludes a number of sectors which
contribute to strengthening the productivity of the urban economy, such as
energy, telecommunications, ports and traffic management, It also excludes
investments by the private sector and at the household level - on sanitation,
for example. Off-budget investments on toll-roads by Jasa Marga were
estimated to amount to about to about Rp. 1.0 trillion during Repelita IV -
about 35% as much as total urban expenditures during the period considered
here.
2.    Concern for development  s "basic needs" began to find expression in
specific urban investment programs in low-income neighborhood upgrading
(Kampung Improvement - KIP) and improvements in water supply during Repelita
1I (1974-79). The oil boom :.n the late 1970s and early 1980s enabled the
Government to increase investments in these and other "basic" local urban
services during Repelita III (1979-84). This was virtually double, in nominal
terms, the level of investment during Repelita II, and a significant expansion
in the coverage of basic local services was achieved. Even so, che Urban
Services Sector (USS) Report concluded that, notwithstanding the impressive
progress which had been made, urban expenditures had still fallen considerably
short of the level needed to address the existing backlog of urban services
and serve an urban population growing by about 2.2 million per year and the
expanding urban industrial base. As a result, service coverage remained low
by international standards. In 1983/4, urban expenditures of Rp.325 billion
represented about 0.42% of GDP or about 2.3% of total domestic fixed
investment (4% of total development expenditures, excluding agricultural
subsidies).
3.    With a view to building on the considerable achievements during the late
1970s and early 1980s, sectoral agencies initially proposed an aggregate level
of urban sector expenditures for Repelita IV, starting in 1984, amounting to
Rp.700 billion per year (US$770 million per year equivalent) in 1982 prices,
compared to about Rp.280 billion on average per year during Repelica III.
4.    Under the plan, access to safe water supply, for which Rp.l,000 billion
was allocated - up sharply (by 270% per year) over Repelita III, was to be
extended to 75% of the urban population from 47% in 1984: sanication
facilicies were to be made available to 60% of urban households by the end of



- 5) -
Repelita IV in 1988/9 cOmpared to less than 30% in 1982; access for the low-
income population to communal sanitation facilities (MCKs) was to be increased
to 50% (from less than 10%); and solid waste management coverage was to be
expanded to 50% for household garbage and 100% for non-household garbage,
though no specific target was established for toxic wastes.
S.   The plan included major investments in toll-roads (about Rp.1000 billion
- 17% of the expenditure program during the Repelita) and Rp.750 billion for
urban-rail in Jakarta (13% of proposed expenditures). The subsidy for public
bus transport was also continued at about previous annuAl levels, representing
about 6% of the proposed expenditure program for Repelita IV, compared to
fully 15% of the smaller expenditure program during Repolita III.
6.   Notwithstanding its exhortations to scale up sector expenditures, and
recognizing the prevailing budgetary constraints at the time, the Urban
Services sector Report recommended an alternative indicative "resource
constrainedu investment program of about Rp.530 billion per year at 1982
prices (about 80% higher than during Repelita III) together with about Rp.140
billion additional on operation and maintenance (O&M). This alternative
program represented about 0.72% of GDP in 1984/5 - the first year of the
Repelita IV plan period - and was intended to underscore the priorities of
environmental health, social equity, cost effective solutions, employment
generation, broad regional distribution, cost recovery and city efficiency.
To this end, it included the proposed level of funding for water supply and,
recognizing the link becween ineffective solid waste management and drainage
problems, suggested increased allocations to drainage, sanitation and KIP.  At
the same time, the report caucioned that investment in limited access urban
toll-roads may be less efficient than in upgrading the normal primary road
network, which was urgently needed. The report also recommended reducing
subsidies to government owned public passenger transport companies, and noted
the need to carefully reassess the appropriateness and timing of proposed
urban rail investments in Jakarta.
7.    The Government did, in fact, move to increase the scale of investments
and, in 1984/5, the first year of Repelita IV, urban expenditures increased by
over 30% in nominal terms to about Rp.430 billion, and by a further 10% in
1985/6 to Rp.467 billion. Thus, within two years expenditures had increased
by 20% in real terms - a meaningful first step. However, they fell far short
of the Rp.670 billion (at 1982 prices) under even the alternative "resource
constrained" indicative program suggested by the Urban Services Sector Report
as necessary to deal with the backlog and to accommodate growth. Moreover,
with the collapse in oil prices in 1985/6, even these investment levels could
not be sustained. Without adequate local counterpart funding, substantial
donor financing which had been committed to the urban expenditure program
could not be disbursed and overall urban expenditures fell to Rp.428 billion
in 1986/7 (Rp.324 billion in 1983/84 prices), loosing all the real gains of
the previous two years.



- 53 -
The Urban Sector Loan (USy-
8.    Without the USL, projections based on actual expenditures during the
first three years (1984/5 to 1986/7) of Repolita IV indicate that, urban
expenditures might have continued to decline from about 0.47S of GDP in 1984/5
to 0.28% in 1988/9, about one third the level suggested by the Urban Services
Sector Report (see Fig.l).  A more likely scenario (also illustrated in Fig.
1) is that allocations to the urban sector would have been maintained at about
4 to 5% of overall development expenditures. In this event, the longer-term
trend of the early 1980s would have been restored, but urban expenditures
would have continued at about 0.4% of GDP - the same low level as in the early
1980s.
F=1C; 1   UREAN  EXPENDITURES
240          ~.u.t 1662  
460
460
4.0
400-
d~ ~~~~~9                 017 a*d     41 0          GOG    cie
aa
Source: TKPP
9.    With the support of the USL, water subsector investments were expected
to jump initially to about 438 of urban expenditures and settle back co a
sustained 38% share. In fact, during the two year period covered by the USL,
water supply represented about 35% of overall urban expenditures, somewhat
lower than projected, even though fully 42% of the USL itself was allocated co
water supply projects (see Fig.2).



- 54 -
Fl . 2: Urban-Sector LoSM
Plinanln CO.2S
cis. WO.S
Water SgoOOy C42.M
KcIP Cu.320
efnv . on . X or-. CO @ *
Flo tan . C17. Ut
Reoglita 
10.   To sustain the perceived achievements of increased investment levels
afforded by the USL, the target for total urban seccor expenditures in
Repelita V originally amounced to Rp.9.28 trillion 1/. This represented a
major increase in resources allocated to the sector - about 80% over actual
expenditures in Repelita IV in real, per-capita terms, and would have
represented about 1% of projected GDP as compared to 0.45% in Repelita IV as a
whole.
11.   Some 43% of sector expenditures (compared to 37% for Repelita 1V) were
to be allocated for water supply in an attempt to extend service to an
additional 13 million people (almost twice the 7 million served in the
previous plan period) in 820 towns and cities, thereby increasing service
coverage to 80% of the urban population.  Some inconsistencies were apparent
in the plan, however.  To increased from 32 to 47% of the urban population
served by public piped distribution systems as targeted under the plan 2/
would, itself, require virtually all the proposed investment in Repelita V -
not necessarily the most effective investment strategy either from the
standpoint of overall coverage or for poverty alleviation, in particular.
Some four hundred and fifty towns were targeted for improved solid waste
V/     excluding housing construction, but including shelter-related
infrastructure.
Z/     This emphasis reflects the perception by sector planners tbh2
clean water can best be provided by public piped systems and far
less actention continues to be given to lower-cost alternative
ground sources.



-55-
snagement, two hundred for sanitation improvements and one hundred thirty
fjve for priority drainage investments.
U2. To achieve the prescribed output targets for water supply, GOI sought to
innest an estimated Rp.3.9 trillion during Repelita V. This would represent a
larger investment in nominal terms than the entire program of urban
expenditures under Repelita IV and would imply an increase in average annual
expenditures in the sub-sector from Rp.300 billion in Repelita IV to Rp.800
b1ilion.
I3. In contrast to water supply, financial allocations programmed for waste
disposal (human and solid waste) in Repelita V remained at minimal levels.
Though, as noted above, much of the expenditures on sanitation are made by
individual families. The difficulty being experienced in translating concerns
far environmental protection and pollution control is evident from the fact
that, during the two years covered by the USL, environmental sanitation
(including drainage and solid waste) was allocated 15% or more of urban
expenditures in only four provinces and less than half the nationwide average
in Jakarta (3%), Aceh (2%) and Bengkulu (4%). Limited progress with expanding
access to low-cost, on-site sanitation, and the prohibitive cost of
conventional sewerage systems makes it likely that their implementation will
inevitably continue to lag behind water supply. Thus the problem is likely to
be perpetuated with worsening consequences for the environmental and personal
health. Moreover, with human wastes responsible for 75% of water-borne
pollution, failure to implement effective, widespread sanitation solutions
will inevitably increase the costs of transmission and treatment of raw water.
14.   In fact, overall urban expenditures fell back sharply in 1989/90, the
year following USL support (see Fig.l), to Rp.728 billion (Rp.450 billion in
1983 prices) - well below the Rp.900 billion targeted for the first year of
the Repelita, and representing a 15% reduction in real, per capita terms from
the last year of the USL. Since the USAID Housing Guarantee Loan (HGL) - $100
million equivalent - came on stream in 1989, this worsening trend cannot be
attributed exclusively to financial resource constraints.
15. Water supply expenditures slipped to 27% of the reduced program in
1989/90 - down by one quarter (compared to the 9% drop for the expenditure
program overall) as investments fell to less than Rp.200 billion. Indeed, in
nine provinces, water supply expenditures fell bellow 15% of urban
expenditures. Environmental sanitation and drainage expenditures also reduced
disproportionately - by a whacking 38% - and constituted a mere 9% of overall
urban expenditures for the year. KIP expenditures also reduced marginally.
At the same time, and inspite of the cutback in overall urban expenditures,
urban roads expenditures grew by 25% such that they constituted 35% of overall
urban expenditures and replaced water supply as the major category of urban
expenditures, an indication that project preparation and implementation
capacity more than economic and social priorities were determining investment
levels. Sector planning expenditures also grew by almost 20%.
16. Notwithstanding the overall decline in 1989-90, the budget for urban
expenditures for 1990/91 was set at Rp.1094 billion - up by over 35% in real
terms from actual expenditures in 1989/90.  In fact, 1990 witnessed a further



- 56 -
dacline in real expenditures (1983 prices) to Rp. 427 billion - barely higher
on a real/per-capita basis than the level of expenditures in 1986 following
the collapse in oil in 1986 (see fig.3).  The continued decline in actual
expenditures - now lower than the traditional 5% allocation of development
expenditures - underscores the likelihood that institutional constraints
rather than financial resource constraints alone are impairing sector
performance.
FIa.3: UREIAN EXPENDIURES
zo~~~~~~~~~~~~s .   . 
0t C.,_ v, mu-m_aaSw ISaS * AS _"
17.   The virtual collapse of investment in water supply continued in 1990
with a further 15% decline in nominal expenditure levels to less than half, in
real per-capita terms, of the level during 1987/88, the first year of the USL.
At 22% of urban expenditures in 1990, water supply investments now represent
little more than half of investments in urban roads which posted over a 20%
increase over 1989 and now constitutes over 40% of overall urban expenditures.
Expenditures in environmental sanitation and drainage remained static and KIP
expenditures were lower by almost one quarter, in nominal terms, compared to
the previous year. Two years into the five year Repelita, only 16% of overall
targeted expenditure levels have been reached - 11% for environmental
sanitation and drainage and 9% for water supply.
18.   Nor are the prospects for reversing this trend particularly encouraging.
Cipta Karya anticipates that, based on the ongoing program (including foreign
assisted projects, in particular), expenditure levels for water supply,
environmental sanitation, drainage and KIP are unlikely to exceed 60% of
Repelita V targets. In light of present performance, this assessment may well
be optimistic. Cipta Karya emphasizes that the resulting underinvestment in
additional capacity in the water supply subsector could seriously marginalize
projects under implementation to expand local reticulation systems to extend
service coverage generally and for standpipe programs which are designed
specifically to meet the needs of the urban poor.
19.   The annual expenditures of Rp.530 billion in new investment togecher
with Rp.140 billion on O&M recommended by the Urban Services Sector report
would amount to about Rp. 1,600 billion per year at 1991 prices and allowing



57
for the higher urban population growth rate, would represent about 10% of
development expenditures (double the traditional share) or 1.3% of GDP. This
is, in fact reasonably in line with the level of expenditures proposed under
RepeUlta V. To extend coverage to 80% of the urban population during the
Repelita, expenditures would need to be scaled to cover an additional 26
million consumers - twice as many as planned. On this basis, and with
corresponding upward adjuscments in other subsectors, overall annual
expenditures of around Rp. 2,000 to Rp. 2,500 would seem ro be called for
1.66% to 2% of GDP - at least for a period.
20.   It is, therefore, a matter of considerable concern that, at a time when
Indonesia is facing the need to expand social and economic infrastructure to
meet the extremely rapid growth in urban population and industry, expenditures
on local urban services continue to decline. The Urban Services Sector Report
estimated that urban investments during Repelita III averaged US$11 per capita
per year at 1982 prices. Expenditures in 1990 on the same range of services
averaged around $13.5 per capita at 1990 exchange rates (less than $8 per
capita discounted to 1982 prices). At about $400 million equivalent per year,
Indonesia presently spends about as much on infrastructure for an urban
population growing at over three million people annually, as does Washington
D.C. Present investment of about $3 per capita per year equivalent (Rp.170
billion for 1990/91) are now undoubtedly below the level need to maintain the
effective life of existing networks and meet increasing needs, not to speak
about reducing existing backlogs.
Central Provision of Local Urban Services
F i g     MANAGEMENT OF EXPEND I TURES
400 
200-
OW4~~ 04.    0/    04 7*719 oe   CeV so  ow SiG
aoo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ yn
g3a0 ~ ~ ~ ~~Coe .        CM  Ieu
4qta~~~~~~e,n, _               Le                            l
21.   In 1984/5, about 60% of total investments were implemented by central
line agencies (see fig. 4). As the scale of overall urban expenditures
increased further in 1985/6, however, the centrally-implemented share slipped
to a little over half the program. With the sharp cutback in central



58 -
government financing in 1986/7, central government DIP funds were reduced and
local governments took over the major role - implementing fully 56% of total
urban expenditures.
22.   Ironically, and notwithstanding the decentralization objectives of the
USL, virtually all of the proceeds of the Loan (82%*  were channelled to
projects Lmplemented by central line agencies and the Contral Government was
able to resume its dominant role in managing sector expenditures. The local
gover=ment share slipped back to less than 40? of the much larger program in
1987/El inspite of a 40% increase in the absolute level of the expenditure
program implementation by them. In 1988/9 local governments increased their
program implementation by a further 32%, compared to only 12a by central line
agencies, to regain a measure (43%) of program share, and again in 1990/91 to
50%.
Einancing the Program - A Strateffic Anroach
23.   There are three basic components to the financing plan for urban
expenditures: a) direct financing by local governments and their utility
agencies from net internally-generated revenues; b) borrowing by them; and c)
central grants (ItPRES) for investment projects implemented directly by
regional governments and grants-in-kind (DIPs) implemented by central line
agencies, many of which are handed over to regional goveriments for O&M.
Direct financing and borrowing by local gover.ments constitute a minor share
(25%) of sector financing, and their contribution to expenditures has declined
in each of the last two years.
Table 1: Financing Sources
Financing                      1987/88      1988/89     1989/90      1990/91
Source                         Rp.billn    Rp.billn    Rp.billn    Rp.billn
DIPs                           399.2 61%   450.8 57%   408.1 56%   378.3.50%
INPRES                          74.7 11%    91.6 12%   108.8 15%   193.1 25%
Borrowing                       76.5 12%   122.5 15%    88.0 12%    72.2 10%
Net Local                      108.7 16%   128.5 16%   122.8 17%   117.1 15%
Revenues
....... . ....... ...............    ........  ................    .......
Total                         659.1 100%  793.4 100%  727.7 100%  760.7 100%
24.   Certainly, local governments are in no position to "scale up" expenditures
to the level required on a "pay-as-you-go" basis. Moreover, without additional
local resource mobilization, the scope for additional borrowing is limited.
Current regulations effectively preclude any significant Ileveragingo of local tax
revenues, including property tax transfers, through additi.onal borrowings. The
Ministry of Home Affairs exercises considerable flexibility in approving local
government borrowing proposals, however. Nevertheless, even if local governments



- 59 -
wure permitted to utilize all net local revenues to service additional debt, the
additional borrowing which could be collateralized at 12% interest over 15 years
could amount to Rp.800 billion. At 18%, more in line with market rates, this
would be about Rp. 600 billion. As a "one time" contributi._n to financing needs,
this would not provide the stable mechanism for expanding expenditures on an
ongoing basis.
25.   About three quarters of sector investment expenditures are financed by
central government grants. However, to finance a program of urban expenditures
amunting to even Rp. 1,600 per year primarily through grants, they would have to
increase by 130 to 150% from 0.46% to 1.1* of GDP. At an estimated 8 of overall
development expenditures (excluding agricultural subsidies), this may represent an
unsustainable budgetary contribution to the sector. Moreover, the impact of grant
financing on the efficiency of investment decisions and resource allocations to
and within the sector has long been a matter of concern.
26.  For sector development efforts to be sustainable, however, and particula.:ly
in view of the implications of the present rapid pace of urbanization, financing
arrangements for the sector must be capable of generating or mobilizing adequate
levels of investment capital. The need for major structural reform of the
financing system for local services was endorsed by the Government's Statement of
Policies for the sector. An objective of the USL was to carry formulation of
specific measures within a coordinated package of reforms forward toward
implementation. Suffice it to say here that considerable unfinished business
remains on this agenda and little appreciable improvement can be observed in
financing arrangements. Ultimately, sector financing is an issue of domestic
resource mobilization, and expanding the use of loan financing holds the key to
sector development, and the decentralization objectives sought under the
Government's Statement of Policies for the sector and supported by the USL.
27.  Whilst it is clear that, in the near-term, central government grants will
continue to play a dominant role in financing local urban services in Indonesia,
the real issue is whether grants can play a key role in promoting the emergence of
more efficient financing arrangements in the sector. Refinements presently under
consideration relate primarily to providing more flexibllity in allocation
arrangements as between sectors. The use of grants, in part, to match - and
thereby stimulate - local resource mobilization efforts and as a means of helping
local governments to leverage their resource mobilization efforts into a larger
investment program would provide major additional benefits. This strategy would
improve fiscal efficiency within the sector and promote increased debt financing
of investments as a less-inflationary means than grants of scaling up public
expenditures in local urban service investments. It would also, of course, lessen
the budgetary impact of an expanding urban expenditure program.
28.   Provision of an additional, "matching" grant tied to, say, a 10% addition in
annual net local revenues on a three-to-one basis (consistent with the present
financing structure) would require less than a 5% annual increase in grants.
However, as illustrated in Fig.5 below, it could help underwrite a considerable
ea.pansion in borrowing capacity if applied with additional net local revenues to
debt service costs - even at around market rates (18% for 15 years). If effective
demand were demonstrated for this level of additional borrowing, urban
expenditures could grow very substantially to about Rp.2,250 billion within five



- 60 -
Fig. 5  Prospect ive  Ur-ban  Expeand 1tures
C40Vwret pW I mu
a. 0
A.4
ma
1.2
0.6
0.4
years, about three times the present annual level and with only a modest budgetary
impact. Indeed, as these projections ind'cate, the proportion of central grants
in total financing of urban expenditures would be reduced markedly - to less than
40% in the process.
; ig. 6 Pr~ospecti we Ure-br Excpend i tures
F.5
1.3 ~ ~    ~     ~     _
1.2
29.  As an alternative, and to avoid any possible distortionary effects, matching
grants could be provided as a direct contribution to capital ouclays rather Chan
applied to debt servicing. This alternative approach. illustrated as scenario 2
in Fig.6 above would be less effective in stimulating an expansion in seccor
expenditures, however, tinless a much higher matching ratio were used. As can be
seen, at constant 1990 prices, Scenario 8 would facilitate only a very gradual
expansion in urban expenditures. Under this scenario, it would take a further
fotsr years even to reestablish sector expenditures at the level prevailing during
the USL. Borrowing levels must always be judged against prudent financing



- 81~ -
consLderations for individual regional governments, however. Moreover, this lower
trajectory for debt financing probably reflects a more realistic trend in sector
Oxpenditure growth as capacity constraints are addressed an efforts to build and
sustain a viable pipellne of investment projects bears fruLt. Clearly, these
capasity constraints must be dealt with as a first order of business. If not,
demand for investment credit will not materialize anyway.
The Role of Foreirn Financinz
30.   As mentioned above, of particular note, is the dependence on foreign
finacing, typically 60% of sector expenditures. With cost-sharing ratios of 60
to 80% for the major instLtutional lenders, Lt is clear that foreign financing
influences virtually the entire expenditure program, though financing continues to
be arranged primarily on a "project specLfic" basis. Not surprisingly, the sector
expenditure program does not reflect the full costs of government grants or the
exchange risk of foreign loan financing, and the sector is not called on to absorb
them.   During the two years of the USL, over four fifths of this foreign
financing was channelled to centrally implemented programs, which were about 82%
dependent Ln this assistance. By contrast, only 26% of local government
implemented investments were foreign-finanzed. In 1988/9, foreign financing
increased in importance further, noe only for the overall program (63%) but to
both the centrally implemented program (88%) and to the locally implemented
component (32%). In 1989/90. following the USL, foreign financing fell to 44% of
overall urban expenditures, but was still more than twice as important to
centrally-managed programs (58%) than locally-implemented projects (25%).
31.   Overall, the original financing plan for urban expenditures under Repelita V
sought to mobilize some Rp.6.1 trillion (65* of urban expenditures) in foreign
financing for the sector as defined above.
32. Clearly, central government lmplemented programs and the use of central
grants has been more dependent on, and sensitive to the availability of foreign
*financing than are locally implemented programs. Indeed, the allocation of Bank
and other donor financing has reinforced a predominantly grant-financed,
centrally-managed expenditure program.
33.   In view of the need to reinvigorate the development effort to expand social
and economic infrastructure in rapidly growing urban areas, this is not the time
to restrict foreign financing unduly. Indeed, the scale of foreign investment
capital required provides an opportunity to promote key reforms in sector
financing arrangements, viz: expanslon of credit; improved local resource
mobilization including better pricing pollcies and increased cost recovery to make
this feasible; and more efficient arrangements for allocating grants to condition
the environment so as to bring this about. Clearly, the flow of donor financing
must depend on progressive reduction of capaclty constraints to prepare and
implement a pipeline of investment projects and to implement this program
efficiently. However, keyed to performance on these objectives, foreign financing
would provide a signiflcant return in terms of long-term, sustainable sector
development, and the increasingly competitive environment for foreign financing
which is emerging as major donors approach nexposurel limits, requires that future
Bank lending operations are designed to promote consistent and continuing
attentlon to, and progress on these .-ues.



- 62 -
ANNEX 2
Pan 1
MINISTER.F- PLANNING/CHAIRMAN
OF ThE NATIONAL.DEVELWPMENT PLANNING AGENCY (BAPPENAS)
REPUBLIC OF NDONESIA
No.: 1458/K:/4/1987                           Jakarta, April 11, 1987
Mr. Attila Karaosmanoglu
Vice President
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
World Bank
1818 H.Street, N.W.
Washington D.C.
Doar Mr. Karaosmanoglu,
As you are aware, the Government of The Republic of
Indonesia has negotiated with the World Bank a loan to support Urbah
Sector Investments in Indonesia during our fiscal years 1987/88 and
1988/89.
The Government understands that the Bank is prepared to make
this loan, inter alia,  because it has raviewed and supports the
policies and programs of the Government in this sector.   The
Government has, therefore, agreed to provide a summary of its policies
for the Urban Sector together with its action plans.  It is my
pleasure to convey with this letter the requested Statement of Policy
and Action Plan.
Yours sincerely,
(s ignec)
J.B. Sumarlin
Minister of National Development
Planning/Chairman of Bappenas



- 63 -
Age 2
COVERNME   OF INDONESIA
Statement Of POlicies for Urban Development In :ndonesia-
A.   Definition
Local governments refer to the Special Region of Jakarta (DKI), all
uban Level II Governments, and any form of local administration that may be
designated for contiguous urban areas.
3.   Introduction
Among the many development activities which will be continued,
expanded and improved in the Fourth Five-year Development Plan (Repelita iv),
are construction and maintenance related to urban development, particularly
that of urban infrastructure. This is considered importanr. not only because
ot the rapid growth of Indonesian cities due to natural increase in the
-population and rural-urban migration, but aLso because of expectations and
demands of the urban population and industries0
Based on moderate assumptions, it is expected that tne urban popula-
tion will have increased from around 33 million (22% of total popleation) in
t980 to 76 million (36% of tocal population) by the year 2000, with the urban
growth rate of 4.3% per annum while the average annual growth rate of the
cotal populacion is projected at only 1.8-1.9%. This also implies that about
two thirds of the total 1980-2000 population growth, or some 2.2 million
people per year on average, will accrue to urban areas.
Conuidering the projections above, it becomes clear that policies
need to be continuously developed in order to better manage the growth of
Indonesian cities so as to achieve an appropriate balance between growth and
overall socio-economic development of the population, oth between and within
the cities themselves9 and in the most efficient and eAuitable manner.
In this connection, a variety of measures are being implemented to
upgrade government capabilities, especially at the Regional (Local) levels, to
pLan, implement and manage programs providing necessary urban infrascructure
such as clean wacer supply, sanitation, drainage, roads, kampung improvement,
garbage disposal, fire protection, market facilities and several others.
From Repelica I (1969-74) to the present, numerous efforts of the
Central Government have been made to address the needs of urban residents for
social and economic infrastructure, by means of extensive assistance from the
Central CGvernmenc and from the Local Governments' own resources, with the
narticipation of the local community. Total annual expenditures on urban
It   Version dated March 25, 1987 referred to in Minister of National
Development PLanning/Chairman of Bappenas' letter of April 11, 1987, as
agreed at negotiations.



-64 -                                 AM=        2
Page 3
infrastructure have grown in nominal terms from about Rp 6 billion in 1969/70
to about Rp 360 billion in 1985/86.
Nevertheless, due to constraints in available financial and manpower
resources, and due to the rise in demand for urban services as a function of
population and socio-economic growth, the results of development carried out
so far have not been sufficient to meet the needs. It is estimated, for
example,that at th, end of Repelita III (1983) about 60X of the urban popula^
tion did not have access to clean piped water, while about 80S did not have
adequate sanitation for disposal of household and human waste.  It was
estimated at the beginning of Repelita IV that development and recurrent
expenditures totaling *ome Rp 900 billion per year, on average, would be
necessary to provide a basic level of infrastructure services to the urban
population during Repelita IV.
In line with the Basic Cuidelines of State Policies (GBME),
especially in Repelita IV, all relevant efforts have been further increased to
obtain the necessary resources and apply them efficiently and equitably,
including the assessment and adjustment, as appropriate, of the Coverment's
policies applicable to urban infrastructure developmnt, with particular
reference to: (a) functional and financial roles, mechanisms and responsibi-
lities for infrastructure provision and maintenAnce; (b) local resource
mobilizacion; (c) efficient resource usage; and (d) institutional
capabilities.
The goals expected to be achieved over the next five to ten years
through these efforts include (a) effective decentralization of urban infra-
structure planning, implementation and operation; (b) the strengthening of
Local Covernment's responsibility for financing urban infrastructure; and
(c) the strengthening of Local Government' s capabilities to carry out these
responsibilities. To date such initiatives include the application of an
integrated approach to urban infrastructure development programing (IUIDP),
which has as basic principles: i) functional decentralization and/or decon-
ceneration of planning and program development, (ii) integration of physical
programs, and (iii) integration of financial resources between Central and
Local Governmnts. In this context, a very important initiative inclades the
efforts to increase the revenues of Local Governments, among others, by
establishing a property tax (PB8) as a replacement of IPEDA. All these
initiatives will be continued and expanded in the contezt of the following
policies and related objectives.
C.   Policies and Objectives
Within the context of the considerations introduced above and the
need to1expand the provision of urban infrastructure and increase the
technical, financial and institutional capabilities of Local Governments, the
Government reaffirmed the following established policies related to urban
infrastructure development:
Policy 1: Development of urban infrastructure and the operation and
maintenance thereof, in principle, is within the authority and responsibilicy
of the Local Governments, with the assistance and guidance of the Provincial
(Level I) and Central Governments.



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
Objectives:
(a)  Provision of urban infrastructure and services will continue to be a
cooperative effort of,-all levels of govrnment, with the goal of
Local Govern-mts eventually taking the leading role in urban
development programs, while ultimately the roLe of Central
Government will be mainly to provide technical guidance.
(b)  Local Government institutions will continue to be strengthened
especially the agencies which vill be responsible for urban services
and urban infrastructure development in accordance with their
authority and responaibility.
(c) Urban infrastructure. definitions and classificati'ns in all subsec-
ears will be revieweA in order to define appropriate functional and
financial responsibilities of Central, Provincial and Local Govern-
ments in its planning, implementation, operation and maintenance.
Policy 2: Planning, programing and identification of investment priorities
by a11 levels of Government for urban development will continue to be improved
by means of a decentralized and integrated approach which, aong others, has
already started through the "Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development
Programming" (IUIDP/P3KT) system.
Objectives:
(a)  Local Governments will prepare plans for its overall investment and
recurrent needs for urban infrastructure development on the basis of
technical guidelines issued from time to time by Central Government;
these plans will be evaluated by Provincial (Level I) and Central
Governments in order to provide reqoired financial suppo:t and
technical assistance.
(b)  The financial support and technical assistance of Central Government
to Local Governmaents for the purpose of urban infrastructure
development will be related to the varying levels of local
capability and the relative priority of urban infrastructure
needs. These positions will be established on the basis of the
respective Provincial (Level I) and Loca- Covernments development
programs and related budgetary resources (APBD).
(c)  In setting expenditure priorities, eAphasis will continue to be
given to the effective operation and maintenance needs of the
existing urban infrastructure, including rehabilitation, with
particular attention to reducing water losses, improving solid waste
collection and human waste disposal, maintaining access and reducing
flooding. Infrastructure improvements benefiting the lover income
population would also continue to receive priority.
PoLicy 3: In order to deveLop LocaL Government responsibility for providing
urban infrastructure services, there will be further strengthening of the
Local Covernment's capability to mobilize resources and optimize the use of
funds.



66                                      2
Page 5
Objectives:-
(a)  In the concext of the foregoing, systems, administration, procedures
and mechanisms wvii1 be continuously improved for all sources of
local revenue, in particular:
(i)  in view of the -mportance of assigning property tax (PBB)
revenues for Local Covernments, the PB9 law will be fully
implemented and its administration upgraded, including
adjustment of the prescribed assesuent ratio as may be
appropriate from time to time, in order to expand revenues from
this source;
(ii)  taxes levied by Local Covernments will be assessed in order to
improve administration of the more productive tases;
(iii)  service charges collected by Local Governments and their
enterprises will be adjusted to cover the cost of the services
concerned in accordance with Central Covernment policy where
appliable.
(b)  Improvement will be made in the management and supervision systems
of local government enterprises responsible for urban infrastructure
services (PDAMs, market authorities, sanitation units, parking
administrations, ete.) by making improvements and adjustments in
regulations and through manpower development in order that such
enterprises can be managed more effectively and efficiently.
(c)  Improved financial management capability will, be established
particularly in the areas of capital budgeting, accounting,
information management, controL and auditing in Local Governments.
(d) Local Government fiscal trends and performance will be monitored
through an informacion system to be established and updated
regularly.
Policy 4: rn accordance with the principles of decentralization of urban
infrastructure responsibilities, the Covernment will, in addition to the
meassres described under policy 3, endeavor to improve the financing system
for urban infrastructure systems. The purpose of the improvements would be
to: (i) strengthen Central-Local Government borrowing scheme for Local
Government urban infrastructure investment needs and (ii) provide incentives
for local resaurce mobilization and borrowing.
Objectives:
(a) Proceeds of foreign loans and funds available from appropriate
domestic sources will be consolidated and channeled in the form of
loans or other forms to Local Covernments or local urban services
enterprises according co their ability to repay the Loan and the
financial/economic viability of the projects. In the Long term, the
possibility is not excluded that this source may be used to finance
other sectors of the overall Local development program.



- 67 -
AMIUUi
Page-6
(b)  To endeavor that Central-Local development grant funds are allocated
and used more efficiently, allocation criteria will be improved. To
provide incentives to Local Governments for local revenue generation
and borroving, improved criteris will also be developed for
resources allocation.
Policy 5: The capability of Proviucial (Level I) and Local Governments' staff
and institutions to execute urban development activities more effectively in
the context of strengthening their roles and responsibilities will be. enhanced
by institutional development procedural improvement, where appropriate, as
well as training to be provided by means of a coordinated program of Local
government manpower development.
Objectives:
(a)  An overall assessment of Local Government mnpower and training
needs, with special emphasis on urban managers, will be conducted
which will be used as a basis for preparing coordinated long-term
manpower planning and training programs for all urban governmental
units.
(b)  Emphasis will be given to raising the capabilities of urban develop-
ment staff and institutions, as immediate priorities, in the areas
of:
i)  local revenue administration, especially registration,
assessment and collection;
(ii) planning and preparation of urban investment programs, project
implementation and supervision; and
(iii)  operation and maintenance, in order to carry out immediate
rehabilitation of existing urban infrastructure, and to operate
and maintain it adequately.
(c)  Technical guidance will continue to be provided for all urban
government units in order to ensure successful implementation of the
program for integration of urban infrastructure development and
other programs requiring coordination.
Policy 6: Coordinacion and consultation between the various agencies and
Levels of Government (Central, Provincial and Local) involved in the develop-
ment of urban iuirastructure and services will continue to be screngthened for
the smooth implementation of development activities and to provide a mechanism
for review and formulation of future sector poLicy recommendacions.



- 68-
AMN=, 2
Pageo 7'
Objectives-
(a)  To facilitate urban infrastructure development activities and the
implementation of-various measures intanded to support the
achiowement of the above motioned objectives and to ensure
synchronization of planning, financing, and implementation of
various urban develop met investments, an inter-agency Coordination
Team for Urban Development will be established.
(b) Particular attention will be given to developing the institutional
structure, regulations and procedures necessary for the smooth flow
of inforetcion between agencies involved in the menagement and
development of urban infrastructure, end to developing capability to
support future urban development policy review and recommendations.
D.   Policy Action Plan
The policies and objectives for integrated urban developmeat as
elaborated in this Statement of Policies for Urban Developmet in Indonesia
are further operatiorAlised through the attached Action Plan which is to
become part of the formal agenda of the above-estioned Coordination Team.
Jakarta, March 25, 1987



ps".
blley ~ ~ ~       ~Ke  sea"*                    gets"
(04/61-0/9IW   (coiOttela,
Patlecp arveloahjrtivea                    IbdI"-tern goals                   AcIIOaa *rop"od                                     Iadleot.6 by 061                  lfmcable       inmaitauis ladiralowr.
I.  Scr.as  localr.  gave.oness0              I.13  .Iacd                  a~cEOhS   to  ca  o6d-                   *      seelg  muagwo   rofoup aVd praviti      01 MAN            %fajin  graow  "sosaed
ca.aoabf sStv log Osh.. iaU,aatrc-    orllb..s                                                                  Asras.ee   a.8  *.c.alcta.plc   h    i  O
eoae d.,ei.epc.a. op.sccSoa oad           Efse sadoes cad .1.6.lots IS-        Koodseal"   - U)ai a?ciacf   to caIny
b.ealaa(aI                              2,caI r@aposib*Sliaae                owe gta8*clo    by  CSN  00850.            -Fogmilaet urban aeerat.. IaWem-              Otto)         FouctImal cla1aafllceOSa'
fmssJ-31)                AO~~~. IGPUCro)                               lacy 0ad cls.*g*U*c*iec .olici..                          gofjsedla
(ci   lIS., and cic..fEp olbs                                                                                       ade .warplaa to sadd,.. all
f.ocfe..l an  IlsacIa
ca.paasebIIScOc. log pie.-                                                                                         Coaplet. survey. *ad ciaaallica-           01/I"          Adr*.d clea,fffc.a1..
aIa3* S.oss*g&g$$s,t. epec-                                                                                        tiose to s.ag eStlee                                      "Pe I"d lavooeaerl
act" and a414e.eaaee to
causaie. LAove  S sad Level                                                                                     -C0041400 r4iling Prof faa .1 cia.-         co.e.C           *cr.ad ebasglesuG"a.
Ii 5av.Iam.s*                                                                         *i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~llcafie.is ageS.n as colii.  01/5N  asp. sad laveatorles
8.01  sell". bmcicaugoaai           ISod Ad aamlso.i r.esooaegihSigl..         -  0.11. l.a.. &ad watorb"a log               060/6         &gr..d  oa.0iaas. 
ffaapossihlhicas tog (rali c        for $roslle asa,aas.ma   and policy           r.aostcaes
aaa4t.as Jo orb"a areas             Coordiaacloa, (bp acOW. COLT cad
CroCb)                                        A Os$lm, inching #rOUP                     80o31         mental are" aaat..4 
-Amiga ehaged caspoacilhiitv go             0R161          onaalroeILo4 leausi
ael A jadLve& It eSIS..
8.0)  ""maop prog.an ressua-        3PU liacaa QC lg"5 p'oce...* to          aa loosem diceelcac  a, WV agasclea            035            ilrccrivaa 1Gssed
*lbiliifc I. folocal *ov.ca-        aal urban,acelocr  aerir.4                    ca a:,pplv 161W pr0ceaeaa  ao orb.
stata (Bul0t)                       8aaeldliag  gao oc  .r epeip. flood              itacrulctra, plamaling
.rie*o*obca road.  aoge aup-
plycada.aa.lo.. *dd  ea.49  aca-   O. tco.* dlrceiva  cc lv   IA"E                03/04         Oircctivac 64coed
agama. drloag.and  li f, WM            It local gaveccweaia co ada..
"FMl 60d HIS)                                 iUlS# Proracs approved hp U
2.  I  taI05a6  Gm.SdSIorc1 pl.c..iag   1.51  O.v.ioe *ad roil., 1081    D.eveop S.4.i4  ".ca tat -a-n-iplo            -Caao  waltiveaa  Prouroo atier-              Giles          projectionsa Isaed
aol pegrama.a fprovamneac             *iaaaig guldciaacoocl 5.1 . eahccowo wItma "PM as Wall                            macfae:
as Cope* Serve oaohclairsancd l*.*a
(a)  loale gcvarmwcsa to Per-                                             oPdatea goldaila.. Nor all auheec-         t* f..  soamaS updacteda of 10 Wool6?                         w4ulog I.ataooa
BarS..1 padclla a,Ie                                           aellf,c  fincac.,%la x ooacs S. (h
Coastral Ccvcraa.a                                                   T WV  Nor.I~. MAfIa
(hi oiSsaclaf SUPPpr6 ON $.Cal
=varamateaho be.ocd a.
Ioa  csgahslfcfec A"d
caphslia a be $&vea go 060
PravIcflsmc 0,4 fw-i me...
Sc. a-ads



Icy a"ape dollaR pto(acg peciod
(04I61-09I86) gcr..cial steps
talicy *Cc.IoblccCIvoc                      11d41a0-      sega    . ,cI.ua p oposed                                                      Iadsclccd by O6)                   Tlahle        IcfL.zfalg ladic.C.IC
1.  Sagenacho Lhocal 1.t.#n ..   Ce-         .1; 1  f..lf  iapler.at rat tan    IfParoa  Co6.8-  peyertogancc  of rop-    Do AppOISI                   644 to. agoon-           00111     4      A4it   apotOladtU
go.ra sa.blIicss.ta ., -4 1..sco.1           I.. ta9Bb-2)                        orgy Tao. (Fell) ghro.sh a Protean of            seat advisae. to Imprrov  I'56 eye-
a,addsaM                                                                             a s.*  d.1oSaoiescion .o4 ...loal    n So     L     *a. ca  *asser is o,goafaot"o
40)  1@Pw   r PRO      ln eIS-S  (by bP.)laib)                                                                                aa4 a progieelo  of .t.rk P.*
4.) apro al^ p.ol ov.nee *n
local  a  pahiooanor. ad-  Volo.  $dat4dtaIY cppFoaf; Cg.y                                                                                                            fIlso6          o. of boopgct' t ,ef..d
tbl N t ic  chalyt.e ortego p-*                                                                                          50.000i log-cdtto p   ptPJ   ee e a
Jab.rLc and 1.000 baro citioe
lbS   lpop-*.  -aoss.... I  .d ..py-
*t.lcfon OptiOs  ato  oa                                                                                                  *O   olfdodcl   ~oo019a.O   Ofaiavt
(c)   WCavcc L..c.l goocoano                                                                                               -  Upade fda wal.4Ioo *Dist--                    091*1          MO. as autst-reass/pre-
tfa.00,      ... caoc.-., c.-                                                                                            lot otbws .gbas, pIoperCtas                 Doo.ald         Pollits rlcsellfed
T- tNolnig4 valare cnd thcbolacloc              tO/Ie          MO. J   trasCed Wafaer,
oowcrdo         cad t.cboitcaaa
Relaprove can      i.Lgoa                09111-04S/f       tSi ,Pr,        kw i .. s.;_
Cbwaogh apdaLiai bele  r.   o.                              aIi  Stit    aad4 collar-
potcfssetso  Ot o Il fag. *nt fa-                           s1. i  to "aace (racanue
p.oco.ata La colliocloa ca                                  *NoItby
appeals pjoccd4.iam
1.t1  tipfoae  Colt lecoocry          laplooe .$acy CbaItclCoot sac.O.fi           D* AcalyS4 cool rOcobFrt porforeoco             09/e2          IaPloweea4 dCtoc  plan
*ad 0"acaeona  of ci voloaol    parte O"Arc  at t .a la Jo.* (by                      of oll water caterpcctc S.blct                              reco_&d.tious
WildC coacrprtlac  t16                 CAICUD                                          o 11a 4184-21/9ITflS/  co4d 6a.-
oeo,ardD)                                                                             tity poebica Ptoe
*0 Iaplassat Saetloctloam  COam 1lag          Cogmac.          go. of water e008*4p660
la Java ass S v            fe rgsardlas g Ie  06lbl         CO.pltlat
adoctla of1 (iS Vtaeg Tatiff
aLIt.LOCc  *Ad  Dppro*pt  4e tartif
feu gt RaCovog 0566 costs dogge-
ClalOa4 of debt 0*aCVc. twbich-
ever is larger) gad (II) accOdat-
1.g Opael  tOt wfr.&   csaefpriccc*
boa4 as matioal ga.idaifo11    of
0.6iln IOONLOL NCLoOp, a. o tntong          -  ANolia t4.omlfs and poold. bad-              12i9J          olGcta-1-   itoad *cA
cod1 Dru-a  #b _  uu.    .nr ......o t.  rt.,oftt-  5.10 cod doff a. Ce,cl aNd                               St. o.glblt*oc  Ra Jo.a
DCCIJOL(?wU,f
Appoal  eaon 196aL   to (11 .-Dt             i21tl          Contract aicoed
OPti,t cod (1i) aNaLo ...s,
*nl ol        . Ica .
coalo  topS 1.0  odor ootcap lo              -   oreoiatloq  ,t TOt                          0Sit/f         I4Cca  TOg
.14.Oi*o10ia alraoagaeog. too cii
:Xf  Nrc. baaCd 0a  otfictrco-  eCt-         -ppAtosfclaca  of Cocilatt                      09/61          Contract c.aLcofo   1L"go  d4
tarla (by 1. 06.5D50. OCyUOD. nDcCII
-  Coapictde roaic  oft focamd44-               02158          Jaa Provinoes Sttret.er
Ila   ft  algIci* lap'"icnltoatO                       doilsad   iapio.cabcga
. JI've                                                     go-tab.  SC*.
5.01  Isp.... rcocn.ba polio-        lapro..  lb. astf.t.ga  of  -o. l I-ea    Do tsapcp   IcaI-en                                                     ,a g.tja td  0)/c,  praparod
sac. of ISara is..  cad a*c-          1td flotga lbr OCLON/OcrUDD1)
iaploaoatalL*o,  .6 itoraf Id.     Cc -i.valo     p66  Ca. olftlc-. ra .                      lli o.zoo Vam.po                       f        I K6.81-F  e
104 pio.od.go gofota (by OCrtilti)              la Urbca IV (Ltat  1912-lMU)
-  Atg.tfIne c ,Pto    L  S-ple_            12l/4-flo/t        CoeolacI ostnd.; Coilce-
gas ottldce rStra on sceleted                               &Sona  grweb
cilIa. cad fcl-PI l



I                                                           tat steps dorsal project period
('hlI-09I19) tcrucial slope
lotud  4*rloh.ive1- e -.                                  oal                   Actlons sroposd4                                     indscalpi by  *)                  Timetable        oeItet-xi  il-tceagor
4.   apW"ra-  lisnt eciog es...  A          .      revAde a aSah,. 40.,ce       hI*abliSk    C.sg..l-tocat Goversst           *0.g. caf e.ltncte to cows" *               01sa          Coscvtialo  zoolteed
aschoolam for aihs  elcllcsg               *I loss (i.ac.c  got local go.-    b@,@os.ia* schome (by SCODIII                     poic..c lb.f cowcoe*0431 *Sab-
aed lacscOS.es for local eeaonccs          Ooseasto (III? omoowdas)                                                             til.t.d  ,, s "Sol Do.alo.p.et
.ohllIaol,                                                                                                                      Acco.a.l ~I0A)
I)Create a coosoh,fagod lose                                                                                         -coftasildate osletlms oinsIt             O,h0l              Consolid.ate  lea. mecha-
NOAd got local goveo.r.olo                                                                                            losek ache... :&ad feat... ()                              atm aoliates deliaaj1
coattlg.g     44 o 4 1cd 48        go dl:la:;to le         OvSad gueldois  teasewd
(hi  Improve great el6clocafti                                                                                             local g*votmatai  Mi) beasdig                              it measer
aes. and, Iners .....,es. god 
(il) Laval Is debtc service ratio
toldeoliaO
Apoianl  cosaaltAla to s01,alt In t1                      Coottact  ligned
ot0suioecalilas 04
-tb      operCa eesa p,oc4d.ras.      058-o) Oseetlg  co  accosties
aipsalol a *- iIIhtWlliu  crl..r_                        soola
ls* *fcc.olap19 Spaes S on4 ga4
Sloatglo dlss lgemote
livn *gait Sod opaga6     lloni.           14199           itall tflaned; ADA allet-
.n) e bvalloctsi.,  inch-    leafood 6110Oc1osiecrigria ;and                 AC511   Orlklag qfo..p                          Wall          OokthIn  gto  asaloed
amine. of gross tilaeao              galdoilmos loc Comical-Local greant
(5968-49)                            asacee (hi 13)                              - 'lRiew recooaiogea         1 of ongoing      02o 1           suahiagt OrOuP r*ePrt With
Congrol-Local ptsn5 s*atems                               apecittc iegpcveasnt pl-
posaic
-  tfr car  learttameset  req.erd tor          01189          lsItro.mto   *rweared
ISpcovamecto to Cat rat-Loccl
fiscal coaltello
4.1b)  leprova l66fo,-61sh base    Improve local qonee.b..s u        Isanclal    -   .ach saggteena  bettom IPS sod              A/4. A4s..n  f-octo
fr Pollic  4olopmeaeg 0e4           aad d0amfOrp1ac .1 tgAfma1oQ s1 as*Y 0          onh.  6g*ecles on instiutt0oco
operas loaal d.claloaaso lIcal    (by Tic. lSlitJtSOK iOrpo &ad                    rC.lA.
govnernent finance                   OCIgIal
-  C-aplego doga1.4 9llormagl a                09/MI          teted &votes dosig.
-yes.. docigs
-   mplement Sy;te                             O11)19        Complete met A  local
vtsgfo ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~*psdIr  a. -n                    c Pste10  ad
pop.loaios. data (ot
-  leCIl.4te otbas mappic5g Users            OB/Il          Coesltte. active 
completsa aed pispara acdios palans
Appolat tofseoltac1a 10 assiSt 0G           hild)         Contract aldten
Aq4.J  to Ilat,*                                                                     *l pr.to
155 PSIproas VIa)a
-  isooc  lISe "sa  lo  Ot:04  ilh            GiOSI          Kept 4allvbarsJo to liCiaab
J___                                       .                               _



tilac  esrclebl.4cotiwv                     Is4d5.-..mO  cL.OS                  *ctmoae popos.d                                       ladeetod by *)                   Ti       a      Usoteris g  Iensantite
Si  10Mteve local goveragasot caps-        S.01  Straaglb.SU  Sees$ LOVOr.-   Car,1    * a caoaerhcaslve  ta a.dg ci         :' 551    worhlesal covp osd propose           OSS            AlOGd noS
I's too                                   _u  *s asgSt.iei   responsible ;        he'   ocsit"O864 end   spew.,                to  e oft ralore.,.
(a)  Lveloss. local gaeseramo; t        fama (rhiha                                    N sasdte.ffs ,lvii Sertve t         Appoint ;*  so5asts                                        st/i  aged castroca
agoide. with  =etielr  o-dlsAtsatl    &pnews  - 31"5
ihsels 0e  5#a  ossameg ro a                                                                                             tow recwithet.s              S  l.tp eat gort  gad o"greaed
I's' coordiesam   lone-coce                                                                                           Book                                                       rmc*emsodala.a go he
.Itaisle   pgogmes                                                                                                                                                              freciead by Tn
hi; sald, stall capahilltso  A    $M   ISreaogbaa sasegawn                  Bal... Coordlsat4lc  areoge  mete              lee.s 4drectclwa, to oCs           *88                        orclaa  Iosta
lOocal geveawa sdslolatr-        sd eI1anliOgcPahillll4c is            between t11W DOe la IUIOI process (by
sloe:  ple::'sea` caMrur.         V  Mea sed Fsocleclsl Mesas    *11w Secier)
abagl. end oPcuee ice* aadt      til. Go Preovde 40d4ab  1
mlIssesaaco                       local Sgocramae (lIi-NI,             Identliy stotl  sIlls  trailng sad          -  Cogry out latgagsa  review at eO=           041SI          Aesesent Illisad
aepskeico reqised 5  p ovide ode-              wish  esiessatc cf s"sgeoast
Ic)  tiw-4.  ol.snce to all                                                q         ASc aaonga.nn    mat ml*ca  cod tl-  COit:ltWC
oaoso"  .etIs  cooal&i-                                                asIclal advice to local  0vgoansagta
Pam Ion ci bn  J.v.Ip t                                                (shi JPW. KPtU sn4 KIsiAe)
S.  Ststenstten coo tlI*soon and cor-   5.0*  *lesst.'  Pol1cyT cosdsi-    stoicllitcest of as Insarce*swc                   A* lase$ tguslssclci  Oest-,-. (l            04/hl/SIO  ses             -le d
calteglon be tO. orbas d.ralop  *ss        caIcoa be ie  .r.  .. aosar s4    codaemisg toe  Cogroa dAve. lop-                   catblicll etrwcm..,5 ct
ostlal                                     d.,cloPeg of _sehaslems so           east and am a.cotl,e GOCrsaa                      egoesc  a  5*itP
aupport ourbsn poli,i cewis
is)  tesbliteh ba  la&s.rag4c,         and d46csio4a-aklas (1141                                                        -  ALscig  elodlog woattge  psep.              most"          Lppobosmsto s.do
c-fdtnaoAr   se  sead as         amards)                                                                              slet al*o fee pissaslg cA ofr.-
I ec eaI  osvrcae. sad imgisIsS
11i J  Dctlop coodiloaa b*, cad tlo mot C loasl daolopest
c,rsvlovc_e  e n4 *c1lity so
* pport t.r,e cbsn  decal-    5.02  ZS-tase ostelsba   irbas          &00180 wockat poup to golds                -  DrolS wort orosras and lt# Ie,               Oslo)          Ag4rsed  otrk pfrota
Ojwant poltc, ten1ew cod         *afta.lto -to,O PCogsasa ash         oc4dle-sas  leacsatx ged  o a          g Iasenp *      Omet    slt@vitbs ead tochelcel
rFe. mnOd.oe4                    ptepate Cacoewsd4aCtoas for          and aaigs .appoac  toeo  eo ccapec-             aseebeats 
Sdto-Coa seCalttee ograeg,g          9l.* cg.ecs*   s   oe4  (a psolt c
ad pros.ga osmcer   crate-             ti. raore. ImlAo  * soda      4d-         as Appolat cess.lstoe to gespectlco            D8ala          Casuact *lgach
Ito as4 targets. *ad                 aloge (by Il)                                  *agaCios as  seended                       -aid
lost imolac lee alrasgase
(8852/581                                                                        -  Coadoct policy a5  sehbaical   -        Isl-111-O 18    Il Warbli   Pecs _d ram-
tlSa palcs sN  formulate *a-                              i        Is to he rostcud
teresta o acoanago propossls  a 4
rcooswodtari.e.
-  tiss  e goldec a s crdov   *s e-             1U sGifts                 loa
aeo  stratgy
-  laso  r.l- o ead4 pieceAees       US             Cw m4ea9 logo"
-Proepare eadte.-ss,s 1-yearpea PIG*sio-r  PIs" eadorash
for secgtor                                               hpTK
1a. ICrSo  an s:tci,d Lah a  statea   ot of toilcl.e SLo  Ubam Bevelopelat  Is Indoessla.  clerccd so isNIbaer  gof * otlca 6l tbavlopetst PlOsals/Cheirt_of .8  WP3r  Jegostr of "ell It.. tUi.



