Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6598-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
April 23, 1987
UIrban and Water Supply Division
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used be recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mnay not otherwise be disclosed with ut World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 1987)
Currency unit        -  Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.0               -  Ro 1,650
Rp 1,000             -  US$0.61
Rp 1 million         -  US$606
GOVERNi,ENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)          -  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)    -   0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)       -   2.47 acres
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAPPENAS          -  National Developmen' Planning Agency
DGBangda          -  Directorate General Bangunan Daerah (Regional Develop-
ment), Ministry of Home Affairs
DGBM              -  Directorate General Bina Marga (Roads), Ministry of
Public Works
DGBudget          -  Directorate General Angaraan (Budget), Ministry of Finance
DGCK             -  Directorate General Cipta Karya (Human Settlements),
Ministry of Public Works
DGMDN             -  Directorate General Moneter Dalam Negeri (Domestic
Monetary Affairs), Ministry of Finance
DGMLN             =  Directorate General Moneter Luar Ne-eri (External
Monetary Affairs), Ministry of Finance
DGPajak           -  Directorate General Taxation, Ministry of Finance
DGPUOD            -  Directorate General Permerintah Umum Otonomi
Daerah (Local Administration), Ministry of Home Affairs
DGWRD             =  Directorate General Water Resources Development,
Ministry of Public Works
DIP              =  Daftar Islan Proyek (development budget allocation)
GOI               -  Government of Indonesia
INPRES           -  Instruksi Presider. (central-local grant by presidential
instuc,ion)
IUIDP            -  Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program
KIP               -  Kampung (urban community) Improvement Program
MHA               -  Ministry of Home Affairs
MOF               -  Ministry of Finance
MPW               =  Mlinistry of Public Works
OEM               -  Operations and maintenance
PBB              -  Pajak Bumi dan Bangunan (property tax)
PCU              =  Project Coordination Unit
PDN              =  Pinjaman Dalam Negeri (domestic loans)
RGLF              =  Regional Government Loan Fund
SOE               =  Statement of expenditure
TK                =  Inter-ministerial Coordinating Committee for Urban
Development (Tim Koordinasi)



FOR OmICIAL tI ONLY
INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ................................i
I.    THE URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE SECTOR ..............................                          1
Urban Services Demand .................1......................
Urban Services Supply and Financing .... .              ....................            2
Sector Development ..................,.,.,.,,                                          4
Bank Experience and Strategy .................................                          6
II. THE PROJECT ................                     ,...  7
Origin ......................  7
Rationale for Bank Involvement .
Goals and Objectives .  .............................,.,,.,                             7
Project Description ...................                   ,       .,.   8
The Expenditure Program ..............................,,                                8
Action Plan Support ...................' .......,,,,,......    10
Technical Assistance .....                                                             14
Cost Estimates ............................................... , 4
Fi:lancing Plan ............................ , . , . ....    15
Implementation Arrangements ..................................    16
III. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .20
IV. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .                                            21
Recommendation .22
ANNEXES
1.   GOI Statement of Policies  for brban Development  and Action Plan 23
2.   Urban Expendituies  1979-89 ...............................,.,.                        35
3. Technica'2 Assistance and Training Summary .63
4. PBB Improvement Program .75
5. Water Enterprise Cost Recovery and Management .91
6.   Local Taxes and Charges ......... .           ...........................    97
7.  Regional Development Account ......................... .......  101
8.   Central-Local Grants .........................................   .05
9. Local Gover.mrent Information Systems .                                                109
10.   Platning and Programming .....................................  115
11. Local Government Manpower DevelopmenL .135
12.   Urbsn Development Training Component .... .              ...................  145
13.   Expenditure  Program Funding .................................    161
14.   Disbursement Arrangements ....................................  167
15.   Documents Retained in Project File ............ ..............  183
This  report  is based on the  findings and recommendations of an appraisal
mission  to Jakarta in November 1986.   Mission members  included IBRD staff
Paul R. Stott (leader), Bradley 0. Babson, Jaime Biderinan, Steen L. Jorgen-
sen, David G. Williams, and consultants Dietrich Lerche and Murray Mander.
Substantial contributions to the appraisal were also made by IBRD staff of
WUD,  LOAAS,  AEADR,  AEPED and AEPUW as noted  in the respective Annexes.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:    R'public of Indonesia
Amount:      US$270 million equivalent
Terms:       Repayable in 20 years i:icluding 5 years of grace at
the standard variable interest rate,
Project
Description: The project consists of two principal parts (a) a two-year
time slice (GOI FY87/88 and 88/89) of the Government of
Indonesia's (GOI) entire urban infrastructure expenditure
program, and (b) a program of institutional reforms and
improvements in local resource mobilization, sector plan-
ning and financing arrangements, and sector manpower
development in accordance with an agreed Statement of
Policies for Urban Development and Action Plan. The agreed
expenditure program, estimated to total about US$960 mil-
lion, is composed of investment and rehabilitation (80%),
as well as operations and maintenance (20%) expenditures,
and includes high priority investment and recurrent expen-
ditures in water supply, drainage, flood protection, sani-
tation, roads, and slum upgrading in urbanized areas of
about 300 local governments nationwide, some of which are
already funded in part through ongoing commitments by
external donors including the Bank.
The project would support a substantial acceleration
of significant sector reforms already initiated by GOI.
These reforms are reflected in the Government's Statement
of Policies and aim at developing local government capabi-
lities, reducir.g Central Government's share of urban in-
frastructure financing by increasing local resource mobi-
lization, and increasing efficiency by improving resource
utilization. Specific measures would be taken during the
project period, as part of a GOI Action Plan, to: (a)
improve property tax and local revenue generation, (tb)
introduce an improved source of loan funds for local gover-
nments, (c) strengthen urban expenditure planning, prog-
ramming and coordination and (d) prepare an urban sector
institution and manpower development plan. Technical
assistance and training would be provided to support the
Action Plan and assist in project management.
Risks:       The principal risks are that: (a) the expenditure program
may be implemented more slowly than expected; and (b)
some of the short-term measures included in the Action
Plan may be prDlonged by the difficulties of policy and
institutional change. The expenditure program has been
reviewed with particular reference to the absorptive



- Li -
capacity of the various implementing agencies in order to
minimize the risk of delay. Besides, project progress
would be reviewed thoroughly at mid-term to assess first
year performance and confirm the second year expenditure
pro.tam. Progress in implementing the Action Plan would
be Lacilitated by consultant assistan e and monitored
closely. GOI has established an adequately staffed and
equipped monitoring unit to help ensure that satisfactory
progress is achieved. Management of the project and moni-
toring of progress with the expenditure program and Action
Plan would be carried out under the direction of an inter-
ministerial coordinatirn  L  m and managed by an executive
secretariate.
Estimnated Costs:                             Local   Foreign   Total
------ US$ uillion ----
Development expenditures               432.8    307.1    739.9
Recurrent expenditures                 134.0      52.6    186.7
Property valuations                      1.0      16.6     17.6
Technical assistance                     5.7       8.7     14.4
Training                                 3.3       6.0      9.3
Base cost                           576.8    390.9    967.7
Price contingencies                     30.7       7.4     38.1
Total Project Cost L                607.5    398.3   1005.8
Financing Plan:
GOI                                    426.9              426.9
IBRD                                    41.6    228.4    270.0
Other external finance                 139.0    169.9    308.9
Total                               607.5    398.3   1005.8
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank FY              1988       1989      1.990
------ US$ million ------
Annual              112.0      104.8      53.2
Cummulative         112.0     216.8      270.0
Race of Return:   Not applicable
IBRD Map No. 11038R1
/i   Including identifiable taxes estimated at US$43.3 million.



I. THE URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE SECTOR
Urban Services Demand
1. The urban sector in Indonesia Is large and important to both social
and economic development of the country.  In 1980 the urban population was
estimated to be 33 million, or 22% of Indonesia's total population.  Its
growth rate is about 4% per year, almost twice the overall population growth
rate. By the year 2000 the urban population is projected to reach 76 mil-
lion, or 36% of the total population; of this two-thirds is predicted to
live in cities on Java. The greatest incidence of urban poverty is found in
Java also, chiefly in the centrai and eastern provinces. Ohverall, about 25%
of the urban population is estimated to have an income below the poverty
line (US$230 per capita - 1983 prices).
2. Indonesia's urban population is reasonably well distributed spatially,
occupying four metrcpolitan areas, about 50 major cities and some 350 medium-
sized cities and towns, as well as many more small towns. About one half of
the urban population live ir. the ten largest cities (including the capital,
Jakart. with 9 million), where the bulk of the urban population increase
over the coming decade is expected to occur.  Most cities and towns are
located within Indonesia's 247 Kabupatens (second-tier or Level II regional
administrations), but 54 larger cities have separate administratii?e status as
Kotamadyas or Level II municipalities. Jakarta has the status of a Province
(i.e., first-tier or Level I regional administration), of which there are 27
in all. Level II local government administrators report to their respective
Level I or Provincial Governor and ultimately the Ministry of Home Affairs
(MHA). Besides being responsible for regulating and monitoring the govern-
ance of local authorities -- including their responsibility to provide and
maintain urban services -- MHA controls appointments of their senior offi-
cials, regulates staffing and salaries, and reviews Cheir developmerit plans,
budgets and financial performance.
3. In addition to serving an urban population growing by about 2.2 million
new residents each year, urban infrastructure is needed to eliminate severe
service backlogs and support growing urban economic activity. In 1983 it
was estimated that about 55% of the urban population did not have access to
a piped water supply and 70% did not have satisfactory sanitation facili-
ties, In the larger cities inadequate industrial water supply and waste
disp3sal is a serious problem, and congestion and deteriorating urban road
networks increase the cost of travel. Many cities, particularly in coastal
areas, suffer severe flooding due to inadequate flood control and local
drainage. The Bank's 1984 Urban Services Sector Report (No.48 0-IND) esti-
mated conservatively that total expenditures by central and local government
on urban services investment, and operation and maintenance (O&M) during
Repelita IV (1984-89) should be about Rp 900 billion per year (1986 prices)
to meet reasonable growth needs and overcome service backlogs at minimal
levels of service.  In terms of GOI's service and eqluity objectives, more
low-cost, local or tertiary systems investment is needed in existing under-
served urban areas, especially in outer islands. However, as well as the
concomitant need for O&M of the expandin- networks, there is a growing need
for public investments in and rehabilitation of primary and secondary sys-
tems, to support the local infrastructure adequately, particularly for water
supply, flood protection and transport in larger centers.



-2-
Urban Services Supply and Financing
4. Emphasis on urban infrastructure development began in earnest during
Repelita II (1974-79) with large-scale improvement of low-income neighbor-
hoods in a few large cities through provision of basic infrastructure under
the highly successful 'Kampun, Improvement Program (KIP)' and some important
!aitiatives in water supply. These early efforts in KIP and water supply
chiefly involved the resources of the few cities concerned. Under Indonesian
law, provision of urban infrastructure (comprising water supply, waste dispo-
sal, drainage anid flood protection, and roads), is considered a decentralized
responsibility of Level II local governments. In practice, Central Gover-
nment agencies have assumed a major role in not only planning and execution
but also financing of urban infrastructure. In an effort to distribute
developanent benefits more widely and equitably, GOI increasingly supported
subsequent basic needs programs with development grants. Expenditures in-
creased in nominal terms from about Rp 263 billion per year during Repelita
II to about Rp 500 billion per year during Repelita III (1979-84).  This
expansion came at a time when the Government was experiencing a boom in oil
revenues, and local government capacity to plan and carry out urban infra-
structure programs was very weak in general. As a result, almost all capital
and most recurrent expenditure is now financed by the Central Government.
The Ministry of Public Works (MPW), which has the responsibility for guidance
and oversight of technical matters in local authorities' affairs, has become
prominent in planning and, in many cases, implementation of urban infrastruc-
ture programs. To date, over 700 cities and towns have to some degree
benefitted from access to basic needs programs in water supply, sanitation,
drainage and urban roads, as well as KIP.Z1
5. Although annual-average urban development expenditure in Repelita III
nearly doubled over Repelita II levels, this was still inadequate to meet the
increase in needs, resulting in further accumulation of service backlogs.
Further expansion was constrained by (a) limited implementation and O&M
capacity at both central. and local level; (b) lack of systematic planning and
coordination among key agencies; and (c) more recently, constraints due to
declining oil revenues and hence grants.
6. Expenditures during Repelita III were close to the absorptive capacity
of the Government's implementation capabilities and local governments' Q&M
capabilities. Budget carry-overs of 30-35% were occuring annually in the
programs of Directorate General Cipta Karya (DGCK)-- the principal central
agency concerned with urban infrastructure. Moreover, in the effort to
expand service networks rapidly, consultation between central and local
agencies and coordination among sectors and financing sources was inade-
quate, and limited attention was paid to institution building resulting in
weak performance by many local governments and their enterprises. Late in
/1 Such infrastructure in newly developed areas is increasingly provided by
the private sector (financed mainly through mortgages provided by GOI's Hou-
sing Bank, Bank Tabungan Negara, supported by the IBRD's Housing Sector Loan
-- Loan 2725-IND). During the remainder of Repelita IV it is expected that
infrastructure expenditures by PERUMNAS (the National Housing Authority) and
private sector developers will total some Rp 400 billion.



-3-
Repelita III, in order to address these issues, a move to return to greater
decentralization of planning and implementation responsibility to local
governments was begun. However, other than in the very largest cities,
local govertiment capabilities in investment planning, implementation and
finance are very weak in relation to the task. This is because of trained
staff shortages (due in part to adverse conditions of service at Level II)
and cumbersome management and administrative procedures. Although O&M is
fully a local government responsibility and is reasonably budgeted in gene-
ral, present performance is constrained by these institutional factors.
7. Systematic planning for urban development is difficult for urban
managers under present circumstances because of the large number of central
agencies and financing sources concerned. Within the Ministry of Public
Works, responsibility for urban roads is with Directorate General Bina Marga
(DGBM), urban flood control and raw water supply with Directorate General
Water Resources Development (DGWRD), and for other types of infrastructure
with DGCK. Central-Local grant programs for urban infrastructure (primarily
the lNPRES Dati II block grant and INPRES Jalan or roads programs) are
administered by MHA's Direc?orate General for Regional Development (DGBangda).
Funding releases to urban programs are controlled by three d-fferent Direc-
torates General in the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The limited development and
recurrent expenditure programs financed from local government's own sources
are subject to approval by MHA's Directorate General for Local Administration
(DGPUOD) and the Provincial Governor. Historically, coordination of urban
programs among the various central agencies has been weak and this fragme!t!.-.
approach is mirrored in the budget approval process at local and central
levels. To improve coordination at the national level an informal forum for
policy discussion, the Institute for Urban Policy Analysis (IUPA), was estab-
lished in 1984 among the leading agencies under the chairmanship of MOF. The
initiatives fostered by IUPA form the basis of many elements of GOI's sector
reform agenda (paras 9-12).
8. The recent sharp decline in oil revenues has severely limited GOI's
ability to maintain the past levels of substantial capital and recurrent
financing from Central Government budget to sustain the momentum in urban
development achieved in recent years. Expenditures during the initial years
of Repelita IV had to be curtailed from the planned levels and held close to
the previous levels. The particularly severe budget cuts necessitated in
early-1986 and ,he expected continuation of budget austerity in the future,
simply do not allow for completion of a number of on-going projects, much
less the expansion in urban expenditures envisaged in the Bank's sector
report. The sources of finance for urban infrastructure are: (a) Central
Government grants (including DIP grants administered by Central Government
departments, and salary and INPRES grants allocated for local routine and
development expenditures respectively); (b) assigned revenues, levied by the
central government but assigned wholly or in part to loca' government (e.g.,
property tax revenues); (c) revenue from local taxes and service charges,
including revenues of local enterprises and service departments; and (d)
loans to local governments and enterprises from both domestic and foreign
sources. In addition to the large volume of centrally planned and executed
investments in urban areas financed directly by the central governinr.~nt
budget, central government transfers through the grant system account for



-4-
more than 75% of overall local government routine arLd development expendi-
ture; although in larger municipalities this proportion is closer to 50%.
In GOI's FY85/86, the total public expenditure on urban infrastructure
(irvestment and O&M) was about Rp 470 billion (about US$ 430 million equiva-
lent in 1985 prices) of which Rp 350 billion or 74% was funded from Central
Government budget. This pattern of local goverr.ment dependence on Central
Government grants was increasing up to the end of Repelita III and resulted
in a lack of incentives for efficient local resource mobilization as well as
distortions in the allocation of urban expenditures. More recently, reduced
grant availability has been a constraint to rapid expansion of services.
Moreover, those local governments which have shown interest in doing more
have been constrained by a lack of reliable borrowing mechanisms. There is a
clear need to rationalize and augment the existing loan schemes by establis-
hing a single central loan funding source which would lend at realistic
interest rates and consistent terms for all projects and cities.  The recent
decline in oil Drices and Central Government revenues has dramatized the need
to reform the present system of local government finance and gradually shift
the burden of financing and generating revenues for local expenditures from
the center to local governments,
Sector Development
9. GOI has been moving towards greater sector efficiency and improved
quality of urban services through, (i) improving arrangements for planning and
implementing urban infrastructure investment programs; (ii) initiating changes
in urban infrastructure financing arrangements; and (iii) by addressing local
government manpower development needs, particularly with respect to manage-
ment, planning, programming, budgeting and O'xM. The current resource con-
straints in Indonesia have led to policy decisions to accelerate changes in
all of these areas including shifting the financing pattern for urban infra-
structure expenditures from predominantly Central Government grant support to
more reliance on locally generated revenues and loan finance.
10. Planning and Programming. GOI has already taken several Liftiatives to
improve planning and programming processes in the sector in conjunction with
the fiscal reforms described below. The major actions are: (a) to implement a
new integrated urban infrastructure investment planning system that has been
developed by DGCK with UNDP and Bank assistance; (b) to issue guidelines
defining investment policies and criteria, as well as roles and functional
responsibilities of central and local agencies for key urban services; and (c)
to establish a formal urban policy coordinating committee among the Ministries
of Finance, Public Works, Home Affairs and the National Planning Agency,
BAPPENAS, along with an appropriate working level support mechanism. Improve-
ments now being introduced by MHA and MPW are aimed at introducing techniques
and fostering greater local skills which would lead to, among other things,
fuller local participation in program development. It is expected that local
involvement will lead to better targetting and prioritization of investments
as well as greater commitment to O&M of the facilities provided, Of parti-
cular significance is the system of integrated urban infrastructure planning
and programming (known as IUIDP) introduced in 1985. By means of this
system GOI intends to develop its central agencies as effective intermediaries



- 5 -
urban institution building and services delivery. IUID? would allow WOI to
apply its limited technicil and financial resources through a largeLy region-
ally-administered process to locally generated, priority projects confor-
ming to specified planning a..d financing criteria. In order to develop the
processes involved GOI has embarked, with UNDP and Bank assistance, on the
nationwide training of staff in medium/large cities i.t integrated physical
planning and project planning tech.iques, and provincial level staff in
project appraisal and programming techniques. The training is currently
based or, published guidelines for planning, design, and financing of urban
infrastructure within DGCK purview. The IUIDP concept would be extended
under GOI's sector reform Action Plan (para 16) to include DGBM and DGWRD-
supported urban infrastructure investments.
11. Urban Infrastructure Financing. GOI recognizes that the more limited
availability of Central Government grants means that: (a) cost sharing arran-
gemealts for different sub-sectors need to be reviewed; 'b) present grant and
loan financing Mechanisms need to be modified to provide incentives for local
revenue generation and borrowing; and (c) local governments must mobilize
additional revenue in order to sustain present or even reduced levels of
urban expenditure. The Government has taken some concrete steps to increase
local resource mobilization, including (i) the new property tax (PBB) law,
effective in January 1986, which provides revenues to local governments, (ii)
a draft law on local taxation, (iii) pilot efforts (assisted by Bank loans),
to improve tax administration and financial management in a number of cities,
and (iv) developraent of rLational tariff guidelines for water enterprises.
However, despite the improved and simplified structure which characterize the
PBB, the tariff structure and the proposed local tax law, Little has so far
been done to implement these and related efforts, in order to produce signi-
ficant results by the end of Repelita IV.  The key element of GOI's medium-
term strategy for local resource mobilization would be the full implementa-
tion of its new property tax law.  In view of the important yet underutilized
role of the property tax in local government finance (currently accounting
for about 10% of receipts including grants), as well as the revenue growth
potential in urban areas, the initial actions proposed would focus on a step-
by-step improvement in the valuation of urban properties and tax administra-
tion. Concurrently, the Government will be taking other steps to improve
local resource mobilization, including (a) measures to improve cost recovery
by water supply enterprises; (b) steps to improve the structure and adminis-
tration of local taxes and charges; (c) establishment of a consolidated loan
fund (Regional Development Account or RDA) for local governments and their
enterprises; and (d) the formulation of specific proposals for reform of the
central-local grant system. Taken together, these actions should lead. to a
significant shift in public resource generation from Central Government to
local governments to finance urban infrastructure in the 1990s. Many of the
concrete steps needed to increase local revenue generation and thereby enable
local governments to contribute a larger share of the financing requirements
for urban infrastructure in Repelita V are incorporated in GOI's abovemen-
tioned Action Plan for the next two years.
12.  Manpower Development.  The move to deconcentrate MPW authority places
increased responsibility on local government and requires training of staff
to help them adapt to new roles. In addition, the emphasis on local



participation in planning and the strengthening of revenue generation, finan-
cial management and O&M capabilities will mean the recruitment of new staff
as well as training to ensure adequate capacity in local government agencies.
The most crucial needs lie at the management and professional levels. A key
factor in the attraction and retention of competent professionals is the
conditions of service for local government staff which affect benefits and
career structures. Local governments currently have few trained professional
staff and face difficulty in attracting new staff. Mid-career entry is
virtually impossible, promotions are based almost exclusively on seniority,
and few transfers between authorities occur. Within authorities, scarce key
professionals are rotated frequently among various departments. Training of
existing staff and new, inexperienced entrants is the most important priori-
ty. Present training capacity within the sector is fragmented and uncoordi-
nated, divided mainly between MHA and MPW, with som'.- also being carried out
by the Ministry of Finance. MHA has the most widespread capabilities follo-
wing assistance it has received over the past few years from the United States
Agency for International Development. Under the Baiik's Loans 2275-IND and
2632-IND assistance is being provided to DGCK for water supply manpower deve-
lopment, and under Loan 2258-IND for IUIDP :raining, both in conjunction with
Netherlands Government aid. Future training, however, should be coordinated
on the basis of a sound manpower development plan for the sector and assig-
nment of clear responsibility among the Ministries concerned. GOI's Action
Plan mentioned previously includes an assessment of manpower development needs
in urban management and priority skill areas, and development of a strategy
and action program to bring about the desired upgrading of human resources and
improvement of service conditions in the sector through a future project.
Bank Experience and Strategy
13.  The Bank has developed extensive knowledge of the urban -ector through
eleven urban, housing and water supply projects financed since 1974. Of
these, five have been completed/2. Important lessons learned include the
need for greater attention to balanced planning of investments among and
within subsectors, and to better O&M, in part through better cost recovery
from local revenues. Studies supported by the Bank and other donors during
this period have contributed to sector policy and institutional development.
Drawing on this experience, in 1984 the Bank's Urban Services Sector Report
examined the longer-ter;., issues in the sector and discussed several areas
where policy and institutional reform were needed. A more recent review of
local government finance (carried out as part of the Bank's forthcoming
Public Resource Management Sector Study), examined the feasi'lility of greater
local resource mobilization and measures required to further this objective.
The Government has also recently completed with UNDP assistance an extensive
study which analyzed options and directions for national urban development
strategy. The Bank's strategy in assisting GOI's efforts in the sector
consists of supporting a series of sector and project-level operations aimed
at add-ess4ng the basic issues of underinvestment and institutional weakness
/2 Three completion reports and Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR)
have been issued to date: Loan 1040-IND - Jakarta Urban Development Project
(PPAR No. 4620); Loan 1049-IND - Five Cities Water Supply Project (PPAR No.
6256); Loan 1336-IND - Second Urban Development Project (PPAR No. 6329).



- 7-
in the sector, through: (a) implementing appropriate sectoral and institutio-
nal policies; (b) strengthening agencies responsible for sector planning and
oversight, and local administration, operation and maintenance; and (c)
improvement of environmental services.
II. THE PROJECT
Origin
14. The proposed loan was identified in February/March 1986 during Bank
discussions with the Government concerning the impact of sharply declining
oil revenues on the development budget/3. Further discussions between GOI
and the Bank, led to GOI's agreement in June 1986 to prepare draft proposals
for (i) a Sector Policy Statement and detailed Action Plan for reform mea-
sures, (ii) a sector expenditure program, and (iii) project management and
implementation arrangements, with a view to obtaining funding by early 1987
for the remainder of the Repelita IV program. Three working groups chaired
and staffed respectively by officials of BAPPENAS, MPW and MOF, assisted by
MHA and with the help of consultants, prepared the above-mentioned three main
elements of the project proposal whicz. were appraised in Novembe.r 1986.
Negotiations with the Government were held in Washington D.C. during March
30-April 3, 1987. The GOI delegation was led by Mr. Soelaeman Soemardi,
Deputy for Social Cultural Affairs, BAPPENAS.
Ration&le for Bank Involvement
15.  The proposed operation, based on the Bank's well-established operatio-
nal relationship ana policy dialogue in the sector with GOI, has already led
to the formulation and acceleration of a coherent strategy and action plan
for reform in several key areas of the sector, including the pattern of
resource mobilization, by extension of effective policies and procedures
developed under previous Bank-supported projects to the national urban prog-
ram. This would help ensure that the level of expenditures in the sector
does not shrink further, at a time when demand due to urban population growth
needs is increasing. The Bank's experience, analysis and advice on the speci-
fic elements of this program would help the Government address key issues
appropriately; and the Bank's participation would serve as a catalyst to
assist the various Government agencies involved to work together to achieve
the objectives of the adjustment program.
Goals and Objectives
16. GOI has prepared a Statement of Policies for Urban Sector Develop ment
outlining five basic goals: (a) planning, programming and identification of
investment priorities in Level II authorities will be improved through a
/3.  Indonesia's net oil/LNG earnings in 1986/87 are estimated to be US$2.2
billion; down f^om US$5.7 billion the previous year and only 20% of the peak
level in 1981/82.  At the time of the oil pr,ce collapse, GOI declared its
expenditure priorities as being those for (a) ongoing projects -- particula-
rly foreign-funded operations -- with high impact on employment and equity;
and (b) O&M of completed projects.



-8-
decentralized and integrated process guided by Central Government; (b) Level
II capabilities to mobilize resources and optimize the use of funds will be
upgraded; (c) urban services financing mechanisms will be improved; (d)
local govArnment institutions and staff capabilities will be enhanced; and
(e) coordination and consultation among che various agencies and levels of
government will be strengthened. Detailed objectives have been formulated
for each of these goals and an Action Plan for the project period has been
designed tv implement the steps necessary to achieve them. The Statement of
Policies and Action Plan agreed at negotiations are presented in Annex 1.
17. The objective of the proposed operation is to help GOI maintain, in the
midst of severe economic constraints, the momentum of its ongoing urban
infrastructure expenditure program while adjusting and strengthening sector
institutions and procedures to cope with rapidly-growing urban services
needs in accordance with the GOI's Action Plan. A principal aim of the
project therefore, in addition to financing the GOI's urban infrastructure
expenditures for the remaining years of Repelita IV (GOT's fiscal years
FY87/88 and FY88/89), is to suppo.t short-term measures in an action plan of
comprehensive reform which would, in the medium-to-long term (i.e., 5-10
years), improve local resource mobilization significantly and increaringly
shift responsibilities for urban infrastructure planning, financing and
implementation, from central to local government.
Project Description
18. The project comprises two parcs: (a) a two-year time slice of GOI's urban
infrastructure expenditure program for FY87/88 and FY88/89, composed essen-
tially of high priority expenditures estimated to total about US$960 million,
including investmpnt and rehabilitation (80%), as well as O&M (20%) expen-
ditures, and (b) implementation of GOI's Action Plan for sector policy and
institutional reform aimed at laying the foundations for a substantial shift
in responsibility from Central Government to local governments for plan-
ning, implementing, operating/maintaining and financing urban services.
Support for the Action Plan would comprise two components, firstly, techni-
cal assistance, training and contract property valuations for the property
tax (PBB) improvement program; and secondly, technical assistance and trai-
ning for sector financing reform, improvement of planning and programming,
strengthening of water supply subsector management, and development of urban
institutions and manpower. The project is expected to be complete within
three years, by September 1989.
The Expenditure Program
19. The urban infrastructure program for GOI's FY87/88 and FY88/89 would
have an estimated total cost of about US$960 million equivalent. The prog-
ram has been reviewed with the Government and adjusted to ieflect the high-
est priorities of the sector consistent with reasonable intersectoral balan-
ces and the absorbtive capacity of the agencies concerned. In accordance
with agreed priorities, the majority of capital expenditures are for comple-
ting ongoi.-g projects, particularly foreign-funded ones; about 55% would be
for projects related to external donor-financed operations that are already
ongoing (53%), or committed in principle (2%), i.e., appraised and which



- 9 -
would be carried out during the second year4. The program review took into
consideration: (a) conformity with established GOI priorities, (b) approp-
riateness of O&M provisions, (c) appropriateness of subsector planning and
project appraisal criteria, and (d) past trends in expenditure and funding.
20 The agreed program which is acceptable to the Bank would consist of
ca)ital 'nvestment (70%), rehabilitation (10%) and recurrent expenditures
(20%), in over 300 Level I and II local authorities and their enterprises.
Capital expenditures would be for civil works, equipment and services in-
cluded in ongoing projects for raw and treated water supply (about 54% of
total), drainage and flood protection (30%), roads (21%), Kampung improvement
10%), sewerage and sanitation (6%), and solid waste management (4%). Plan-
ning, engineering and construction supervision services, and overheads ac-
count for about 9% of program costs. Annex 2 describes the details of the
overall program. The 1987/88 expenditure program was confirmed in detail
(including composition, estimated costs. and schedules of expenditure) at
negotiations. Effectiveness of the loan would be conditional upon the GOI's
authorized budget for FY87/88 including allo. ations for the agreed program.
The 1988/89 expenditure program (about 51% of total) was agreed in principle
at negotiations, and would be confirmed in detail following a review of the
1987/88 program implementation performance with the Bank not later than Feb-
ruary 1988. Disbursement against 1988/89 expenditures would be conditional
upon the respective budgetary all.ocations being authorized by GOI.
21. Much of the proposed capital expenditure was deferred in earlier years
due to local financing constraints, which has led to delays in project comple-
tion and fo-egone benefits.  The project would enable momentum to be regained
so that, in real terms, the proposed program would reprosent, overall, a
reasonable 6-7% p.a. average growth since 1983/84 for both capital and recur-
rent expenditures.  However, trends among subsectors vary widely (Annex 2).
Water supply, and sewerage expenditures are all expectAd to show about 14%
p.a. growth overall. An increasing focus on better planning, O&M capacity
development and cost recovery would occur in these subsectors in future
throt,.gh the sector programming improvements to be carried eut under the Action
Plan (para 26).  Drainage Rnd flood control expenditures show over 21% average
growth p.a. since 1983/84 through significant support by the Japanese Gover-
nment's Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund in recent years. Rcads expenditures
are expected to show only 4% growth p.a., reflecting GOI's nascent urban
transport planning capability.    Strengthening of urban transport capabili-
ties and subsector finances is being addressed in preparation for forthcoming
projects focussing on this subsector in several major cities. Despite stren-
gthening, KIP (and concomitent low-cost sanitation expenditures) are expected
to show nearly -5% p.a. overall decline due to institutional weaknesses.
Further strengthening of these programs would be an urgent priority for GOI in
its Repelita V plannning in order to improve the urban program's impact on
/4 Committed projects include Bank Loans 1972, 2236, 2275, 2408, 2560 and
2632-IND, as well as projects financed by the Asian Development Bank and
various bilateral donors including the Governments of Japan, Netherlands,
Federal Republic of Germany, France, and Switzerlanl. Planned commitments
include the proposed Regional Cities Urban Transport Project expected to be
presented to the Board during FY87.



- 10 -
low-income groups and environmental pollution. 0&M expenditure trends indicate
similar variations among sectors although information may not be complete.
However in future, it is clear that improved management of 0&M by local
governments will be essential to better use of O&M resources. An ongoing study
by MHA, supported by the Fifth Urban Development Project--Loan 2408-IND, is
expet ted to recommend measures to strengthen 0&M policies and practices in
Level II local governments and lead to implementation of an O&M development
program to be piloted in four major cities. A fuller discussion of
subsector trends and issues is given in Annex 2.
22. Although the expenditure program has been revised considerably, a
complete restructuring of the program composition as a significant means of
redressing imbalances and issues was infeasible at this stage because of the
ongoing nature of the program and the relatively inflexible commitments
entailed, as well as the long lead time needed to shift emphases and intro-
duce possibly more appropriate new projects. The Government therefore , while
wishing to complete the present program an composed, has agreed that steps
toward the strengthening of future sector investment policy and expenditure
coordination has been taken through the establishment prior to negotiations,
of an interagency Coordinating Team for Urban Development (Tim Koordi-
nasi or TK) together with an executive secretariate located in BAPPENAS.
23. TK has been formed by means of a Ministerial Decree, and will have
broad responsibility for coordination of urban policy and program planning
(Annex 10, Attachment 1). The Team will be assisted by the Executive Secreta-
riate which will report to the chairman of the Steering Committee and provide
staff support to the Steering Committee and its working groups. The work plan
of TK and the Secretariate would be reviewed by the Bank. All concerned
agencies of Government wqill be represented on the Steering Committee and/or in
Working Groups on Programming, Implementation, Finance and Institutional Deve-
lopment to address strategic issues under the guidance of the Steering Commit-
tee. For the purposes of implementation of the agreed Action Plan the standing
working groups would be assigned appropriate responsibilities and ad-hoc
groups would be formed to address, inter alia, issues of (i) urban transport;
and (ii) urban water 1Lasources, Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
appropriate future expenditure program balance and the various abovementioned
issues would be addressed by T" working groups under the Action Plan as part
of sector planning and programming for Repelita V urbfan infrastructure expen-
ditures, and TK would prepare and review annually with the Bank a 5-year
sector expenditure program (para 28).
Action Plan Support
24. The GOI's Statement of Policies for Urban Development presents the broad
principles underlying the sector policy and institutional changes on which GOI
has embarked.  The Action Plan provides the details of the proposed measures
and builds upon the significant actions taken by Government over the past 12-
18 months (paras 10 and 11). The Action Plan embodies a 10-15 year framework
ot future change and focusses in detail on the key steps to which Government
is committed during the next 2-3 years in order to accelerate each of the four
main areas of change as described below:



- 11 -
(a) local resource mobilization (para 26) through measures to strengthen
(i) property valuation and tax administration; (ii) water enterprise cost
recovery ard management; and (iii) local revenue administration;
(b) urban infrastructure financing mechanisms (para 27) through: (i)
operatioralization of a consolidated borrowing scheme for local gover-
nments and their enterprises; (ii) development of improved grant allo-
cation criteria and guidelines, and (iii) strengthening local government
informa'zion systems;
(c) planning and programming (para 28) through (i) strengthening of
decentralized integrated urban infrastructure planning procedures; (ii)
issue of planning guidelines; and (iii) formulation of a medium term
(five-year) urban sector plan and expenditure program; and
(d) sectoral institutions and manpower through (i) preparation of a
local government institu.ional and manpower development plan (para 29);
(,i) a review to strengthen central and provincial capabilities to
provide technical assistance to Level II local governments (para 29);
and (iii) support for ongoing key training programs (para 30)
25.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that GOI would (a) provide the
necessary resources and carry ol;t the Action Plan, and (b) review annually
with the Bank the progress achieved in its implementation; the first review
to take place no later than February 1988. Adequacy of progress would be
viewed in relation to agreed key steps identified in the Action Plan time-
table as crucial to the objectives of the project. GOI would monitor prog-
ress closely (para 35), and the Bank would allocate appropriate staff super-
vision resources for the purposes of the annual and other interim progress
reviews, including two policy-related studies (sector investment policy
development (para 28 (b)) and manpower de"elopment planning (para 29)). The
details of the Action Plan are discussed below; the overall plan, including
implementation timetable, is summarized in the Attachment to Annex 1.
26. Local Resource Mobilization. The Action Plan focusses on the Gover-
nment's most significant opportunities for local resource mobilization in
the short to medium-term. The following actions, together with intensifica-
tion of collection efforts, should lead to some increase in assessments and
revenues even during the project periodZ5:
(a) MOF's Directorate Gene:al of Taxation (DGPajak) will initiate a
longer-cerm program of improvement of property tax (PBB) performance in
tax administration and valuation with the assistance of qualified
/5   The overall revenue target has been agreed as a doubling of the 1985-86
property tax revenues by 1988-89 (i.e., a 25% annual increase is nominal
terms). However, the main impact of the prcgram would be felt after 1990,
when the new valuations begin to be reflected in the tax bills. Since about
60% of the 100,000 higher-valued urban properties (which currently account
for two-thirds of total urban PBB revenues) would be covered under the
Action Plan, the projected increases in revenue after 1990 are expected to
be even h,igher than 25% p.a.



- 12 -
advisors through the followi..g measures: (i) developing a property valua-
tion capabilAty in DGPajak; (ii) valuing individually about 10,000 top
value properties in 3 key cities (Jakarta, Bandung and Medan) and valuing
semi-individually about 50,000 high value properties in Jakarta, by means
of contractors, and upgrading the index-based mass assessment system for
other urban properties during 1987-89; and (iii) improving tax management
and administration through updating of registers, computerization of bil-
lings, and improved collections and appeals procedures (details are given
in Annex 4);
(b) improvements in water enterprise cost recovery and management
through measures being taken by DGCK and DGPUOD (Annex 5) aimed at: (i)
implementation in all water enterprises, commencing in Java, of the
nationally prescribed water tariff structure and an appropriate level of
tariff to ensure  -inancial viability; as well as the nationally pres-
cribed water enterprise accounting system with the assistance of local
consultants; (ii) implementation of provincial monitoring and develop-
ment units (as recently established in East and West Java) in the provi-
nce of Central Java with the assistance of foreign and local consu-
ltants; and (iii) reviewing optimal water enterprise organization arran-
gements for all provinces (with the assistance of foreign and local
consultants to be funded from the Second East Java Water Supply Project--
Loan 2632-IND), and implementation of appropriate arrangements according
to schedules to be discussed with the Bank; and
(c) improvements in Level I and II taxes and charges through: (i)
recommendations by Directorate General of Domestic Monetary Affairs
(DGMDN) for legislation to reform and simplify the structure of local
taxes and charges; and (ii) evaluation and extension of improvements in
local tax and service charge administration by MHA (DGPUOD) including
reorganization of the local tax offices and related changes in the
Manual for Revenue Administration with the assistance of foreign and
local consultants (Annex 6).
27. Sector Financing. The Action Plan focusses on the following key
steps in the area of urban infrastructure financing mechanisms:
(a) DGMDN would design and implement an operational consolidated loan
fund (called Regional Development Account--RDA), (with the assistance of
foreign and local consultants to be funded in part by UNDP) which would
become the central source of loans to local governments and their enter-
prises covering the whole range of urban infrastructure services, lending
at consistent positive interest rates, and applying rigorous appraisal
standards and criteria; specific actions would include: (i) consolidating
existing domestic loan schemes into the recently established Regional
Development Account (RDA) and reviewing disbursements r.nd commitments to
local governments and enterprises under the existing schemes; (ii) estab-
lishing realistic lending terms, and revising the current Level II debt
service ratio regulations for local governments; and (iii) establishing
operational procedures, appraisal and eligibility criteria, and accoun-
ting systems, and training of staff to enable the RDA to operate as a
loan fund (Annex 7).



- 13 -
(b) TK would review the existing grant system and develop im-
proved grant allocation criteria and guidelines including: (i) as an
initial step, review the recommendations of the ongoing study of the
INPRES program and submit specific grant reform proposals ror ministe-
rial review and decision; and (ii) for the longer term, formulate,
review and submit to Parliament comprehensive legislative and regula-
tory proposals for a streamlined grant system designed to provide local
governments wich fiscal resources commensurate with their assigned
functions, equalizing revenue capacity among local governments, and
providing ince..tives for local resource mobilization (Annex 8).
(c) improve local government Information systems (Annex 9) with the
assistance of consultants including: (i) agreement between Buro Pusat
Statistik' (BPS), MOF and MHA on respective institutional roles; (ii)
design and implementation of new financial and demographic information
systems; and (iii) strengthening of the MHA's Directorate General
Agraria's urban mapping program in dissemination of map sheets to users
and to provide line maps to DGPajak for PBB purposes.
28. Planning and Programming. The Action Plan addresses a number of tasks
essential to the strengthening of planning and programming of urban infrastru-
cture expenditures in the near and medium-terms (as described in Annex 10).
Technical assistance will be provided to various MPW agencies to help address
the following:
(a) the institutionalization of the IUIDP process in the core agencies
represented in TK (i.e. BAPPENAS. MOF, MPW and MHA) and in regional
levels of government and their enterprises for urban infrastructure
sectors including water supply (raw and treated), flood control and
drainage, human and solid waste management, kampung improvement, and
urban roads;
(b) the setting of policy guidelines by TK (para 22j (with the
abovementioned assistance of MPW line agencies and the.r consultants)
for medium-term planning criteria relating to flnctional and financial
responsibility, levels of service and O&M, cost sharing and financing,
technical standards, project appraisal standards and criteria, and
organizational arrangements;
(c) the development of a medium-term five-year expenditure program for
the sector by the MPW agencies, which indicates institutional arrange-
ments, investment priorities for the sector, balances among subsector
investments and O&M, and sources of finance.
29. Institutional Development. The Action Plan would address:
(i) local government institution and manpower development planning for the
sector through a study to be carried out by MHA and the Civil Service
Administration Agency with the assistance of foreign and local concultants
of sectoral manpower needs in the context of present staffing and training
resources, and service conditions (Annex 11), and (ii) a review of DGCK's
capacity to provide technical assistance to local governments.



- 14 -
30.  TraininR  The project would support training in three important areas
of support to the Action Plan (Annex 12), as follows:
(a) property valuer training through a wide range of valuer education
including: (i) three-year scholarships at overseas universities for
professional valuation degree qualification; (ii) three-month courses
for valuer technicians at the Malaysian Government's National Institute;
and (iii) in-house block courses and in-service training conducted by
Indonesian private sector valuers and Directorate PBB's training unit;
(b) integrated infrastructure programming training by DGCK through exte-
nsion of ongoing EDI/IHS(Netherlands)-supported, IUIDP-training manage-
ment and pilot training project (financed in part from Loan 2258-IND)
into four regional centers to be equipped to train local authorities of
varying capacities in: (i) strategic urban infrastructure planning and
resource mobilization; (ii) program and project management; and (iii)
project preparation, implementation, O&M; and
(c) urban planning training by DGCK's Directorate of City and Regional
Planning through development of materials, curricula and regional trai-
ning centers for training of, inter alia, physical planning support
staff in all provinces, in the provision of development planning and
regulation advice to local governments.
Technical Assistance
31. To support the Action Plan through advisory and implementation assista-
nce, and policy-related studies, as described above, the project would in-
clude technical assistance totalling about 80 manyears of foreign and 135
manyears of local consultants, in accordance with agreed terms-of-reference
(as summarized in Annex 3), confirmed at negotiations. Major tasks would be:
(a) support of the property tax improvement program (para 26); (b) est:ablis-
hinent of the RDA (para 27); (c) assistance to TK in formulation of sector
policy guidelines (para 28); and (d) preparation of a manpower development
plan (para 29). Work on the Action Plan has already begun and preparation
for all forthcoming measures ic quite advanced (e.g., terms of reference have
been agreed for all major technical assistance tasks and recruitment is under
way in several cases).  Tefchnical assistance for detailed engineering and
construction supervision of the p'.ogriimmed expenditures is already in place
under existing donor commitments and locally-funded assignments.
Cost Estimates
32. The total cost of the project as shown in Table 1 below is estimated to
be about hp 1660 billion (US$1006 million equivalent) including estimated
direct and indirect foreign exchange costs equivalent to Rp 660 billion
(US$400 million) or 40% of total, and estimated taxes equivalent to about Rp
70 billion (US$43 million). Base costs are estimated as of February 1987.
In view of the programmatic nature of the ongoing expenditures and shortness
of the time-slice, no physical contingency allowance is considered necessa-
ry. Price contingencies have been estimated on the basis of the following
expected inflation factors -- for foreign costs: 3% in 1987 and 1% p.a.



- 15 -
thereafter; and for domestic costs: 10% in 1987, 5% in 1988 and 3.5% p.a.
thereafter -- and are equivalent to Rp 63 billion (US$38 million) or 4% of
total. Details of subsector program costs are given in Annex 2. Technical
assistance and training base costs for (a) PBB improvements (Part Bl of the
project -- Annex 4) are estimated to be about RplO.4 billion (US$6.3 mil-
lion), and (b) Action Plan implemenLtation (Part B2) about Rp27 billion
(US$17 million).
Table 1: PROJECT COSTS
Total    Local   Foreign        X      Total    Local   Foreign         X
Component                                   --- US$ million ------  foreign ------- Rp billion ------   total
Part A - Sector expenditure program:
Development expenditures:                  739.9    432.8    307.1        41.5X  1220.8    714.1    506.7         76.5%
Water supply                            301.4    181.6    119.8       39.72   497.2    299.6    197.6         31.1%
Severage and sanitation                  31.0      17.2     13.8      44.5X     51.2      28.4      22.8       3.2%
Drainage and flood protection           168.3    119.2      49.1      29.2X   277.7    196.7        81.0      17.4%
Solid waste managemnt                    21.9       5.1     16.8      76.72    36.1        8.4      27.7       2.3X
Kampung Improvement Program              52.8      42.5      10.3      19.52    87.1       70.1      17.0       5.5%
Roads                                   113.8      52.3      61.5     54.12   187.7       86.2    101.5       11.8%
Engineering/supervision                  50.8      14.9      35.9     70.6%    83.8       24.6      59.2       5.2X
Operation and maintenance                  186.7    134.0       52.6      28.22   308.0    221.1        86.9      19.3%
Part B - Action Plan Support:
3l - Property tax improvement:              24.6       2.4      22.3      90.72    40.6        4.0      36.8       2.5%
Advlsers                                  2.7       0.0       2.7    100.0%       4.5       0.0       4.5      0.3%
Contract valuations                      17.6       1.0      16.6     94.3X     29.0        1.7     27.4        1.8%
Training and equipment                    4.3       1.4       3.0     69.82       7.1       2.3      5.0        0.4%
32 - Technical assistance/training:         16.6       7.6       8.9      53.62    27.4       12.5      14.7       1.7%
Local resource mobilization               3.1       2.4      0.6      19.42      5.1        4.0       1.0      0.3%
Sector financing                          1.5       0.3       1.2     80.0%      2.5       0.5       2.0       0.2%
Planning and progra-ing                   6.1       2.5       3.6     59.0%    10.1        4.1        5.9      0.6%
Institutional/manpower developmnt         1.0      0.5       0.5      50.02      1.7       0.8       0.8       0.1%
Training                                  4.9       1.9       3.0     61.22      8.1        3.1       5.0      0.5%
Total base cost (Feb. 1987)                967.7    576.8    390.9        40.4X  1596.7    951.7    645.0    100.0X
Price contingencies                         38.1      30.7       7.4      19.4X     62.9      50.7.    12.2        3.9%
rotal project cost la                     1005.8    607.5    398.3        39.6X  1659.6   1002.4    657.2    103.9%
/a  Including identifiable taxes estimated at  $43.32 million
Financing Plan
33. The project financing plan is shown 'n Table 2 below. The Bank loan
would finance (a) the equivalent of 25% of the total agreed expenditure
program costs net of tax, and (b) 100% of the net costs of contract valua-
tions, technical assistance and training in support of the PBB component and
Action Plan (excluding vehicles amounting to about Rp 0.5 billion, which
would be considered reserve procurement). Based on the agreed total 2-year
sector expenditures and technical assistance program, the Bank Loan is
estimated to be US$270 million. This amount has been derived after fully
taking into account existing donor commitments (amounting to 31% of program
funding), as well as those provided so far in principle (1%), including the
Bank's.  Such commitments tof-ther with the proposed loan would finance



- 16 -
about 58% of the total project cost. Due to their minimal impact on program
funding, the commitments yet to be confirmed do not constitute a serious
risk to the program objectives if delayed. Because the time slice to be
financed commences with GOI's fiscal year FY87/88, retroactive financing not
exceeding US$27 million equivalent would be provided for expenditures incurred
after March 31, 1987 and before loan signing. Local contributions for urban-
related programs would be financed by (a) the development budgets (DIPs) of
the Ministry of Public Works; (b) loans (PDNs) to be provided to local gover-
nments by the Ministry of Finance for urban infrastructure; (c) urban-related
components of central government grant (INPRES) programs for local government;
and (d) local government budgets.
Table 9 - FINANCING PLAN
Source                       Local      Foreign   Total
-US$ million ------
GOI                          426.9                426.9
IBRD                          41.6      228.4     270.0
Other external finance!a    139.0       169.9     308.9
Total                      607.5      398.3    1005.8
!a existing commitments including ongoing Bank loans
Implementation Arrangements
34.  Project Management.  The project would be executed by the Ministries of
Public Works, Finance and Home Affairs guided through an interagency steering
committee (Tim Koordinasi or TK). The TK executive secretariate would be
responsible for: (a) monitoring and coordinating the following: (i) implemen-
tation of the Action Plan, and (ii) the diverse project management and accoun-
ting activities; and (b) preparing reports on these matters and on compliance
with covenants ir, the Loan Agreement. Execution of the expenditure program
would be the responsibility of MPW's DGCK, DGBM and DGWRD; MHA's DG Agraria,
and the Level I and II local governments under the supervision of M&9.
35. Responsibility for implementation of the Action Plan would fall to
several agencies, namely:
(a) MOF's DGPajak would be responsible for the PBB improvement program
(paras 26(a) and 30); and DGMDN would be responsible for (i) the local
tax law reform program and RDA development (paras 26(c) and 27(a));
and (ii) improvement in local governmenat information systems (para
27(c)) through a working group consisting of Buro Pusat Statistik,
DGCK, DG Agraria and DGPUOD;
(b) MHA's DGPUOD would be responsible for improvement of local tax and
charge administration (para 26(c)) and jointly with DGBangda for the
institutionalization of IUIDP (Annex 10); DG Agraria would be responsible
for tax mapping (para 27(c)); and the Secretary General's Office (Plan-
ning Division) together with the CivLl Service Administration Agency



- 17 -
for the urban institution and manpower development study (para 29);
(c) MPW's DGCK would be responsible fcr the improvements i-. water enter-
prise cost recovery and management together with MHA's DGPUOD (para
26(b)), and for IUIDP and urban planning training; the Secretary Gene-
ral's Office for IUIDP institutionalization (Annex 10); and DGBM together
with the Ministry of Communication's Directorate General Land Transport,
for traffic management institutional responsibilities (Annex 2) and
(d) BAPPENAS through TK would be responsible for and improvements in
sector planning and programming policies and procedures, and five-year
expenditure plan preparation (para 28) with working groups comprising
MOF, MPW and MHA representatives.
36. Confirmation was obtained at negotiations that the foregoing arrangements
have been made, and that agency project managers (APMs) have been appointed in
MPW's Seretary General's Office, DGCK, DGWRD, and DGBM; MOF's DGPajak, DGMLN,
DGMDN and DGBudget; and MHA's Secretary General's Office, DGPUOD, DGBangda and
DGAgraria; Bank Indonesia and Central Bureau of Statistics. To provide over-
all coordination, a full-time Project Management Unit (PMU) has been estab-
lished within the IK Executive Secretariate. The Project Manager is a Vice-
Executive Secretary of the Executive Secretariate. Specific responsibilities
of the PMU are to: (a) monitor and coordinate overall progress and disburse-
ment of the Bank loan; (b) report quarterly to TK and the Bank on the status
and progress; (c) raise issues needing attention to TK and suggest potential
solutions; (d) arrange for timely audits of project accounts and disbursement
Statements of Expenditures; and (e) prepare the project completion report.  To
assist the Executive Secretariate, technical assistance would be provided
under the loan for consultant support for (i) monitoring and reporting on the
expenditure program, loan disbursements and auditing; and (ii) monitoring of
the Action Plan and provision of policy advice and analysis on issues to be
addressed by TK and its Working Groups (Annex 3).
37. Expenditure Program Monitoring. The quarterly reports on the expendi-
ture program would provide the following information: (a) for DIP funding:
actual expenditures (SPMs) made to date, by agency and program; (b) for
INPRES funding (Level II and Jalan): (i) authorized budget allocation, and
(ii) actual expenditures made to date, by Province and Level II authority;
and (c) for PDNs: (i) commitments to date, and (ii) disbursements to
date, by borrower (Orders to Pay from DGMDN similar to SPM). Bank supervi-
sion of the expenditure program implementatior would be carried out selecti-
vely in conjunction with reviews of related existing Bank-assisted project
and consultation with other donors involved in the expenditure program.
38. Procurement Arrangements. The loan proceeds would be used to finance
procurement in the following four areas:
(a) Specific investments in the GOI's urban infrastructure expenditure
program totalling about US$450 million equivalent (for which the loan
would provide US$158 million equivalent), which consist mainly of small
civil works to be implemented in 2,000-3,000 contracts (each valued at
less than US$500,000 equivalent) throughout Indonesia in about 300



- 18 -
local authorities, and which would be procured following local proce-
dures which have been reviewed and are satisfactory to the Bank. The
remainder of the agreed expenditure program (approximately 53% of the
total including almost all direct foreign exchange requirements of the
program) is subject to commitments under existing agreements with several
multilateral and bilateral donors, including the Bank. Procurement under
those commitments will follow a mixture of international and local compe-
tetive bidding procedures in accordance with the respective agreements.
(b) Property valuation services totalling about US$18 million equiva-
lent (to be funded entirely by the loan) consisting of contracts (each
expected to be less than US$1 million in value) for property valuations
would be procured following the above-mentioned local procurement pro-
cedures.
(c) Consulting services in support of the Action Plan, training and
project management totalling about US$24.5 million (loan amount US$24
million equivalent) would be procured in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines.
(d) Imports required during the project period (para 41), not exceeding
US$70 million equivalent (to be funded entirely by the loan) consisting
of goods conforming to a positive list of imports broadly-related to
the sector (Annex 14) would be procured following commercial procure-
ment practices acceptable to the Bank in contracts valued at not less
than US$50,000 equivalent.
39. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that contracts exceeding US$5
million equivalent each, if any, would be procured through international
competetive bidding procedures in accordance with Bank Guidelines. With the
exception of contracts procured through ICB, all GOI bidding and contract
documentation would be retained by the agencies concerned for selective post-
award reviews by the Bank. ICB documents in respect of contracts funded from
the lcan proceeds would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
4C. Disbursement Arrangements. Disbursements would be mada against eligible
expenditures on (a) civil works, minor equipment and related services funded
through specific GOI national budget channels during GOI's FY87/88 and
Ff88/89 as follows: (i) 91% of local expenditures and 100% of foreign expen-
ditures under MPW's DIPs for urban-related development programs; (ii) 20% of
INPRES Level II and INPRES Jalan expenditures; and (iii) 80% of MOF's eligib-
le domestic loan (PDN) disbursements; (b) 100% of certified C&F expenditures
against sector-related imports up to a limit of US$70 million equivalent; and
(c) 100% of agreed technical assistance and valuation services expenditures
in support of the Action Plan. Expenditures in respect of land, as well as
goods, works and services procured under (i) existing donor commitments, and
(ii) by local governments using their own revenues (other than INPRES) would



- 19 -
not be eligible for disbursement under the loan /6. Disbursement against
civil works expenditures during GOI's FY88/89 would be conditional on confir-
mation of an agreed sector expenditure program for that period (para 20).
41. In order to simplify disbursement administration because of the
widespread dispersion of the works and the variety of funding channels, GOI
has agreed to establish a special account in Bank Indonesia to be maintained
by DGBudget's Directorate of Budget Administration, and to introduce new
procedures for speedier, centralized processing of disbursements and
withdrawals/i. The Special Account would make (a) direct payments against
Orders to Pay issued by the MOF in respect of expenditures designated for Bank
funding, and (b) reimburse GOI for other, mainly small, eligible expenditures
which it typically prefinances at the local level. In bot1h cases the
appropriate documentation in respect of all eligible expenditures, for the
purposes of Special Account withdrawals and replenishments, is conveniently
available centrally (in the MOF's DGBudget in the case of DIP and PDN funding
and Bank Rakyat Indonesia in the case of INPRES funding).  Replenishments of
the Special Account would be based on Statements of Expenditure (SOE)
reflecting disbursements from the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
The DGBudget would create a disbursement processing unit to manage the Sperial
Account and process withdrawals. Details of the new procedures and
arrangements are given in Annex 14.
42. Because of the need to avoid (i) the potential risk of funding ineligible
or non-urban related expenditures, (ii) becoming directly involved in
/6 Almost all ongoing donor funding is linked, in accordance with GOI
budgetary practice, to earmarked DIP expenditures. The documentation routi-
nely submitted to DGBudget, supporting the payment requests and/or receipts
for the various expenditures financed through DIP channels would indicate
related external donor funding, if any, Lncluding the proposed loan. Such
documentation relating to donor commitments other than the proposed loan
would not be acceptable for disbursement from the Special Account (para 40).
The proportions of expenditures to be financed under the eligible INPRES
programs and PDN loans have been selected conservatively to take into ac-
count non-urban programs, land, taxes, and the limited remainder of donor
funding reflected in these programs. These arrangements, in conjunction
with the auditing of project accounts, are expected to avoid any significant
possibility of double financing. Since the documentation of local govern-
ment-financed expenditures other than INPRES (which is monitored by Bank
Rakyat Indonesia) is not available centrally, the exclusion of such expendi-
tures other than INPRES for disbursement purposes, is made in order to avoid
the difficulty in establishment aind administration of a nationwide loan
withdrawal system for the 300 local governments concerned.
/7. The proposed procedures and Special Account are expected to shorten
disbursement cycle times significantly; currently the gap between an expen-
diture and its corresponding disbursement is about 6 months. In recent
montns GOI has had to maintain its foreign-loan prefinancing fund at a level
of about Rp 300 billion to cover the gap.  If successful, the procedures may
be applied to existing and future Bank loans.



- 20 -
cofinancing of ongoing donor-funded contracts, and (iii) the establishment
of a withdrawal system for the multiplicity of O&M and minor works expen-
diLures financed by the 300 local governments, it is estimated that only
about 75% of the loan would be disbursable through the Special Account.
Moreover, as with any major procedural change, the Special Account and
associated procedures will take some time to reach full operation. In order
to avoid heavy reliance on scarce GOI prefinancing funds in the meantime
thterefore and to facilitate disbursement, up to US$70 million or 25% of the
total loan proceeds would be disbursed to GOI against Statoments of Expendi-
tures on a positive list of imports that would be broadly sector related.
Documentation of import expenditures would be prepared by GOI's customs sur-
veyors, Societe General de Surveillance (Annex 14), and provided to Bank Indo-
nesia for withdrawal purposes. Expenditures in respect of the following would
not be eligible: (a) goods not listed (see Annex 14, Attachment 3 for lis-
ting); (b) goods from countries other than Bank member countries, Switzerland
and Taiwan, China; (c) goods procured under contracts costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent; and (d) goods procured under existing donor commitments.
43. Confirmation was obtained at negotiations that GOI has made satisfactory
arrangements for: (a) establishment of a Special Account in Bank IndonLesia to
be administered by the MOF for disbursement of Bank loan funds based on
eligible DIP, PDN, and INPRES expenditures; (b) procedures for operating,
accounting and auditing the Special Account; (c) procedures whereby DGBudget
will prepare loan withdrawal applications on basis of SOEs in respect of such
disbursements in order to replenish the Special Account; and (d) a mechanism
for disbursement of a portion of the Bank loan against a positive list of
imports. t.s a condition of effectiveness, MOF would establish the Special
Account in Bank Indonesia.
44.  Disbursement is expected to be completed in three years.  Loan closure
would be scheduled for March 31, 1990. The disbursement period is based
upon the program time-slice to be financed as there is no exact precedent
for this type of operation in the Region.
45. Accounting and Auditing. Project accounts would be maintained by
DGBudget in respect of program expenditures, and by the responsible agencies
in respect of technical assistance expenditures financed from loan proceeds
starting with accounts from COI's fiscal year ending March 31, 1987.  Spe-
cial Account records and SOE records for their respective withdrawal appli-
cations woi'Id be maintained by DGBudget and Bank Indonesia. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the project accounts, SOEs and the Special
Account would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and an
audit report furnished to the Bank within nine months of the close of each
fiscal year.
III. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Justification
46. The GGI's pngoing uroan infrastructure expenditure program for the
remainder of Repelita iV represents a reasonably composed program which
would produce high economic and social retur.:. Economic rates of return



21 -
(ERR) for sample subprojects in the program financed by the major donors
representing 30% of the investments, range from 11% to 41%. These calcula-
tions are not a complete measure of the ERR for investments and recurrent
expenditures in social services such as KIP, water supply and sanitation,
because they do not adequately account for all the benefits which would result
from the new systems. An economic analysis of the project as a whole is
further complicated by the large number of subsectors and projects represented
in th.e program. However, the justification of the project is not based on its
ERR but rather on the contribution it would make toward the provision of
uninterrupted and more efficient urban services and hence urban economic and
social development. On the basis of the above sample of projects, about one
half of the program beneficiaries would have incomes below the estimated urban
poverty threshold of US$230 per capita (1983 prices).  The program would
improve the health and environmental living conditions of the population,
through the provision of improved water supplies and water pullution control,
sewerage, drainage and solid waste services, roads, and slum upgrading, and is
expected to have a net positive environmental impact. The Action Plan would
promote better resource allocation in the future through improved planning and
prioriization of investments and O&M in urban areas, as well as help change
urban infrastructure financing arrangements leading to more effective provi-
sion of urban services.
Risks
47. In light of the Government's past lecord in responsible economic mana-
gement and demonstrated willingness to carry out difficult reforms, and in
view of the actions which have already taken place in the urban sector,
there is every reason to believe that GOI is fully committed to carry out
the necessary steps to bring about the desired changes in the sector. The
principal risks are (a) that the expenditure program may be implemented more
slowly than expected; and (b) that the implementation of the short-term
measures incorporated in the Action Plan may be prolonged by the difficul-
ties of policy and institutional change. The expenditure program has been
reviewed with particular reterence to absorptive capacity of the various
implementing agencies in order to minimize risk of delay.  Progress on the
Action Plan would be facilitated by consultant assistance and monitored
closely by the PCU. Project progress would be reviewed thoroughly at mid-
term to assess first year performance and confirm, inter alia, the second
year expenditure program. At that point actions to strengthen program
implementation or cancel unusable loan funds would be initiz .ed if necessary.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
48. During negotiations confirmation was obtained on the following:
(a) the final sector expenditure program composition and costs, and
quarterly sector expenditure and budget release schedules for FY87/88
(para 20);
(b) Tim Koordinasi would prepare and carry out an annual review with the
Bank of the sector expenditure program (para 23),



- 22 -
(c) that GOI would carry out the agreed Statement of Policies for Urban
Development and Action Plan, and review annually with the Bank progress
on implementation of the measures included in the Action Plan (para 25);
(d) terms of reference and short-lists for all technical assistance and
training required in support of the Action Plan (para 31) and project
management (para 36);
(e) arrangements for project management and coordination (para 36);
(f) administration of the Special Account, SOE withdrawal procedures,
and disbursement procedures for imports-based expenditures (para 43);
and
(g) project auditing arrangements (para 45).
49. As conditions of effectiveness:
(a) the GOI's authorized budget for Fiscal Year 1987/1988 would include
allocations for the urban expenditure program accptable to the Bank (para
20); and
(b) GOI would establish the Special Account in Bank Indonesia (para 43).
50. As a condition of disbursement of the amount of Bank loan related to
the FY88/89 sector expenditure program GOI would provide the Bank with satis-
factory evidence that GOI's authorized budget for Fiscal Year 1988/1989
includes allocations for the urban expenditure program acceptable to the Bank
(para 20).
Recommendation
51. Subject to the above, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$270
million equivalent, for a term of 20 years including a grace period of five
years at the standard variable interet rate.  The Borrower will be the
Republic of Indonesia.



- 23 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
MINISTER OF PLANNING/CHAIRMAN
OF THE NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLANNING AGENCY (BAPPENAS)
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
No.: 1458/K/4/1987                              Jakarta, April 11, 1987
Mr. Attila Karaosmanoglu
Vice President
East Asia & Pacific Regioral Office
World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C.
Dear Mr. Karaosmanoglu,
As you are aware, the Government of The Republic of
Indonesia has negotiated with the World Bank a loan to support Urban
Sector Investments in Indonesia during our fiscal years 1987/88 and
1988/89.
The Government understands that the Bank is prepared to make
this loan, inter alia, because it has reviewed and supports the
policies  and programs  of the Government  in this sector.   The
Government has, therefore, agreed to provide a summary of its policies
for the Urban Sector together with its action plans.   It is my
pleasure to convey with this letter the Lequested Statement of Policy
and Action Plan.
Yours sincerely,
(signed)
J.B. Sumarlin
Minister of National Development
Planning/Chairman of Bappenas



-24 -                                 ANNEX I
Page 2
GOVFR',EINT OF INDONESIA
Statement of Policies for Urban Development In Indonesia l-
A.   Definition
Local governments refer to the Special Region of Jakarta (DKI), all
urban Level II Governments, and any form of local administration that may be
designated for contiguous urban areas.
B.   Introduction
Among the many development activities which will be continued,
expanded and improved in the Fourth Five-year Development Plan (Repelita IV),
are construction and maintenance related to urban development, particularly
that of urban infrastructure. This is considered important not only because
of the rapid growth of Indonesian cities due to natural increase in the
population and rural-urban migration, but also because of expectations and
demands of the urban population and industries.
Based on moderate assumptions, it is expected that the urban popula-
tion will have increased from around 33 million (22% of total population) in
1980 to 76 million (36% of total population) by the year 2000, with the urban
growth rate of 4.3% per annum while the average annual growth rate of the
total population is projected at only 1.8-1.9%. This also implies that about
two thirds of the total !.980-2000 population growth, or some 2.2 million
people per year on average, will accrue to urban areas.
Considering the projections above, it becomes clear that policies
need to be continuously developed in order to better manage the growth of
Indonesian cities so as to achieve an appropriate balance between growth and
overall socio-economic development of the population, both between and within
the cities themselves, and in the most efficient and equitable manner.
In this connection, a variety of measures are being implemented to
upgrade government capabilities, especially at the Regional (Local) levels, to
plan, implement and manage programs providing necessary urban infrastructure
such as clean water supply, sanitation, drainage, roads, kampung improvement,
garbage disposal, fire protection, market facilities and several others.
From Repelita I (1969-74) to the present, numerous efforts of the
Central Government have been made to address the needs of urban residents for
social and economic infrastructure, by means of extensive assistance from the
Central Government and from the Local Governments' own resources, with the
participation of the local community. Total annual expenditures on urban
~./  Version dated March 25, 1987 referred to in Minister of National
Development Planning/Chairman of 2appenas' letter of April 11, 1987, as
agreed at negotiations.



- 25 -                                ANNEX I
Page 3
infrastructure have grown in nominal terms from about Rp 6 billion in 1969/70
to about Rp 360 billion in 1985/86.
Nevertheless, due to constraints in available financial and manpower
resources, and due to the rise Li demand for urban services as a function of
population and socio-economic growth, the results of development carried out
so far have not been sufficient to meet the needs. It is estimated, for
example,that at the end of Repelita III (1983) about 60% of the urban popula-
tion did not have access to clean piped water, while about 80% did not have
adequate sanitation for disposal of household and human waste. It was
estimated at the beginning of Repelita IV that development and recurrent
expenditures totaling some Rp 900 billion per year, on average, would be
necessary to provide a basic level of infrastructure services to the urban
population during Repelita IV.
In line with the Basic Guidelines of State Policies (GBHN),
especially in Repelita IV, all relevant efforts have been further increased to
obtain the necessary resources and apply themii efficiently and equitably,
including the assessment and adjustment, as appropriate, of the Government's
policies applicable to urban infrastructure development, with particular
reference to: (a) functonal and financial roles, mechanisms and responsibi-
lities for infrastructure provision and maintenance; (b) local resource
mobilization; (c) efficient resource usage; and (d) institutional
capabilities.
The goals expected to be achieved over the next five to ten years
through these efforts include (a) effective decentralization of urban infra-
structure planning, implementation and operation; (b) the strengthening of
Local Government's responsibility for financing urban infrastructure; and
(c) the strengthening of Local Government's capabilities to carry out these
responsibilities. To date such initiatives include the application of an
integaated approach to urban infrastructure development programming (IUIDP),
which has as basic principles: (i) functional decentralization and/or decon-
centration of planning and program development, (ii) integration of physical
programs, and (iii) integration of financial resources between Central and
Local Governments. In this context, a very important initiative includes the
efforts to increase the revenues of Local Governments, among others, by
establishing a property tax (PBB) as a replacement of IPEDA. All these
initiatives will be continued and expanded in the context of the following
policies and related objectives.
C.   Policies and Objectives
Within the context of the considerations introduced above and the
need to expand the provision of urban infrastructure and increase the
ttichrnical, financial and institutional capabilities of Local. Governments, the
Government reaffirmed the following established policies related to urban
infrastructure development:
Policy 1: Development of urban infrastructure and the operation and
maintenance thereof, in principle, is within the authority and responsibility
of the Local Governments, with the assistance and guidance of the Provincial
(Level I) and Central Governments.



- 26 -                               ANNEX I
Page 4
Objectives:
(a)  Provision of urban infrastructure and services will continue to be a
cooperative effort of all levels of government, with the goal of
Local Governments eventually taking the leading role in urban
development programs, while ultinotely the role of Central
Government will be mainly to pro'ide technical guidance.
(b)  Local Government institutions will continue to be strengthened
especially the agencies which will be responsible for urban services
and urban infrastructure development in accordance w:th their
authority and responsibility.
(c)  Urban infrastructure definitions and classifications in all subsec-
tors will be reviewed in order to define appropriate functional and
financial responsibilities of Central, Provincial and Local Govern-
ments in its planning, implementation, operation and maintenance.
Policy 2: Planning, programming and identification of investment priorities
by all levels of Government for urban development will continue to be improved
by means of a decentralized and integrated approach which, among others, has
already started through the "Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development
Programming" (IUIDP/P3KT) system.
Objectives:
(a)  Local Governments will prepare plans for its overall investment and
recurrent needs for urban infrastructure development on the basis of
technical guidelines issued from time to time by Central Government;
these plans will be evaluated by Provincial (Level I) and Central
Governments in order to provide required financial support and
technical aasistance.
(b)  The financial support and technical assistance of Central Government
to Local Governments for the purpose of urban infrastructure
development will be related to the varying levels of local
capability and the relative priority of urban infrastructure
needs. These positions will be established on the basis of the
respective Provincial (Level I) and Local Governments development
programs and related budgetary resources (APBD).
(c)  In setting expenditure priorities, emphasis will continue to be
given to the effective operation and maintenance needs of the
existing urban infrastructure, including rehabilitation, with
particular attention to reducing water losses, improving solid waste
collection and human waste disposal, maintaining access and reducing
flooding. Infrastructure improvements benefiting the lower income
population would also continue to receive priority.
Policy 3: In order to develop Local Government responsibility for providing
urban infrastructure services, there will be further strengthening of the
Local Government's capability to mobilize resources and optimize the use of
funds.



- 27 -                                ANNEX I
Page 5
Objectives:
(a) In the context of the foregoing, systems, administration, procedures
and mechanisms will be continuously improved for all sources of
local revenue, in particular:
(i) in view of the importance of assigning property tax (PBB)
revenues for Local Governments, the PBB law will be fully
implemented and its administration upgraded, including
adjustment of the prescribed assessment ratio as may be
aopropriate from time to time, in order to expand revenues from
this source;
(ii)  taxes levied by Local Governments will be assessed in order to
improve administration of the more productive taxes;
(iii)  service charges collected by Local Governments and their
enterprises will be adjusted to cover the cost of the services
concerned in accordance with Central Government policy where
applicable.
(b)  Improvement will be made in the management and supervision systems
of local government enterprises responsible for urban infrastructure
3ervices (PDAMs, market authorities, sanitation units, parking
administrations, etc.) by making improvements and adjustments in
regulations and through manpower development in order that such
enterprises can be managed more effectively and efficiently.
(c)  Improved financial management capability will be established
particularly in the areas of capital budgeting, accounting,
information management, control and auditing in Local Governments.
(d)  Local Government fiscal trends and performance will be monitored
through an information system to be established and updated
regularly.
Policy 4: In accordance with the principles of decentralization of urban
infrastructure responsibilities, the Government will, in addition to the
measures described under poilcy 3, endeavor to improve the financing system
for urban infrastructure systems. The purpose of the improvements would be
to: (i) strengthen Central-Local Government borrowing scheme for Local
Government urban infrastructure investment needs and (ii) provide incentives
for local resource mobilization and borrowing.
Objectives:
(a)  Proceeds of foreign loans and funds available from appropriate
domestic sources will be consolidated ana channeled in the form of
loans or other forms to Local Governments or local urban services
enterprises according to their ability to repay the loan and the
financial/economic viability of the projects. In the long term, the
possibility is not excluded that this source may be used to finance
other sectors of the overall local development program.



-28 -                                 AMN=X I
Page 6
(b)  To endeavor that Central-Local development grant funds are allocated
and used more efficiently, allocation criteria will be improved. To
provide incentives to Local Governments for local revenue generation
and borrowing, improved criteria will also be developed for
resources allocation.
Policy 5: The capability of Provincial (Level I) and Local Governments' staff
and institutions to execute urban development activities more effectively in
the context of strengthening their roles and responsibilities will be enhanced
by institutional development procedural improvement, where appropriate, as
well as training to be provided by means of a coordinated program of local
government manpower development.
Objectives:
(a)  An overall assessment of Local. Government manpower and training
needs, with special emphasis on urban managers, will be conducted
which will be used as a basis for preparing coordinated long-term
manpower planning and training programs for all urban governmental
units.
gb)  Emphasis will be given to raising the capabilities of urban develop-
ment staff and institutions, as immediate priorities, in the areas
of:
(1) local revenue administration, especially registration,
assessment and collection;
(ii) planning and preparation of urban investment programs, project
implementation and supervision; and
(iii) operation and maintenance, in order to carry out immediate
rehabilitation of existing urban infrastructure, and to operate
and maintain it adequately.
(c)  Technical guidance will continue to be provided for all urban
government units in order to ensure successful implementation of the
program for integration of urban infrastructure development and
other programs requiring coordination.
Policy 6: Coordination and consultation between the various agencies and
levels of Government (Central, Provincial and Local) involved in the develop-
ment of urban infrastructure and services will continue to be strengthened for
the smooth implementation of development activities and to provide a mechanism
for review and formulation of future sector policy recommendations.



29 -                               ANNEX I
Page 7
Objectives:
(a) To facilitate urban infrastructure development activities and the
implementation of various measures intended to support the
achievement of the above mentioned objectives and to ensure
synchronization of planning, financing, and implementation of
various urban development investments, an inter-agency Coordination
Team for Urban Development will be established.
(b)  Particular attention w;1l be giveia to developing the institutional
structure, regulations and procedures necessary for the smooth flow
of information between agencies involved in the management and
development of urban infrastructure, and to developing capability to
support future urban development policy review and recommendations.
D.   Policy Action Plan
The policies and objectives for integrated urban development as
elaborated in this Statement of Poiicies for Urban Development in Indonesia
are further operationalized through the attached Action Plan which is to
become part of the formal agenda of the above-mentioned Coordination Team.
Jakarta, March 25, 1987



-           H
cn        I
I



INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Policy Action Plan /a
Key steos during project period
(04187-09189) (crucial steps
Policy area/objectives                     Medium-ter. goals                   Actions proposed                                    indicated by **)                  Timetable      Monitoring indicators
1.  Strengthen local government            1.01  Classify designated           Assign working group that would de-        ** Assign working group and provide            0#/87          Working group assigned
responsibility for urban Infrastruc-   utrban Infrastructure in all            fine classification policy (by Tim            TOR
ture development, operarion and            Kotanadyas and assign func-         Koordinast - TK); agencies te carry
maintenance:                               tional responsibilities            o0Jt classification (by OcaBM, DGWRI,       -  Formulete Urball services inven-            ;19/87         Functional classification
(1987-91)                           DG(K, oGPUI,O0)                               torv and classification policies                           guidelines
(c D Deftne nnd classify urban                                                                                           and workplan to address all
Infrastructure and assign                                                                                           Kotamadvas
tn,,ctlonal and ftinancial
responsibilities for plan-                                                                                      5* Complete surveys and classifica-            07/88          Agreed classification
ning, implementation. oper-                                                                                         tions in ten cities                                       maps -nd inventories
ation and atntenance to
central. Level I and Level                                                                                      -  Conctinue rolling program of clas-         commence        Agreed classification
11 governments                                                                                                      sification in remaining cities             07/88          maps and inventories
(Kotamadvas and urbanized
Kabupatens)
1.02  Define institutional,         Study and assign responsibilities          -  Define issuies and workplan for             06/87         Agreed workplan.
responsibilities for traffic        for traffic management and policy             resolution
management in urban areas           coordination (by OGBM, DGLT and
(1987-R9)                           DGPUOD)                                    -  Assitn working group                        10/87          Working Rroup assigned
Assign pbased responsibility to            03/89          !nstructions Issued
selected Level 1 citiles
1.03  Develop program respon-       Application of ll'IDP processes to         ** Issue directives to MPW agencies            08/87          Directives issued
sibilities tor local govern-        all urban infrastructure ser ices              to apply  IDIP Processes in urban
aents (IUIDP)                       including raw water supply, flood              tnstructure planning
Protection, urban roads, water sup-
ply and sanitation, solid waste nan-    ** Issue directives to Level I and               o)3/88         Directives issued
agement, drainage and KIP (by TK,             It local governments to adopt
MPW and MIA)                                  [IDIP process approved by TK
2.  Integr.ted expenditure planning        2.01  Develop and refine IUIDP    Develop guidelines for non-CIpta             -  Develop multivear program alter-            02/88          Projections issued
anl programming improvement                planning guidelines                 Karya subsectors within MPW as well            natives
as Cipta Karva subsectors andlse
(a )  local governments to pre-                                            updated guidelines for all subsec-         ** Issue annual updates of IIIIDP              09/8f         Guidelines issued
Pare investment plans on                                             tors from time to time, Including              guidelines
basis of guidelines from                                             multiyear financial information (by v
Centrai Government                                                   TK, MPW, MOF, KHA)
(b)  financial support of local
governments to be based on
local capabilities and
needs
(c)  emphasis to be given to O&M
provisiio.s and low-incom.~
group needs



A"~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~F . *. --1. ... .r:s .r..r,.r
ItI7-' 4I  t t          -1  I  I
I                                        e     -rei. .o:;                      Artit -.  rr'p'tscd                                         1:11  art-I  t: **)                   Tittab,e         Yonltririr indcT-at.-rs
I. Lt.             +            ... i-l ' . .   tr..-itnt *t r-  1$,!tl  julie  ierfl.-rncnt  l ilt rn,  !..............Irgr.r       c~e r.ttr;te- It- -rn ti    4f 'lte-    ** A:sit 'It i.lrtiavi,, jul......... 1:.i*-u  -ia nJe -  t'4 v7  P.dviSlbt  annt,inted
. ,U <    ' --     ifZ<t  1:l  *  n-h, is  lawr (I'i#B,-95)                         . rtv  Iont fi'B!i; tlrrctt.n!::rt.i. rltt.1         mXe:t lxicis.trs t: in,rcir-ve  '"hi -so-
taxz a-lrn in5vrair   il   tliuit e.i )             terns   - i uu tss   it !tvsall:sti.tti,
1 - .i!    , roil *r r.l-,  .r-tI                                                                                               -  t;.fle- in di veltta I IN        m ,1 x-natI       a/8Y           N--. ot properties valued
t I I .'   I 1,     *I ri tta'n-'                                                                                                      : top-va 1tse  trlper isi
lal triol anod two r.ther Oitit-
ITvl-i , y-t-rr -  ti  t                                            -                                                               lrt - sc,xi-indiilttal lv  5,''                   ;             'ino. of properties valued
. oItt rttrtr.es                                                                                                                   biel-ca,t- ortl)Xerrries  n  !Akf,krta
l s  Irnittlt-r     oil  .-'.veritrtt,tt                                                                                       -  I .pgrale Index valttatitin sv-tern                )9/87            No. of cities/areas/pro-
'Itt trw i-il tsartixt-x-t'nt *-tori-                                                                                              i.t ->tiler orsoin proxrtte-,                    oewards          nettleS classifted
hi lit It's
** T-rainine valtiers .ttd technicirans              i/87            No. of trained valuers
-twards          and technicians
impr-ve tax ad,rittistration                 (49/47-rih/89        (i) Property coverage;
thrt-ght updating  registers, c-rn-                               (ii) Billing and collec-
puteriatilon of hillint.s   nd  it-                               tion performance (revenue
prttv,mrents in c.llection and                                    growth)
anpeals procedures
1.02   Imprnove cost recoverv            Improve user tltargt-/r-ost recov.-rv            ** Analyze  -.st rec.tverv terf or-nattce            oQ/.7            Improvement action nlan
andt mb-a-ge-ert of all regi-nal    perform.aice of PDAMs i   .lava (by                       of all water enterrlIses sub)ct                                   recommendations
water enterprises (1987                    CCKj`/')CPl1iOD)                                   to SKII 4Jt4-27/KP`TS/R4 and idt-n-
onwards)                                                                                      tifv problem PDAMs
** Inpienent instructions cornencing               commence          No. of water enterprises  f
in  -ava and Sumatra  regarding the              08/87           c-rnpIvin-t
adoption of (1) Water Tariff                                                                      I
str,ucture and appropriate tariff
level to cover O&M costs, depre-
ciation  or debt service (which-
ever is larger) and (ii) at-count-
Ing system for water enterprises,
based on natisnal guidelines of
MPW,MRA
Assign water enterprise monittoring              -  Assi-in functions and provile bud-                12/87            PIrectives issued and
and development fun,ctionls to or.ovirn-            gets and staff to Central and                                     ,,nits onerattonal in Java
cial 9PUis throught,ut Indonesia  (bv               West .lava DPI s
DGCK / DlPl;D)
-  Appoint consultants  to (i) assIst               I2/87           Co,,ntract siened
fThus; and (ii) assist water
enter;risex
Review optimal water enterprise                  -  Formulation of 1'Dk                               18/87           Agreed TOR
organization arrangements for alt
pro.vinces hased on efficIenr   cri-             -  Appointment of consultants                        09/87           Contract extension  signed
teria  (h, TX, D(;MDN', OCPllr4, tlC:CK)
-  Complete review  of recomtewnda-                  t12/88          lava provinces structure
tions for initial implementatit)n                                 defined; implementation
in  Java                                                          timetable agreed
3.013  Improve revenue perfor-           Improve the struct,re of local  taxes            ** Prepare instruments required                      13j89           Instruments prepared    ,
-ance of local taxes and ser-            and charges (bv PGMVN/nGPlOD)
vice charges (i587 onwards)
Iniplemnentatin of local tax offi-ce           -   V.luate  Dilet tax office reform,                 1 2/87          Evaluation report
and procedure reform  (by DGPI'0D)                  in  !!rhan IV' (Loan 1972-IND)
cities
-  Appoint consultants to implem,,ent            i21/h7-'i6/89       Contract signed; collec-
tax office reform in selected                                     tions growth
cities and implement



Key Steps during project period
(04/87-09189) (crucial steps
Polic- area/objectives                       Medium-term  goals                   Actions proposed                                      indicated bv **)                   Timetable      Monitoring indicators
4.  l'sprove ftnacing  ysstems and          4.01  Provide a viable source         Establish a Central-Local Government    ** Assign consultants to review                      08/87          Consultants asstgned
mechanism for urhan infrastr.cture          of loan finance for local gov-    borrowing scheme (bv DtG;DN)                        policies for the recently estab-
and incentives for local resource           ernments (19R7 onwards)                  -                                            lished Regional nevelonment
mobiltzat on                                                                                                                      Account (RDA)
(a)  freAte a consolidated loan                                                                                           -  Consolidate existing domestic             A8/87-06/88        Consolidated loan *echoa-
run.- for local governments                                                                                              oan schemes and review (ii                                    ism policies defined-
commitments and disbursements to                            revised guidelines Irsaud
(h)  Improve gran.t al locatto.n                                                                                              tocal governments; (ti) lending                             if necessarv
criteria                                                                                                                terms and interest rates; and
(Iii) Level 11 debt service -atio
guidelines
-  Appoint consultants to assist in             113/P8         Contrazt signed
operationalizing RDA
-  Prepare operating procedures,             t4/88-03/8Q       ODerating and accounting
appr.isal and eligibility criter-                           manuals
ia, accountinF. system, and orga-
nization arrangements
-  Train staff and operationallze               04/q9          Staff tralned; RDA effee-
RDA                                                         tive 
4.02  Improve allocation mech-    Improve allocation criteria and                 ** Assign working grurp                          fl8/87         Working group assigned                  0
3nisms of grant finance              guidellnes for Central-Local grant
(1987-69)                            system (bV TK)                               -  Review recommendations of onpoing             02188          Working group report vith
Central-Local prant syitems                                 specific improvement pro-  k
posais
-  Prepare instruments required for            (03/89           Instruments Drepared
impr-ve.ents in Central-Local
fiscal relations
4.13  Improve information base    Improve local zovernment financial              -  Peach agreemenc between 3P, and               08/87          Agreement reacbed
for policy development and           and demographic information svstem              other agencies on institutional
oporational decisions on local    (by TK. 8PS/DGMIDNP)CPP01D and                      roles
governtent tinance                   DGAgraria)
-  Complete detailed information                1919t8         Tested svstem design
system design
-  Impl-nent svstem                             113939         Complete set of local
government revenue and
expendtture accounts ankd
Population data for
1 987/98
-  Reacticate arhac mapping users P)A/87                       Committee active
rommi tt ce and p:epare actioin pl-                                                     .5.
-  Appoint consultants to assi.t L              12/87          Contract signed
Agrar, a in line nap Droduction
for PBS Durg.ses
-  Produce hoc mans commen_cing WirIl           On'!8          Maps lelivered to DCPaJak
Java



Kev s!eps during' project period
(04/87-09189) (crucial steps
tl,iHc  arcafobjectives                      Nedium-ter. goals                    Actions proposed                                      indicated by **)                   Titetable      Monitoring indicators
S.  Inroyuv.- l-cal g  ..rlnment capa-      S.fii  Strengthen local govern-    Carry out a comprehen.ive stud,  ot              * A-s gn working group and prepare             '8/87          Agreed TOR
bi itieO                                    ment institutions responsible         urban institutional and manpower                terms of reference
for nrban intrastructure             developm-ent needs of local govern-
(a)  '-.vaiaro 1.. I governmnnt                                              ments (bv MHA and Clvil Service              *  Appoint consultants                           12t87          Sittned contract
aeeds, with particulrar em-                                             Administration Agency - RAKN)
ph-sis r,i u,rban managers                                                                                          -  Review recommendations with the               (5/89          Final report and agreed
and c.nipr-ate long-term                                                                                                Hank                                                        recommendations to be
LrAining~ PrgaMS                                                                                                                                                                    reviewed by TK
0)  R.aise staff caoab4lities in    5.(12  Strengthen management             Revlev coordination arrangements             -  T.su- directrves to D/s                       08/87          Instructions issued
local revepie   i        . .instra-  and staffing capabilities in       between MPW rGs in  lilO}P process (by
tifn-  ;planniov and p-ogram-    MPW XCs and Provincial Dinas           MPW SecJen)
,tinq, ind no-eattons and         PU, to provide guidance to
,,ti,teo,lnce                     local Fovernments (1987-89)           Identify staff skills, training and         -  Carry out intersil review of DrCCK             )4 /89        Assessment finalized
experience required to provide ade-             with assistance of managm-eo,t
1'r,oviAe  uiullance tn all                                             quate managerent, technlc l and fi-             consultants
g.nvenomeet units in coo,rdi-                                           nancial advice to local governments
oti in .of urban Aevelopment                                            (by YPW, KtA and MERPAN)
n.  Sirenithe-  c.-rlination and con-    6.01  Effective policy coordi-    Establishment of an interagency                     ** Issue Ministerial Decree (SK)               04/)1W87        Decree issued
.o,iltari1   i,a the arbjn development      nation in the urban sector and    coordinating team for urban develop-                establishing structure and
. -t.r                                      development of mechanisms to          ment and an executive secretariat               resources of KADiJPP
support urban policy review
,a)  .st.ihlish an interagency         and deciqion-aaking (IR97                                                          -  Assign standing working groups            As needed          Appointments made
coordinating team and ant         onwards)                                                                              inter alia for planning and Dro-
.xecutive secretariat                                                                                                   gramming. program implementation,
financial resources, and training 
(b)  Develop coordination                                                                                                    and institutional developament
arrangements and ahility to-
support future urban devel-    6.02  Evaluate existing uirban           Assign working group to guide                -  Draft work program and TORs for              08/87          Agreed vork nrozram
.pent policy reviev and          intfrastructure programs and          medium-term plannitn  and programming           agency activities and technical
recommendations                   prepare recomendations for            and assign support teams to respec-             assistance
medium-tert sector strategv           tive agencies as needed in policy
and Program structure, crite-        option formulation and recommenda-           ** Appoint consultants to respectivc             08/87          Contract signed
ria and targets, and                 tions (by TK)                                   agencies as needed                          onwards
institutional arrangements
(1987/88)                                                                         -  Conduct policy and technical op-          10/87-07/88        Working papers and recon-
tion analvses and formulate al-                            amendations to be reviewed
ternative scenario proposals and                            by TK
recommendations
-Issue guidance memorandum on se              -07188         Memorandum  tessue
lected strategy ved
Issue regulations and procedures            08/88           Guidelines issued         4;
for medium-term planning
-  Prepare medium-term 5-year plan              12/88          Medium-term plan endorsed
for sector                                                  by TK
/Ia  Version as attrched to the Scatement of Policies for lirSan Development in Indonesia, referred to in Minister of iational Development Planning/Chairman of BAPPENA'- letter of April 11, 1987.



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 14
INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Urban Infrastructure Expenditures 1979-89
1.   Comprehensive data on Indonesia's urban sector expenditures, comprising
capital investment and recurrent expenditures for raw and treated water
supply, sewerage and sanitation, flood protection and drainage, solid waste
management, KIP and roads for GOI FY1983/84 to 1988/89, have been assembled
by DG Cipta Karya (DGCK) for the first time /.  The expenditures include
investment and recurrent costs funded through (a) national budgets, i.e.,
(i) the development grant budgets (DIPs) of DGCK, DG Bina Marga (DGBM) and
DG Water Resources Development (DGWRD), including foreign loan funding; (ii)
domestic loans (PDN) provided by Ministry of Finance (MOF); and (iii) INPRES
grants (Dati I and II, and INPRES Jalan) administered by Ministry of Home
Affairs (MHA); and (b) the development and routine budgets of Levels I and
II local governments and their enterprises. The expenditures are summarized
in Table AO attached. Details of the expenditures by city size and by
subsector, and funding sources by agency are given in the attached tables
Al-A6. Expenditures from 1983/84 to 1985/86 are actuals; 1986/87 to 1988/89
are projected on the basis of the appraisal findings shown in Table 1 below.
A - Expenditure Trends and Patterns
2.   The COI's Repelita targets for national urban sector development pro-
grams are given in Attachment 1. Projections by Bank staff at the beginning
of Repelita IV suggested that an average level of expenditure of Rp 900
billion p.a. (in 1986 prices) would be appropriate to meet growth needs and
eliminate serious service backlogs at a level of basic needs. In real terms
however, the experience of the first three years, indicated a -9% decline
p.a. in real expenditures and no real growth to date over Repelita III
levels. In nominal. terms the expenditure program as su.pported by the pro-
posed loan will have grown at the equivalent of almost 19% p.a. on average,
from a level of Rp 325 billion per year to Rp 765 billion per year in the
period between the end of Repelita III and end of Repelita IV. Notwith-
standing the acceleration during the last two years of the Repelita due to
the project, the program would still fall short - mainly because of the
dramatic change in the revenue situation of GOI. The balance between deve-
lopment (80% of total) and recurrent expenditure (20%) is reasonable in
terms of the estimated aggregate amount of capital stock, but recurrent
expenditure levels vary widely between sectors (para 32).
1/   The information contributing to this Annex was compiled by DG Cipta
Karya with the assistance of its consultants Douglas Twigg, Antonio Aragon
and Frank Condo,&, UNCHS-managed UNDP project INS/85/005 staff members Emil
Wegelin, Wim Stolte and Anthony Rissettio, and staff member Gert-Jan de
Kruijff and consultant Andrew Macoun of UNDP project INS/84/005 (managed by
IBRD staff member John Courtney); DG Bina Marga and IBRD staff member Rich-
ard C. Podolske; and DGWRD and IBRD staff member Daniel Gunaratnam. Informa-
tion on expenditures prior to FY83/84 basefd on partial data is available in
the Bank's Urban Services Sector Report cf July 1984 (Report No. 4800-IND).



-36-
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 14
Table 1:  8UHHARY APPLICATIONS AND SOURCES FY1987/88 AND p11981/89
-----------------------------------------------_--______--__---__------------__-
1987/88 1988/89   Total   1987/88 1988/89  Total
----- Rp billion -----   ---------- X -----------
Application of Funds:
Development Expenditures:           613.2   597.2   1210.5         81.7    78.0    79.9
Water Supply                       265.2   226.4    491.6         35.3    29.6    32.4
Human Waste                         30.G    20.5       50.5        4.0      2.7      3.3
Drainage and Flood                 131.9   143.5    275.5         17.6    18.7    18.2
Solid Waste                         18.1    17.2       35.3        2.4      2.3      2.3
KIP                                 37.5    49.1       86.6        5.0      6.4      5.7
Roads                               84.3   ;00.5    184.8         11.2    13.1    12.2
Prograinig, Training   MHgmnt   46.2    40.0           86.2        6.2      5.2      5.7
Operation and Maintenance           137.3   168.2    305.5         18.3    22.0    20.2
Total                 750.6   765.4   1516.0    100.0   100.0   100.0
Sources of Funds-
DIP:                                178.6   201.1    379.7         23.8    26.3    25.0
Cipta Karya                        105.3   102.5    207.8         14.0    13.4    13.7
Pengairan                           43.9    40.7       84.6        5.8      5.3      5.6
Sins Marga                          20.5    48.2       68.7        2.7      6.3      4.5
Other                                9.0      9.6       18.6       1.2      1.3      1.2
Foreign Aid:                        266.1   243.6    509.7         35.5    31.8    33.6
Ciata Karya                        178.6   132.6    311.2         23.8     17.3    20.5
Pengairan                           72.3    81.3    153.6          9.6    10.6    10.1
BLna Marga                          13.8    28.4        42.2       1.8      3.7      2.8
Other                                1.5      1.3        2.8
Subtotal (DIP + Foreign)         444.8   444.7    889.4        59.3    58.1    58.7
Domestic Loans                       39.4    44.7        84.0       5.2      5.8      5.5
APBD I & II (inel. INPRgS):         266.5   276.1    542.6         35.5    36.1      35.8
Level I                             21.2    15.3       36.5        2.8      2.0      2.4
Level II                           146.4   145.6    292.0         19.5    19.0    19.3
PDAN                                98.9   115.2    214.1         13.2    15.1    14.1
Subtotal Local Expenditures  305.9   320.8    626.6            40.8    41.9    41.3
Total /a                750.6   765.4   1516.0       100.0   100.0   100.0
/a Not of taxes estimated at Rp 71.5 billion and including price contin&encies (4%)
3.   As shown in the following Figure (based on Table 3), in real terms  the
proposed program will have grown about 9% p.a. on average between FY83/84 and
FY88/89 (line tl).  In view of an urban population growth of over 4% p.a. and
service backlogs this appears reasonable. Without the proposed loan the



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 14
Figure 1: Total Urban Expenditures
Time Series Results
540 -
520 -
500 -
480 - /
V4
400-
380-
0     360-
"-4
X4    340-
320                                             -
300-                                                  -
280-
260-
1983/84         1984/85         1985/86         1986/87         1987/88         1988/89
Actual             +    ti        v    t2        a   t3
sector funding trend would indicate a significant decline based on the first
three year's expenditures from 1985/85 to 1986/87 (line t3). The desirable
trend (line t2) based on the expenditures from 1983/84 to 1985/86, shows that
the proposed program is still slightly behind. The overall trends, however,
mask an uneven pattern of growth (and decline) from year to year - reflecting
budgetary constraints - with the last years' expenditures represen:.-ing a
catching-up on deferred projects. The overall picture also masks considerable
variation among individual subsector trends (Table 2 below).



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 14
TABLE 2 - REAL ANNUAL GROWTH RATES IN URBAN EXPENDITURES (I p.a.)
Subsector                      84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  Average
Development expenditures:       23.4   -1.9  -20.1   78.4   -6.9    9.9
Water supply                  21.8   15.7  -18.1  101.4  -18.4   13.7
Sewerage and sanitation       25.4   23.6   25.5   51.4  -34.9   13.8
Drainage and flood prot.      -7.8   33.4  -21.0  164.2    4.0   21.7
Solid waste                  -28.7  -40.2  -25.4  153.1   -9.0   -6.2
KIP                          -36.5   33.7  -48.7   47.4  -25.0   -4.3
Roads                        115.8  -45.5  -16.8    9.8   13.9    4.1
Pianning and engineering    -16.8  128.6  -16.2   40.8  -17.2   13.2
Operations and maintenance       8.1   16.1  -12.7   12.2   17.0    7.6
TOTAL                      19.7    2.0  -18.3   61.0   -2.6    9.4
4.   Water supply (raw and treated), sewerage/sanitation, and flood
protection/drainage investments show the largest growth.  Sewerage
investments are growing from a very small base, but growth in the other
two subsectors represent relatively well-established programs of
experienced agencies. Roads investments show minimal growth but past
levels vary erratically. The declir.e in KIP, solid waste management,
and concommitant low-cost sanitation expenditures is a cause for
concern in view of the significance of these programs to GOI's equity
and environmental protection objectives. Following is a brief
discussion of subsector characteristics and issues, to be considered
by KADUPP in the formulation of sector strategy and policy for Repelita
V (Annex 10).
B - Subsector Backgrounds and Issues
Water SUpplY
5.   Background  Treated water supply is the responsibLlity of local
governments, either as a Dinas or local enterprise (PDAM). Development
of new water supply enterprises and many existing system expansion
investments is the responsibility of DGCK which has, with strong
assistance from the Bank and other donors since the inception in 1974,
established a significant capital works program and, more recently, a
growing institutional development capacity in the sector. Monitoring
of water enterprises' performance is the nominal responsibility of MHA,
but DGCK is in practice the main source of technical assistance. Bulk
raw water supply, which is of particular importance to large cities, is
the responsibility of DGWRD - usually through its provincial units.



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 14
6.   Program Features and Issues  Water supply expenditures have grown signi-
ficantly during Repelita IV and would constitute Rp 677 billion or nearly one
half of total urban program expenditures in the next two years; about two-
thirds for development and the remainder for recurrent expenditures (Table
Al). DGCK is responsible for 51% of the budgeted expenditures (mainly for
development purposes and concentrated chiefly in 10 large foreign-funded
projects - Table Al.l). DGWRD is responsible for about 4% - relating mainly
to one major raw water supply project (Table A1.2).  Local governments and
their PDAMs would provide the balance (45%) including most recurrent expendi-
tures, financed from domestic loans (11%), internal cash generation and some
INPRES grants.   The works include civil works and equipment expenditures in
(i) 6 major cities for expansion of treatment and distribution systems total-
ling 5.1 cu.m/s; (ii) basic needs systems (chiefly deepwell sources and dis-
tribution systems ranging from less than 0.01 0.1 cu.m/s each) in some 160
cities and towns: (iii) small extensions to existing systems in about 190
towns; and (iv) rehabilitation and O&M in PDAMs nationwide. The program is
expected to provide about 95,000 connections and 1300 standpipes per year,
serving a total of about 2.5 million people. Details of the program are
available in project files (Annex 15). Although the Government has made good
progress toward its goals for water supply provision, several issues are now
evident: (a) program balance is distorted toward small-medium cities where
demand is relatively low and cost recovery weak; (b) unit investment costs
overall (US$166/capi.ta) are quite high; (c) large city levels of service are
relatively low and worsening; (d) operation and maintenance capabilities have
fallen behind; and (e) water resource management issues including raw water
allocations and water pollution control are becoming prominent in larger
cities,
7.   The distribution of expenditures among cities has changed since 1983/4
with greater emphasis on small-medium cities - despite the severest (and most
pressing) backlogs being evident in large cities. During the proposed program
period about 32% of DGCK-managed development budgets would be spent in Jakarta
and other major cities (with over half of the urban population); 39% in
medium-sized cities; and 19% in small (IKK) towns. This reflects in part
distortions caused by the current incentives in water supply financing poli-
cies of GOI which primarily provides grants for basic needs systems in small-
medium cities. DGCK resources are heavily concentrated in the planning and
execution of such programs and local governments typically play a minor role,
often leading to operational difficulties. Demand is often low and cost
recovery is difficult in smaller cities despite low unit costs (US$40/capita)
in some cases, and many BPAM/PDAMs are unlikely to be large enough to reach
break-even in the foreseeable future. Large cities, generally have existing
average levels of service close to or higher than their designated basic needs
levels (90-120 l/c/d for 60% of the population) and are usually profitable,
hence able to use loans when available to finance their expansions, but low-
income group supplies are often poorly provided for in these systems. Large
PDAMs play a larger role in investment decision-making but consultation with
DGCK and DGWRD is often more complex and progress slow; even more so recently
in view of a growing scarcity in domestic loan financing.  DGWRD's river bas.n
management capabilities are in process of formalization which should improve
raw water allocations and pollution control in future.



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 14
8.   The accelerated development in recent years has generally
outstripped the operational capabilities of the Kabupatens and smaller
Kotamadyas, and not always led to expected levels of revenue and cost
recovery. Many water enterprises are newly formed BPAMs, subject to
DGCK administration until reaching a viable level of operation. DIP
budgets currently include Rp 9.3 billion for O&M support of BPA.Is.
Operations of BPAMs and PDAMs alike suffer from management and staffing
weaknesses as well as inadequate cost recovery. DGCK and, to a lesser
extent, MHA are beginning to give attention to manpower development with
assistance from Loans 2275 and 2632-IND, but overall needs are very
large. A recent assessment estimated some 40,000 water supply staff
will be required and must receive training but in view of other local
government manpower development needs these levels are unlikely to be
met in the short-term.
9.   Repelita V  GOI's Action Plan for the sector will address the
folegoing issues. Specific attention will be given to improvement of
cost recovery and enterprise management, commencing with Java (see
Arniix 5).  Planning for Repelita N water supply program will be given
particular attention by KADUPP and its water resources working group
(see Annex 1.0). The group is expected to focus on (a) optimal
oigaanization of water enterprises to facilitate management and
operation tor full financial viability; (b) strengthening of sector
'rperatior1s arid maintenance capabilities; (c) improved planning and
prioritization of investments and O&M expenditures through implement-
ai,on of (i) decentralized integrated planning and programming
procedures; (ii) guidelines for planning and financing of investments
and (iii) strengthening of agencies responsible for sector planning and
oversight; and (d) appropriate sector development strategy, including
water resources management for urban areas.
Sewerage and Sanitation
10. Background In recognition of the relatively low levels of
sanritation in Indonesia's urban areas, long regarded as a matter for
private household investment, GOI gave prominence to development of the
human waste disposal subsector in 1984 by establishing a separate
Directorate of Environmental Sanitation (Dt PLP) in DGCK, responsible
for sewerage and sanitation, as well as drainage and solid waste. The
primary task of DtPLP was to support the KIP program with complementary
programs but several ongoing, major sewerage pilot schemes and other
city-wide programs were also inherited. The new directorate is
turrently attempting to develop its limited capabilities to address the
Repelita IV goals set for the subsector with assistance from UNDP and
bilateral agencies as well as support from Bank loans 2236-IND and
2408-IND.  A discussion of the drainage and solid waste subsectors is
irJvon in paras 15 and 19 respectively.  Emphasis in the human waste (or
excreta disposal) sector to date has been given to implementation of
!3(wcrage systems in a few major cities. The relatively low afford-
;bil i'!' of high-cost sewerage systems limits their applicability in
'I-:dLesia.  By contrast low-cost sanitation approaches as originally



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 14
developed under the KIP programs are receiving relatively little
attention. Planning of subsector investment programs is the
responsibility of Directorate Bina Program (DtBP), itself relatively
inexperienced in the task. Strengthening of the subsector and its
institutional capabilities will be a major task for Repelita V.
11. Program features and issues The two-year expenditure program
would total Rp 52 billion which would be almost all development
expenditure (Table A2). Details of O& expenditures were unavailable
but in view of the few operational units dealing with this sector and
the limited responsibility taken by local governments to date, O&M
expenditures are likely to be small. The expenditures are mainly for
pilot sewerage schemes in 4 large cities but amount to less than 10% of
water supply expenditures. The issues for sector as mentioned above
are (a) development of sector planning capabilities; (Q) development of
low-cost sanitation approaches as a major component of the human waste
disposal strategy. Details of the program are available in project
files (Annex 15)
12. Institutional development The backlog in service coupled with
the increasing availability of piped water supplies places clear
priority on development of a suitable plan for the sector. The absence
of clear direction for the subsector is a severe constraint. Responsi-
bility is currently divided between DtBP, DtPLP, and also Directorate
Housing (DtPer) - responsible for the KIP program (para 23).  DGCK will
form a working group from among these Directorates in order to develop
a more effective distribution of responsibilities in the context of the
IUIDP planning and programming system, coordinated with ongoing UNCHS-
supported Ministry of Health efforts. At the same time it is expected
that the Ministry of Population and Environment - responsible for enviro-
nmental protection policy - will encourage a stronger emphasis on water
pollution control which is now a major problem in major cities. The
strategy for human waste disposal which will address both health and
water pollution issues would be a major focus for KADUPP's strategic
thinking for Repelita V. The DGCK working group would focus on develop-
ment of the technology and institutional requirements needed to support
cities in planning, implementation and operation of the facilities.
13. Human waste disposal strategy A range of options for human waste
disposal are open to Indonesia's cities depending mainly upon
affordability. Sewerage solutions are presently limited to high value
and high income areas. At the other end of the scale the public
toilets (or MCKs) promoted under KIP projects have a limited
application to densely populated, low income areas. An intermediate,
household-based solution suitable for mass delivery for low-middle
income families is required together with suitable financing and
delivery systems. The prov'sion of facilities in private households
has not been carried out to any significant degree in GOI programs
although about 3,000 latrines were provided by Jakarta under the KIP
program. Appropriate systems are under development with UNDP
assistance, and possibly other alternatives would be developed under



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 14
DGCK's ongoing IUIDP-planning technical assistance effort. These
options would be considered by the abovementioned KADUPP working group
in finalizing Repelita V strategy.
14. Repelita V The Repelita V expenditure program should see a
consiuerable increase in hutan waste disposal-related investments,
particularly in low-cost systems for individual households. The
prog,am must begin to bear some relationship to the water supply
investment program in order to cope with increasing waste water
disposal and water pollution problems. However, attention to the
strengthening of sector planning capabilities followed by development
of implementation capacity and commensurate operations and maintenance
capabilities will be necessary as a prerequisite to major growth.
Draipage and Flood Protection
15. Background Flood protection of urban areas involves measures
both external and internal to the city. Flood control measures in
upstream (and downstream) river basin areas are et.sential to avoid
major inundation from overbank flows, particularly in tidal areas. A
well-functioning drainage system is, of course, essential to prevent
local flooding and to convey waste water effectively. DGWRD is
responsible for flood control in main river systems through its
Directorate of Rivers (Dt Sungai or DtS). About 30% of DtS's program
for protection of 500,000 ha during Repelita IV relates to urbanized
areas in 14 major and 30 minor centers containing 16 million people.
The DtS flood control program is financed wholly by central government.
Local governments are responsible for city drainage systems but it is
not always clear what elements are part of the local or main systems,
although a satisfactory mechanism for coordination between DtS and the
cities exists. DGCK assists local governments in the improvement of
their main drainage system elements, but most expenditures are for
minor drains and funded by the local governments. The trend, however,
has been toward main system improvements with greater central
government grant assistance. In FY83/84 local governments provided Rp
4.6 billion or 82% of drainage funding; whereas in 1986/87 the share is
expected to be 68%, although funding would increase to Rp 13 billion
(Table A4).
16. Program Features and Issues The proposed two-year subsector
program expenditure would total Rp 298 billion of which flood control
would amount to Rp 215 billion or 72% (Table A4.1) and drainage Rp 83
billion or 28% (Table A4.2). About 10% of these expenditures would be
for O&M. Details of the expenditures are available in project files
(Annex 15). The DGWRD program would consist chiefly of civil works for
the improvement of over 930 km of channelq for the protection of npPrly
190,000 ha, including 129,000 ha in 14 of Indonesia's larger floodprone
cities. The DGCK and local government programs would address internal
drainage deficiencies in 12 of the abovementioned cities, as well as
minor works, rehabilitation and O&M in cities and towns nationwide. The
main issues in the sector are (a) ad-hoc flood control planning for



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 14
urban areas, often with little coordination with city authorities; (b)
an absence of technical standards and cost recovery for urban flood
control and drainage; and (c) improvement of operations and maintenance.
17. Sector Planning and Oversight DGWRD would continue to be
responsible for flood control in river basins, possibly through river
basin authorities in future (as now being considered for the Jatiluhur
and Brantas systems), which would improve coordination of basin
operations (i.e., water allocation, pollution control and flood
control) and their financing. In the meantime DtS would develop its
technical capabilities in urban flood control and strengthen its
provincial representation in Dinas PU to coordinate more effectively
with local governments and DGCK. A joint DGWRD/DGCK/MHA task force
would be formed to develop coordination, cost sharing, cost recovery
and hand-over arrangements in accordance with IUIDP procedures under
the direction of TK. Classification of systems would be carried
out in order to clarify functional and financial responsibilities
between DGWRD and local governments. DGCK would also develop
standards, cost sharing and cost recovery criteria for urban drainage,
as well as a training program for local government drainage staff.
Training by DGWRD and DGCK would emphasize O&M.
18. Cost Recovery Present costs of flood protection vary from Rp
1.5 million to over Rp 5 million per ha. On average this would suggest
a level of cost recovery equivalent to Rp 350,000 per ha in order to
maintain systems effectively. This level is unlikely to be covered by
PBB revenues at present assessment rates for urban areas. Another
possible source would be a poll tax possibly covering not only drainage
but also sewerage and sanitation services. These and other options
would be reviewed by TK for possible application during Repelita V.
Solid Waste Management
19. Background Solid waste management is fully a local government
responsibility, usually carried out by a service Dinas but in one city
(Bandung) a local enterprise has been formed and similar moves are
likely in other large cities. DGCK assists local governments in
development of new solid waste management services and in many existing
system expansions. In recognition of the significance of solid waste
management in public health matters, Repelita IV targets expect DGCK to
provide assistance to some 200 cities (in contrast to 15 cities
assisted over the previous Repelita. To help achieve this objective,
among other things, DGCK was reorganized in 1984 to create the DirPLP
(para 10) including a Subdt of Solid Waste. The main thrust of DGCK's
program to date has been in collection systems in support of KIP
projects through a modular system approach (aimed at providing 50%
coverage of domestic waste and 100% of commercial waste), and in
development of environmentally acceptable disposal methods, but an
important feature is the institutional development aspect of the
program. DGCK capacity is still limited, however, and although



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 14
projects are currently ongoing or planned in about 80 cities an overall
decline in expenditures is expected in real terms. Planning
of future solid waste investments will be dependent on the IUIDP
process. Significant strides must yet be made in providing reasonable
solid waste services in Indonesia and the institutional development
role of DirPLP will be crucial to effective progress.
20. Program Features and Issues Expenditures on solid waste
management during the next two years will total about Rp43 billion of
which about 18% would be for O&M (Table A3). Local expenditure infor-
mation including O&M is not complete however. DGCK would manage about
50% of proposed expenditures which would be a significant increase over
earlier years. Details of the program are available in project files
(Annex 15). The issues for the subsector are: (a) institutional
development and strengthening of DirPLP technical assistance capacity;
and (b) cost recovery for solid waste services.
21. Local institutional development Local government solid waste
management services often do not fully recover their operating costs,
much less cover depreciation of this equipment intensive sector. Lack
of management skills and experience, unsuitable equipment, and poor
maintenance, all contribute to low productivity and the inability of
cities to provide reasonable service coverage. DGCK programs
increasingly include assistance in development of local institutional
capacity as well as advice on technology, procurement and system design
but DirPLP capacity and experience is limited. An ongoing study by MHA
is currently investigating solid waste operations institutional policy
and is expected to help define the training role of DGCK. Technical
assistance would be provided under the action plan to assist DGCK
develop a training program. The same study will also examine cost
recovery options and make recommendations on strengthening of cost
accounting, work planning and tarifs. Well-established Dinas (e.g. in
Jakarta and Surabaya) are expected to convert to financially viable
local enterprises during Repelita V. In order to have greater impact
on institutional development future DG';K supported programs should aim
at city-wide system development in addition to KIP support.
22. Repelita V Planning for Repelita V should be based on a clear
strategy for solid waste management sector development which will
support institutional development and better cost recovery for the
service. DGCK should also provide local governments with clear planning
guidelines for the sector as part of the IUIDP process.
KIP
23. Background Kampung improvement or KIP has been a major urban
sector activity in Indonesia since 1974. KIP consists of small-scale,
multisectoral infrastructure investments (typically footpaths,
micro-d iinage, standpipes, MCKs, solid waste collection and health
centers) in low-middle income areas, planned and executed by local
governments. The Bank has participated to date in KIP projects



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Page 11 of 14
totalling over US$400 million, and similar support has been provided by
other donors. Originally financed entirely by the local governments of
the larger cities, in recent years DGCK has attempted to stimulate such
programs in all cities by means of grant support for minimal coverage
and matching grants for higher levels of coverage. Some 7,000 ha were
improved during Repelita II, increasing to 15,000 ha in Repelita III.
To date during Repelita IV sorne 9.600 ha have been improved to various
degrees in 278 cities, together with 230 ha of market area improvement
(MIP) in 43 cities. This was, however, only 75% of planned
expenditures and also reflects a decline in coverage standards, i.e.,
fewer services per ha. Weak direction of the program (partly due to
diversification in the Directorate concerned, together with a change in
planning responsibilities in DGCK and a shift by donors to support of
primary infrastructure in recent years), has resulted in the decline in
KIP expenditures. Also in some larger cities (e.g. Jakarta) the
initial KIP coverage is almost complete. However, many kampungs remain
untouched, and many of the early kampungs covered 10-15 years ago
require rehabilitation or infilling. The revitalization of the KIP
program would be a significant step in ensuring that urban development
benefits reach the urban poor. The current series of IUIDP planning
studies is expected to result in a renewed focus on KIP but some
reformulation of program guidelines would provide a basis for a more
sustainable investment program.
24. Program features KIP investments during the proposed program
years would total almost Rp87 billion (Table A5).  This represents 6%
of total urban expenditures - in contrast to 12% at end-Repelita III.
Investments would cover about 4,500 ha, but mostly at the minimal
coverage standard (i.e., Rp2.8 million per ha), other than in the
foreign-funded projects. Details of the investment program are
available in the project file (Annex 15).
25. Program development Future KIP products should be diversified to
address: (a) infilling and upgrading of areas previously provided with
minimal coverage; (b) rehabilitation of older KIP areas where services
have deteriorated; (c) provision of water supply and sanitation where
previously neglected; (d) 'guided KIP' in urbanizing fringe areas to
assist newcomers and landowners to subdivide rationally. More import-
antly, there should be more flexibility in the allocation of costs to
suit actual kampung conditions and the DIP should be used only as a
matching grant to mobilize local government and community-level
contributions. However, most important would be the strengthening of
the DGCK organization responsible for management of KIP in order to
develop the new strategy, and oversee planning and implementation of
the Repelita V program.
26. Sector planning and oversight With the introduction of Dt Bina
Program (DtBP) two years ago, the responsibility for guidance of cities
in planning of their investment and 0&?4 programs passed from the
sectoralized line directorates to DtBP. Together with the impending
reduction in their direct implementation responsibilities, the line



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 12 of 14
directorates have to adapt to their new roles and redefine their
functions and staffing to focus more on policies, standards, and
technical assistance and monitoring of 'Local governments. Moreover,
with the simultaneous creation of Dt Environmental Sanitation (DtPLP)
the responsibility for sanitation sector matters (previously managed
and delivered through KIP - and therefore the responsibility of Dt
Housing (Perumahan or DtPer)) became confused. The adaptation process
is proceeding slowly and greater clarity is needed in defining future
roles. It is proposed that a DGCK working group should be formed from
DtBP, DtPLP and DtPer to consider ways and means to respond to KADUPP
directives on future KIP strategy, and to rationalize responsibilities
and organization in DGCK to meet Repelita V objectives for KIP.
27. Repelita V Planning Strategic guidance would be provided by
KADUPP based on analytical work by the proposed DGCK working group
concerning: (a) functional and financial responsibilities for KIP; (b)
appropriate technology, coverage standards and financing/implementation
arrangements; (c) appropriate levels of service and public awareness;
and (d) institutional arrangements for planning, implementation and
coordination of investment and O&M in the context of IUIDP.
Roads
28. Background Traffic conditions have been deteriorating in
Indonesia's cities over the past decade, caused in large part by an
almost 15% annual increase in the number of motor vehicles. At the
san.e time there has been a serious degradation of the road network
which indicates likely early structural failure of 17% of the main
urban road network, and that capacity is severely constrained in nearly
one-third of the system. Weak traffic engineering capabilities and
poor OQM capacity are significant factors in increasing vehicle
operating costs. Prime responsibility for sector planning and
oversight lies in DG Bina Marga (DGBM) and in DG Land Transport (DGLT);
the former being responsible for planning, construction and O&M of
the national road network, and the latter for planning of all other
transport modes. A separate public enterprise, Jasa Marga, responsible
to DGBM, has been established to provide and operate urban and
inter-urban toll roads. Central government spending on urban roads
has amounted to about 30% of total non-toll expenditures and central
government grants to local authorities account for a further 50%;
locally generated funds account for the remainder. DIP expenditures on
urban roads (Table A6) have varied widely in past years (Rp 77 billion
in FY83/84 to Rp 154 billion in FY 84/85), reflecting ad-hoc central
planning (e.g. heavy expenditures in Jakarta during FY84/85 and 85/86
included investments by DGBM in access to the new Jakarta airport).
INPRES and local axpenditures have been more consistent, amounting to
about Rp 65 billion p.a. on average.
29. Program features and issues Total expenditures on urban roads
will amount to about Rp 274 billion over the two-year program period.
Development expenditures in Jakarta (24%), large cities, (Bandung,



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 13 of 14
Medan, Semarang and Surabaya - 21%), and 16 other cities (21%) amount
to about two-thirds of total and O&M in all cities accounts for the
balance. Details of the program are available in the project file
(Annex 15). Issues for the subsector include (a) investment program
imbalance; (b) weak sector planning; and (c) limited local government
capabilities, especially in traffic management and O&M.
30. Planning and Programming The program balance reflects a
distribution of development expenditures roughly consistent with urban
population distribution but masks a substantial underinvestment in
relation to needs. The vehicle population is overwhelmingly
concentrated in the five largest cities. Planning trends in DGBM,
however, s'ow an overly-large concentration of proposed Jasa Marga toll
road investments in metropolitan and large cities. This approach
although supposedly self-financing to some degree is not likely to be
the most cost effective solution to pressing traffic ard transport
problems. However, efforts by DGBM to involve the private sector in
financing of toll roads is a promising development, Financing is
nonetheless seen to be the chief constraint to subsectoir growth and
local government contributions in particular must increase
significantly if an appropriate level of investment and O&M is to be
achieved. Cost recovery options, including a possible provincial
gasoline tax are to be explored (Annex 6). In line with their
increasing financial responsibilities, local governments will in future
take an increasing role in planning and decision making through the
IUIDP process now being adopted by DGBM. To facilitate planning,
functional and financial responsibilities for national, provincial and
local roads have been classified and will be formally adopted as part
of GOI's Action Plan (Annex 10). The need and capacity exist for much
greater levels of investment in the sector, and the proposed Jakarta
and Regional Cities Urban Transport Projects should help in stabilizing
future trends on a sound basis. Future 5-year rolling programs are
expected to be reviewed annually by the Bank under the forthcoming
Regional Cities Urban Transport Project which would also address
strengthening of local O&M and traffic planning capabilities.
31. Urban traffic management responsibilities (i.e., road capacity
improvements, traffic control and signing, public transport regulation
and traffic law enforcement) ere currently inappropriately distributed
between DGBM, DGLT, the national police force and local governments.
All these agencies, participate in each of these functions to some
degree, often without coordination. To clarify matters and strengthen
traffic management it is proposed that (a) primary responsibility for
traffic engineering and management be assigned to local government
following development of their capacity; (b) at the national level,
sole responsibility be assigned to DGBM for the development of
standards for road capacity improvement and the associated provision of
traffic control and regulatory devices, and a technical assistance
capacity developed in order to train local government staff; and (c)
DGLT take full responsibility at the national level for development of
public transport planning and regulation and gradually devolve this



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 14 of 14
function to local governments. Under GOI's Action Plan a Tim Koordinasi
working group would be formed to review this issue and make
recommendations.
C - Operations and Maintenance
32. While the overall conclusion that the program O&M expenditures of
about Rp 300 billion are not unreasonable in general, is fair - these
represent about 3% of estimated capital stock - the data obtained for
O&M are incomplete and actuial levels could be more or less. The
fur.etional breakdown is based on local entities' judgment as current
local government bu'geting systems do not reflect costs on the basis of
functional cost centers. Such accounting practices, as well as weak
organization, make O&M not only difficult to identify among past
expenditures, but also impossible to plan and implement effectively.
O&M is entirely a local government responsibility (although salaries of
local permanent officials are financed by centrally-funded SDO grants).
33. About 90% of the projected program expenditures reflect water
supply and roads O&M. The water supply O&M expenditure levels (60%
of total) in particular appear satisfactory overall; these are
generally fully covered by BPAM/PDAM revenues. Road O&M expenditures
(25-30% of total) account for 25-30% of local government expenditure on
roads but there is some evidence that these are made too late for
optimal benefit. Earlier routine maintenance would help prolong
pavement life and reduce overall costs. Flood protection and
drainage O&M expenditures are the third largest (7% of total) but
inadequate in terms of overall capital stock and effective routine
maintenance of local drains. Solid waste O&M expenditures may be
under-reported but are likely inadequate. KIP maintenance is
r,articularlv poor; the present program places almost total emphasis on
investment. O&M in KIP is expected to be provided by the beneficiaries
through self-help methods but these are rarely effective, often due to
lack of local involvement in planning and prioritization. In general,
local organization and staffing for O&M is weak, budgeting is
unreliable and systematic planning absent. Expenditures are made on a
'worst-first' basis which, as mentioned above, leads to sub-optimal
maintenance.
33. Funding levels notwithstanding, the chief issues in O&M are (a)
institutional strengthening, i.e., development of effective O&M
organization, management and cost accounting, and hence planning and
budgeting systems; (b) reliable financing, through appropriate cost
recovery; (c) cost effective 0&M strategy development; and (d) training
of staff in cost effective planning. cost accounting, and maintenance
techniques. A study financed from Loan 2408-IND is being carried out
by MHA to determine more effective O&M policies for local governments.
The study will develop recommendations for a series of incremental
changes organizational approaches and operational procedures for trial
implementation in four large cities during 1987-88. The experience
from this effort is expected to be widely replicated during Repelita V.



INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Summary Application and Sources of Funds (Real 1983/84 Rupiahs)
1983/84  19R4185  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89    1983/84  1984/95  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89
-(-Rp--  ---- -- ---    tRP   billior.)    -------------------  -----------------------   (t)    -----------------------
Application of Funds
Development Expenditures              247.3    305.1    299.3    238.9    426.4    396.9             76.1      78.4     75.4      73.7      81.7      78.0
Water supply                         79.3      96.6    111.8      91.6    184.4    150.9          24.4      24.8      28.2      28.3      35.3      29.6
Human waste                           7.1       8.9      11.0      13.8     20.9      13.6         2.2        2.3      2.A       4.3       4.0       2.7
Drainage and flood                   35.7      32.9      43.9     34.7      91.7      95.4        11.0       8.5      11.1      10.7      17.6      18.7
Solid waste                          15.7      11.2       6.7       5.0     12.6      11.5         4.8       2.9       1.7       1.5       2.4       2.3
KIP                                  40.6      25.8      34.5      17.7     26.1      32.6        12.5       6.6       8.7       5.5       5.0       6.4
Roads                                54.6    117.8      64.2       53.4     58.6      66.8        16.8      30.3      16.2      16.5      11.2      13.1
Planning, training & overhead        14.3      11.9      27.2     22.8      32.1      26.6         4.4       3.1       6.8       7.0       6.2       5.2
Operation and Maintenance              77.7      84.0      97.5      85.1     95.5    111.A          23.9      21.6     24.6      26.3      18.3      22.0
Subtotal                           325.0    389.2    396.8    324.0    521.9    508.7           100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Sources of Funds
DIP                                   126.3    195.8    141.0       62.9    124.2    133.6          38.9      50.3      35.5      19.4      23.8      26.3
Cipta Farya                          73.5      69.4     83.2      40.5       73.2     68.1        22.6      17.8      21.0      12.5      14.0      13.4
Pengairan                            37.3      36.0      32.3     16.1      30.5      27.1        11.5       9.2       8.1       5.0       5.8       5.3
3ina Marga                           15.5      90.4     25.6       6.3      14.3      32.0         4.8      23.2       6.4       1.9       2.7       6.3
Other                                 0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       6.2       6.4         0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       1.2       1.3
Foreign Aid                            22.3      38.7      62.7      78.4    185.1    161.9           A.9      9.9       15.8     24.2      35.5      31.8
Cipta Karya                          20.2      36.3      52.6     60r.6    124.2      88.2         6.2       9.3      13.3      18.7      23.8      17.3
Pengairan                             2.1       0.0       3.7       8.3      50.3     54.0         n.6       0.0       0.9       2.6       9.6      10.6
Bina Marga                            0.0       2.4      6.5       9.5       9.6      18.9         0.0       0.6       1.6       2.9       1.8       3.7
Other                                 0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        1.0      0.8         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.2       0.2
Subtotal DIP + Foreign             148.6    234.5    203.7    141.3    309.3    295.6            45.7      60.2      51.3      43.6      59.3      58.1
Domestic Loans                          3.5       7.0       9.3       9.2      27.4     29.7          1.1       1.8       2.4      2.8       5.2       5.8
APBD I & 11 (incl. INPRES)            172.9    147.7    183.7    173.5    266.3    276.0             53.2      38.0     46.3      53.6      35.5      36.1
Level 1                               5.0       5.3       5.5       6.6     21.2      15.3          1.5       1.4      1.4       2.0       2.8       2.0
Level 1I                            109.0      73.1    100.9      92.5    146.2    145.5          33.5      18.8      25.4      28.5      19.5      19. 
PDAM                                 58.9      76.5     91.1      98.5      98.9    115.2          18.1     17.8      19.5      23.0      t3.2      15.1
Subtotal local expenditures        176.4    154.7    193.1    182.7    212.6    213.1            54.3      39.8      48.7      56.4      40.7      41.9
Total                              325.0    389.2    396.8    324.0    521.8    508.7           100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0



INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Summary Application and Sources of Funds, by Agency
19831/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87   1987/88  1988/89          1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89
-------------          (Rp billion) ---- ----------------------- ()                                         --------------------- -
Appiication of Funds
Developmnt Expenditures                 247.3      336.4     352.6     315.9      613.?     59i.9         76.1       78.4      75.4       73.7      81.7      78.0
Water supply                           79.3      106.5     131.7     121.1    2h5.2       226.S         24.4      24.8       28.2      28.3       35.3      29.6
Human waste                             7.1       9.8       13.(      18.?       30 .'     20(.5         2.2        2.3       2.8       4.3        4.n       2.7
Drainage and rlond                     35.7      36.3       51.7      4z5.q    1-31.9     143.5         11.(       8.5       11.1      10.7       17.6      18.7
Solid waaste                           15.7       12.3       7.8       6.6       18.1      17.2          4.8        2.9       1.7        1.5       2.4       2.3
KIP                                    40.6      28.5       41.7     293.4       37.5      49.1         12.5        6.6       8.7       5.5        5.0       6.4
Roads                                  54.6     1'29.9      75.6      70.6       84.3    MI(J.5         16.8      30. 3      16.2      16.5       11.2      13.1
Plan:oing, training & overhead         14.3       13.1      32.0     TA.z        46.2      40(.0         4.4       3.1        6.8       7.0        6.2       5.2
operation and Maintenance                   77.7      92.7     114.        I 211.9  !37.3      168.2         23.9      21.6      24.6       26.3      18.3       22.0
Total                                325.0    429.1      467.4    428.5        750.h     76,9.4       100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0
Sources of Funds
)Tp                                     126.3    215.9       166.1      83.2      178.6    2(1.1          38.9       50.3      35.5       19.4      23.8      26.3
Cipta Karva                            73.5      76.5       Q8.U      53.6      105.3     102.5         22.6       17.8      21.0      12.5       14.0      13.4
Pengairan                              37.3      39.7       38.1      21.3       43 -      40.7         11.5       9.2        8.1        5.0       5.8       5.3
Bina Marga                             15.5      99.7       30.1       8.3       20.,      48.2          4.8      23.2        6.4        1.9       2.7       6.3
Other                                   0.0       n.o 0       (1        (.O       9.0       9.6          0.0        0.0      n0.        0.0        1.2       1.3
Foreign Aid                              22.3      42.6       73.9     103.7      266.1     243.6          6.8        9.9      15.8       24.2      35.5      31.8
Cipta Karya                            20.2      40.0       61.9      80.2      178.6     132.6          6.2        9.3      13.3      18.7       23.8      17.3
Pengairan                               2.1       0.0        4.3      10.9       72.3      81.3          0.6       0.0        0.9        2.6       9.6      10.6
Bina Marga                              0.n       2.6        7.6      12.6       13.k      28.4          0.0       0.6        1.6       2.9        1.8       3.7
Other                                   0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        1.5       1.3          n.o       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Subtotal DIP + Foreign               148.6    258.5    240.0        186.9     444.8    444.7           45.7      60.2       51.3      43.6       59.3      58.1
Domestic Loans                            3.5        7.7      11.0       12.1      39.4      44.7           1.1       1.8       2.4        2.8       5.2        5.8
APBD I & 11 (incl. INPRES)              172.9      162.9     216.5    229.5       266.3     276.0         53.2       38.n      46.3       53.6      35.5       36.1
Level I                                 5.0        5.8       6.5       8.7       21.2      15.3          1.5        1.4       1.4        2.0       2.8       2.0
Level II                              109.0      80.6      118.9     122.3      146.2     145.5         33.5       18.8      25.4      28.5       19.5      19.0
PDAM                                   58.9      76.5       91.1      98.5       98.9     115.7         18.1       17.8      19.5      23.0       13.2      15.1        13
Subtotal local expenditures          176.4     170.6    227.5       241.6     305.7      320.7         54.3      39.8       48.7      56.4       40.7      41.9        F
Total                                325.0    429.1       467.4    428.5       750.4     765.3        100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0
-   -   -     -         -            -          -                   -          -         -           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Appli7ation and Sources of Funds - Water Supply Subsector
1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89    1983/84  1984/85  1985'86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89
------------------- (Rp billion) -------------------    --    ( )-
Application of Funds
Development Expenditures                60.8      81.7    106.5       90.2    242.7    195.1          48.6      49.7      52.6      45.5      68.9      60.1
DKI                                   12.4       7.1      16.6      11.9      54.0      25.9         9.9       4.3       8.2       6.0      15.3       8.0
Large cities                          8.9       15.0      15.3      12.4     46.4      48.6          7.1       9.1       7.6       6.2      13.2      15.0
BNA                                  14.3      26.4      27.1      19.5      76.7       79.5        11.4      16.1      13.4       9.8      21.8      24.5
IKK                                   14.5      14.9      16.0     20.9       29.1      21.0        11.6       9.1       7.9      10.5       8.2       6.5
Overhead, trairing etc.               10.7      18.3     31.5       25.6      36.6      20.1         8.5      11.1      15.6      12.9      10.4       6.2
Local Projects                          18.5      24.8      25.2      30.9      22.5      31.3        14.8      15.1      12.5      15.6       6.4       9.6
Operation and Maintenance               45.8      57.9      70.7      77.0      87.0      98.3        36.6      35.2      34.9      38.9      24.7      30.3
Total                            125.1    164.4    202.4    198.1    352.2    324.7             100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Sources of Funds
DIP                                     46.9      50.3      62.9      31.2      61.8      57.7        37.5      30.6      31.1      15.8      17.6      17.8
Cipta Karya                          45.2      48.5       58.7      29.8      55.3      53.0        36.1      29.5      29.0      15.0      157       16.3
Pengairan                              1.7       1.8       4.2       1.4       6.5       4.7         1.4       1.1       2.1       0.7       1.8       1.5
Foreign Aid                             10.4      23.7      32.6      46.9    145.5    103.2           8.3      14.4      16.1      23.7      41.3      31.8
Cipta Karya                           10.4      23.7      32.5      44.6    138.0       98.3         8.3      14.4      16.1      22.5      39.2      30.3
Pengairan                             0.0       0.0       0.1        2.3       7.5       5.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       1.1       2.1       1.5
Subtotai DIP F Foreign              57.3      54.0      95.5      78.1    207.4    161.0           45.8      45.0      47.2      39.4      58.9      49.6
Domestic Loans                           3.5       7.7      11.0      12.1      35.3      36.7         2.8       4.7       5.4       6.1      10.0      11.3
APBD I & II (incl. INPRES)              64.2      82.7      95.9    107.9    109.5    127.0           51.4      50.3      47.4      54.5      31.1      39.1
Level I                                3.8       4.5       3.5       5.1       8.5       9.4         3.0       2.7       1.7       2.6       2.4       2.9
Level II                               1.5       1.7       1.3       4.3       2.1       2.4         1.2       1.0       0.6       2.2       0.6       0.7
PDAM                                 58.9      76.5      91.1      98.5       98.9    115.2         47.1      46.5      45.0      49.7      28.1      35.5
Subtotal local expenditures         67.7      90.4    106.9    120.0    144.8    163.7             54.2      55.0      52.8      60.6      41.1      50.4
Total                              125.1    164.4    202.4    198.1    352.2    324.7             100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
I-"



INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Application and Sources of Funds - Cipta Karya Water Supply Agency
1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89    19R3/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  19R8/89
------------------- (Rp billion) -------------------    ----------------------- (Z) ---------------- -------
Application of Funds
Development Expenditures               59.1      79.9    102.2       86.5    228.7    185.4          47.9     49.1      51.6      44.5      67.6      58.8
DKI                                  12.4       7.1      14.1      10.8     40.8      17.0        10.1       4.3       7.1       5.5      12.1       5.4
Large cities                          7.2      13.2      13.6       9.8     45.6      47.8          5.8      8.1       6.8       5.0      13.5      15.2
BNA                                  14.3      26.4      27.1      19.5     76.7      79.5        11.6      16.2      13.7      10.0      22.7      25.2
IKK                                  14.5      14.9      16.0     20.9      29.1      21.0        11.8       9.2       8.1      10.7       8.6       6.7
Overhead, training etc.              10.7      18.3      31.5      25.6     36.6      20.1         8.7       11.2     15.9      13.2      10.8       6.4
Local Projects                         18.5      24.8      25.2      30.9      22.5      31.3        15.0      15.2      12.7     15.9       6.6       9.9
Operation and Maintenance              45.8      57.9      70.7      77.0      87.0      98.3        37.1      35.6      35.7     39.6      25.7      31.2
Total                              123.3    162.6    198.1    194.4    338.2    315.0           100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Sources of Funds
DIP                                    45.2      48.5      58.7      29.8      55.3      53.0        36.6      29.8     29.6      15.3      16.4      16.8
Cipta Karya                          45.2      48.5      58.7      29.8      55.3     53.0        36.6      29.8      29.6      15.3      16.4      16.8
Pengairan                             0.0       0.0       0.0      0.e~      o.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Foreign Aid                            10.4      23.7      32.5      44.6    138.0      98.3          8.4      14.6     16.4      22.9      40.8      31.2
Cipta Karya                          10.4      23.7      32.5      44.6    138.0      98.3          8.4      14.6      16.4     22.9      40.8      31.2
Pengairan                             0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Subtotal DIP + Foreign              55.6      72.2     91.2      74.4    193.3    151.3          45.1      44.4      46.0      38.3      57.2      48.0
Domestic Loans                          3.5       7.7      11.0      12.1      35.3      36.7         2.8      4.7       5.6       6.2      10.4      11.6
APBD I & II (incl. INPRES)             64.2      82.7      95.9    107.9    109.5    127.0           52.1      50.9     48.4      55.5      32.4      40.3
Level 1                               3.8       4.5       3.5       5.1      8.5       9.4         3.1       2.8       1.8       2.6       2.5       3.0
Level II                              1.5       1.7       1.3       4.3      2.1       2.4          1.2       1.0      0.7       2.2       0.6       0.8
PDAM                                 58.9      76.5     91.1      98.5      98.9    115.2         47.8      47.0      46.0      50.7      29.2      36.6
Subtotal local expenditures         67.7      90.4    106.9    120.0    144.8    163.7           54.9      55.6      54.0      61.7      42.8      52.0
Total                              123.3    162.6    198.1    194.4    338.2    315.0           100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0   1ID.0
Notes:  Division between large cities and BNA pre-1987/88 assumed the same as in 1987/88 and 1988/89.



INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Application and Sources of Funds - Pengairan Raw Water Agency
1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  198R/89    1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89
------------------ (Rp billion) -------------------    ----------------------- () ------------------------
Application of Funds
Development Expenditures                1.7       1.8      4.3       3.7      14.0       9.7       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.G    100.0
DKI                                  0.0       0.0       2.6       1.1      13.2      8.9         0.0       0.0      59.3      29.5     94.2      91.8
Large cities                          1.7      1.8       1.8       2.6       (.8      0.8       100.0    100.0       40.7      70.5      5.8       8.2
BNA                                  0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      O.0       0.0
IKK                                  0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Overhead, training, etc.             0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Local Projects                          0.0      o.n       0.0       0.-       0.0       (.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Operation and Maintenance               0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total                                1.7      1.8       4.3       3.7      14.0      9.7       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Sources of Funds
DIP                                     1.7       1.8      4.2       1.4       6.5       4.7       100.0    100.0      98.0      38.9     46.2      49.0
Cipta Karya                          0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Pengairan                             1.7      1.8       4.2       1.4       6.5      4.7       100.0    100.0       98.0      38.9     46.2      49.0
Foreign Aid                             0.0      0.0       0.1       2.3       7.5       5.0        0.0       0.0       2.0      61.1      53.8     51.2
Cipta Karya                           0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Pengairan                             0.0      0.0       0.1       2.3       7.5       5.0        0.0       0.0       2.0      61.1      53.8     51.2
Subtotal DIP + Foreign               1.7      1.8       4.3       3.7      14.0      9.7       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.1
Domestic Loans                          0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
APBD I & II (incl. INPRES)              0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Level I                               0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0.0 0.0             0.0       0         0.0      0.0       0.0
Level II                             0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
PDAM                                 0.0       0.9       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Subtotal local expenditures         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total                                1.7      1.8       4.3       3.7      14.0      9.7       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.1
3!1 i



4F
INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Application and Sources of Funds - Sewerage and Sanitation Subsector
1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/8R  1988/8q    1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89
------------------ (Rp billion)                                      ---------- () -----
Application of Funds
Development Expenditures                5.1      7.i      10.4      16.0      24.6     16.7        69.7      72.0      78.8     86.0      80.4      79.9
Large cities + DKI                    5.1      7.2      10.4      16.0      19.9     14.7        69.7      72.0      78.8     86.0      65.0      70.5
Other citles                         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      3.1       0.2         0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      [0.2       1.0
Technical assistance & overhead    0.0         0.G       0.0       0.0       1.6      1.8         0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       5.2       8.4
Local Projects                          2.1      2.6       2.6       2.2       5.4      3.8        28.7      26.3      19.3      11.9     17.7      18.2
Operation and Haintenance               0.1      0.2       0.2       0.4       0.6      0.4         1.7       1.7       1.9       2.1      1.9       1.9
Total                               7.3      10.0      13.2      18.6     30.6      20.9       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Sources of Funds
DIP                                     2.n      2.R       2.5       3.8       5.0       3.8       26.9      28.0      18.9      20.6     16.4      18.3
Cipta Karya                           2.0      2.8       2.5       3.8       5.0      3.8        26.9      28.0      18.9     20.6      16.T       WT
Other agenries                       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Foreign Aid                             3.1      4.4       7.9      12.2      17.2      10.2       42.8      44.0      59.8     65.5      56.2      4.1
Cipta Karya                           3.1      4.4       7.9      12.2       7.2     10.2        42.8      44.0      59.8     65.5      56.2      49.1
Other agencies                       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Subtotal DIP + Foreign               5.1      7.2      10.4      16.0     22.2      14.1        69.7      72.0      78.8     86.0      72.6      67.4
Domestic Loans                          0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       2.4      2.6         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      7.9      12.5
APBD I & lI (incl. INPRES)              2.2      2.R       2.&       2.6       6.0      4.2        30.3      28.0      21.2      14.0     19.6      20.1
Level I                              0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      =         00O
Level II                              2.2      2.R       2.8       2.6       6.0      4.2        30.3      28.0      21.2      14.0     19.6      20.1
PDAM                                 0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Subtotal local expenditures         2.2       2.8       2.8       2.6      8.4       6.8        30.3      28.0      21.2     14.0      27.5      32.6
Total                               7.3      10.0      13.2      18.6     30.6      20.9       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.1    100.0
Note:  - All local expenditures accredited to Level II.
te



INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
ApDlication and Sources of Funds - Solid Waste Subsector
1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89          1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89
- --- ------------    (Rp   billion)   ---------------___    -----------------------  (Z)   -----------------------
ApDliCatiol of F1inds
Development Expenditures                 4.0       5.8       3.3       1.1       7.2      13.7        25.5      46.2      36.2      15.2      34.8      61.6
.arg? c'tles + 1)D1                    1.0       1.5      i.8       (.4        3.6       4.9         6.5      11.8       9.3       5.3      17.6      22.1
ottier cities                          3.0       4.3       2.5       0.7       1.8       7.0        19.0      34.4      27.0       9.9       8.7      31.4
Technicsl assistince & overhead    0.C          0.0       0.(        0.0       1.8       1.8         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       8.5       8.2
Local Projects                          11.7       6.6       4.6       5.5      10.9       3.6        73.9      52.7      50.7      79.4      52.7      16.2
operation and Maintenance                0.1       0.1       1.2       N.4       2.6       4.9         0.6       1.1      13.0       5.5      12.5      22.2
Tota1                                15.8      12.5       9.1       7.0      2n.7      22.2       100.0    100.0    100.0    1no.o    100.0    ino.o
Sources of Funds
D)1I'                                    1.6       2.?       2.2       0.8       3.3       7.2         9.8      18.0      24.0      11.7      15.9      32.4
ipta Karva                            1.6       2.2       2.2       0.8       3.3       7.2         9.8      18.05     24.0      11.7      15.9      32.4
Otlher agelncies                      0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0  a0             0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
toreign Aid                              2.5       3.5       1.1       0.2       2.3       4.1        15.7      28.3      12.3       3.5      10.9      18.5
Cipt.a Karv;-                          2.5       3.5       1.1     (0.2        2.3       4.1        15.7      28.3      12.3       3.5      10.9      18.5
)ther age:cies                        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.o       0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0       0.()      0.0       0.0       0.0
Subtotal DIP + Foreign               4.0        5.8       3.3      1.1        5.6      11.3        25.5      46.2      36.2      15.2      26.8      50.9
D)onestic Loans                          (1.0      0.0.0               0.0       1.6       2.4         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       7.9      10.7
APBI) I & It (mincl. tNPRFS)            11.8       6.7       5.8       5.9      13.5       8.5        74.5      53.8      63.8      84.8      65.2      38.4
L,eve I I                             0.0        0.r0      .0       00         0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Level 11                              11.8      6.7        5.8       5.9      13.5       8.5        74.5      53.8      63.8      84.8      65.2      38.4
PDitM                                 0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       n.0       0.0          0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Subtotal local exoenditure9         11.8       6.7       5.8       5.9       15.1      10.9        74.5      53.8      63.8      84.8      73.1      49.1
Total                               15.8      12.5       9.1        7.0     20.7      22.2        100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0         99.9    100.0
Note:  - All local expenditures accredited to Level II.



INDOONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Application and Soturces of Funds - Drainage and Flood Protection Subsector
1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89    1983/84  1984i85  1985/R6  1986187  1987/88  1988/89
------------------- (Rp billion) -------------------    ----------------------- (Z)  -----------------------
Application of Funds
Development Expenditures              29.9      29.4.    36.0)    29.6    105.3    119.4          67.4      63.5     59.2      57.5     73.7      77.0
Large cities + DKI                  16.5      14.9     18.9      19.4     78.8      96.6        37.1     32.2      31.0      37.7     55.1      62.4
Other citiec                        13.5      14.5     !7.1      10.2     26.5      22.7        30.3     31.3      28.1      19.8      18.5     14.7
Technical assistance                 0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      2.1       2.2         0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       1.4      1.4
Local Projects                         5.7       6.9     15.7      16.3      24.5     22.0        12.9      14.9     25.8      31.7      17.1     14.2
Operation and Maintenance              8.8      10.0      9.2       5.(      11.1     11.4        19.7      21.6     15.1      10.8       7.8      7.4
Total                              44.4     46.3      60.9      51.5    143.0    154.9        If- 0    100.0    100.0    100.0       98.6      98.6
Sources of Funds
DIP                                   36.0      3l.4     38.5      22.0     44.5      46.9        80.9      83.0     63.3      42.8      31.1     30.3
Cipta Karva                          0.4       0.6      4.7       2.2       7.1     10.9         0.9       1.2      7.7       4.3       5.0      7.0
Pengairan                           35.6      37.9     33.8      19.8     37.4      36.0        80.0     81.8      55.6      38.5     26.2      23.2
Foreign Aid                            2.7       0.9      6.2      12.6     69.0      82.3         6.0       1.9     10.1      24.6     48.3      53.1
Cipta Karya                          0.6      0.9       1.9       4.0      4.3       6.0         1.4       1.9      3.2       7.7      3.0       3.9
Pengairan                            2.1       0.0      4.2       8.7     64.7      76.4         4.6       0.0      6.9      16.9     45.3      49.3
Subtotal DIP + Foreign             38.6     39.3      44.7      34.7    113.6    129.2         86.9     84.9      73.4      67.4     79.4      83.4
Domestic Loans                         0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
APBD I & II (incl. INPRES)             5.8       7.0     16.2      16.8      29.4     25.7        13.1      15.1     26.6      32.6      20.6     16.6
Level 1                              1.2       1.3      3.0       3.6      12.7      5.9         2.7       2.8      4.9       7.0       8.9      3.8
Level II                             4.6       5.7     13.2      13.2      16.7     19.8        10.4      12.3     21.7      25.6      11.7     12.8
PDAM                                 0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Subtotal local expenditures         5.8      7.0      16.2      16.8     29.4      25.7        13.1     15.1      26.6      32.6     20.6      16.6
Total                              44.4     46.3      60.9      51.5    143.0    154.9        100.0    100.0    100.0    1(0.0    100.0    100.0
I'm



INDONESIA
URBAN SE(CTOR LOAN
Application and Sources of Funds - Flood Protection (PENGAIRAN) Agency
1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89    1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89
------------------- (Rp billion) ------                        ----------------------- (%) ----------------------_
Application of Funds
Development ExDenditures                28.9      27.9       29.4      23.4      92.3    102.5         74.5       71.4      71.7      73.0      80.3      86.6
Large cities + DKI                     9.5       6.7       7.6       8.4       39.2      45.5        24.5       17.2      18.6      26.1      34.1       8.5
Other                                 12.9      13.9      13.5        7.8      34.8      44.8        33.2       35.5      32.9      24.2      30.3      37.9
Teehnical assistance                   0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      18.3      12.1                    0.0       0.0       0.0      15.9      10.2
Local Projects                           1.2        1.3       3.0       3.6      12.7       5.9          3.1       3.3       7.3      11.2      11.1       5.n
Operation and Maintenance                8.7       9.9        8.6       5.1       9.9       9.9         22.4      25.3      21.0      15.8       8.6       8.4
Total                                38.8      39.2      41.0      32.1     114.9      118.3       100.0     100.0     100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Sources of Funds
DIP                                     35.6      37.9      33.8       19.8      37.4      36.0        91.6       96.7      82.4      61.8      32.6      30.4
Cipta Karya                            0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0        .0       0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      o0.0
Pengairan                             35.6      37.9      33.8       19.R      37.4      36.0        91.6      96.7      82.4       61.8      32.6      30.4
Foreign Aid                              2.1       0.0       4.2        8.7      64.7      76.4          5.3       0.0      10.3      27.0      56.3      64.6
Cipta Karva                            0.0       0.0       0.0        0.n       0.0       0.0         0.0        o.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Pengairani                             2.1       0.0       4.2       8.7       64.7      76.4         5.'       0.0       10.3      27.0      56.3      64.6
Sub' tal DIP + Foreign               37.6      37.9      38.1      28.5     102.'      112.4        96.9      96.7      92.7      88.8       88.9      95.0
Domestic Loans                           0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
APBD I & II (tncl. INPRES)                1.2       1.3       3.0       3.6      12.7       5.9          3.1       3.3       7.3      11.2      11.1       5.0
Level 1                                1.2       1.3       3.0        3.6      12.7       5.9         3.1        3.3       7.3     T1.2       11.1       5.0
Level II                               0.0       0.0       0.0       O.0        0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
PDAM                                   0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0       o.0       0.0       0.0
Subtotal local expenditures           1.2       1.3       3.0       3.6       12.7       5.9         3.1       3.3        7.3      11.2      11.1       5.0
Total                                38.8      39.2      41.1      32.1      114.9     118.3       100.0     100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0



INDONES I A
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Application and Sources of Funds - Drainage (ClPTA KARYO) Agency
1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89    1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89
-------------------- (Rp billion) -- ----------------------   ) ---------------- -
Application of Funds
Development Expenditures               1.0       1.4      6.6       6.2      15.1     19.1        18.0      20.2     33.4      31.8     53.7      52.0
Large cities + DKI                   0.5       0.9      3.0       3.8      4.9       6.3         8.1      12.3     15.0      19.4     17.3
Other                                0.6      0.6       3.6       2.4      8.2      10.6         9.9       7.9     18.4      12.5     29.1      29.0
Technical assistance                 0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       2.1      2.2         0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      7.3       5.9
Local Projects                         4.5       5.6     12.7      12.7      11.8     16.1        80.6      78.2     64.6      65.6     42.0      43.9
Operation and Maintenance              0.1       0.1      0.5       0.5       1.2      1.5         1.4       1.6      2.7       2.5      4.3       4.2
Total                               5.6       7.1     19.8      19.4     28.1      36.7       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Sources of Funds
DIP                                    0.4       0.6      4.7       2.2       7.1     10.9         7.0       7.8     23.6      11.3     25.3      29.7
Cipta Karya                          0.4      0.6       4.7       2.2      7.1      10.9         7.0       7.8     23.6      11.3     25.3      29.7
Pengairan                            0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.o
Foreign Aid                            0.6       0.9      1.9       4.0       4.3      6.0        11.1      12.3      9.8      20.5     15.3      16.3
Cipta Karya                          0.6       0.9      1.9       4.0       4.3      h.n        11.1      12.3      9.8      20.5     15.3      16.3
Pengairan                            0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Subtocal DIP + Foreign              1.0       1.4      6.6       6.2     11.4      16.9        18.0     20.2      33.4      31.8     40.5      46.0
Domestic Loans                         0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
APBD I & 11 (tncl. INPRES)             4.6       5.7     13.2      13.2      16.7     19.8        82.0      79.8     66.6      68.2     59.4      54.0
Level I                              0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Level II                             4.6       5.7     13.2      13.2      16.7     19.8        F2.0      79.8     66.6      68.2     59.4      54.0
Pt M                                 0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Subtotal local expenditures         4.6       5.7     13.2      13.2     16.7      19.8        82.0     79.8      66.6     68.?      59.4      54.0
Total                               5.6       7.1     19.8      19.4     28.1      36.7       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0       99.9    100.0
Note:  - All local contributions assigned to APBD II.



INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Application and Sources of Funds - KIP Subsector
1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987i88  1988189    1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  19R7/88  1988/89
------------------- (Rp billion) -------------------    --------------------- ()               -------------  ---------
Appltcation of Funds
Development Expenditures              22.0      21.9     29.6      16.1      29.2     41.5        54.2      76.8     72.7      68.8      77.9     84.5
KIP and MIP                         21.0      20.9     27.8      14.3      23.0     35.2        51.7      73.4     68.3      61.1     61.4      71.7
Building information centers         1.0       1.0      1.8       1.8       2.4      2.4         2.5       3.4      4.4       7.7      6.4       4.9
Technical assistance & overhead    0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0       3.8      3.9         0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      10.1      8.0
Local Projects                        18.6       6.6      11.1      7.3       8.3       7.6       45.8      23.7      27.3     31.2      22.1     15.5
Operation and Maintenance              0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total                              40.6      28.5     40.7      23.4      37.5     49.1       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Sources of Funds
DIP                                   20.6      18.0     23.6      12.6      20.3     20.8        50.7      63.2     58.0      53.8      54.2     42.4
Cipta Karya                         20.6      18.0     23.6      12.6      20.3     20.8        50.7      63.2     58.0      53.8      54.2     42.4
Other                                0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0         0.n       0.0      0.0       0.0       o.0      0.0
Foreign Aid                            1.4       3.9      6.0       3.5       6.8      4.2         3.4      13.7      14.7     15.0      18.1      8.6
Cipta Karya                          1.4       3.9      6.0       3.5       6.8      4.2         3.4      13.7      14.7     15.0      18.1      8.6
Other                                0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Subtotal DIP + Foreign             22.0      21.9     29.6      16.1      27.1     25.0        54.2      76.8     72.7      68.8     72.3      50.9
Domestic Loans                         0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      3.0         0.0       0.0      0.0       (.0       0.0      6.1
APBD I & II (incl. INPRES)            18.6       6.6     11.1       7.3      10.4     21.1        45.8      23.2     27.3      31.2      27.7     43.0
Level I                              0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Level It                            18.6       6.6     11.1       7.3      10.4     21.1        45.8      23.2     27.3      31.2      27.7     43.0
PDAM                                 0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
SuStotal local expenditures        18.6       6.6     11.1       7.3      10.4     24.1        45.8      23.2     27.3      31.2     27.7      49.1
Total                              40.6      28.5     40.7      23.4      37.5     49.1       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Notes:  No information on split ir city sizes, no historical data on technical assistance and overhead.
.,



INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Application and Sources of Funds - Urban Roads Subsector
1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89    1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89
------------------- (Rp billion) -------------------    ----------------------- (%) ---------------
Application of Funds
Development Expenditures               54.6    129.q      75.6      70.6      84.3    100.5        70.5      84.2      69.2      70.7      70.1     65.4
DKI                                           94.9      34.4      32.2      32.3     30.7        25.9      61.5      31.5      32.3     26.8      20.0
Large cities                         18.1     16.1      19.1      22.4      26.0     54.6        23.4      10.4      17.5      22.4     21.6      35.5
Other                                16.4     18.9      22.1      16.0      26.0     15.2        21.2      12.2      20.2      16.0     21.6       9.9
Operation and Ma'itenance              22.9     24.4      33.6      29.2      36.0     53.1        29.5      15.8      30.8      29.3      29.9     34.6
Total                              77.5    154.3    109.2        99.8    120.3    153.6        100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Sources of Funds
DIP                                    15.5     99.7      30.1       8.3      20.5     48.2        20.0      64.6      27.6       8.3      17.0     31.4
3ina Marga                           15.5     99.7      30.1       8.3     20.5      48.2        20.0      64.6      27.6       8.3     17.0      31.4
Other                                0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Foreign Aid                             0.0      2.6       7.6      12.6      13.8     28.4          0.0      1.7       7.0      12.6      11.4     18.5
Bina Marga                           0.0       2.6       7.6      12.6      13.8     28.4         0.0       1.7       7.0      12.6      11.4     18.5
Other                                 0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Subtotal DIP + Foreign              15.5    102.3      37.7      20.9     34.3      76.6        20.0      66.3      34.5      20.9     28.5      49.9
Domestic Loans                          0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
APBD I & II (incl. INPRES)             62.0     52.0      71.5      78.9      86.0     77.0        80.0      33.7      65.5      79.1      71.5     50.1
Level I                              0.0        ..0 0.0            0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Level II                            62.0      52.0      71.5      78.9      86.0     77.0        a0.0      33.7      65.5      79.1     71.5      50.1
PDAM                                  0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Subtotal local expenditures        62.0      52.0      71.5      78.9     86.0      77.0        80.0      33.7      65.5      79.1     71.5      50.1
Total                              77.5    154.3    109.2        99.8    120.3    153.6        100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Notes: - Does not include toll roads.
- Local Government contributions all -.ttributed to Level II.
- 0&N include betterment program . project years.



INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Application and Sources of Funds - Planning and Engineering
1983184  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  :987/88  1988189    1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988i89
------------------- (Rp billion)  -------------------    --------------------- (Z) --- ----
_                                       , ~~~~~~~.1
Application of Funds
Training (PAP)                          0.0       0.5       0.6       0.4       0.4       0.5         0.0       3.8       1.7       1.2       0.9       1.3
Efficiency improvement (PEAPP)          0.0       0.2       0.2       0.2       1.3       1.4         0.0       1.5       0.7       0.5       2.8       3.6
Infrastructure (PPFP)                   0.0       0.1       0.1       0.1       1.Q       0.8         0.0       0.6       0.3       0.2       4.1       l.4
Tech. assistance (Bina Program)         0.0       1.8      10.7      13.5      14.6      10.6         0.0      14.1      33.5      44.8      31.5      26.4
Planning (D(CK)                        14.3      10.5      20.4      16.1      17.5      15.9       100.0      80.0      63.8      53.4      37.9      39.7
PUODISDO planning                       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       5.8       6.2         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      12.7      15.5
Agrarta - napoing                       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       4.3       4.3         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       9.2      10.6
IUPA and TK                            0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.4       0.4         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.9       1.0
Total                               14.3       13.1     32.0      30.2      46.2       40.0       100.0    100.0    10i.0    100.0         77.3      72.9
Sources of Funds
DIP                                      3.8       4.4       6.3       4.4      23.2      16.4        26.6      33.5      19.7      14.5      50.2      41.1
Cipta Karya                            3.8       4.4       6.3       4.4      14.2       6.9        26.6      33.5      19.7      14.5      30.       17.1
Other agencies                         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       9.)       9.6         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      19.4      23.9
Foreign Aid                              2.2       3.6      12.5      15.7      11.5      11.1        15.4      27.6      39.1      52.0      25.0      27.7
Cipta Karya                            2.2       3.6      :2.5      15.7      10.0       9.8        15.4      27.6      39.1      52.0      21.-      24.5
Other agencies                         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       1.5       1.3         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       3 ?       3.1
Subtotal DIP + Foreign               6.0       8.0       18.8     20.1       34.7      27.5        42.0      61.2      58.7      66.5      75.2      68.7               71
APBD I & II (incI. INPRES)               8.3       5.1      13.2      10.1      11.5      12.5        58.0      38.8      41.3      33.5      24.9      31.2
Total                               14.3       13.1     32.0       30.2      46.2      40.0       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.1          99.9
1g!,
-J



Annex 2
62 -                   Attachment
INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Urban Infrastructure Expenditures
GOI Repelita III & IV Urban Infrastructure Development Targets
Repelita III               Repelita IV
Subsector           --- (1979/80-83/84)-          --- (1984/85-88/89) ----
Amount    Service 6ual       Amount    Service goal
(cities) (% of population! (cities) (% of population)
Water Supply:
Large/medium size
cities (BNA):
new schemes        350          60%             150          75%
expansions                                      350          75%
Small towns (IKK)                               1,800          75%
Environmental sani-
tation:
Sewerage               4          /a               10          10%
Solid waste           15          /               200          50%/b
Drainage              25          /               200          60%
KIPZ_                  400          n.a.            227          n.a.
Roads /d               n.a.                         n.a.
/    Coverage standards not set
/b   Including 100% of commercial (markets, etc) solid waste
/c   KIP is a multisectoral activity which includes improvements to
access (typically 35% of program expenditures), drainage (35%),
solid waste (3%), public sanitation (8%), water supply (15%) and
health clinics (4%) in lower income areas. Coverage standards are
based on unit cost allowances which permit various mixes of
improvements according to local needs.
Ld   Urban roads not targetted separately from total roads



-63-                            ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
PROPOSED URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Technical Assistance Summary
A. Local Resource Mobilization
1. Valuation and Tax Administration Advisers
Executing Agency:        Directorate General of Taxation (Directorate PBB)
Objectives:              (a) Develop and implement a new valuation system based
on individual market values, primarily for urban
properties; (b) initiate and implement improvements in
PBB tax administration.
Duration of Services:  1987-1989
Costs:                                                   Man-months  Cost (Rp mln)
(i) Valuation
Foreign                    181          3,584
(ii) Tax administration
Foreign                     43            851
Total                224           4,435
TOR Status:             TOR confirmed at negotiations.
2. Establishment of Regional Water-Enterprise Monitoring and Development
Units (PMDUs)
Executing Agency:       Directorate Ceneral Cipta Karya (DGCK) in cooperation
with DGPUOD
Objectives:              Based on the East Java model, establish and opera-
tionalize Provincial Monitoring and Development Units
in remaining provinces of Java.   The Units would be
based in Level I Dinas DGCK to supervise performance
and development of all WEs with respective provinces.
Engineering, financial analysis and management
expertise will be provided. Emphasis will be on
replication of the units in terms of organization,
staffing, training operating procedures and type of
assistance to be provided to the WEs.



- 64-                          ANNEX 3
Page 2
Duration of Services:  June 19          1989
Costs:                                           Man-months          Cost (Rp mln)
Foreign                        36                  713
Local                          72                  416
Total                   108                 1,129
TOR Status:            TOR confirmed at negotiations.
3. Management Advisory Services to WEs
Executing Agency:      DGCK in cooporation with DGPUOD.
Objectives:            Assist selected WEs in Java (except in East Java) in
resolving their orgainzation, management, accounting,
administrative and technical problems. The WEs will be
selected on the basis of need identified by respective
Provincial Monitoring Units. It is estimated that a
quarter of WEs will need assistance averaging six man-
months each.
Duration of services: June 1987-June 1989
Costs:                                           Man-months         Cost (Rp mln)
Local                      250                  1,444
TOR Status:            TOR confirmed at negotiations.
4.  Advisory Services for Water Supply Organization Study
Executing Agency:      DGCK in cooperation with DGPUOD
Objectives:            Expand the scope of the water supply organizaticn
structure study for Irian Jaya, North and SulawAsi
provinces to (a) cover all provinces in Java ani
Sumatra, and (b) cover the rest of the provinces in
Indonesia. The study would review and analyze
alternative organization structure based on financial
viability, staffing adequacy and operating efficiency
criteria to meet water supply needs.
Duration of Services: January 1987-December 1988



-65-                           ANNEX 3
Page 3
Costs.,                                    Man-months               Cost (Rp mln)
Foreign                36                         713
Local                  72                         416
Total            108                      1,19,
TOR Status:             TOR will be updated by DGCK by end-November 1986.
5.   Level rr Tax Administration
Executing Agency:       Directorate General for Regional Autonomy (DGPUOD)
Objectives:             (a)  Simplify structure of local taxes and charges and
increase local revenue generation; and (b) provide
assistance to DGPUOD to (i) evaluate a pilot program,
and (ii) undertake required training and supervision
aind (iii) install the system.
Duration of Services:  1987-1989
Costs:           (i)    Evaluation         Man-months          Cost (Rp mln)
Foreign                 3                    59
Local                  12                    69
Subtotal          15                  129
(ii)   Trai:.ing/Supervision
Foreign                11                  218
Local                  64                   370
Subtotal          75                  587
(iii) Installation
Local                 256                1,478
Subtotal         256                1,478
Total            346                2,194
TOR Status:      TOR confirmed at negotiations.



-66                            AU-    3
B. Sector Financing
1.  Regional Development Account (RDA) Lending Policy
Executing Agency;        Directorate General Internal Monetary Affairs (DGMDN)
Objectives:              To advise DGMDN with regard to policy implications of
the RDA
Duration of Services:   1987-89
Costs:                                        Man-months            Cost (Rp mln)
Foreign                    40                     825
TOR Status:             TOR confirmed at negotiations.
2.                      Regional Development Account Operationalization
Executing Agency:       Directorate General Internal Monetary Affairs (DGMDN)
through UNDP/UNCHS
Objectives:             To operationalize the RDA.
Duration of Services:  1987-89
Costs:                                               Man-months      Cost (Rp mln)
Foreign                           24               475
Local                             48               277
Total                        72               752
TOR Status:             TOR confirmed by DGMDN and Bank at negotiations; will
be agreed with UWDP/UNCHS by September 1987.
3. Local Government Financial and Demographic Information System
Executing Agency:       Ministry of Finance/Bureau Pusat Statistik/PUOD
Objectives:             To provide assistance to  Ministry of Finance/BPS for
the design and implementation of improved information
systems on (a) local government finance and (b) popula-
tion.



-67 A-n   3
Page 5
Duration of Services: 1988-89
Costs:                                   Man-months           Cost (Rp mln)
Foreign            24                    475
Local              48                    277
Total          72                    752
TOR Status:             TOR confirmed at negotiations.
4. Urban Mapping Dissemination and Local Cadaster Production
Executing Agency:       DG Agraria, Ministry of Home Affairs
Objectives:             To (a) provide line maps for fiscal cadaster purposes
to DG Pajak, (b) support IUIDP planning, (c) strengthen
large-scale mapping capacity of DCAgraria, and (d)
improve coordination, distribution and use of urban
maps.
Duration of Services: 1987-89
Costs:                                         Man-months           Cost (Rp mln)
Foreign                    48                     950
TOR Status:            TOR confirmed at negotiations.
C. Planning and Programming
1.   Program Development and Monitoring
(a) Urban Policy Adviser
Executing Agency:       DCCK
Objectives:             To provide assistance to the Project Coordinating Unit
in overall monitoring of the Government's urban sector
development action plan and to provide policy advice
and analysis on issues to be addressed by the Urban
Development Coordination Team (Tim Koordinasi).
Duration of Services:  April 1987-March 1990



- 68 -                          AMEX 3
Page 6
Costs:                                         Man-months           Cost (Rp mln)
Foreign                    50                    990
Local                      90                    520
Equipment                                        165
Total                                     1,675
TOR Status:             TOR confirmed at negotiations.
(b)  Water Resource Planning and Programming
Executing Agency:       DGCK/DCWRD/PUOD
Objectives:             To assist the Water Supply Working Group under Tim
Koordinasi in formulating sector policy and work
program relating to, inter alia, (a) integrated
investment planning and programming at national level;
(b) financing criteria; (c) provision of services to
low-income groups at affordable prices; (d) water
resource management; (e) environmental issues; (f)
support to Provincial Monitoring and Development Units,
and water enterprises; and (g) manpower development and
training.
Duration of Services:  1987-1989
Costs:             (i)  Water Supply           Man-Months           Cost (Rp mln)
Foreign                     18                   356
Local                       12                    69
Subtotal                30                    425
TOR Status:             TOR will be confirmed by September 1987.
(c) Spatial Planning and INUDS Support
Executing Agency:       DGCK (Extension of UNDP/UNHCS project INS/85/005 team)
Objectives:             To provide spatial plenning support to Tim Koordinasi
and assist in the institutionalization of capacities
and systems developed in connection with the National
Urbanization Strategy (NUDS) Project.
Duration of Services   1987-98
Costs                                          Man-months           Cost (Rp mln)
Foreign                     36                   713
Local                      42                    243
Support equipment                                100
Subtotal                    78                 1,055



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
Pase 7
2.  Project Monitoring Assistance and Equipment
Executing Agency:       Ministry of Public Works (Secretary General)
Objectives:             To provide assistance to the Project Coordinating Unit,
the Program Monitoring Specialist will: (a) prepare
quarterly reports on the status and purposes of the
urban expenditure program; (b) prepare quarterly
reports in collaboration with D.C. Budget and Bank
Indonesia on status of Bank loan disbursement and
operations of the Special Account; (c) arrange for
audits of loan accounts in Bank Indonesia and Ministry
of Finance and of Bank Rakyat Indonesia's INPRES and
expenditure reporting; and (d) ensure consolidated
reports on project accounts and audits are provided to
the Bank in a timely fashion.
Duration of Services:  April 1987-March 1990
Costs:                                         Man-months           Cost (Rp mln)
Foreign                    36                    713
Equipmient                                        83
Total                                       796
TOR Status:             TOR confirmed at negotiations.
3. Subsector Policy Development
Executing Agency:       Tim Koordinasi through DGCK and DGWRD
Objectives:             To develop appropriate suibsector development strategies
and investment programs for the medium term.
Duration of Services:  1987-89
(b) DGCK sectors:
Costs:            (i)   Water supply           Man-montha           Cost (Rp mln)
Foreign                    40                    825
Local                      140                   825
Subtotal             180                  1,650
(ii) Sanitation
Foreign                    20                    413
Local                      70                    412
Subtotal              9U                   825



-70-  -                          WX 3
Page 8
(iii) Solid waste management
Foreign                     20                    413
Local                       70                    413
Subtotal              90                    825
(iv) KIP strategy
Foreign                     20                    413
Local                       70                    412
support
Subtotal              90                    825
(v) Kalimantan IUIDP implementation
Foreign                     60                  1,238
Local                      210                  1,238
Subtotal             270                  2,415
Total                                            6,600
(c)  DGWRD--Urban flood protection
Costs:                                          Man-months            Cost (Rp mln)
Foreign                     30                    594
Local                       40                    231
Total                  70                    825
TOR Status:              TOR to be developed by agencies concerned in consulta-
tion w4th Tim Koordinasi.  Outline TOR to be agreed at
negotiations.
D. Institutional and Manpower Development
1.  Manpower Development Study
Executing Agency:        Ministry of Home Affairs, (Secretary General) in
cooperation with BAKN
Objectives:              (a)  To define the urban infrastructure development
planning, programming, financing, implementation,
operation, maintenance and urban management functions
to be performed at the second level of local government
in the light of recent policy changes; (b) to define
institutional, organizational, systems, procedural and



- 71 -
ANNEX 3
Page 9
policy changes which would lead to enhanced capacities
of local authorities to execute their urban
development-related functions in the absence of
fundamental changes in local government structure; to
define where further investigation is required in the
case of systems or procedures of a technical nature;
(c) to assess the existing local authority manpower
stock quantitatively and qualitatively, and to define
the highest priority training and manpower needs to be
met over the next two plan periods (1989-94 and 1994-
99); (d) to investigate the organizational and staffing
implications of the technical support and training
required by local authorities from provincial and
central government agencies; and (e) to identify urban
manpower development and training programs for phased
implementation over the next two plan periods.
Duration of Service.:  1987/88
Costs:                                         Man-months           Cost (Rp mln)
Foreign                    44                    871
Local                     125                    722
Equipment                                         50
Total                269                  1,643
TOR Statu3:             TOR will be confirmed by Septemaber 1987 following
review by BAKN.
2.  DGCK Institutional Development
Executing Agency        DGCK
Objectives              To assist with DCCK Secretariate (a) review the DG's
present organization and institutional capacities with
special attention to the Introduction of IUIDP and the
increasing role of local governments, and (b) recommend
improvements.
Duration of Services:  1988-1989
Costs:                                         Man-months           Cost (Rp mln)
Local                   24                    139
TOR Status:             TOR will be confirmed by September 1987.



I                        Ali,
I~     C/
0 =z
CrI '
OCr'



S1   stE7I  [ow  - If l((It   8SSISIU       U  1a 5tlEx 5SIR
slanted               ------------------     stirated            ---          -
Issigtnt                               Executing  Bssinxt           lmthid                                         Losts /e                                       Funding    ----------------- linettle -------------------------------
Agenc       eriod            -----------U   '                                               p rl                         5ourCt      l5/5krtllst         bord          Lawent(e  pietion
foreign   LOca          foreign   Local    Iotal          foreign   Local        il
I(CSICR K 6SSISIKE:
Locoa  resotrce IlobLlization:
Valution aduisers                        jt Waja-k  1     i           181             i      2172               2172           35834             384           xb.se,.x niSL,   existing         W9VS I?O.7                      09iM
lai atMinistratiot aduvser           WEPaj       1987-B9              13              1! 516                                     r 81       r      d5S             USL          existing'         Mi/?7           09ifJ7 B9/
If   fnitoring and deelopxnt         IlCKS       19W7-N                16       72   1        432       252      ta1            713      4ij      1129             LSL         Coistig           US/I            09'S87          094119
unt (1RDU  estsalzsbtnt               we86
UE  nagqetnt assistance              DEC1        19W7-i9                       250                    B875       85               5      1411     s44              USL          tXiSting'         08/07           09/i9           0949
U   orguanzation study               DE6CK        IW-B9                36       72            432       ZS2      684            713       41b    '123        Lown 26i3-IND      ellistig          O/V7            0917            C9uB9
mu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
Lewel 1 a ndinistration              ID          1W7-I9
luEalttion phlse                                                        3       I?             36        4Z       70             59         r      -'23    ; Loan 1972-ID       existing'         SBI7            09/07            /1149
Irelmentation - trngMonxtoring                                         11       61            132       221      356            21B        7C        B 587         USL          existing.         124/7           02id            01s41
instailation                                                 Z56                     896       096                    14;8      '7I              USL          ex:shtng          1247            02'18           01/l9
Sector filnnci:g:
Lending policv                       DM          1'47-B9               4'                     Soo               S50             825                 9'5            6so]           3087            n.a.            08i7            06/D8
RN  mratetalioaztion                 aIlm        1987-19               21             '        88       16       456            4175      2'       7?2         UWIlPDlMic         08:7            03/,3           01i88           09,89
L6 filancial adtd socix-econanic    IfS'.  198-9                       Z        t8            288      It0       456            475      :.         ?52            US          eXisiting          19iB7          1087           0Q1/
inforsaln syste mll
Orsuntnpping 0,sswiination           D6 fgermrna  1917-89    i          8                     576         0      576            950         9       450             USL         existing         11/8           1/67             tu349
and fiscal cadister production                                i
Sector Progranung:
Program etiopeent I mnitoring   DECI             19d7-d9               So       1D            61D      315       915            9%        i20      1jf0            USL          existinw          8157            t907            03/90
Uater resources                                                        isCK/ll   I1  12       216        42      258            356        bS        it   ;         USL             tb            0987             10187          09099
Setial plaming I IKUDS support   D6UI                                  36       42            432       IU?      579            713      243        9SS             USL        enisting/g        erious          varioni          091BII
espxent/f                                                                                   160                ItD            26                  264            aU
Project  riotaring assistance        IflUSekJen) 19W7/I      i         36             i       132                432            713                 '13             USL         existing-         01/47           08/0?           03/18
and equipnent                                                                         e5                  SE             83                 83             USL
Subsector program deuelapenta:   DEC             19t7/88   v:s                                                                                                                                              ious   ouas09
Uater supelg                                                       S0                               sI Sf1  SII    1XD     825       025      tSO              USL             lb
Saoutation                                                        28        70:           20       250       5DD            413      1li        375            USL             fb
Solid aste rne gtent                                              28        78            2S8      250       500            113      4;3       6'5             LiSL            tb
t;lP                                                               2        701           2S8      250       500            413                 iS '25         U04             fb
alonwton IUIDF  ipleentation                             I         I       211            758      7s l     I5O0           1230     i 38       475   .        0SL             fb
DmB:                               080                     i         30      1401           360      14D       Soo            S94        31       B2S             USL 
UrbAn flood protection
Institutional and bnpeer denelopient:
Institutionel I r_ar                 PIOtSetJen)/ 1988/Il   i          1            IZ        528      431t      966            871       722       643             A St       existingib         83/6            014             DSiV
denelopent study                     SRxl
Qiopieut                                                                            1        31                 3D             Sl o                               USL
BEEK institutioa  denwloptet         06CK                    1                  24                                Di              0       139      'I9       Lown 20-11    existiWb                 SI            09/87           "A8
leclaicul fssistanct Sub-total                                          8 819   116   1       1         6843    16223           16797     q970      Z6o?o                                                                                                                                             w , 3
5ub-tota  Urbaw Sector Loaw  IRS                                     716      1568           8924     5497    14421           14725      06S       3704 :4
-------------------------------  - --    -   -----   :  -------  -------  -------  ------  --- ----



OM       SECTOR LWm  - TEDIICML OSSISIKCE R  TR_INIU  _MI_
Estinated           ------------------    Estinated           ------------------
Rsslont                              Lxecuting   ssigmet           r1nV thd                                    Costs it                                     f mding    ----------------- linetale
Rgency     period      -----------------              USS 'DOO                          Rp miillion                 source       lOR/Shortlist      Rwd          Cme            C letimn
foreign   Local        foreign   Loc       Total        foreign   Local    Total
TRIIIIIIN:
IUIIP training extension           DOCK         1967-l9    1       1"      30S   1       1680     1068     27t8           2772     1761     1533            USL          existing         09/87          10/8?           K6M
Urban Planning training            DirlKTD      1987-89             60      229   1        960      800     1760           158t    1320      2901            USL          existing         D9/67          10/97           116/I
and eqllent                                              ffi                     '       IDD               100            165               165   i
lb
PO8 valuer training                OCPaJxt      1987-89    1 9                            2970      675     3615            901     1111     60Dl   1         USL          wious           12/87           12/97          09/89
Traimng Assistance Sib-total:                                        200      53t           5710     25t3     8253           91Z2     *195    13617
Sub-total Urban Sector Loan Training                               200      531           5710     2543     8253          9122      t195    13617                                                                                           1
:                      I 
IO1IL 1A  RN11 IIRA1N1I6                                           1919     2250         iSIS90     asI   tt47S            26219    1tKS    1Q384
.s.....3.n.. =-.......= ~                                                    =s           a.-      a.-        ..                                   
Sub-total UrIban Sector Lom  I/A and Training              1       916     7Mt           1631     9039    22673          2t116    1326t   371410
.SXSStknt-  S..fl.S=t=Zt S..SWtttlSkSU                            nag  SS= aga           canS    ===s    ===s            us-==.    ==--.    I=5
09'r-17  - Revision 36
*  Direct appointnents
/a  Block allwcations to be distributed auq   subsctrs fel          revina of policy developnent and   dium-temn planming needs
and Tgi.    omts sh*am are indicative, and in st m es incdlde for epnpnent needs.
/h  TI  and sortlists to be discued uith the             before 1957
/c  Subject to revision of N1W  project INI/1S. F diqng  ay be Ally  provided fro USL.
/d  lhunth allocations within birectrates 6eeat ay be reallated am" resective items  hmn as ciratmstances reluire.
/e  hi inclding price contingscies (qr . 7n  of total w R  2 billion)
/f  Epip,ent and furshing bet allocation aWp rately 9100,tOI for pregrvmiig adviser ane U,W for spatial plaming aduisers
/g  Extesior of ooing  IIIS project cwratly fibmed by  M



ANNEX 4
- 75 -                        Page 1
INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
PBB Improvement Plan
Background
1.        As part of a comprehensive tax reform the GOI in 1986 introduced a
new tax on land and buildings/PBB (integrating the former IPEDA, wealth tax
and local household tax) with the aim of strengthening the revenue base of
regional/local government and improving the overall equity of property
taxation. As the new PBB law stipulates that tax assessments are to be Lised
on (actual) market values of land and buildings, this calls for a complete
revision of the current index valuation system. In addition, improvements in
tax management/administration are needed in order to ensure successful
implementation of the PBB law and capture the full revenue potential of this
tax.
Overall Strategy
2.        Considering the large number of taxpayers (approximately 33 mil-
lion), the bulk of whom pay little more than US$l per year, and also the cost
and technical expertise involved in setting up a new valuation system as well
as the constraints in manpower, managerial capacity, and resources, it is
obvious that a careful implementation strategy and process of selecting target
groups of properties has to be developed. This strategy would take into
account revenue contributions by sector, by type and value of property and by
region as well as the need for equitable treatment of various target groups.
In addition, the strategy must be realistic in view of the above-mentioned
constraints.
3.        The proposed medium-term strategy would involve a general
improvement in property valuation and tax administration over a period of 10
years. This could include measures focussing on urban and rural properties as
well as special sectors (mining, forestry and estates). In view of the long-
term growth potential and greater feasibility for short-term improvements in
the urban sector, the initial strategy that has been developed would focus on
a step-by-step improvement in the valuation and tax management of urban
properties. With 15% of taxpayers (approx. 5 million), the urban sector
contributed about one third of total revenues in 1985-86, Based on present
assessments, the 100,000 urban properties in the top assessment ranges
(Rp. 100,000 and above) account for about two thirds of urban PBB revenues
(see Annex 4, Table 2). Of these, 60,000 are located in Jakarta alone, and an
additional 32,000 are in the next 15 largest cities. The proposed strategy
involves the individual valuation of the highest-valued properties in major
urban centers as well as upgrading of the index appraisal system and
improvements in registration, billing and collection.



- 76 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 2
Action Plan for 1987-89
4.        The first stage of the PBB improvement program, covering a three-
year period (1987-89), would comprise about 10,000 individual valuations in
Jakarta, Bandung and Medan as well as semi-individual valuations for another
50,000 properties, the upgrading of the index assessments covering urban
properties throughout Indonesia and improvements in tax administration. Even
with this limited scope, the three-year program is quite complex and will not
be easy to implement.
5.        The first phase of the three-year Action Plan would consist of an
Inception Phase for detailed design of the program, to be followed by the main
implementation phase. The salient elements of the Action Plan comptise:
(a) the appointment of a core team of foreign advisors which would
assist PBB in valuation and tax administration, including assistance
in organizing and supervising the valuation of some 60,000 urban
properties by private firms and individual valuers;
(b) training of valuers both within Indonesia and abroad; and
(c) related equipment and materials.
The total cost of the proposed Action Plan is estimated at US$ 24.6 million
for the 1987-89 period. A detailed breakdown is provided in Table 1 below. A
detailed step-by-step outline of the Action Plan is also given in Attachment 1
and 2. Below, the Action Plan components dealing with (A) valuation and
B) tax administration are described in more detail.
PBB Action Plan A (Valuation)
Phase I:  Inception Phase - Valuation
6.        In Phase I, the first and most important step will be to separate in
the PBB Head Office the valuation function from the tax administration
function. A Sub-Directorate-Valuation will be established, headed by a Chief
Valuer, and an advisor to the Chief Valuer will be appointed. Three PBB
officers would be designated as Assistants to the Chief Valuer and three
additional advisors would assist those officers to carry out their duties.
The inception phase is to be completed by July 1987 and the proposed
activities will end in 1989, after which the newly valued properties would be
assessed for tax purposes. The Chief Valuer will report to the Director PBB
and have overall responsibility for all of the valuations for PBB and the
associated coordination and control of all valuation activities. The
responsibilities of the Chief Valuer's immediate assistants will be grouped
under three main activities:
(a)  Assistant Chief Valuer Operations, directly in charge of valuing
operations in the urban area;
(b)  Assistant Chief Valuer - EDP, who will plan, develop and supervise
computerized systems to provide computer-assisted valuation
estimates and adjustments of values by indexation and other methods;



- 77                             ANNEX 4
Page 3
(c) Assistant Chief Valuer - Training, who will administer all of the
valuer training programs, both academic and pratical.
As it is intended to value properties in Medan and Bandung, in addition to
Jakarta, it will be desirable to have two further advisors stationed in those
cities where they will assist in helping organize and coordinate the valuation
work under the direction of the Head Office core unit. This organizational
structure will facilitate future extensions for similar programs to improve
the Rural and Special Properties segments of PBB.
Phase II: Improvement of the Valuation System
7.        To value individually over 5 million urban properties would
immediately require resources of an enormous scale. As a consequence, an
initial scheme is proposed whereby lG,000 top-value properties in the cities
of Jakarta, Bandung and Medan will be individually valued by contract, and in
Jakarta a further 50,000 by semi-individual methods by 90 PBB valuers under
the direction of 10 expatriate individual valuers. All of the properties to
be valued will be identified in the first instance by preliminary survey by
local staff using aerial photographs which are preaently available from
Agraria, as well as field surveys. Tenders will then be called to value
manageable groups of the top 10,000 properties by foreign valuation firms or
organizations, in conjunction with counterpart local firms. Concurrently, the
10 expatriate individual valuers will appraise the 50,000 next most-valuable
properties in Jakarta, assisted by 90 local valuers who have already had some
formal valuation instruction and experience.
8.        Throughout the program, valuer training activities will be
established to provide for a wide range of valuer education. Three-year
scholarships will be offered for overseas universities for professional
valuation degree qualifications at overseas universities. At technician
level, three-month courses will be organized at the Malaysian Government's
National Institute of Valuation and also the existing GAPPI/PBB courses will
:ontinue. The training unit will provide in-house block courses and in-
service training on a continuous basis while undertaking evaluation of trainee
performance.
9.        To compile and maintain a large property tax base requires research
and development of appropriate computerized valuation systems. The EDP
section will design, introduce and supervise computer assistance systems to
generate valuation estimates and also adjust valuations by indexation and
other methods. A computerized data base will be developed to improve
information on property sales and other valuation related information.
10.       As a modern system of valuation cannot be introduced immediately for
all properties in Indonesia, an upgrading of the index system of appraisal by
property classification will be undertaken by the Head Office core unit during
the program period. The salient features will be establishing field teams for
collecting market information, improving the land-value mapping and building
indexation systms, first in Jakarta and then extending to other areas.



-78-AU 34
Psie
PageX 4
PbB Action Plan B:  Tax Manapemnt/Admini-tration
11.       A separate improvement program for overall tax management/administration of
PBS has been identified. This program is linked to the valuation program as
well as to tax reform measures being undertaken by D.J. Pajak and related
Technical Assistance programs. As in Action Plan A, the focus will be on the
urban sector because of its high revenue potential and the more usanageable
number of properties, but improvements in taxpayer registration, assessments,
and tax collections will have large positive spread effects throughout the PBS
system. Subprograms under this action plan address the following key areas
which reflect main constraints inherited from IPEDA:
(a) taxpayer identification and registration;
(b) assessment system (tax billing);
(c) collection/enforcement system; and
(d) exemption review and appeals system.
In addition, public relations programs (for 1990 assessments) and a systematic
monitoring of the impact of PBB reform and implementation will be carried out.
12.       The first st-  (to be carried out by May 1987) will be to set up a
task force or PBB uni for this program, define its authority and functions
and appoint its PBB head, who will be assisted by the chief foreign tax
management advisor. The Indonesian team, consisting of at least four full-
time qualified staff members, will coordinate all actions with the heads of
the assessment and collection departments. By the end of 1987, the first
preliminary studies/reports on PBB manpower planning as well as guidelines for
a tax management information system should be completed. Since most of the
subprograms in assessment, collection, etc., are of continuous nature, many of
the dates given in the attached Action Plan refer to submission of initial
studies or improvement proposals, not the completion of the task as such.
13.       After obtaining aerial photographs for the urban sector (100 cities)
from Agraria, the first key administrative improvement program would focus on
increasing accu.acy and refining taxpayer coverage and recording of proper data
through field surveys, matching of PBB data with those from other sources,
review of exemptions, active contacts with notaries, etc. This should help to
bring up the taxpayer coverage ratio from its presently relatively low level of
about 70X. Up to now urban PBB relies almost exclusively on property data
provided by the taxpayers. As part of the program, a comprehensive review of
the exemption status of many urban properties will be carried out and should
yield a substantial increase in assessments.
14.       Computerization in the area of processing assessments or handling of
tax bills offers large scale opportunities for increasing speed, accuracy and
cost savings. This has so far been done only for Jakarta's 0.8 million tax-
payers. An improved computer system which accommodates also the new market
value should be developed and extended (by PAIR) for Jakarta, Bandung and
Medan by December 1989, to be followed by other major cities.



79                             jjM31
15.       Increasing tax assessments obviously concerns only one part of PBS
administration. Low collection ratios (60X of current assessments) and the
rather high average collection cost of 201 (including the 101 collection
comissions) indicate IArge areas for efficiency improvements. By January
1988, a first study should outline in more detail proposals for improving
enforcement, including more effective application of sanctions and/or
incentives.
16.       In addition to the above measures directly related to registration,
assessment and collection, other measures to be pursued to improve tax
administration would include the following:
(a) in the context of overall tax reform, a link should be established
to the PAIK master file (NPWP) and the payment control system (NPCS)
in order to match income taxpayers and high ;alue properties;
(b) with the new (individual) valuation system in place and increased
tax liabilities, objections, appeals or applications for
exemption/reductions by taxpayers are likely to increase, which
calls for building up a proper (internal) appeals system and review
board;
(c) the application of new market values for the 1990 asaessments imply
the need for a long-range and well-designed public information
campaign; and
(d) a study team including PBB staff as well as possibly short-term
foreign experts and/or domestic consultants/universities, should
carefulLy monitor the imupact of improvement measures on, e.g., tax
revenue, cost, taxpayer compliance, administrative efficiency and
tax incidence.



ANNEX 4
-0 -                                   I=Tabl  1
INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
PBB Improvement Plan - Summary of Costs
Foreign            Local             Total
Man-    US$'      Man-    US$'    Man-    US$'
months   000      months   000    months   000
Advisers
Chief valuation adviser                  31       372      -         -       31       372
Tax management adviser                   31       372      -         -       31       372
Valuation adviser (Operations)           30       360      -         -       30       360
Valuation adviser (Training)             24       288      -         -       24       288
Valuation adviser (EDP)                  24       288      -         -       24       288
Supervising valuer Medan                 30       360      -         -       30       360
Supervising valuer Bandung               30       360      -         -       30       360
Short-term experts                       24       288      -         -       24       288
Subtotal                            224    2,688       -                224    2,688
-n.ntract Valuation by Firms                     13,716              997             14,713
Individual Valuers                        240    2,880        -        -      240    2,880
Subtotal                                   19,284               997            20,281
Training of Valuers
Overseas degrees (45)                           2,430                -              2,430
Overseas short courses                            540                -                540
GAPPI/PBB courses                                   -              450                450
Block courses                                       -              225                225
Subtotal                                    2,970               675             3,645
Equipment
Vehicles & operating costs                          -              300                300
Microcomputers, calculators,                                       200                200
tapes, training equipment
Aerial mapping materials                                           216                216
Subtotal                                        -               716                716
Total                                      22,254             2,388            24,642



INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAiN
Distribution of PBB Taxpayers and Assessments by Size of Assessment and Urban Center (1986/87)
Remaining
Total                   Jakarta              15 largest cities          21 major cities
Assessment r;:nge        Taxpayers  Assessment   Taxpayers  Assessment   Taxpayers  Assessment   Taxpayers  Assessment
(Rp)                 ('000)      (Rp mln)      (-000)      (Rp mln)      ('000)      (Rp mln)      ('000)      (Rp mln)
(I+II+III)               -------- (I)  --------   ------- (II)--------   ------- (III) --
I.    Less than 5,000          3,363        6,955         244           715        2,243       4,207           876       2,033
TI.     5,000 -  25,000        1,260       12,859         297        3,842           715       6,627           248       2,390   X
III.   25,000 - 100,000          348       15,631         162        7,b27           142       5,677            44       2,127
IV.   100,000 - 500,000           86       19,995          .52       iO,772           26        5,420            8       3,803
V.    Above 500,000               15       49,584           8        22,172            6       22,725            1        4,687
Total              5,072      105,024         763        45,328        3,132       44,656        1,177       15,040
Source:  PBB Directorate.



D-   H
cZ     I
I



INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Action Plan for PBB Improvement
A. Improvement of Valuation System
Key areas                                       Steps                                Time frame
Phase I (Inception)                          Prepare Inception Plan
1. Assign functions of Chief Valuer &                By August 1987
his staff. Define authority and
functions.
2. Appoint Chief Valuer Adviser.                   By September 1987
3. Separate valuation from, other PBB                By August 1987           X.
functions and prepare draft decree
to establish valuation regulations.
4. Inception Report completed.                      By November 1987
5. Mobilization of 5 Valuation                      By November 1987
Advisers.
Phase II (Implementation)
N. Setting guidelines and standards          1. Research and development of basic            Commence September 1987  9
for tender of individual                    methodology and systems.                      C                            n x
appraisals.                                                                                                          O   4 
2. Final approval of imolementation                 By November 1987
plan covering staffing-resource
allocation.
3. Produce forms, manuals and guide-                By November 1987
lines.
4. Prepare tender specifications and                By December 1987
have them advertised.



Key areas                                       Steps                                Time frame
B. Identifying propercies for indi-          1. Obtain aerial photographs for                      By July 1987
vidual appraisals in Jakarta,               Jakarta, Bandung and Medan.
Bandung and Medan.
2. Obtain printouts of properties in                  By July 1987
Book V.
3. Operations Technical Adviser                    By September 1987
commence effective work.
4. Preliminary field survey to physi-             Start September 1987
cally identify 10,000 Book V prop-             Finish January 1988
erties in Jakarta, Medan and
Bandung.
5. Divide Book V properties into suit-               By March 1988
able packages for teno. r.
6. Effective contract valuation work                    May 1988
to commence.
7. Valuations completed.                           By September 1989
C. Establish training systems and            1. Select courses and candidates for                     1987-89          p
prepare and conduct training                 long-term (Valuation Degree)
programs.                                    courses for professional qualifica-                                      24w
tion.                                                                  0   0
P%
2. Training Adviser commenced                      By Seprember 1987
effective work.



Key areas                                      Steps                                Time frame
C. (cont-d)                                 3. Select candidates for INSPEN -                       1987-89
Malaysia courses.
4. Select candidates for short-term                     1987-89
introductory course for
valuation/MAPPI/GAPPI/PBB.
5. Block courses and seminars for                       1987-89
improved PBB index systems, field/
sales data gathering, land value
mapping.
6. Preparation and updating instruc-                Continuous from
tions and manuals.                               September 1987
'. Identifying and valuing semi-            1. Develop system and methodology for                By March 1988
individual appraisal propeI-ties            semi-individual appraisal.
(52,000) Book IV.
2. Preliminary field survey to                       By March 1988
physically identify 52,000.
Book IV properties in Jakarta.
3. Recruit and appoint 10 expatriate               By January 1988
valuers.  Select 90 PBB valuers
with training to work in conjunc-
tion with expatriate valuers.
4. Commence field work.                            By February 1988
5. Complete valuations for Book IV                By September 1989
properties.



Key areas                                       Steps                                Time frame
E. Establish computer-assisted               1. EDP adviser commence effective                  By September 1987
valuation program.                          work.
2. Preliminary research on feasibility              By January 1988
of EDP assistance to valuation
process.
3. Develop system, complete gross                     By June 1988
design.
4. Establish system of recording sales             Continuing 1987-89
& property related data.
5. Develop system for updating/                    Continuing 1987-89
equalization of property values.
F. Improving index assessment                1. Establish field team for collecting              Continuous from
system.                                     market information from appropriate                September 1987
resources.
2. Prepare land value maps pilot                      By June 1988
project in Jakarta.
3. Implement land value maps in other                 By June 1989        1U I
cities.                                                                l   I
4. Improve building index in Jakarta                Continuous from
and then extend improvements to                   September 1987
other cities.



INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Action Plan for PBB Improvement
B. Improvement of PBB Tax Management/Administration
Key areas/program                                  Steps                                 Time frame
Phase I (Inception)
A. Set up task force/unit for overall         1. Assign PBB head of task force and           August 1987
improvement of PBB management/                his staff.
administration.
2. Appoint foreign advisor and define         September 1987
functions and authority of task
force.
3. Inception Report completed.                November 1987
Phase II (Implementation)
A. Monitoring of overall strategy and         1. Prepare intermediate/long-term              January 1988
action plan.                                  revenue estimates/targets.
2. Prepare preliminary manpower and           April 1988
training plans/programs.
3. Prepare guidelines/system and              April 1988
improvement proposals for a PBB
management information system
(forms, reporting etc.).



Key areas/program                                   Steps                                 Time frame
B. Improve and increase property/tax-          1. Havc aerial photographs/maps ready           End 1987 for photomaps
payer identification and coverage.             for major urban centers.                    for 100 cities & line
maps for Jakarta; mid-
1989 for line maps for
46 cities.
2. Collect information on property             Continuous from
identification/description.                 January 1988
3. Review status of exempt properties          March 1988
and draft decree o- exemption of
government property.
4. Check property identification/              Continuous from
registration based on results from          June 1988
aerial photographs and field sur-
veys, starting with top-value                                            c
areas.
C. Improve assessment system (tax              1. Prepare SK to base actual assess-            Ready for 1990
billing).                                      ment on market values as determined         assessments
by subdirectorate responsible for
valuation.
2. Review current DKI computer system.         September 1989
3. Introduce/extend computerized PBB           Continuous from 1990         w  
registration/assessment system,                                          0
starting in cities with more than                                        I '
300,000 taxpayers.
4. Prioritize the issuing & distribu-          Continuous from 1990
tion of assessments/collections.



Key areas/program                                   Steps                                 Time frame
D. Improve collection system.                  1. Study of current collection system,         Febraury 1988
practices and cost. Analysis of
arrears and effectiveness of
penalties.
2. Defining collection authority,             March 1988
procedures and commissions between
PBB and local government staff.
3. Develop procedures for implementing        June 1988
improved sanctions and enforcement
system.
4. Linking high-value PBB assessments          January 1988
to PAIK master file (NPWP) and
payment control system (NPCS).
E. Establish an appeals system and             1. Make available appropriace details          Commencing 1990
institution.                                   of assessment methodology to permit
individuals to review assessments.
2. Establish internal appeals system.          September 1989
3. Review Board for exemptions/                September 1989
deductions.
F. Public relations program                    1. Information campaign in mass media          December 1990
2. Conducting seminars, etc.                  Commencing 1990
3. Monitor the impact of PBB reform            1. Review with the Bank, proposals for         Septebmer 1989
and implementation                             impace monitoring of PBB reform and
implementatton program



)INW1* SI
aDVd SIHI
-6'V ,



ANUIEX 5
- 91 -                           Page 1
INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Water Enterprise Cost Recovery and Management Improvement
A. User Charges
1.        User Charges levied by either service departments of local govern-
ments (Dinas) or local enterprises (Perusahaan Daerah) constitute a very
important source of local revenue.
2.        In view of the constrained financial position of the Central
Government, it has been agreed to increase resource mobilization and reduce
subsidies at the local level. Water enterprises constitute a large proportion
of the local enterprises sector and thus deserve special attention.
3.        Under the existing water supply projects (Loans 1709, 2275 and
2632), GOI has already agreed to take all steps needed, including increases in
both PDAM and BPAM water enterprises' (WEs) tariffs to provide water revenues
at least sufficient to cover their respective operating expenses (including
depreciation on revalued assets) and interest and debt amortization in excess
of depreciation. Accordingly, the Bank-supported WEs are expected to meet
their operating expenses and debt service obligations on completion of the
respective projects while maintaining affordability, i.e., water charges to be
less than 4% of monthly income. Success of the policy is partly attributed to
implementation of National Water Rate Struct'li   promulgated by the joint
decree of the Minister of Home Affairs and th. sinister of Public Works in
consultation with the Bank in early 1984.
4.        It is now desirable to apply the same policy relating to tariff
structure and level to the rest of the WEs in Indonesia. It has been agreed
that practical implementation would be carried out in the following phased
manner:
(a) issue binding instructions by December 1986 to all WEs to
(i)   implement the National Water Rate Structure; and
(ii)   implement accounting system already approved by CK.
(b) implement tariff structure and level in BPAMs which are already
covering cash operating expenses particularly in Java and Sumatra,
by June 1987;
This Annex is based on the findings and recommendations of IBRD staff members
Ali N. Memon and Rene Costa during the appiaisal mission to Jakarta in
November 1986.



X92 -
(c)  implemntation of tariff structure and level in all PDAMs to be
completed by December 1987; and
(d) implementation in all WEs to be completed by December 1988.
B. Water Organization and Management
5.        While it is acknowledged that the GOI's policy for water supply
tariff level and structure constitutes a major step toward a more effective
and equitable mobilization of resources at the local level, its widespread
implementation in all WEs and the optimization and monitoring of its results
will require strong coordination of the ministries involved at the central
level, and the aet-up of well-managed and organized WEs, each with a n'imber of
connections large enough to ensure the financial viability of their activ-
ities, and with the highest managerial and operational efficiency standards.
The rationale for an improved policy and organizational framework at the
national and local levels is given below.
6.        The main constraints evident are related to fragmentation of water
supply policy making, weaknesses in water supply organization, as well as
management and monitoring of Water Enterprises, including scarce manpower and
insufficient internally generated financial resources through user charges.
These constraints have often impeded implementation and led to operational
difficulties. The user charges have been addressed above. Resolution of
other issues is also required.
7.        The Directorate General Cipta Karya (CK) of the Ministry of Puhlic
Works is chiefly responsible for GOI's urban water sector investment program
and its technical direction. Local-government-administered WEs (PDAM), CK-
administered WEs or local service departments (Dinas) are responsible for
operations and maintenance. In cooperation with the Ministry of Home Affairs
(MHA), which is responsible for oversight of local government and WE adminis-
tration, CK is now beginning to address the institutional issues emerging from
the accelerated development of the past. The proposed TIM KADUPP provides an
excellent opportunity for co-rdinating consolidating presently fragmented
water supply policy making.       is agreed that a standing working group would
be created under the direction of TIM KADUPP for formulating, implementing and
monitoring sector policy in terms of, inter alia,:
(a) determination of priority for investment at national level;
(b) determination of sector financing policy (loans vs. grants) level of
local and national tax on WEs, level of electricity tariffs for WEs,
and use of profits, if any;
(c) provision of services to low income groups at affordabale prices;
(d) water resource management;
(e) environmental issues;



-03 -                             Page 3
(f)  provision of support to Provincial Monitoring and Development Units
and WE; and
(g) manpower development and training. The proposed working group would
be set up and staffed by September 1987. Technical assistance would
be provided to the Working Group.
8.        While the Working Group mentioned above will play a very useful
role, the responsibility for supervision of water sector rests wich PUOD in
MHA and the Development Sub-Directorate of Water Supply (SDD) in CK.
Strengthening of staff of PUOD and SDD is critical. In particular:
(a) a deputy to the head of Subdirectorate Development supported by
finacial expert would be appointed;
(b) an institutional development expert. would be appointed in PUOD;
(_) staff capacity of PUOD and CK would be increased in order to
effectively supervise WEs through the provincial monitoring units.
Organization of Water Enterprises
9.        The practice in Indonesia is for each level II local government to
have its own WE for its jurisdiction. Until a few years ago, only the major
cities and towns had piped municipa; water systems and thus there were only a
few municipal WEs in operation. With the significant expansion rf the water
supply program to small towns (IKKs), GOI faced the prospect of creating over
2.000 WEs. However, it quickly became clear that this is not realistic in
view of serious manpower constraints in the country (both technical and
financial skills), and high operating costs. Under the first East Java Water
Supply Project, it was agreed that WEs would be established at the Kabupaten
level (each Kabupaten contains several IKKs and BNA towns) and for each of the
major cities (Kotamadya). This meant a reduction in the number of water
enterprises in Indonesia from over 2,000 to about 250.
10.       Experience to date indicates that even the Kabupaten/Kotamadya level
WEs may be too small for reasons of efficiency (management, staffing,
finances, and operations). Analysis of tariff indicates that the smaller WEs
are not likely to be financially viable, since they have little scope for
cross-subsidization from larger cities to smaller towns and rural areas or
from commercial/industrial to residential users. Larger consolidated WEs
would improve their potential viability as well as make the task of monitoring
much easier and more manageable. An interministerial working group working
under IUPA has recognized the problem and recommended rationalization of
WEs. The group has recommended mergers of WEs into regional or provincial
PDAMs as needed on a case-by-case basis. Tnis flexible approach is expected
to be formally adaptea by GOI through issue of an appropriate guideline by
Minister of Home Affairs by February 1987.
11.       The Second East Java project includes consultancy services for
determining suitable organization structures for water entities with



ARM31 5
-94 -                                -ag 4
particular emphasis on Irian Jaya, South Sulawesi and North Sulawesi
provinces. TOR of the study are being expanded to focus on Java and Sumatra
in Phase II and the rest of the country in Phase III, The draft study, which
is expected to be completed by March l, 1987, is expected to recommend optimum
area of coverage for the three provinces as well as the rest of the country
(i.e., regional, provincial or Kotamadya/Kabupaten level) for water enter-
prises based on managerial, financial and operational efficiency criteria.
GOI would discuss the report with the Bank in June 1987, and subsequently
take decisions on changes required to enhance tne effectiveness of specific
WEs, including issue of required decrees, by September 1988.
12.       The target dates for defining water entities in Java and Sumatra and
implementing the new organizations is September 1988.
C. Monitoring of Water Enterprises
13.       WEs are responsible to their district heads (Bupatis) and through a
lengthy administration chain to MHA. Supervision of operation and maintenance
by higher levels of government is important because, as experience has shown,
WEs may not engage in the best of utility practices due to shortage of funds,
s-aff and experience. As part of its institution-building function on
centrally funded projects, CK sets up management systems and trains stafi for
WEs. However, for operations and maintenance (after project completion), CK
has neither the powers nor sufficient staff to continue this assistance and
control, nor does MHA yet have the staff or qualifications to do so.
14.       Periodic review of operating results of WEs under the Bank-financed
projects using available data indicates large amounts of unaccounted-for
water; operating losses; poor collection of water bills; and large &acounts
receivables (particularly from government agencies) at most WEs. Review of
staffing indicates several vacancies at senior 'Levels; high incidence of
existing staff who are not permanent employees of the WEs and are frequently
withdrawn causing disruption to operations; limited career development oppor-
tunities; and lack of authoritative direction to support the organizational
development of WEs.
15.       There is an urgent need to designate/create provincial development
and monitoring units along the lines of the East Java model to monitor the
performance of the WEs, take cotrective action and provide developmental
assistance in a systematic and timelv manner. The functions of these Units
should include:
(a) provision of technical and financial guidance and related
implementation support to the WEs;
(b) supervision of the operation, finance and management of WEs;
(c) review of and assistance in the preparation of tariff and other
charges;
(d)  appraisal of investment proposals and review of their priority and
justification; and



- 9S-                            ANIt  5
AM 5
(e) provision of channels to exchange information on the improvement of
systems and procedures.
It is important that these units have has adequate personnel and budget
resources. It was agreed that these units would be set up, staffed, and
funded in Java by December 1987. Units in the other provinces would be fully
operative by June 1989.
16.       The monitoring units (with assistance of consultants as needed),
woult review aanagement and performance of all PDAMs and BPAMs including
structure and efficiency of their Supervisory Boards, Boards of Directors,
maintenance programs, billing and czllection procedures and unaccounted for
water. Consultants as needed would be engaged by June 1988, the review would
be completed and action program established by December 1988 for Java and by
December 1989 for the rest of the country. Human Resource Development Program
(HRDP) would be expanded to all provinces and decision of establishment of
required regional training centers would be reached by December 1988.



I NDONESIA
URhAN SFCT.IR LOAN
Water Action Plan
Policy                                  Objectives                               Action proposed                  By                     Key steps                     Time-table       Monitoring imdicagere
I -- Development of responstbility        Define institutional framework for          -   Study optimum ares of coverage         DrP1!OD    -   Study of WEs- rationaltzatlon.         08/87 - Consm.:tants complete utiy
tor infrastructure to local           most efftcient proviston of water               (regtonal, provincial. or level   DGCK                                                                on three provtnces.
governmenrs.                          suPply services.                                11) for Water Fn:erprtses (.JEs),
haset on efficiency criteria                     -   Review financial viability of          02/88 - Consultants complete stmfy
(managerial, financial and                           PDAMs.  I)iscuss results with                   on lavS and Smatra.
ODerational).                                         Bank.  Define WEs to be
copsol idated.
3 - StrenFgten local governmeot            Improvement financial management           -   Improve cost recoverv perform-         DCJPUOD    -   An-lyze cn t recovery perform-         06/87 - Resedial action plan
resources mobilization and            practices of Water Supply Enter-                ance of WEs through:                   DGCK           ance of all water enterprises                   recomendAtion
financial management.                 prises (WEs).                                                                                         with respect to SKB/1984 and
identify problem PDAHa.
(t)   application of national                      -   Implement instructions comenc-   Commence
water tartff level policy                        !ng in Java and Sumatra requir-   08/87 - Number of water enterprtie
requiring that revenues                          ing adoption of (i) water tariff                conplying
should be sufficient to                          structure and appropriate tariff
cover O&M costs. deprecia-                       level to cover O&Mt costs. depre-
tton or debt service pay-                        ciation or debt service (which-
ments (whtchever is larger).                     eve- is larger); and ('I)
(ti)   Application of national                           accounting system for water
water tariff structure                           enterpriset  based on national
policv.                                          giidelines.
(tit)   Implementation of national
acccL..iting system.                        -   Continue program in the rest of    12/88 - Number of WIEs complying. .
all WEs (about 40 per year).
-   Timely auditing of WEs.                      - Auditor-a Reports.
- Impr,ov, provinc al and local            a.  At the provincial level.               -   Implement Provtncial Monitortng                   -   Assign functions and provide           12/87 - Instructions issued and sits
mevernmnnt canability.                                                               and Development Units (rl4APUs).                       budgets and staff to Central and               operational in Java.
West Java DPUS.
h.  At the local lessi.                    -   Under the supervision of PF1ADtJs,  DGPUOD    -   Engage consultants as r,eed_d              12/87 - Bank approval of conslttants
review management, organization.   DCCK               under TOR. agrerd with ha.*>.                  and TORa agreed.
and operatt ,nal performance of       PMADUs    -   Complete revie', of WEa in Java.               - Fiqal reports.
all PDOAs and BPAMs where re-                    -   Continue prog am in the rest of    12189 - Final reports.
quired, inciuding structure and                       the country.
efficiency of Supervisory Board
and Board of Directors, mainte-
nance programs, billing and col-
lection procedures, and un-
accounted for water issues, etc.
6 - Strengthening of policymaking          Consolidate Dresently fragRented           Strengtheniong of staff In PIJDO and    DGPUOD    -   Appointment of special staff to    08/87 - Confirmation of staff
ard impl'm-.ntat Ion.                 decision-making process and tmple-         CK.                                         DCCK           head of Subdirectorate Develop-                 assignments.
mentation capacity In the water                                                                      sent in 058 supported by a
sutpply and sanitation sector.                                                                       strong financial expert.
-   Appointment of an Institutional   1)8/87 - Appoint-bent.
Development Expert in PUOD0.
-   In PU0e and CK increase staff          09/87 - Appointmert.
capacity to effectivelv super-
vise liEs through Provincial
Monitoring Units.
p



a  5                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AfflX 6
_97 _Pape 1
INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Local Taxes and Charges
1.        Local governments levy nearly 100 taxes.  However, few ,f these
taxes are individually very important in local finances, and even in the
aggregate local taxes constitute a small proportion of total level I and II
revenues (although they are a relatively more significant revenue source in
the Kotamadya than in nonutban Kabupaten). Existing taxes could be utilized
more efficiently if administrative improvements in registration, assessment,
collection and enforcement can be made. Elimination of the numerous unproduc-
tive taxes, dS proposed in the draft law on local taxation, would reduce dis-
tortions, lower collection costs, and allow concentration of efforts on the
most productive taxes. The revenue impact on this proposed reform would be
minor, since the additional collection effort for the remaining taxes should
more than make up for any short-term revenue losses. The draft legislation
also contains two new Laxes for level II governments, a tax on gasoline con-
sumption and a betterment tax, which are strongly recommended. Regulations
drafted in connection with the new legislation should also increase the amount
of discretion allowed to local governments in setting tax rates.
2.        Fur second level regional governments, charges for services,
licenses and permits (retribusi) together constitute the largest single source
of locally generated revenues and produce double the income from local
taxes. However, there is a proliferation in many second level regional
governments of small charges which probably cost more to collect than they
yield and for many services, charge levels are (a) not determined in relation
to the costs of providing the service; and (b) not reviewed and increased in
many years to reflect rising costs. Legislation to rationalize the structure
and control of charges which was under consideration in the Ministry of Home
Affairs, is now expected to be combined with the local tax legislation
referred to in pdra. 1 above,
3.        The attached Action Plan for local taxes and charges has two main
components: (a) draft. legislation instruments to reform and simplify the
structure of local taxes and charges; and (b) the evaluation and extension of
improvements in tax (and service charge) administration, including the
reorganization of local tax offices (Dinas Pendapatan Daerah or DIPENDA) and
related changes in the Manual for Revenue Administration. The timetable for
preparing the proposed legislation on local taxes and charges is shown in
Action Plan A, which assumes that the basic ob2ectives and content of the
legislation will not be modified significantly. The Bank would need to be
informed of any major changes in the proposed legislation. Regarding improve-
ments in local revenue administration, as indicated in Action Plan B, the
ongoing pilot program in six urban areas (five Kotamadya and one urbanized
Kabupaten), which is expected to be completed by mid-1987, would be evaluated
by the end of 1987. After incorporating any recommended changes, the revenue
administration improvement program would be extended to selected Kotamadya
during the three years covered by tile Action Plan.



LTiz . _ ~~~~98"''- 4_ 
ACTION PLAN A
DRAFT LAW ON LOCAL TAXES AND CRARGES
Policy 3:       Strengthen local Government Resource Mobilization
Objectives:    Simplify Structure of Local Taxes and Charges and Increase
Local Revenue Generation
Actions                                                         Target dates
1.   Draft proposed instruments                                December 1987
2.   Draft instruments, Revision I                             August 1987
3.   Sounding with Local Government Financial                  August 1987
Staffs
4.   Draft instruments, Revision II                             January 1988
5.   Synchronise instruments on Taxes and Charges               January 1988
6.   Instruments submitted to Minister of Finance               June 1988



:~A  .                           ~-    9
ACTION PLAY I
LOCAL REVUUE ADINIISTRAION IMPROVEMENT PROCRAM
Policy 3: Strengthen Local Government Resource Mobilization
Objectives:    Increase Local Revenu* Generation and Efficiency
Actions                                                      Target dates
I. Phase I - Evalution
1.   Finalize TOR for Evaluation of Pilot                        August 1987
Program in 6 cities
2.   Complete Pilot Program                                      August 1987
3.   Appoint Consultant for Evaluation                        September 1987
4.   Final Evaluation Report distributed                       November 1987
S.   Discuss Recommendations within GOI                        December 1987
and with the Bank
II. Phase II - Extension
6.   Finalize TOR for Extension of Program                        August 1987
to at least all Kotamadya
7.   SK (MHA) relating to new National Manual                   January 1988
for Revenue Administration issued
8.   SK (MHA) concerning Level II Tax Office                     January 1988
reorganization issued
9.   Appoint Consultants for Extension of                        January 1988
Program
10.  Inception Report                                             March 1988
11.  Mid-term Evaluation of Implementation                    September 1988
and Results
12.  Completion of Improvement Program                          January 1989



.~z
= H



- 10 --
INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Regional Development Account (RDA)
i.        At the preaent time, local government development expenditures are
largely funded by central government grants or foreign loans passed on by
central government. An ad hoc and complex system of domestic loan schemes has
also developed, channelling funds to local government for only specific
sectors (almost exclusively for certain revenue-earning activities) and at
very "soft" and inconsistent terms. This system has not encouraged local
reource mobilization, integrated local government development, setting of
local priorities and equitable financing arrangements. Moreover, inadequate
funding for the loan schemes, whose low lending rates do not allow the
mobilization of nongovernment resources, is presently a severe constraint for
the expansion of loan finance.
2.        Since GOI's ability to continue providing grants (or soft loans) is
limited, access to a reliable source of loan funds cou'.d be an important means
of financing local government development expenditures and stimulating local
government resource mobilization. To this end, there is a clear need for a
consolidated central source of loan finance for regional governments and their
enterprises which would cover the whole range of infrastructure activities and
have uniform and realistic lending terms, as well as rigorous appraisal
standards and criteria.
3.        Although GOI recognizes the need for what has come to be known as a
Regional Government Loan Fund (RGLF) and has created a Regional Development
Account (RDA) as a precursor to this Fund, an Action Plan is required for the
full implementation of the RDA, to ensure, inter alia, that:
(a) it is implemented without further delay;
(b) it consolidates the current array of ad hoc loan schemes, which
would be phased out over the next few years;
(c) it lends at consistent and positive interest rates in real terms
reflecting its average cost of funds;
(d) it has adequate appraisal standards and eligibility criteria; and
(e)  it maintains full and separate financial accounts.
4.        The GOI delegation confirmed at negotiations that the RDA will be
established as an account of the Ministry of Finance. Its function will be to
lend funds to local governments (Level I and Level II) and to local government
enterprises for capital investments in infrastructure, equipment and facili-
ties and for their bridge financing needs. Initially the RDA will lend
primarily for urban areas, but, as experience is established, lending may be



-102-
extended to non-urban areas. All sectors of local povernmnt activity
(including non-revenue earning activities as well as revenue-earning activi-
ties) will be eligible for loan finance from RDA. The lending terms and
conditicn' would be structured to ensure consistent treatment of all local
governments and sectors, as well as the financial viability of RDA.
5.        A detailed Action Plan for RDA implementation is attached.  Terms of
Reference for the technical assistance required to operationalize the RDA have
been finalized and special arrangements for financing this assistance have
been made through the UNCHS/UNDP Project IN/85/005 and the Bank. In addi-
tion, terms of reference have been formulated for studies related to RDA
focussing, inter alia, on loan demand and debt service capacity as well as on
the links between grAnt allocation and loan finance, to be carried out by in-
house consultants to DCGDN.



_-  .  . . ....... . . . ^ _ o3 _ ..... =~~~Pige 3
Action Plan for Regional Development Account (RDA)
Policy 4:        Improve Financing Systems and Mechanisms for Urban
Infrastructure
Objectives:      Provide consolidated source of loan finance for Regional
Governments and their enterprises
Actions/Steps                                                       Target dates
I. Policy-related Actions
1.  Prepare TOR and work plan for review of RDA-related
policies                                                   June 1987
2.  Assignment of in-house Consultants to review
RDA-related policies                                     August 1987
3.  Commence detailed study of loan disbursements and        August 1987
commitments to regional governments and their
enterprises and exptcted loan repayments under
existing loan schemes
4.  Commence assessment of existing urban loan channel3   August 1987
and recommendations for their consolidation into
the RDA:
a. Consolidation into RDA of existing Direktorat September 1987
Pembinaan Kekayaan Negara managed Loans for
local government and local government enterprises
b.  Consolidation into RDA existing Direktorat            April 1988
Dana Investasi-managed Loans for local
government and local government enterprises
c.  Consolidation into RnA of other loans (if any)        March 1989
to local government or local government
enterprises
5.  Determination of lending policy, eligibility               March 1988
criteria to be applied and terms and conditions
to be adopted for RDA
6.  Establishment of financial instructions, regulations   March 1988
and procedures pertaining to the account, including
revision of debt service ratio (DSR) regulati3ns if
necessary
7.  Development of the framework including inter-              March 1988
and intraministerial relationships for RDA
operations



-104-32
it  ~~~e F ;---t -- =r - -~~~~~Pge 
II. The Operationalization of Regional Development Account
1.  Revise TOR for operationalization of RDA                   August 1987
2.  Appointment of consultants for operationalization           March 1988
of RDA
3.  Preparation of operational procedures, including:           Sept. 1988
loan application forms and information requirements,
loan agreements, and disbursement procedures,
including banking arrangeMents
4.  Design of organization arrangements and manpower            Sept. 1988
requirements
5.  Appraisal standards and procedures finalized                Sept. 1988
6.  Accourting System established                               March 1989
7.  Loan Portfolio Management System established                March 1989
8.  Design and implementation of training programs for          Sept. 1988
the staff involved with the operation of RDA
a.  Training of Level I and II Local Government             Sept. 1988
Officials in preparation of Loan Proposals                 (start)
b.  Training of Central Government Officials in             Sept. 1988
Project Evaluation and Loan Analysis
c.  Training RDA staff in the operation of the              Sept. 3988
Regional Development Account



- 103 -
9IrLOQSIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Central-Local Grants
1.        Central grants account for a large share of lccal government
finances and a significant portion of the central government budget. In
addition there are important overlaps between three areas of the Urban Sector
Action Plan and Central grants: the assignment of appropriate functional and
financial responsibilities; the upgrading of local tax revenues; and the
creation of a regional government loan fund. Decisions in each of these areas
have implications for the design of central-local grant systems, and vice
versa. It is therefore of paramount importance that the Urban Sector Action
Plan explicitly addresses the issue of Central-local grant design.
2.        Prior studies have sbown that there are numerous ways in which the
Indonesian Central-local Grant oystem could readily be improved, including a
reduction of fragmentation and of detailed central control; greater
predictability; improvements in the incentive and revenue equalization
effects: and streamlining of procedures, Many of the improvemnnts might be
facilitated by a new law, but this is not a prerequisite for r st of them. In
view of the wealth of existing or ongoing studies, much more Aetailed study
is not needed. Instead, specific proposals for reform of the central-local
grant system can now be formulated with a view to eventual implementation.
3.        In addressing issues of Central-local grants the following
considerations should be taken into account:
(a) The grant system should satisfy the basic criteria of:
(i)   providing local government with fiscal resources
commensurate with their assigned functions, local revenue
authority, and national resource availability, and in a
reasonably predictable manner;
(ii)   allowing fcr differential local resource mobilization
capacities among local jurisdictions (equalization
objective);
(iii)   giving incentives to local governments to respond to a
limited number of specific, welL-articulated central
government priorities (e.g., incentives to augment local
resource mobilization efforts); and
This Annex is based on the findings and recommendations of IBRD staff member
Johannes Linn during the appraisal mission to Jakarta in November 1986.



rtS~~~~~~~~~~ :ag  2  M-
(iv) relying on simple allocation rules and efficient
disbursement procedures.
(b) The treatment of transfers will be explicitly placed in the context
of:
(i)   the intended clarification of functional and financial
responsibilities for urban infrastructure development,
operation and maintenance (under Policy 1 of the Urban
Sector Action Plan);
(ii)   the impact of local revenue reforms (PBB, local taxes and
user charges);
(iii)   the approach to local government loan finance developed for
the Urban Sector Action Plan.
In practical terms this probably means that the impact of any
proposed grant system needs to be explored for a representative
sample of local governments, making allowance also for the impacts
of items (i)-(iii) above on the financial position of these local
governments.
(c)  The treatment of transfers and grants will be comprehensive,
considering routine grants, development grants, DIPs, shared taxes
and any other possible fcrms of grants (including, e.g., any regular
transfer of asset), and should cover Level I and Level II (Dati I
and Dati II) local governments.
(d)  No major new scudies need to be initiated in view of the various
studies already in existence.
4.        In view of these considerations the following approach will be
adopted:
(a)  An interagency Working Group on Central-local grants will be set up
by Tim Koordinasi by April 1987;
(b)  This Working Group will review the Birmingham study on INPRES and on
the basis of this review formulate specific INPRES reform proposals
that can be implemented in the short term within the framework of
existing legislation, satisfying the criteria and considerations
laid out in para 3. above. These proposals will be submitted by
December 1987 for ministerial review and decision.
(c)  For the longer-term, the Working Group will review existing studies
and develop specific proposals for comprehensive reform of central-
local fiscal relations (again based on the criteria and considera-
t:ons of para. 3 above), with a view to prepare draft legislation
and regulation for submission to Parliament by March 1989.



- 1l7                                 pe-  3
Action Plan
Centra1-Local Grants
Policy 4:        Sector Financing Mechanisms
Objectives:      Improvement of Central-Local Grant Allocation System
Note:            The action plan below only contains the main steps currently
identified. Additional intermediate steps will be iden'ified
by the Working Group on Central-Local Grants immediately upon
being constituted.
Actions                                                         Target dates
1.   Set up interagency Work Sub-group on Central-
Local Grants under Tim Koordinasi                              August 1987
2.   Sub-group submits recommendations on ongoing
central-local grant system study for ministerial
review and decision.                                         February 1988
3.   Sub-group prepares instruments required for
improvement of central-local fiscal relations                   March 1989



0Y z
I.c
0=04-
H           -1



109                       ~~~~~~~Page1
INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Local Government Information Systems
A. Information System on Local Government Finance
1.        The only well established data base on Level II government finance
is currently that provided by tho Buro Pusal Statistik (BPS) through its
innual publication "Statistik Keuangan Pemerintah Daerah". This only relates
to local government actual expenditures and revenues. It suffers from several
deficiencies:
(i)    capital expenditures and receipts relating to the Inpres grant-
financed programs are not included as yet at Dati II level
(Provinces have, however, been asked to provide this data in summary
in recent years; and it is understood this will be extended to Dati
II. but .he information is very summary in nature);
(ii)    there is no sectoral analysis of development expenditure, and no
departmental analysis of routine expenditure;
(iii)    although the main types of local taxes are separately analysed,
there is no similar analysis of regional charges or of dinas income;
(iv)    there is inconsistency of treatment of government grants as between
regions -- e.g. on development a/c some second level regions include
the Inpres Dati II, while others exclude it (and the related
expenditures);
(v)    province statistics do not usually "square" with those of the Dati
II in relation to transfers between levels of authority (e.g.
"development a/c transfer from province to lower level regions are
not anaysed between those for Dati II and for Desa; and the figures
are usually widely different from the sunm of the corresponding
receipts shown in the Dati II statistics;
(vi)    balances brought forward are now shown for both routine and
development accounts, but balances carried forward are not shown;
analysis of certain regional figures suggests chat, from year to
year, the balances brought forward do not tie up with the implied
balances carried forward from the previous year;
(vii)    there are many anomalies to be found when comparing individual
regions' figures from one year to the next, which suggests that the
statistics must contain substantial numbers of errors, implying
inadequate checking procedures at the regional level where the data
is collected.



-110-                            ANNEX 9
Page 2
(viii)    the data take a very long time to produce in published form -
typically around 18 months to 2 years.
2.        The Directorate of State Wealth Management (Dit. PKN) in the
Ministry of Finance is attempting to overcome some of these problems by
collezting much more detailed information on regional realizations at both
province and Dati II level. The exercise is coordinated with that for the BPS
figures. However, there are many problems still to be overcome, especially
concerning accuracy (even a cursory inspection of some of this collected and
tabulated data, reveals numerous errors, both of classification and of
omissions, and in some cases the size of the probable error is very large).
3.        There is no information available centrally at all on budgets of
second level regions; and altnough Dep. Dalam Negeri collect the province
budgets they do not generally produce any comprehensive and detailed summary
of them.
4.        Comprehensive data on central grants to region3 is not available -
either for budgets or for actual realizations. The data exists in various
formats in the Ministry of Finance (D-J Anggaran) and Dep. Dalam Negeri (D-J
Bangda) but often not in a readily accessible form. The records of these two
departments often do not reconcile with each other.
5.        There are also no readily available figures on central government
DIPs in support of regional government expenditure programs.
6.        Loan finance data is especially lacking in availability,  It can be
classified as follows:
(i)    donor loans to GOI passed on as loans to regions - these are
administered by Directorate Dana Investasi in the Ministry of
Finance, but comprehensive records do not seem to be available from
this source;
(ii)    donor loans to GOI passed on to regional projects as DIPs
(effectively grants) - these appear to be administered from
somewhere within D-J Moneter Luar Negeri but again, comprehensive
data is lacking;
(iii)    domestically-funded loans from Rekening Dana Investasi (RDI), Inpres
Pasar, Bantuan Uang Muka (BUM) Ipeda, and Lain-Lain Penbangunan (LLP
- usually for equity investment (Penyertaan Modal Pemerintahan -
PMP) in regional water supply and other regional enterprises; all
except RDI are administered by Dit PKN and data can be obtained on
an "ad hoc" basis; but again, there is no consolidation data source.
7.        Accurate Data of this kind will be essential, not just to inform
central personnel of progress and performance of regional finances in general,
but also for project evaluation in connection with the proposed RGLF. An
Action Plan (Table 1) has therefore been agreed for the establishment of an
information system on regional government finance. A parallel effort will
focus on improving demographs information on local government.



r'                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~- liii - 
Pape 3
Table 1: INFORMATION SYSTEM ACTION PLAN ON LOCAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Actions                                          Target Dates
1.  Identify data needs  formats, sources,                         August 1987
collection agencies, collection frequency,
and transfer methods.
2.  Reach agreement between BPS and other ag2ncies                 August 1987
on institutional roles.
3.  Appoint consultants.                                           August 1987
4.  Complete preliminary design and undertake                      February 1988
detail design of new systems:
a.   revise questionnaire
b.   identify flow of documents
c.   analyse collection method
d.   analyse processing method
e.   produce computer programs
5.  Report on proposed system detailed design                      August 1988
circulated and discussed.
6.  Trial-run of proposed system and revisions.                    November 1988
7. Implement systems:
Hay 1989
a.   Hardware
b.   Software
c.   Maintenance
d.   Training
B. Local Government Socio-economic and Topographic Information Systems
8.        Basic urban information which is fairly reliable and current is
essential to determine and adjust national policy and allocation, and to
prepare programs and projects at the local level. Many agencies collect
information relevant to their areas of responsibilities but it is often
fragmented and not coordinated for the purposes of planning and evaluation of
overall urban strategy and development. Key sources for this purpose are BPS
for basic demographic, socio-economic, financial and services data, and DJ
Agraria for airphotos and line maps. The so-called INUDS data base in DJ
Cipta Karya uses inputs from -arious sources for analysis of environmental
conditions of urban areas, infrastructure unit costs and levels of service.



Am=I 9
112                            Page 4
The NO? is developing a similar capacity to INUDS for urban finance
analysis. MHA is studying a possible urtan information sharing and
dissemination system.
9.        For the immediate future, to provide consistent, reliable and
crucial data to formulate national urban policy, and to support local IUIDP
planning, the following actions are required, as summarized in Table 2:
(a) BPS to (i) aggregate its desa-level demographic census information
to pro ide a functional definition of urban areas (with
collaboration from INUDS staff); (ii) prepare, as described in Part
A above, a series on Dati II finances by year showing both revenues
(including own taxes by source, user charges and central and
provincial govt. transfers) and budgeted and realized expenditures
(by administrative costs, capital investment, and operation and
maintenance, by major sector); and (iii) to publish this information
as official GOI statistics and as inputs to .he MOF, MHA and INUDS.
(b) DJ Agraria to (i) re-establish the map users committee; (ii) store,
file, and then disseminate the air-photomaps preppred under IBRD
Loan 1972-IND (Urban IV) to the relevant sector & local government
agencies and follow up with user training program and; (iii) prepare
line maps from the airphotomaps for the special needs of PBB
(requested by D.G. Pajak).



INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Information System Action Plan for Local Government Socio-economic and Topographic Data
Policy and
objectives         Actions required                                            By Whom                  Timetable
Information        - Prepare definition of functional urban areas                 BPS (INUDS)            March 1988
systems              for demographic statistics on basis of BPS
census and public.
- Advise Dati I1 on format of financial statis-              BPS (PUOD, MOF)             08/87
tics.
- Prepare data set for Repelita IV and establish                   BPS                   02/89
system for future reporting.
- Hire consultant assistance for the above areas                   BPS                   08/87            w
(see TOR).
- Establish steering committee for above study.                   KADUPP                 08/87
- Reestablish map users committee and prepare                    Agraria                 08/87
detailed action plan.                                          KADUPP
- Disseminate airptotomaps.                                      Agraria             09/87 (Java)
12/87 (other        1 
islands)
- User training.                                                 Agraria             10187-10/88
(Cipta Karya)
- Prepare line maps for DJ Pajak.                                Agraria             06/88 for
46 cities
- Hire consultant to ass'st on the above.                        Agraria                 08/87



)INV'1E SI
aoVd SIHI
a,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Planning and Programming
A. Integrated Urban Infrastucture Development Planning (IUIDP)
Context and Issues
1.         Most urban services in Indonesia are legally the responsibility of
local and provincial governments (Level II and Level I). But local
governtments are very dependent on higher levels for financing both their
administrative and capital expenditure and for expenditure approval. During
the 1970. and early 1980 the Central Goveranment received substantial. revenues
from oil which were disbursed both as grants directly to local governLments and
through the central Ministries which implemented most new capital-development
projects in the cities. This centralized approach produced new projects in
many localities and established low-cost, standardized products for many urban
services. However, the rapid expansion con.cealed several weaknesses which are
becoming evident now that central oil revenues have declined while urban
growth and development are continuing in numerous centers. These weaknesses
include:
(a) increasing difficulty to plan and manage projects in numerous
localities from the center;
(b) uncoordinated injection of projects to localities (local governments
were often not adequately consulted, leadinig to projeccs unrelated
to local needs and a reluctance to take ov%~r, operate and maintain
the projects);
(c) vertical sectoral planning and implementation produced investments
in different sectors unrelated to each other, leading to inefficient
development at the city level;
(d) intersectoral imbalance, generally leading to overemphasis on grant
supported water and road investments and neglect of sanitation and
microinfrastructure;
(e) weak local-revenue generation (because of the domination of central
financing and grants unrelated to local performance, local
goverments had no incentive to raise revenues and became
inc.easingly dependent on more central assistance);
(f)  fragmented financing, La.id fragmented and unclear responsibilities
for planning, delivering and financing urban services resulted in
confusion and inaction at the local level; and



- 116 -                        PUIX 2
(g) with contracting and managemnt responsibilities located at the
center, local governments could not attract good staff, and training
and staff development were neglected.
2.        In order to improve the coherence and impact of the urban
infrastructure program and to develop better capabilities in planning,
budgeting, management and coordination at the local level, GOI (initially DC
Cipta Karya (DCCK), but with increasing support from other DCs in MPW, MOF and
MHA) has initiated an improved planning and evaluation prccess for urban
investments known as IUIDP (Integrated Urbaut Infrastructure Development
Programming). The basic approach is that the local (Level II) government
would take the lead, with sectoral agencies providing advice, in preparing
(a) a medium-term development plan (five to seven years) which identifies
needs and priorities spatially and by sector; (b) an investment and O&M plan
and program by sector with a multiyear budget for both "national" and "local"
components; (c) a financing plan and local revenue development strategy; and
(d) a yearly budget submission. The development plan and yearly budget would
be submitted to the provincial government for allocation of grant and loan
funds. In addition to this review, the provincial government would also
provide guidance on IUIDP procedures and assistance to local government as
needed. The IUIDP function in the province would be headed by the Bappeda
with coordinated technical inputs from other departments. The Dinas PU would
provide technical assistance in planning and design of projects, appraise
programs and manage implementation of integrated projects. Dinas Keuangan
would assist in budgeting and financial appraisal. The central government
role would be limited to (a) setting standards; (b) providing financing (grant
and loan) mechanisms; (c) providing guidance on the IUIDP planning process for
regional governments rnd Technical assistance when necessary, (d) sppraising
metro and large-city IUIDP programs; and (e) training local staff in planning,
implementation and O&M procedures.
3.        Managed properly, the IUIDP process, could offer (a) integrated
planning of infrastructure based on rational technical criteria and standards
but tailored tc the city's economic and social requirements; (b) improved
coordination between central, provincial and local government investments in
urban areac; (c) improved estimating and budgeting for O&M requirements;
(d) an incentive for local revenue generation; and (e) coherent city-level
plans, programs and project priorities which can be appraised by provincial
and Central Government with minimum changes or duplication. However, IUIDP is
not a panacea for improved urban management. Much will depend on the quality
of policy devel1,pment to be initiated through the Tim Koordinasi strategic
planning arrangements (pare. 7) and the responsiveness of MPW, and DGCK in
particular, to institutional reform and improvement in staffing and training.
4.        DGCK has issued guidelines to provincial and local government and
held discussions with them on the way co undertake their IUIDP planning, and
local governments in most provinces have now undertaken one year's cycle of
IUIDP. The experience to date has been mixed. Most local governments
welcomed the concept as a means for them to get a better grip on their city's
investment program. However, most included only 'Cipta Karya subsectors" in
their proposals (water supply, KIP, sanitation, solid waste), omitting
important elements such as roads and macro-drainage. Many of the proposals



- 117 -Palge 3
also amounted to a single-year budgeting exercise, since time (and guidance)
was inadequate to prepare more comprehensive medium-term investment
programs. The larger cities also tended to produce more coherent proposals
than the smaller ones. Nevertheless, the effort was a useful start and can be
improved over the next two or three cycles. DGCK has nov fielded several
consultant teams which, together with Provincial DPU staff, are assisting
about 150 cities over the next 2-3 years. Additional contracts intended to
cover all remaining significant urban centers are under preparation.
Concurrently, a training program for local and provincial government staff is
under way, assisted by Dutch aid (Annex 12). Responsibility for overall
management of IUIDP and development of its palicy and operational guidelines
is located in DGCK's Dt. Bina Program and is being assisted by consultants
financed through UNDP and administered by UNCHS/Habitat.
5.        Key issues concerning the IUIDP process which would be addressed
ace:
(a) All the key arban infrastructure sectors should now be incorporated
in IUIDP. This means bringing the other MPW Directors General of
Roads and of Water Resources Development into the IUIDP process.
During the appraisal mission this was discussed with the relevant
officials, who showed interest in participation. It was agreed that
the MPW would issue a directive to all Directors Generai to orient
their urban activities to TUIDP and participate in the process.
(b) Variations in IUIDP planning procedures would be developed to
respond to the different sizes and complexities of cities. Smaller
localities (say, 15,000-80,000 population) will not need the same
extent of analysis or options compared to the larger cities. GOI
would concentrate its attention on the 50 largest and the fastest-
growing localities to avoid dissipating its energies. The remainder
would be covered by training the provincial-level staff to assist
the smaller localities.
(c) IUIDP guidelines would be updated and simplify and put into an
attractive format which can be easily understood by local
governments. The main guidelines would emphasize and clarify the
overall IUIDP process, with details on procedures and methods
attached as Annexes, and indicate appropriate levels of service and
intersectoral expenditure balances.
(d) For the medium and large cities, medium-term strategic plans should
be prepared. These would identify in tabular and spatial form
socioeconomic and demographic characteristics of the city and future
projections, development constraints and opportunities,
infrastructure requirements and linkages, subsector plans, financing
antd revenue-generation action plans and an immediate-term investment
program. These plans would serve to give substance to Repelita
policies, could be updated every five years, would produce sensible
local investment projects and can be used by higher levels of
government for project appraisal and as a basis for subsequent
monitoring. The IUIDP guidelines should emphasize the importance



ANN    10
Page 4
and utility of medium-term planning, prepare good descriptions on
its process and techniques, and disseminate it through training.
(e) There is still confusion in provincial and local governments over
their role and responsibilities and how to organize and staff for
IUIDP activities. Clear directives are needed from the Ministries
of Home Affairs with assistance from the Ministry of Public Works
and Finance to provincial and local governments on this matter.
(f) In order for local governments to plan realistically, the Central
Government should provide rough estimates of grant and loan funds
available on a multiyear basis (say, three-year estimates) updated
yearly. While agreeing with the benefits of this approach, Bappenas
stated that it could not propose such estimates officially. How-
ever, the new central-level interagency committee (TK) should be
able to supply these estimates to provincial and local governments
on an advisory basis.
(g) Budget Review Process. The IUIDP planning process is intended to
give greater confidence and flexibility to regional governments to
develop coherent, balanced urban programs budgeted with available
resources. It is important that this not be undermined by central
sectoral agencies' submitting their budget and loan requests
directly to BAPPENAS and BAPPENAS' authorizing these requests
without full consultation with lower levels. It was therefore
proposed that sectoral budget requests (including "national
infrastructure" affecting urban areas) are submitted only through
the local government IUIDP program to the province, or to TK for the
metro and large cities' IUIDPs. Any budgetary reduction required
will then be made on the the local IUIDP program as a whole, and the
local government allowed to modify its overall program. This yearly
modified program would be approved and individual subprojects would
not th.erefore require approval by BAPPENAS. The implementat an of
this process could proceed in stages st.arting with the cities which
have first prepared a thorough IUIDP.
6.         The COI's Action Plan incorporates the above seven topics.
B. Medium-Term (Repelita V) Preparation
7.         Since the growth period of the 1970s, there have been major shifts
in the economic and policy environment affecting urban- and local-government
development. There are severe constraints on the central government budget
requiring a greater proportion of funding for local services to be borne by
local governments. There is a slow but steady movement to devolve more
responsibilities and functions on local governments. GOI has taken steps to
improve local-government tax sources and administration, which the project
will a!so support. GOI is establishing a Regional Government Loan Fund (RGLF)
which will provide a revolving loan fund for al{ local-government capital
investments, and is also considering some adjustir nts in the central grants
structure to respond to the above initiatives. Finally, the IUIDP process
will provide a means for local governments to direct and coordinate develop-



- 1                            ADMIX 10
ment in their cities and enable them to submit coherent multisectoral
proposals for funding to higher levels of government and the RCLI.
8.        The preparation period for the next five-year plan (1989/90-1994/95)
will commence shortly. Given the significant changes noted above, it will be
especially important to guide and coordinate these changes and to develop
appropriate s'zbsector policies and development strategies to fit with the
overall policy directions (See Attachment 1). In order to achieve this, GOI
and the mission agreed that a set of working groups would be established
within the framework of the Inter-Agency Committee of Directors General
(formerly called IUPA, now strengthened and renamed interagency Coordinating
Team for Urban Development (Team Koordinasi or TK) - Attachment 1).  There
would be a steering committee which would provide overall guidance to the
working groups, develop a common data base, synthesize the other groups'
contributions and finalize the overall analyses and proposals in terms of an
agenda of planning and programming issues for the sector and its various
subsectors (Attachment 2).
9.        In addition, there would be a working group on financial policies to
review the national grant system and its links with the loan systems and the
RGLF, and three subsector working groups on (a) raw water resources and water
supply, (b) sanitation, flood prevention and KIP, and (c) urban roads and
transport. These subsector working groups would establish classifications for
their infrastructure types which would identify implementation and maintenance
responsibilities, develop criteria for preparation and appraisal of their
subsectors, and policies on basic needs levels of service, technology options,
rough unit costs (including O&M) and options on financing. These proposals,
together with institutional and management arrangements, would then be
reviewed and adjusted by the Overview Working Group to prepar3 a set of policy
options for Bappenas and other Ministries which will make decisions on
Repelita V policies in accordance with the Action Plan timetable
(Attachment 2).



)INV7[H SI
IOVd SIHI
'T, "o



- 121 -
DECREE OF
THE MINISTER OF NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLANNING/
CHAIRMAN OF THE NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLANNING AGENCY (BAPPENAS)
NUMBER: KEP. 016/KET/3/1987
ON
THE COORDINATION TEAM FOR URBAN DEVELOPMENT
THE MINISTER OF NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLANNING/
CHAIRMAN OF THE NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLANNINC AGENCY (BAPPENAS)
Considering            (a)  whereas to meet the needs for urban infrastructure
due to increasing population growth and social
economic activities in the urban areas, more pur-
posive snd integrated urban development policies
and programs need to be developed comprising the
provision of infrastructure, financial resources
and institutional development;
(b) whereas a Coordination Team for Urban Development
is needed with the task to coordinate, synchronize
and monitor the implementation of che integrated
policies and progr^n activities.
Referring to:          1.   Presidential Decree Number 44 and 45 Year 1974 jo
Presidential Decree Number 57 Year 1974;
2.   Presidential Decree Number 35 Year 1973 jo Presi-
dential Decree Number 19 Year 1983;
3.   Decree of the Minister of National Development
Planning/Chairman of the National Development
Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) Number 073/Ket/5/1983.
Taking into account:  Consultation with the Minister of Home Affairs, Public
Works and Finance.
Has decided.
To stipulate:         The decree of the Minister of National Development
Planning/Chairman of the National Development Planning
Agency (BAPPENAS) on the establishment of the coordina-
tion team for urban development
Article 1
(1) The structure of the Coordination Team for Urban Development is composed
of:
(a) A Steering Committee
(b) Permanent Working Groups for:



gy                                                        .~~~~~~~~~~~~N  10
- 122 -                       Attachment I
Page 2
(i) Policies and Programs?
(ii) Program Implementation;
(iii) Financial Resources;
(iv) Institutional Development;
(c) A Secretariate
(2) The composition of the leadership and members of the respective organi-
zational components as referred to in subarticle (1) is stipulated in the
Appendix of the Decree
Article 2
(1)  The tasks of the Steering Committee are:
(a) To develop integrated policies and medium (five years) and short-
term (annual) programs comprising of the provision of
infrastructure, financial resources and institutional development,
in the framework of cooperation between the Central and Local
Governments, and with community participation;
(b) To guide the Permanent Working Groups with regard to their
respective fields, with the possibility of establishing Special/Non-
Permanent Working Groups for tasks not covered by the Permanent
Working Groups;
(c) To coordinate and monitor the implementation of integrated programs
of urban development by identifying problems and seek their
solutions though interagency consensus;
(d) To assist the implementation units in the respective agencies
involved in urban development;
(e) To develop and guide cooperation with national and international
agencies and institutions related to urbani development.
(2)  The Steering Committee consists of Chairman, Vice Chairman and members
functionally representing the relevant Departments/Non Departmental
Agencies involved in urban development policies and programs.
(3)  The Steering Committee will hold at least bi-monthly meetings, and submit
the results of its meetings to the Minister of National Development
Planning/Chairman of the National Development Planning Agency (Bappenas)
with copies to the Coordinating Minister and for Economic, Monetary and
Industrial Affairs and Supervision of Development and the Ministers of
Finance, Home Affairs, Public Works, Commaunications, Public Housing, and
Administrative Reform/Vice Chairman of the National Development Planning
Agency (Bappenas).



AMX10
- 123 -                     Attachment I
123~~~~~Pg 3
Article 3
(1) The task of the Permanent Working Groups is to study issues and recommnd
actions to the Steering Committee in their respective areas, as follows:
(a)  Policies and Programs
To formulate integrated urban development programs, and to identify
investment priorities by Central as wvll as Local Governments in the
framework of decentralization and real and responsible local
autonomy and community participation policies.
(b)  Program Implementation
To facilitate smooth implementation of integrated urban development
programs, especially the provision and maintenance of urban
infrastructure.
(c)  Financial Resources
To i.mprove financing system from various domestic sources, i.e. from
Central and Local Governments and the community, as well as from
multinational and bilateral sources.
Cd)  Institutional Development
(1) To increase the capability of personnel of Central and Local
Governments and the community in planning, management and
implementation of urban infrastructure;
(2) To improve regulations and operating procedures for management
and implementation of urban development.
(2) Each Permanent Working Group will consist of a Chairman and a Secretary
representing the Departments/Non-Departmental Agencies concerned, and
several members (maximum 6 officials) from Departments/Non-Departmental
Agencies related to the tasks of the respective Working Groups.
Article 4
(1) The Secretariate has the tasks:
(a)  To provide and coordinate technical and administrative support to
the Steering Committee and the Permanent Working Groups in the
execution of their respective tasks as well as related to each
other;
(b) To prepare periodic reports to the Steering Committee on the
implementation of urban development projects;



-124-                       pjEpt1
Pass 4
(c) To implement other tasks as assigned by the Steering Comittee in
the framework of facilitating the coordination of urban development.
(2) The Secretariate is headed by an Executive Secretary and assisted by
three Vice Executive Secretaries.
(3) In the execution of their tasks the Executive Secretary and Vice
Executive Secretaries shall work closely with the Secretaries of the
Permanent Working Groups.
(4) The Executive Secretary/Vice Executive Secretaries are assisted by 4
(four) Assistant Secretaries in accordance with the respective fields of
the Permanent Working Groups.
(5) The Assistant Secretaries will be appointed by the Chairman of the
Steering Committee.
(6) The Secretariate will be staffed by administrative personnel to be
appointed by the Executive Secretary with the approval of Chairman of the
Steering Committee.
Article 5
To assist the Permanent Working Groups and the Secretariate experts
can be appointed by the Chairman of the Steering Committee.
Article 6
The Chairmen of tie Permanent Working Groups and the Executive
Secretary is responsible to the Chairman of the Steerine Committee, and the
Chairman of the Steering Committee is responsible to the Minister of National
Development Planning/Chairman of the National Development Planning Agency
(BAPPENAS).
Article 7
The expenditures for the administrative implementation of this
Decree will be funded from the Directorate General of Human SettLements
development b2udget under item 11.1.02.480212.21.05.01.



AM=  10
- 125 -                     Attachment 1
Page 5
Article 8
This decree will be effective as of the date of its issuance through
March 31, 1989 with the provision that it can be extended, and the Decree will
be corrected accordingly if and when necessary.
Issued in:   Jakarta
Date:        April 1, 1987
Minister of National Development Planning/
Chairman of the National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS)
(signed)
J. B. Sumarlin
Copies of this Decree sent to:
1. Coordinating Minister for Economic, Moretary and Industry, and Supervision
of Development;
2.  Minister of Finance;
3. Minister of Home Affairs;
4.  Minister of Public Works;
5.  Minister of Communications;
6.  Minister of Public Housing;
7.  Minister of Administrative Reform/Vice Chairman of the National
Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS)
8.  Chairman of Financial and Development Audit, Agency;
9. All Governors of Provinces.



AttIclhint 1
- 126 -                        Poge 6
ANNEX
DECREE OF THE MINISTER OF NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLANNING/
CHAIRMAN OF THE NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLANNING AGENCY (BAPPENAS)
NUMBER: KEP.016/Ket/1/1987
DATE:    April 1, 1987
MEMBERSHIP OF COORDINATION TEAM FOR URBAN DEVELOPMENT
I. STEERING COMMITTEE
1.  Deputy for Economic Affairs, Bappenas                    - Chairman
2.  Director General of Domestic Monetary Affairs            - Vice Chairman
3.  Deputy of Social Cultural Affairs, Bappenas              - Vice Chairman
4.  Deputy of Regional Development, Bappenas                 - Member
5. Director General of Public Administration and
Regional Autonomy, Ministry of Home Affairs              - Member
6.  Director General of Regional Development,                - Member
Ministry of Home Affairs
7.  Director General of International Monetary Affairs       - Member
8.  Director General of the Budget, Ministry of Finance    - Member
9.  Secretary General of the Ministry of Public Works        - Member
10.  Director General of Human Settlements, Ministry of       - Member
Public Works
II. PERMANENT WORKING GROUPS
1. Working Groups for Policies and Programs
Chairman             : Deputy for Social Cultural Affairs, Bappenas
Secretary            : Head of Bureau for Social Welfare and Public
Housing, Bappenas
2. Working Group for Program Implementation
Chairman             : Director General of Human Settlements
Ministry of Public Works
Secretary            : Director of Program Development; Directorate
General of Human Settlements, Ministry of Public
Works
3. Working Group for Financial Resources
Chairman             : Director General of Domestic Monetary Affairs,
Ministry of Finance
Secretary            : Director of State Wealth Management,
Directorate General of Internal Monetary Affairs,
Ministry of Finance



- 127 -                      Attachent I
4. Working Group for Institutional Developmeat
Chairman                Director Ceneral of Public Administration and
Regional Autonomy, Ministry of Home Affairs
Secretary               Director of Urban Development
Directorate General of Public Administration and
Regional Autonomy
Ministry of Home Affairs
III. EECRETARIATE
1. Expert Staff to the Minister of Public Works for Relations with Regional
Government, Department of Public Works, as Executive Secretary.
2. Bureau Chief for Social Affairs and Public Housing, Bappenas, as Vice
Executive Secretary I.
3. Director of Program Development Dir-ctorate General of Human Settlements,
Department of Public Works, as Vice Executive Secretary II.
4. Bureau Chief for International Cooperation, Department of Public Works, as
Vice Executive Secretary III.
Issued in! Jakarta
Date        April 1, 1987
(Signed)
J. B. Sumarlin
Minister of National Development Planning/
Chairman of the National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS)



)I-NV7IE SI
aOVd SIHI



.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~-                                 -. -  .             ---
AN=  10
- 129 -                            Attachm"t 2
Pale 1
INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Planning and Prograr ins
A. List of Issues for Core Policy Analysis
It is anticipated that at least the following six (6) issue areas
would be addressed by working groups formed under KADUPP. This outline
identifies the key issues to be addressed in each area:
ta) Local Government Revenue ImprovemenL and Financial Management
(i)    PBB Implementation Strategy and Targets;
(ii)    Revision of local taxation structure and efficiency (based on
new legislation and strengthening of local tax offices; and
(iii)    Projections of local goverment revenues and borrowing/debt
service capabilities.
(b) Central Government Grant and Loan Program Structure
Si)    Implementation of new consolidated loan mechanism for urban
infrastructure (RDA/RGLF);
(ii)    Alternatives for program financing structure in each subsector
(DIP, INPRES, Loans, and other mixes); and
(iii)    Projections of central government resource availability and
channeling options.
(c) Urban Land Management Policies and Programs
(i)    Land acquisition policies and procedures;
(ii)    Land consolidation program potential;
(iii)    Draft legislation for improved land use and/or development
controls.
(d) Urban Planning and Programming Operations
(i)    Revised planning process for local governments, including role
of IDAP plans;
(ii)    Capital improvements programs for local goverments; and
(iii)    Refinement of IUIDP process design and procedures.
(e) Institutional Structure and Urban Sector Management Roles
(i)    Review and adjustment of roles and responsibilities for
agencies at all levels to implement urban sector policies and
strategic programs;
(ii)    System of Urban Chief Executive/Management capabilities; and
(iii)    Classification and administrative status of urban settlements.



-130-                       AMIUlO
Attachent 2
(f)  Sectot Training and Manpower Development Programs
(i)    ;oordination of Sector Training and Program Strategies;
(ii)    Overall Staffin8 and Manpower 'Dvelopment Policies;
(iii)    Prioritization and "Critical Path" Sequencing of Training
Needs; and
(tv)    Resource requirements and availability for training and
manpower development.
(g) Continuing Process for Strategic Planning and Policy Development
(SPPD)
(i)    Refinement of urban data base and information systems;
(ii)    Scope of "Urban Sector" for future SPPD coordination and
programming; and
(iii)    Roles and responsibilities for future SPPD process activities.



ANNEX 10
- 131 -                      Attchment 2
Pass 3
B. List of Issues for Subsector Programs Evaluation
In developing Work Plans and Terms of Reference for each of the
urban program subsectors the following basic policy/program issues would be
addressed.
(a) Documentation of existing "Levels of Service" in each settlement,
correlated with previous program investments and/or private
developments (e.g. private wells, developer-provided infrastructure,
etc.);
(b) Develop and schedule implementation of a classification system for
program infrastructure components;
(c) Functional definition of "Balanced Basic Needs" reflecting need
future (1999) service levels in all settlements. (Note: Program
structure options will be based on this definition; thus, careful
attention to functional grouping of settlements which account for
both household and economic infrastruccurE requirements is
required);
(d)  Evaluation oL technology and cost parameters to achieve the
"Balanced Basic Needs" service levels most effectively and
efficiently. (Note: This may be best expressed as "cost per
capita" for each of a series of technical options, which include
land costs, operation and maintenance costs, training and other to
estimate "life cycle costing" for alternate technologies on a per
capita basis);
(e) Definition of Total. Required Investments for Alternate Program
Technologies;
(f) Identification of Program Financing Options based on a classifica-
tion of existing facilities and required investments. Based on an
interactive process with the Working Group(s) evaluating sector
financing strategies.
(g) Identification of Required Changes to Institutional and/or Legal
Structure needed to support full achievement of Balanced Basic Needs
with particular emphasis on Operations and Maintenance Systems,
manpower training and development, and cost recovery systems
adequate for self-sustaining operation of infrastructure by local
government units;
(h) Recommendations of Subsector approach and subsector targets for next
five-year implementation period (1989-1994);
(i) Evaluation of linkages to other subsectors; and



- 132 -
(3)  Definition of Requirem nts for revising operating and procedures
manuals or other "codes of practice" documents (e.g. planning and/or
design manuals, project management procedures, monitoring systos,
etc.).



f.N; Ete    t 3        wnoZ-
-133 -- mt3
INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Urban Policy and Program Analysis Action Plan
Step 1  (to be completed by September 1987)
(a) Each infrastructure subsector Working Group shallt:
(i)    establish classification system and conduct initial/partial
classification;
(ii)    develop definition of "basic needs" levels of services and
technology opetions for various types of urban areas; and
(iii)    estimate per capita unit costs, including O/M costs, associated
with each alternative level of services (for both incremental
additions and new projects).
Step 2  (to be completed by November 1987)
Each subsector Workiag Group shall: Combine the financing and
responsibility options with the technical/cost options and evaluate the
program operational implications of each combined alternative, including
estimates of total required investment, institutional revisions, etc.
Step 3 (to be completed by January 1988)
The macro-analysis Working Groups(s) will receive and consolidate
the subsector evaluations into alternate scenarios which define options for
intersectoral balance and division of financing responsibilities.
Step 4 (to be completed by February/March 1987)
Prepare summary evaluation of alternative scenarios and
recommendations for review by Tim KADUPP, and further presentation to GOI
decision makers.



)INVI SI
2IOVd SIHI



-135-                               Poe 1I
INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Local Government Manpower Development
Introduction
1.        The purpose of this annex is to present an overview of programs and
issues related to the training and development of local government personnel
involved with the design, management and implementation of urban development
projects as background to the proposed Urban Manpower Development Study. The
primary sources of data for the annex include reports "Manpower Development
and Training Needs of Local Government in the Field of Urban Development"
(Watson 1986) and "local Government Manpower Development" (Walt 1986)
(available in project files, see Annex 15).
2.        With the increasing pressures to accelerate and substantially
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of urban development projects
throughout Indonesia, particular attention is being paid to the training and
development of qualified manpower. Over the past decade impressive gains have
been made in the establishment of a wide range of manpower education and
training delivery systems. Information provided by the participating minis-
tries indicates that they have provided a wide range of training to over
58,000 persons in the past twelve months. These ministries all have estab-
lished training capabilities with a network of training centers and ongoing
programs of instruction throughout the country.
Manpower Development Needs and Constraints
3.        Three broad developments are shaping the manpower needs for the
coming years. First, continued investments in urban development projects will
require a large number of additional staff at both the local and central
levels. Second, as the urban development programs expand to the smaller
cities the average size and complexities of the projects will decrease. This
trend will increase the need for added attention to operation and maintenance
of the investments already in place and planned, which will necessitate a much
larger role for local agencies in providing lower-level engineering skills
augmented by substantial in-service training programs. The role of the
central and provincial government agencies will increase in the provision of
guidance and supervision. These new roles require new knowledge, skills and
attitudes that will have to be developed thorough comprehensive and targeted
education and training programs.
This Annex is based on the findings dnd recommendations of IBRD staff member
R. McCough and consultant R. Walt during a pre-appraisal mission to Jakarta in
September 1986.



- 136 -                            E  1111
Page 2
4.        With the advent of the Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development
Program (IUIDP) and continuing major investments by the Government in urban
development particularly at Levels I and II the need to provide a broad
spectrum of high impact, relevant management and technical level training is
clear. Furthermore, due to the increased emphasis on cross-sectoral
integrated urban development projects, both local and central government
peLsonnel, particularly at the management le els, require a much wider range
of managerial and technical skills. The problem with manpower at the local
(and central) levels is both one of supply and qualification.
5.        Staff Shortages.  In spite of the established training capability
within the three ministries, a major concern voiced by senior officials is the
very severe problem with the availab_.lity of trained and qualified person-
nel. The problem exists at virtually all levels and in most disciplines
related to the management, implementation, operation and maintenance of urban
services and development projects. Shortages of personnel, particularly at
Levels I and II, have been reported to reach up to 50% or more. Data collec-
ted in 1983 indicated that about 5,500 posts (from Section Head and above)
were vacant in TK II Bappedas (which are crucial to IUIDP implementation),
which represents 88% of the approved establishment. Officials interviewed for
this study confirmed that manpower shortages remain an acute problem. No
aggregate picture can he easily built up of manpower supply (in relation to
approved posts and strengths) in Level II local government. Data exist in
aggregated form for all Level II (and I) authorities, undifferentiated by
agency, function and level of education or age. There is no general indica-
tion of how many posts remain unfilled. Computerization of personnel records
for the local authorities by the Ministry of Home Affairs will not be complete
before 1988. Raw data (on proformas) do exist, however, at that Ministry.
Data (from 1983) have been obtained on staff shortages in Level I and II
Bappeda (See Attachment 1). Data is also available for Cipta Karya staffing
at Central Government and Level I, by technical spenialism, by rank, level of
education, by Province.
6.        In small-medium sized cities, of the staff available, there are few
with any relevant technical education or training. Most severe shortages were
apparent in the middle 'supervisory/operational' categories (i.e. below Head
of Dinas level, but above 'staff' - /designations), thus adversely affecting
routine 'operation and maintenance' functions. Of the people who Cccupied
positions, it appears that by no means all are trainable (from the comments
made by senior officials). The norm appears to be that promotion takes place
on the basis of seniority (length of service) not ability. Distribution of
educationally well-qualified (Bachelor or Masters Degree) recruits takes place
at provincial level, on the basis of judgement uninformed by detailed requests
or justifications from Level II. Bureau of Personnel are usually not involved
in any discussions of the staffing implications of major development programs.
1/   'Staff' designation in Indonesian public service parlance indicates a
nonestablished position, outside the administrative structure. Such
people are not eligible for regular promotion, and are usually very
junior in status and may only work temporarily in the agency.



- 137 -Pag  3
7.        Training Capacity.  It is generally accepted that the present man-
power training capabilities of the three ministries, particularly in terms of
curriculum, instructional capacities and impact, are not adequately respon-
sive. This is not to obscure the fact that there are effective training and
manpower development programs being conducted by each of the respective minis-
tries. The problem is related far more to relevancy and scope rather than
ability or effort.
8.        To organize an effective training function (for local authority
staff or anyone else in government service) is an extremely difficult and
complex undertaking given current personnel regulations. There is no
provision for routine rotation of capable line staff through training centers
as full time instructors (for discrete time periods). No structural positions
exist for full-time trainers. Honoraria are payable to trainers for direct
teaching hours only (not for materials or session preparation). If honoraria
are paid for participation in materials production workshops then they reward
quantity not quality of oi'tputs, and impede sustained working relationships
with any technical assistance staff involved. Training centers only adminis-
ter courses and invite a series of lecturers for particular sessions in a
course. Such centers are typically isolated from the day to day activities of
the line agencies they serve, and have no inherent or potential capacity to
analyze training needs, prepare and conduct participa> ve training activities
in class, routinely follow-up classwork in the field,- monitor and evaluate
courses' impact or take effective action to make necessary adjustments. Only
special development project-related training programs have any prospects of
success because they are usually organized by the line agency controlling the
project, and arrangements to recruit and train temporary instructors can be
made. These courses are almost never arranged with reference to training
agencies.
9.        Government Level II Personnel Policy.  A major constraint on improv-
ing the quantity and quality of local authorities' staff and their work per-
formance is the prevailing pattern of personnel policies. Amongst the factors
most damaging to the motivation of educationally-qualified technical staff to
serve at Level II are the absence of a clear career/promotion ladder (includ-
ing prospects of serving at higher levels of government), and the uniform
structure of local authorities in Indonesia (in spite of huge variations in
size, complexity and scope of the functions they perform). Salary levels, and
the plethora of supplements in typical reimneration packages are a universally
powerful negative factor affecting work performance and superior/subordinate
relationships, but are particularly strong factors at Level II. Up to now few
significant development projects (representing extremely important opportuni-
ties for earning extra honoraria), have been administratively based at Lhe
Level II. Most projects have been managed from central government or Level I.
In such circumstances, any effective, professionally valuable training
received has sometimes been viewed as a means of escape (perhaps from local
government entirely), or as a qualification for promotion to a job not related
2/   Partly because of the cost of instructors' subsistence allowances.  These
may be up to 25Z of monthly base salary per day in the field.



-138                           - T  - a  11
- 138 -                       Pags 4
to the work function for which the training was designed. The tendency of
heads of local authorities and their personnel bureau to frequently transfer
staff within local authority offices is comon. Such practices can nullify
any potential positive impact of training. A constructive analysis of the
impact of current personnel regulations on work performance in local authori-
ties--particularly at Level II would be carried out as part of the proposed
Manpower Development Planning Study. The study would involve the Civil
Service Administration Agency (BAKN) and would focus on policies which are in
some measure changeable or flexible.
Role and Activities of Central and Local Agencies in Manpower Development
10.       Training.  The training of local and central manpower for the three
ministries is performed by a wide variety of internal and external organiza-
tion. Internally, each ministry has an organization responsible for coordina-
tion and supervision of manpower training. This organization in the Ministry
of Public Works is the "Pusat Pendidikan dan Latihan" (PUSDIKLAT) or Center
for Education and Training, which is responsible to the Secretary General.
The PUSDIKLAT has administrative and supervisory control over a central train-
ing center (Bidang Diklat Tatalaksana) and five regional training centers
(Diklats Wilayah) and three sectoral training units (Bidang Diklat Bina Marga,
Pengairan, and Cipta Karya). Also included in the MPW's training system are
substantial training sections in many of the directorates.
11.       The Ministries of Home Affairs and Finance each have a BADANDIKLAT
which is responsible for the coordination of all training and reports directly
to the minister. The BADANDIKLATs also operate a network of regional training
centers with their respective ministries.
12.       The organization and conduct of manpower training within the minis-
tries at both the central and local level is complicated by overlapping lines
of authority, responsibility and most significantly, funding from different
budgets. Although the PUSDIKLAT and BADANDIKLATs have general responsibility
for coordination of training within their respective ministries, additional
training units (Bidang Diklat) exist at each of the Directorates General.
Under the 7irectorate General, many of the Directorates also have training
sections .    The directorate level training organizations receive their
operating budgets from the Directorate General while the PUSDIKLAT (MPW) and
BADANDIKLAT (MOF, MHA) receive their operating budgets from the Secretary
General. In addition to the training performed by the permanently established
training organizations within each ministry, manpower training is also con-
ducted by development projects.
3/   In Directorate General Cipta Karya, for example, each Directorate is
involved in training work routinely and in conjunction with projects.
Loans 2275 and 2632-IND are supporting the Directorate of Water Supply's
Human Resources Development Program aimed at training of 40,000 water
enterprise staff. Loan 2258-IND in supporting the Directorate Bina
Program's IUIDP training program focussing on Level I and II Bappeda and
DPU staffs.



- 139                           Pap1 1 l
13.       Although the manpower training delivery systems within the three
ministries are supervised by the central office, virtually all of the training
is designed for local personnel and provided at the request of the respective
local government agencies. For example, the Ministry of Public Works operates
six regional training centers (Medan, Bandung, Yogyakarta, Surabaya, Unjung
Pandang, Jakarta) that provided training to over 3,600 local government
personnel in 1985-86. The Ministry of Finance provided training for nearly
6,000 local government personnel in the same period. The Ministry of Home
Affairs, in particular, operates a large network of provincial and regional
training centers. This includes nine established provincial centers with
eleven under construction, four regional training centers and over 20 diploma
level "Colleges of Public Administration." Through this training network, the
Ministry of Home Affairs provided training to over 55,000 local, provincial
and central personnel in 1985-86. A summary of the Ministries' training per-
formance is given in Attachment 2.
14.       Manpower Development Planning.  Each of the three ministries
expressed dissatisfaction with their ability to appropriately plan for and
manage manpower development. The need for an integrated manpower planning and
development system for efficient and effective human resource management and
development is fully recognized by each of the ministries. The Ministry of
Public Works is currently attempting to design and install a pilot integrated
manpower development planning system under the MDP I project (IBRD Loan 2258-
IND).47
Urbal Manpower Development Planning
15.       In order to rationalize planning for the development of GOI staff
involved in urban development, particularly at Levels I and II, GOI proposes
to carry out a comprehensive review of existing conditions and future needs
with the assistance of consultants. Because of the primary role of MHA in
4/   The MPW Manpower Planning and Training Project began in January of 1985
and is designed to: (a) reduce delays in implementation of MPW projects
by improving the job related skills through improved manpower planning
and training; and (b) strengther the overall manpower planning capacity
of the Bureau of Personnel and improve the ability of the PUSDIKLAT to
coordinate and deliver more effective training for MPW staff. The
purpose of the manpower planning component is to design and install
within the Bureau of Personnel and other personnel offices in MPW, an
integrated system for identifying the training and development needs of
MPW personnel. This system is now being tested in various departments at
the central and local level and includes systems, procedures and manuals
for: (i) Manpower Planning and Forecasting which covers the identifica-
tion and analysis of future manpower gaps as a basis of formulating
manpower recruitment and training plans and programs, including the
identification of target populati..ns; (b) Job Analysis which is used to
determine induction (pre-service) training requirements; and (c) Staff
Appraisal which identifies remedial training needs of individual
personnel.



- 140 -
local government administration the Secretariate General of MHA will comiss-
ion a study aimed at providing Government with information and recommendations
on the basis of which it could amend policies and procedures in order to
strengthen local authorities' capacity over the medium-long term to undertake
their responsibilities. While the primary focus would be on Level II authori-
ties, the implications would be examined on the capacity and structure of
supporting agencies of Level I and '.entral Government.
16.       In the context of the enhanced functions of Level II governments in
managing, planning, programming, and operating and maintaining urban infra-
structure, the objectives of the study would be to (a) define institutional
changes (including personnel policies) that would strengthen capacity; (b) to
review manpower stock and define high priority training needs; (c) to assess
the implications on Level I and Central Government in their supporting role;
and (d) to identify urban manpower development and training programs for
phased implementation over the next ten years. It is possible that donor
assistance would be sought in the implementation of the program.
17.       The study would collect data from a stratified sample of local
authorities and review the organizational arrangements, regulatory framework
and operating policies and procedures in order to make recommendations for
appropriate changes required to improve efficiency. A survey of manpower in
key departments of local government (mayor's office, BAPPEDA, revenue, public
works) would be conducted, with particular emphasis on management levels, in
order to define manning levels and assess educational and experience levels.
For key posts initially, a job analysis would be carried out to determine job
descriptions and education/training and experience requirements, and to
determine shortfalls and recruitment criteria. A review of possible institu-
tional obstacles such as personnel policies would be made in order to formu-
late feasible changes. Aspects to be addressed would among others include
recruitment, staff allocation, performance appraisal, ranking, promotions,
career planning, inter-authority transfers, remuneration, discipline and
training, as well as personnel z"anagement.
18.       Training policies, programs and capacity of existing training insti-
tutions would be reviewed by the study. The trends and roles of the involved
ministries (MHA, MPW and HOF) would also be examined. On this basis a program
for the highest priority training program would be formulated for appraisal by
donors. The study is expected to take 12 months to complete and would be
supervised by an inter-ministerial steering committee. A total of 44 man-
months' foreign consultant assistance and 125 local is envisaged (Annex 3).



- 141                                 I
MANPOWER SITUATION IN BAPPEDAS
AT LEVELS I AND II (ALL INDONUSIA)
Total Staff (1983)
BAPPEDA TK I      BAPPEDA TK II      Total
Approved establishment /a              2,700             11,512          14,212
In post                                1,857              3,512           5,369
Shortage                                 843              8,000           8,843
/a According to Minister of Home Affairs decision letter 185/190.
Staff Shortages as of 1983 by Level of Post /a
Bappeda        Bappeda TK II /b
Grade        Post Title             TK I     Type A  Type B  Type C    Total
IVa - IVd    Chairman                -            -        -        -         -
IVa - IVc    Deputy Chairman         -            -        -        -         -
IVa - IVc    Secretary               -           12      117       74       203
IVa - IVc    Division Head           -           56      492      234       782
IIb-IIId    Subdivision Head         -            -        -        -         -
IIIa-IIIc    Unit Head               -           34      413      300       747
IIIa-IIIc    Section Head            -          236    2,264   1,249    3,749
Total                            -         338    3,286   1,857    5,481
/a   Not including junior support staff.
/b   Depending on the size of the Level II authority, Bappedas Level II have
different structures. Type A have five divisions (Bidang); Type B four;
Type C three.
Source:   Directorate General of Regional Development, Ministry of Home
Affairs.



)INV7IH SI
2ELOd SIHI



- 143 -                     Attacent 2
Training Centers, Programs, and CDapcities - Ministry of Public Works,
Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Finance
1.        Information was submitted by each of the participating ministries
concerning current training programs and centers, numbers of trainees by
course, and anticipated training requiremerts. Details are contained in the
Report on Local Government Manpower Development (Walt) available in Project
Files--Annex 15).
2.        A summary of information related to manpower and training submitted
by the Ministry of Public Works is as follows:
(a)  Total number of MPW personnel:                    137,084 (all
categories
(b)  Overall annual rate of growth:                    5%
(c)  Percentage of Manpower Training Needs Now
Being Met:                                        Less than 30%
gd)  Approximate Budget for Training:                  Rp 2.1 billion
(Pusdiklat)
(e)  Anticipated reduction in Training Bud&st
Next Year                                       10%
(f)  Number of MPW Personnel Trained in 1985-86:    4,145 (At RTCs)
(g)  Maximum Number of Trainees/Year:                  4,825 (at RTCs)
(h)  Unused capacity 1985-86:                          14%
(i)  Most Critical Training Requirements:
i)    Project Management Training (IUIDP)
(ii)    Construction Supervisors
(iii)    Instructors
(j) Priority Actions to Improve MPW Training:
(i)    Provide facilities
(ii)    Training of teachers
(iii)    Improve management training
3.        A summary of information related to manpower and training submitted
by the Ministry of Home Affairs is as follows:
(a)  Total Number of MHA personnel:                    600,000 (all
categories
(b)  Overall Annual Rate of Growth:                    3.5%
(c)  Percentage of Manpower Training Needs
Now Being Met:                                    40%
(d)  Approximate Budget for Training:                  Rp 2.0 billion
(Pusdiklat)
(e)  Anticipated Reduction in Training
Budget Next Year:                                 50%



144 -                     Attchment 2
Pg  2
(f)  Number of Personnel Trained in 1985-86:          13,220
(g)  Maximum Number of Trainees/Year:                 55,300 (at FTCs)
(h)  Unused Capacity 1985-86:                         76X
Mi) Most Critical Training Requirements:
ti) Urban Development Training
(ii) Management Skills Training
(iii) Project Management Training
(j) Priority Actions to Improve MHA Training:
(i) Training of Instructors
(ii) Train Managers of training centers
(iii) Use more foreign technical assistance
4.        A summary of information related to manpower and training submitted
by the Ministry of Finance is as follows:
Ca)  Total Number of MOF Personnel:                   53,884 (all
categories)
Cb)  Overall Annual Rate of Growth:                   9%
Cc) Percentage of Manpower Training
Needs Now Being Met:                             60%
(d)  Approximate Budget for Training:                 Rp 7.6 billion
CPusdiklat)
(e) Anticipated Reduction in Training Budget
Next Year:                                       20%
(f)  Number of Personnel Trained in 1985-86:          21,632
(g)  Maximum Number of Trainees/Year:                 21,500 (at RTCs)
(h)  Unused Capacity 1985-86:                         0%
Ci) Most Critical Training Requirements:
Ci)    Technical training
Cii)    Training of teachers
(iii)    Management training
(j) Priority Actions to Improve MOF Training:
Ci)    Hire teachers as full time employees
(ii)    Develop and integrated raining plan
(iii)    Reduce the cost of training



-145                               PA$* I
INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Urban Development Training Component
1.     ~The project will support training in three important areas of
support to the GOI's Action Plan (Annex 1), namely; property valuation,
integrated urban infrastructure prograumming (IUIDP)t and physical planning.
These areas were selected from among several proposals by various central
agencies as GOI's highest priority pending the outcome of the Urban Manpower
Development Planning Study (Annex 11). The following describes the support to
be provided to (a) .he Directorate General of Taxation's (DGPajak) property
valuer training program, and (b) the Directorate General Cipta Karya's (DGCK)
ongoing IUIDP training program and its proposed urban planning training
program.
A. Property Valuer Training Program
2.         Valuer Training To Date.  Available statistics indicate that 228
officers of PPB have received some sort of valuation training since 1982.
Most of these courses have been held for a duration of up to 3 months, the
longest being 6 months valuation instruction and 6 qinths general
administration instruction.  The current GAPPI/PBB t  program of courses which
commenced January 1986 each of 3 months duration, with groups of 35. To date
105 staff have been trained, 35 are currently under training and it is
intended to train 70 more staff by March 1987. The curriculum is based on the
American Society of Appraisers--"Basic Course of Instruction" with additional
input from other authorities the main one being R.L. Jefferies' "Lecture Notes
on Property Valuation" compiled under Contract No. PRJ-87PJ7/1983.
3.         At present all of the staff who have received any valuation training
are continuing to work at the existing IPEDA classification system with the
exception of a few "exercise" valuations made on individual properties to
demonstrate differences in a Current Market tax base to the IPEDA
l/   The development of property valuation as an organized profession in
Indonesia is in a very early embryonic state. There are two very limited
valuer "Professional" organizations "GPI  and "MAPPI".
(a)  GAPPI is an Association of Indonesia Appraisal companies which
currently comprises 48 member firms.
(b)  MAPPI is an organization of individual members of not only valuers
but a wide range of occupations loosely connected with real
estate, Of the 650 members approximately 50 are valuers, the
remainder being accountants, bank managers and from other
multifarious commercial backgrounds.



-146-                          ANWRZ12
classification. It is evident that there is a heavy bias on quantity survey
and construction detail of buildings which probably flows from the
engineering/architectural background of nist of the Indonesian valuers, in
particular those involved in teaching the current course.   While this is not
important for the individual appraisal for special purposes the procedures are
overly detailed for valuations used in the compilation of a property tax
base, The level of valuer qualification achieved by candidates completing the
current and past courses could only be classed as low and although useful as
technician training could not be considered as a substitute as training for
professional level.
4.        Future Valuer Training.  The Action Plan provides for the proposed
Head Office organization to establish a position as one of the three
acsistants to the Chief Valuer to be designated Assistant Chief Valuer-
Training, responsible for all valuer training both inside and outside of the
PBB. A specialist adviser in Urban Property Tax Valuation will advise the
Assistant Chief Valuer-Training in all matters pertaining to his duties and
responsibilities and take an active part in establishing designing and
lecturing in internal courses as well as establishing course curriculum and
selecting candidates for external scholarships.
Broad Design and Structure of Valuer Training
5.        The proposed program provide for the following:
(a) long-term (three years minimum) scholarships to overseas
universities to the level of the professional standard in the
overseas country selected for the course;
(b) short-term (3-6 months) scholarships to overseas universities/
technical institutes/government training centers for technicians or
assessor level qualification;
(c) local short-term (3 months) courses with a curriculum to include
current PBB systems and procedures;
(d) on the job training from expatriate valuers working in Indonesia in
the revaluation program outlined in the Action Plan.
6.        Long-Term Overseas Scholarsiiips for Professional Training.  As no
university course in valuation is available in Indonesia and since it appears
such a course would be difficult to establish, it will be necessary to offer
scholarships for suitable candidates to take established degree courses in
overseas countries. Such courses are of 3-4 years duration and are available
throughout Australiasia New Zealand, USA, United Kingdom, Sri Lanka, Malaysia,
Singapore and Hong Kong. Any of the urban dcgree courses offered in these
countries and approved by their national professional body would be adequate
for Indonesian purposes. The most favored would be Malaysia in terms of easy
access, language and compatible environment for Indonesian students and it is
recommended that this be the first choice for the university training for
valuers to professional level. However, experience from training in several
of the other countries would be advantageous to Indonesia and the best of
these would be Singapore, Australia and New Zealand.



-147-                           ANEX 12
Page 3
7.        The graduates would ultimately be the core of the valuation
profession in Indonesia and become responsible for the successful
administration of the valuation system. With the several years practical
experience they would potentially be suitable for p:omotion to suitable
administrative positions or become involved in teaching valuation in future
Indonesian educational institutions. It is expected that a target of
approximately the top 10X of the students who have completed local courses of
3 months or more duration would be offered scholarships of 3 years duration to
complete diplomas/degrees to either of the courses designated in the attached
Appendix III. This would amount to 45 scholarships selected on the usual
criteria of age and performance. Fifteen scholarships would be offered in
each of the years 1987, 1988 and 1989.
8.        Short Term (3-6 months) Scholarships to the Malaysian Government's
National Institute of Valuation "INSPEN" The Institute was established in
1985 and amongst other objectives provides valuer and valuer related training
to other Government Agencies. The Indonesian Government has already
approached the Institute to provide a special training program, to suit
Indonesian conditions, for some 60 valuers under a curriculum being
developed. The Malaysian valuation profession has made considerable advances
in recent years and INSPEN courses can be recommended with confidence.
Accordingly 60 valuers from previous local valuation courses should be offered
scholarships to attend INSPEN in 1987 and provision made for a further 60 in
1988 and 60 in 1989.
9.        Local Short-Term (3 months) Courses).  As no other local courses
will be available in the foreseeable future the GAPPI/PBB course should be
continued with some revision of the course content which should be carried out
in 1987 by the incoming consultant who will be advising the PBB, Assistant
Chief Valuer-Training, who is to be appointed in the reorganization. The
amendments would include greater emphasis on mass appraisal, particularly of
land value, more practical exercises and also less time on complicated
techniques of valuing buildings. The above mentioned R.L. Jefferies Lecture
Notes are would be used for land valuation by "Site Valuing" and the use of
"Multiples" for building valuations. Accordingly it is recommended this
course continues with 3 courses a year each of 3 months duration with 25
students, over the years 1987, 1988 and 1989. By the end of the program 225
valuers will have been training (See Attachment I for course content).
10.       Block "in house" Courses.  It is anticipated that both the P9B
Valuer Training Officer and his Advisor will be organizing short (2 weeks-l
month) in house Block Courses for all levels of field staff including data
recorders. These would be focussed on teaching techniques for mass appraisal
both land and buildings as well as gatherings data. Some of these courses
will of necessity be residential but the lecturers will also be required to
travel and conduct courses over a wide area. An annual budget would be
provided for those expenses.
11.       Establishment of a Professional Valuation Qualification at an
Indonesian University or Technical Institute. One of the objectives of the
Valuer Training Officer will be the establishment of a professional valuation
course at one or more Indonesian teaching institutes. The selection of a



4 r t; ;~~~~~~~~~~if    * 12
-.                         -   M48   -
suitable university or technical institute is a matter of Government policy
but both private and public valuation course initially would be grafted on to
an existing qualification in surveying, business management, engineering,
architecture, or other land related faculties or an valuation with specialties
in either urban or rural. DGPajak and the advisers would discuss the
appointment of a qualified lecturer and appropriate curriculum with interested
higher education institutions.
Table 1: PROPERTY VALUER TRAINING PROGRAM
Fellowships and                  Amount
Participants         Total   (USs '000)
1987    1988    1989
Professional valuer overseas
fellowship (long-term)                15       15      15      45        1,430
INSPEN fellowships (3-months)           60       60      60      60          540
GAPPI/PBB courses (3-months             75       75      75    225           450
Block courses (2-4 weeks)              150      300     300    750           225
Total                                                                3,645
B. IUIDP Training Program
12.       The IUIDP training program has been developed progressively from
August 1985 commencing with the IUIDP training workshop in Washington, D.C.
organized by the Economic Development Institute (EDI) and attended by senior
officials from BAPPENAS, MPW, MOF and MHA. This set the guidelines for the
groups to be targetted for training and the main training objectives, as well
as the pattern of operations through operational policy seminars, management
workshops and specialized courses. Subsequent support has been provided by
the Institute of Housing Studies (IHS or Bowcentrum) of the Netherlands
through a field reconaissance survey, development of a plan of operations for
a GON-funded pilot training project, and curriculum development workshop in
Rotterdam (May 1986).
13.       The goal of the IUIDP training suport is the successful implementa-
tion of the IUIDP approach for planning. project preparation, financing,
implementing and operating urban infrastructure. IUIDP training is intended
to be developed over a period of about 5 years into a fully institutionalized
program with trained staff. Managers and decision makers would be an import-
ant focus of the training and all groups involved directly or indirectly in
IUIDP implementation would be targetted. Coverage of the whole of Indonesia
is as short a time as possible, consistenm with reasonable quality, is
intended. Standardized materials and curricula would be developed to help



-149                            Pass  1
achieve rapid dissemination, initially through an operational agency, DCCK's
Directorate Bina Program. A training management team to direct and coordinate
activities and a training support unit to develop curricula and support opera-
tions, have been established. Pilot efforts partly financed from Loan 2258-
IND have begun in West Java and will be expanded to Central Java (with ADB
assistance). In addition several teams of consultants are currently working
in outer islands on IUIDP program development, including some training.
14.       The strategy underlying the training to be supported by the loan is
to (a) consrlidate the pilot activities; (b) develop the experience of the
various consultants through formalization and extension of their training
activities; (c) build on existing institutional development to build provin-
cial-level capacity; and (d) increase central management capacity.
15.       Four basic packages of activities to take place over two years would
be funded under the loan:
(a)  Package A would comprise technical assistance to set up a training
management capacity in the provincial IUIDP team in East Java and
funding for two years' training programs there. The training
capacity would include development of materials and training
courses, training of trainers, and the organization and running of
courses, including (i) operational policy and management workshops;
(ii) Project Cycle Courses (Course I--strategic urban planning and
resource mobilization; Course II--program and project management and
implementation; Course III--project preparation, implementation, and
O&M (see Attachment 2 for details).
(b)  Package B would develop a capacity similar to Package A for the more
specialized purposes of metropolitan and large cities thropgh con-
sultants about to assist the cities concerned in program develop-
ment.
(c)  Package C would provide support to the present consultant teams
working in outer islands (Sumatra, Sulawesi, etc.) to establish a
training capacity in three Regions.
(d)  Package D would provide support for the central training management
team and training support unit, including technical assistance and
funding for materials development, pilot courses, development of
specialized courses and communications materials.



....       .... rn ,-r.-                   -   i
Page 6
Table 2: SUMMARY OF IUIDP TRAINING ASSISTANCE
Manionths            Cost
Activity                                        Foreign   Local       (US$'000)
Package A - East Java:
Experts                                          6        15          124,500
Courses                                                               100,000
Materials/equipment                                                   100,000
Package B - Metro/large cities:
Experts                                          9        36          234,000
Courses                                                               130,000
Materials/equipment                                                   100,000
Package C - Extension to Outer Regions:
Experts                                         12        50          319,000
Courses                                                               480,000
Materials/equipment                                                    150,000
Rehabilitation                                                        150,000
Package D - Central Training Support:
Experts                                         12         36         270,000
Courses                                                               300,000
Materials/equipment                                                   200,000
Information/communications materials                                  100,000
Total                                                           2,757,500
C. Urban Planning Training
16.       At the central level, responsibility for physical planning in
Indonesia is jointly shared by two government departments, the Ministry of
Home Affairs and the Ministry of Public Works. A recent joint Ministerial
Decree defines the areas of responsibility of the ministries, and broadly it
is stated that the Ministry of Public Works is responsible for technical
a3pects of physical planning, and the Ministry of Home Affairs is responsible
for administrative tnd financial aspects. Responsibility for plan preparation
and localization, however, is vested in Local (Kabupaten/Kotamadya or TK.II)
Government, although virtually all of these plans must be approved at higher
levels.  Plan preparation can be carried out by local government; but more
often, work is delegated to local consultants with funding provided by the
central government (DC PUOD) allotted to production of master plans and
detailed plans for specified urban areas. Assistance to local government in



-151-                          AMIU 12
Page 7
plan preparation is also provided by Central DTKTD directly or through SpaWal
Planning Project Units (P2R) at the provinces. The provincial government I
can also assist local government in plan preparation by Sub-Dinas Cipta Karya
in the Provincial Public Works. The IUIDP approach also includes provision
for the formation of technical teams at both the TK.I and TK.II levels which
include representatives of the institutions mentioned above while the main
function of these teams concerns IUIDP implementation, this is generally con-
sidered to include an overall planning function, particularly in the prepara-
tion of IUIDP Development Assessment Plans (IDAP).
17.       The IDA? is a central feature of the IUIDP system is the 'Indicative
Development Assessment Plan'--a kind of urban strategic development plan
indicating the city's development trends, infrastructure needs and investment
priorities. There are a great many urban areas without development plans of
any kind and a limited capability in DGCK's Directorate of City and Regional
Planning (DTKTD) and its Provincial Planning Units to prepare large number of
plans. DTKTD has in recent years focussed mainly on preparation of Regional
Plans in less-developed areas, and to a limited extent in metropolitan
conurbation planning (e.g., the Jakarta Region--JABOTABEK--planning study
assisted by Loan 1336-IND). The emphasis on implementation of IUIDP and the
urgent need for IDAPs, however, creates a need for reorientation and
strengthening of DTKTD to develop an urban planning training capability.
Following a screening of strategic urban centers, about 180 cities and towns
have been identified as priority targets for IDAP preparation assistance.
18.       DTKTD has with some assistance from the Belgian Government developed
a limited training capability in regional and urban planning: mainly in
formal planning skills. It provides training through 4 centers (Jakarta,
Denpasar, Bukittinggi and Ujung Pandang). For the future the need is to
develop material resources and systems for both formal and informal (self)
development, and for strengthening of the central and provincial training
capabilities with the following objectives: (a) strengthening of provincial
level capability to better undertake their role as a technical assistance
resource to local government in urban planning; and (b) strengthening of local
(TKMII) government technical capability to internally prepare appropriate
urban plans. The project would provide support to two areas, namely: i) a
2/   In general, the role of provincial government is to provide overall guid-
ance and assistance to local government in meeting their planning
responsibilities, as well as to prepare broader Province Development
Plans (Repelitada) based on the five-year national planning cycle. Key
responsibility is vested in the Provincial Planning Board (Bappeda TK.I),
although a major technical role is also played in many provinces by the
DTKTD Spatia, Planning Project or Cipta Karya staff in the Provincial
Dinas PU. In principle, the role of Bappeda is in overall strategic
planning and policy guidance while that of the Dinas 2U, or the Spatial
Planning Project is in technical guid-nce in preparation of specific
regional and city plans. In some cases, however, these roles may be
blurred due to distribution of appropriate skills within the provincial
government.



5- 1i  -
review of urban development planniang techniques and methodolgies in Indonesia$
and (ii) developent of an integrated and regionally-specific training program
for urban areas that would be supportive both of the development of
regionally-based training infrastructure and of Level II local governments in
IDAP preparation. Costs are given in Table 3. Details are given in the DTXTD
project proposal submission (prepared with UIDP assistance) available in
project files (U-nex 15).
19.       Development of Spatial Planning Methodologies.  Three DTKTD regional
centers and three pilot cities (Bandung, Ambon and one other to be selected
either in Kalimantan or Irian Jaya) would each be the focus for development of
urban planning techniques and methodologies appropriate to Indoresia's varied
regional characteristics and a decentralized formal urban planning training
program. They would each receive technical assistance and training, as well
as a microcomputer-based hardware/software package, O0M and resource
materials. Based on the findings of the pilot city planning studies, a series
of seminars in each regional center would be held to evaluate the training
program and develop a plan for its replication in other cities. It is
expected that training for other cities would be carried out a roughly 6-
monthly intervals. Participations would be from the Level II and
corresponding Level I local governments as well as DTKTD central and
provincial staff.
20.       Urban Training Program Development.  Intensive support would be
provided to the training effort of the three above mentioned pilot cities for
(a) data collection and analysis; (b) map preparation and as necessary,
updated aerial photography;- (c) technical and legal support. Central
training capabilities would be upgraded to provide increased regional support
for training in informal techniques. Regional support would include (a)
strengthening of Provincial Planning Units to assist local governments through
'i) development and issue of technical guidelines and standards, and
(ii) assistance in IDAP plan making and coordination with IUIDP; and (b)
assistance in planning for urban agglomerations. Experts would be appointed
to assist in the development of materials and systems for implementation of
regional-specific training.
3/ It is expected that most cities to be addressed under the program will
have full use of Lhe mapping provided under the DC agraria's Urban
Mapping Program funded by Loan 1972-IND.



:  153                          r
Table 3:  URBAN PLAVNIVC TRAINING PROGRAM
Duration      Man-onths           Cost
(months)   Foreign    Local   (US$'000)
Urban planning advisers                       24        52         30         730
Short-term specialists                                  40                    240
Educationalist/materials specialists                    40         20         550
Local planning advisers                       24                   70         245
Equipment                                                                      95
Total                                                                 1,860
21.       The strategic training program would be developed on the basis of
the planning methodology review carried out during 1987/88, taking into con-
sideration previous training experience. A training cycle would be designed
during 1988/89 including needs assessment, materials preparation, training of
trainers, implementation and monitoring and evaluation. The training
materials would be based on needs assessments and target regions, institutions
and groups. Outputs would include:
(a)  strategic training program;
(b) strategy for P2R support to Level II local governments including
IDAP preparation;
(c) training materials and dissemination;
(d) formal development plans (as training outputs) for three representa-
tive pilot cities; and
(e) trained staff (approximately 60) from cities and districts, es well
as P2R staff.



0   z
lmm
;r ,H .



Property Valuer Training
A. Recomended Content of University and Other Valuation Courses
1.   Institute of Technology Mara Shah Alam Selangor
Di-ploma in Estate Management (3 years)
Year I:   -    Valuation
-    Principles of Building I
-    Surveying
-    Statistics I
-    Economic I
Year U1   -    Valuation
-    Law of Property I
-    Principle of Building II
-    Principles of Town and Regional Planning
-    Statistics II
-    Economic II
Year III  -    Valuation and Urban Property Management
-    Law of Property II
-    Building Maintenance
-    Site Planning and Development
-    Land Taxation
-    Urban Land Economic.
-    Report Writing
2.   University of Technology:  Malaysia-Johor Baru
Faculty of Surveying - Valuation Department
Diploma in Valuation (3 years)
Year I    -    Mathematics
-    Economics I
-    Valuation I
-    Accounting
Year II   -    Economics II
-    Statistics
-    Valuation II
-    Building Technology
Year III  -    Theory and Practice Building III
-    Law III
-    Building Services and Equipment
-    Valuation Land and Building II
-    Town Planning I
-    Real Estate Economics I
-    Estate Management
-    Accounting II



-  56-hfI
- 1Sh -           ~~Attachment 1
Page 2
Year IV   -    Theory and Practice Building IV
-    Estate Management II
-    Valuation Land and Building III
-    Real Estate Economics II
-    Town Planning II
-    Real Estate Finance
-    Final Year Project
B.   Content of the GAPPI/PBB Course - located at Jakarta
(a)  Lectures  -    Code of Ethics/Introduction to Appraisal
-   Theory of Appraisal
-   Appraisal of land, buildings and other land
improvements
-   Appraisal reports
-   Application of Appraisal to:
(a)   Surveying
(b)   Photogrammetry
(c)   Mapping
(d)   Urban Data
-   PBB Tax on Land and Buildings
-   Appraisal of Plantations
-   Appraisal of Mineral Properties
-   Appraisal of Timberland Forests
-   Comparative Study of Tax on Land and Buildings in
Malaysia
(b)  Field Training -   Residential buildings
-   Commercial buildings
-   Industrial buildings
-   Surveying and mapping



ANNEX 12
- 157 -                      Attich ent 2
IUIDP TRAINING PROGRAM. COURSE CONTENT
1.  ProOct Cycle Course I - Strategic Urban Planning and Resource
Mobilisation
Target Croup: Teams of Staff from five (or more as required) TK.II
authorities plus Level I staff from BAPPEDA and Finance
Bureau
Duration:     4 weeks class + 12 weeks field (with supervision) + 2 weeks
class i.e. total 18 weeks (continuous).
Behavioral Objectives (summary only)
(a) able to explain IUIDP and its implications for TK.II governments
(b) able to explain full urban planning and project cycle, and relate
current topics to whole
(c) able to prepare IDAP (actual IDAP prepared during fieldwork)
(d) able to analyze and identify additional revenue sources and current
collection problems (report and action plan prepared during
fieldwork)
(e) able to prepare future outline action plan for infrastructure
program and project identification (plan produced in final
classwork).
Location: Jakarta (first Pilot Courses)
Regional Centers (thereafter).
2.   Complementary Activities l/
Wherever Course I implemented, these would precede it:
Discussion Panel
Target Group: Bupatis/Walikots,
Bappeda Chairman,
and DPR (D) Chairmsn of areas for Course I
Duration: 1 1/2 - 2 days
Behavioral Objectives:
(a) able to explain urban planning and project cycle
(b) able to explain IUIDP and analyze their role and its implications
for own authorities
(c) able to explain objectives and outputs of Course I (incl. IDAP)
(d) able to analyze implications for staff absences, help required, own
role and support required during course
1/   These are proposed as additional activities to the IUIDP Operational
Policy Seminars and IUIDP Management Workshops already planned for
Provinces where IUIDP is being implemented.



g   r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . .   ...  .   . .*. r
9-~~~ 1S8                                           t ~B 2
Locationt Hotel in Province
Resource Peoples from Central Agencies and Level I
Orientation Workshop
Target groups
Heads of Dinas Level II and
some middle-rank Level staff of areas for Course I
Duration: 3 - 5 days
Behavioral Objectives
(a) able to explain urban planning and project cycle
(b) able to explain IUIDP and implications for their Dinas
(c) able to explain IDAP preparation process and own role in its
production
(d) able to explain help required by Course participants
(e) able to explain role required during revenue investigation and
report.
Location: Training Center in Province
3.   Project Cycle Course II - Program and Project Management and
Implementation
Target group: (Medium sized towns) Teams of staff from several Level II
authorities + some sectoral staff from Level I
Duration: 2 weeks class/4 weeks field/2 days class
Behavioral objectives:
(a) able to explain connection of current course topics to complete
urban planning and project cycle
(b) able to use analytical tools to draw up programs of interrelated
IUIDP projects
(c) able to complete IUIDP proformas
(d) able to follow GOI regulations on project implementation
(e) able to use simple project implementation management
Location: Provincial Centers
4.   Project Cycle Course III - Project Preparation, Implementation, Operation
and Maintenance
Target Group: Teams from a single Kotamadya (Metropolitan Cities) and
some sectoral technical staff from Level I
Duration: 3 weeks class including field visits. Monitoring visits by
IUIDP Consultants thereafter.



Behavioral Objectives:
(a) able to explain connection of current course topics to complete
urban planning and project cycle
(b) able to draft TOR for Feasibility Study and interpret Reports
(c) able to conduct economic and financial appraisal of project proposal
(d) able to use management tools to monitor implementation of projects
(e) able to plan and monitor operation of infrastructure or service and
plan its maintenance.
Location: City concerned.



)INV7[H SI
aOvd SIHI
.Si
.~~~. I      . .... . I i-    1:JJ        



z~onIsiANWNEXS 13
Table 1
URBAN SECrOR LOAN
EXPENDITURE PROGRAM FUNDING
lw     - 1    UEa  C         rLIs (Ninid Ip billion)
..  _ ..... ___ .~~~~~~~~~~~~~......... ... _. ........._...._._ ......._ ..........._.._._.._._
buisi: 6                   Totl  1907#- - 99-WA                                            19-7- -- --        ----  11999 -**---- t/90
17*r-6?                         Total  Total    01       02      Q3     04      01     O2      03     04      01
vlpot # W*   expuditre 15R2.9  769.0  713.9
. ....... ......... ...........  _ .. ...... ....... ... ...... ...
Oltr 54ly111.6  W6. 2  22h.4
M      ec,rotltionh  Iraiung  M.   131.9  lU.S
Eirwental witation         5.0   ff.1   37.?
KIP                        5.6   37.5   49.1
oh                        134.9     4.3  100.5
Flodrg (VAX)               16.2   4.2   40.0
MI (all sbsectors)        305.0  137.3  167.?
Ix (NU portion)            37.5  1I.5   19.0
Tech. blit. aW Training     70.0   35.0   35.0
Total                  1622.9  14.0  118.9   64.5  144.1  232.0  294.6  135.0  147.3  22.6  2n9.7   90.0
surw  et or :              1622.9  604.0  161.9
__,,,,,,,, .               _., ...   .... .
htiouol Progrs:            997.0   4.4  40.6   49.8   99.7  l14.5  199.4   49.i   99.?  149.6  199.4    0.0
.,,,,, - -.............. --------..  ...... .. .. ...            ---- ...... .         -----.  -----  .....   ----
Rm(OIP/OIP):              417.2  197.2  220.0   19.7   39.4   59.2   79.9  2n.0   44.0   66.0  16.0
, .. . _ .... .........  ......_.,
06 Cipta Kw             207.9  105.3  102.5
06 Peniran               34.6   43.9   40.7
S hi  brg                66.7   20.5   49.2
Other                    18.6    9.0    9.6
Tax                      37.5   19.5   19.0
raeip Oid (IK):           509.8  266.2  243.6   26.6   53.2   79.9  106.5   24.4   48.7   73.1   97.4
__..... ...... ._ ...  ......_
0 Cipta lvre            311.2  176.6  132.6
6 Penpiran              153.6   72.3   91.3
C bina  rga              42.2   13.0   26.4
Other                     2.9    1.5    1.3
Tech. Asst. ad Training  70.0   35.0   35.0    3.5    7.0   10.5   14.0    3.5    7.0   10.5   14.0
Local program:             625.9  305.6  320.3   14.6   4.4   12.5   95.2   65.2   47.6   76.0   90.3   90.0
Ileutic lowi (P0):         64.1   39.4   41.7    3.9    7.9   11.8   15.9    4.5    1.9   13.4   17.9
IIfS:                     153.3   33.0   70.3    0.0    8.3   21.9   24.9   24.9    7.0   21.1   21.1   21.1
Lecl I
Level It
SO:                        15.9    7r6    8.3    1.9    1.9    1.9    1.9    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1
Lewl11
1I a II:                  372.6  175.6  197.0    6.8   26.3   43.9   52.7   53.7   29.6   39.4   49.3   69.0
Levl 1                   29.3   17.4   11.9
Level 11                129.2   59.3   69.9
Pmm                     214.1   11.9  115.2



- 1.62 _                                                 T            13
vW 2*33WmiI FME  Id It kbls)                                                    gmE   KTMw Ui a   WiUs
U10-_V  lw   ism                                                              l"l m ~       wo                M
lIdm Mt                                     W -13a                        43-- 1a   -                                __
"JE EKE                                                                                                           331 0   i " " " "   
kwutz                       16i2.3                   34.1  144.1  232.1  23.    15.3  Iff.3   M.   3.7    I.3
io                  ~~            ~          ~~~16Z  64.S  I-KI al 2".6 inJ. Iff.1 22LI MJ   ILI
U:                        1173.6                   46.4   "3.  1H41   3.          17.4 I1.1   1133   11.1   ILI
ItaM) /a                 113.0   43.    71.2    5.1    1.3   13.9    3S          7.I   14.1   21.1    IL1         Li
U otow 1)uu)
hrut hX t ih 2A4.3   IRI  121.1   13.3    5.3    39.9   13.2   12.2   24.4    .s    1.7                        3.l
bi*umt iroflaug  214.9  131   121.    13.3 2I 1    3.9    92    12.2   24.4   13S    4.7   L3
*                          3.0    4. S . 1   .            3.3     Li    3.3    4.1        .3     Li    3.3    3.3
1tS  id                  19.3      1      33.3    3.3    3.3   24.3   24.I   24.9    7.0   21.1   21.1   21.1
a    Id                   1S.      ?.i      .3  I1.       1.9    1.3    1.3    2.1    2.1        2I    2.1       3.I
M    /                   M63.3  173.   1I.3       LI   5.3    4.          2? R   13.    29.3    3.4    4.3   69.3
L      r pruds:            444.3   2233   224.3   13.1    4.1    37.    3.         17.7    4.3      .3    31.?    3.3
hrot ppws:               IS       74.3    7.1    7.4   14.9   22.3   29.7     I.          I3.3   23.?      11.3  LI
li  Ii                  43.7    23.    232      2.4    4.?    7.1       .4    2.6    5.2    7.3   13.1    '.I
F s                     33.3   ILl   17.9    1.3    3.2    4.7    U.3    1.3    3.3    1.4    7.2    L.i
lui.us.                 3.3    Li    Li    3.1    7.1   Il.1   14.1              S     7.3 .IIS    14.1    1.1
Trwufrs fro  (to) U    23.3  143.9   144.M    1.7   29.6   4S.3   5.4    9.7   3.3    46.1   53.1                t.o
MIE?
bm"   ML                                             1.1  111.7   91.4   7S.1   44.0  Si.    37.7   17,3 *1I.4
prts ra*rw at               I.0   11.1    1.1   u.1
ktrmtiwu ft.,w              41.0    1.0    3.3   43.0
Irinfvs fro wpcall At/:
iS  rddw Ats             122.3    I5    73.2    3.0        .3    19.9   19.3    19.3    .6   16.3         13.9   13.9
BP reiui    .ts           49.7   23.5   26.2    2.1    4.7    7.1    9.4          .3    1.2    1.3   13.5        .3
IUS lto  to p sta  211.3  143.0  144.9   137    2.1   4S.3   11.4    3.?    II    1.1   53.1  1 .1
Cls.q hi1                                          111.7   93.4   7S.1   44.3   66.3   37.7   17.3  -15.4    I.S
KUL Km3:
*KmIq hLI Si.3                                               11.1   3L     19.1   12.7   ILI   3.1   19.3   12.7
bos i                     51.1   S7.1    Li 157.
b                't      19L3    34.2  I1I.L     L.3    3.    13.2    3I   41.    27.1   19.7   I.L              t
*ksd~~~~. _js;-                                                                    j  -           _ _
lI                    33.2    14.1   2S.1    3.3      2.4    4.7    7.1       3.4    2.3    1.2    7.3
F M5I                          3.1   17.1    L I. 1.6    3.2    4.7    1.3    1.1            11      1.4
WE                    IL 3.3  53    66.1       LI3    .I    3.3   19.9   19.3   13.          Li3  13.        4.1
UP                    3.2    14.1   5I           I    21.1    4.7   '1:        .4    2.      3.2    7.       1
LL3 hiwummui'           M257   11.3  14.S    L.I   13.2   3L3    4LI   2.3    13.7    3.1   S1                  13.3
krw  _p' to p.jt:
0.7    213.5   52       Li4   L.7 7IL          3.4    3.3    3. 2      7.    17.5     Li.
It               LI~1.    1IL3    171.    1.6    3.2    4.7    Li3   1.3    3.3         Li4    ?       Li3
OM     1             12.3    1.1        .2 I       I    LI L  19.9   1.    19.9    LI    16.1   13.3   13.
3                      3 0.7   23.    52       2.4    t.7    7.1    3.4    2.3       LI2   7.9   IL.1         .
cams khI1                                          1l.5   3LI. 19.3   12.    II   M1  19.1   12.7                 LI
h upu                    of.#- 5L. of tw3743M            P         tls i fro  S
mA iwlh7   NNhW   EU of towi moim UP dullin  fro, L
"M hT  fi [dl k  * mp w PP
ithg  h l                                     
nl WId_t _i U hdlM *_   I v"  ~tb
5.3ufU  g     twed     IM      L         rlg.:*~m t  tot in11 (I.e. aut of ton)
ILB It As 00= 29ii                        mbk _In          ii l tuidm W bts .1 E1. Mt of to SW 1)
7  7  .UILKof gm s bIr             ;Mi am
174-Ilk.. 33I



7 ..-                                              -  3 -     -                                         ?awwN
*b.i             U                    __-__                   ___
aln    m7 kL                                                                    LIL                 L       .
Ul~a  ft.-  2m2* 31.                                                   M       66    6.6    6 .6       .
uP               1I             2I.    2L6   13.3  19.2              4.2    7.l    '1'.6  11.4  -16.3
PR               4.5            15.1    6.6    1     .1 39.            9.9   I S.L IL    3i.9  -19.1
hi (BP)                          5.0                    LI              LI   5.0    LI   5.            0.3
inS                      63.L                           3.6            21.3L    M  4 1  L .6 O.
M                      13.2                           1U.2            16.1    1.6    1.0    6.O    0.6
,                                                                             12t 126.6   1Z.0    6.0  13.3
rfY7     26.2    51.3   6.2    N.3   23.5  122.5   .1                  223.1  2".2   VA.3   22.3   "A.
riu.lq  Pie  - ryi69:
U.N    213.6                                          243.6           6.9    0.1    1.0    0.0    I.R
Up              71.2           5.2    5.2    S.3    3.3               Sl3   52.5   52.5  14.I  -53
e                4.5            17.9    g.m   22.3    W.7             11.2   17.9   17.9       .2  -22.3
1/ (UP)                           LI                    5.6             5.6    IL      5.6    35.M    6.6
IWS                      76.3                          7.3             17.6   .2      72       1.    76.2
w                      X5.3                           5A.3             1.3    LI    L.3    1.S    L.I
&prts                                                                           6.3    6.3    LI6   6.
WW  24L6  M?  M5   19.1  I2  1117? M19                                   .?  1111 1.S 2VI1 -2.
1To      9.    IA.   W.1               49.7  291.1  169              4".6    W      47   4.3         1.6
-    _m  _m  mm  mm m_    _                           m _   _          _m _    _              _



l1i*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
!-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
ra               -qp~~~~U  -o
la                                                                -- -       m -   - - -
,:~~~~~~~~~~ i'!] -d                                          - -            - -
--                   1 -- - -
,   lE  I  {-   i'-' I  tS   i     I X   1$   1            1-1
.'-  ,                     - - - - - -
.t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
I                i--- ------ ---    -                               im
I               m m ----~~~~~~~~~~~~i    W
.,~~                                                            ~4P 



-    @- - -. - -; - -- -    -   --- -- t-- -}----i
I   I i                                . t  m    |   I  ------------
I-.  - --          ----- ---            ---
{t~ ~ ~~P                  Pt    Q Uj f  ir                                                             l
~~~~i-.                                                             I                      I           i! 1
|W~~ ~~~~ 1                   -   -w  IIIIFV                                          *2
3 1W                         B         i,s,il~~~~~3   3!   S                                                        f
i .                  "    S         tri   I  Ij-I                                                             P I
1~~~~~~~ 41                                                          I                I                     w  



)-NV7IH SI
HOVd SIHI
urn..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _-  !-,.: ---



: .                                         .  ..................   .
- 167 -
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Proposed Disbursement Arrangeents
I. Background and Overview
1.        This Annex describes proposed arrangements for disbursement of the
World Bank loan funds under the Urban Sector Loan. The objectives are to:
(a) provide adequate finances from the outset of the two-year urban
infrastructure expenditure program to ensure that implementation of
the agreed program is not adversely affected by lack of financial
resources because of GOI's constrained budget situation;
(b) assure that Bank loan funds are rapidly disbursed in association
with the two-year agreed expenditure program; and
(c) in achieving the objectives (a) and (b) above, utilize conventional
disbursement methods against urban infrastructure expenditures to
the fullest extent possible, while minimizing the need for indirect
financing of this program through imports-based disbursement of Bank
loan funds.
2.        The proposed arrangements would involve a number of innovations in
World Bank lending to the Government of Indonesia, including;
(a) establishment of a Special Account, which would further reduce the
need for prefinancing and facilitate channeling of Bank loan funds
to support the agreed urban infrastructure expenditure program (if
successful, such an arrangement could be replicated for other
projects); and
(b) establishment of institutional arrangements for imports-based
disbursement of Bank loan funds, wnich could be replicated in future
policy-based lending operations.
3.        The proposed innovations are intended to facilitate Bank loan
disbursement within the framework of GOI budget and expenditure control
policies and procedures recently established under Joint Decreee SKB No. 48
dated January 27, 1987.
This Annex is based on the findings and recommendations of IBRD staff members
Cecil Perera and Andrew Vorkink during the appraisal mission to Jakarta in
November 1986. Staff member Miguel B. Quintos assisted in its finalization in
Washington, D.C.



- 166-_
4.        As overview of the proposed disbunrmt  raugmmnts is provided in
the chart attached as Attachment 1. In essence two mechanisms would be
establishedi
(a)  A portion of Bank loan proceeds not exceeding US$70 million
equivalent, would be eligible for disbursement upon loan
effectiveness based on receipt of Statements of Expenditure (80E)
for eligible imports. It is expected that the equivalent rupiah
counterpart funds from this disbursement would support expenditures
under the agreed program through normal budget procedures.
(b) A Special Account would be established within Bank Indonesia from
which funds could be drawn to:
(i)   make direct payments to contractors on the basis of an SPM
issued by DGBudget's Directorate of Budget Administration
(TUA) for eligible DIP expenditures (net of tax);
(ii)   reimburse the national treasury (BUN) based on SPJs
received by TUA for eligible DIP expenditures prefinanced
by GOI and evidence of eligible DIP expenditures by local
KPN offices;
(iii)   make direct payments for Pinjaman Dalam Negeri (PDN) urban
infrastructure-related loan disbursements to local
governments and local public enterprises based on
expenditure proposals (excluding land and taxes); and
(iv)   reimburse the BUN for 20X of INPRES DATI II and INPRES
Jalan expenditures reported by Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI)
to DGBudget each week, based on evidence of expenditures.
5.        Details of these proposed arrangements are provided in Sections II,
III and IV below. A summary of actions to be taken to implement these
arrangements is provided in Section V.
II. Provisions Governing Administration of a Special Account
6.        The Loan Agreement provides for GOI to establish a Special Account
with Bank Indonesia, and at the request of GOI for IBRD to deposit into this
account an advance of up to four months of expected reimbursement. The
account would be maintained in US dollars and withdrawals could be made only
for eligible expenditures at the agreed financing percentage. The account
could be maintained in an interest bearing form, with the interest accruing to
GOI. Its main features would be:



169                               AW3  14
Page 3
Currency and Amount           t        US$35.0 million
Location                            : Bank Indonesia
Access to the Account               : Directorate of Budget Administration
Frequency of Submission of          : At the end of every month or when
Withdrawal Applications for          the balance reaches about 502 of the
Replenishment                        initial deposit, whichever occurs
earlier
Currency conversion                 : The rate of exchange between the US
Dollar and the currency of payment
on the date Bank Indonesia debits
the Special Account would apply.
Responsibilities
7.        The Directorate of Budget Administration (TUA) would:
(a) acquire evidence of payment for eligible expenditures made from OI
resources, and request BI to reimburse GOI from the Special Account;
(b) if any payment from the Special Account is subsequently found by the
Bank to be ineligible, TUA would promptly refund to the Special
Account or the Loan Account the relevant amount on receipt of
notification from the Bank.
8.        Bank Indonesia would:
(a) maintain the Special Account as a separate account to contain only
funds from the IBRD loan;
(b) on receipt of a payment order from TUA (in the case of reimbursement
requests) or from Project Management Units (PMU--in the case of
direct payment requests), pay the required amount charging the
Special Account at the exchange rate application on the date the
Special Account is debited;
(c) after payment, issue to TUA the PMU and other interested parties, a
debit advice showing the date of payment, party to whom the payment
was made, project identification code, the currency and amount of
payment, the US dollar equivalent charged to the Special Account and
the exchange rate;



-170-                             AM=Il 14
Page 4
(d) at the end of every month or when the balance of the Special Account
reaches about 502 of the initial deposit, prepare and submit a
withdrawal application for replenishment of the Special Account.'/
(e) on receipt of payment from IBRD, promptly credit the funds to the
Special Account; and
(f) issue to TUA at monthly intervals, a statement on the Special
Account showing information on the transections conducted during the
month.
III. GOI Reimbursement Procedures
9.        This section covers (i) the current procedures that are being
followed in the actual release of funds made available under GOI's Development
Budget, and (ii) proposed reimbursement procedures in each of these areas
under the Urban Sector Loan.
Development Budget (DIP)
10.       The DIP for development expenditures for specific p:ojects are split
into the portion to be financed from external sources and the portion to be
financed from GOI resources. Project Managers requesting payment from their
DIP allocations submit a SPP to the local KPN office of DC Budget for expendi-
tures to be financed by GOI, and submit a SPPP either to the central cffice of
TITA for expenditures to be financed by reimbursement from external sources or
to BI for expenditures to be financed by direct payment from external sources.
SPPs and SPPPs may be either (i) requests for payments to a contractor, or
(ii) requests for advances (petty cash). Requests for payments to a contrac-
tor are accompanied by a copy of the contract (in the first instanceb  a
progress report certified by the supervising engineer and a voucher.-
1/   This application should be supported by either (a) modified orders-to-pay
(SPM) in the case of payments to contrators showing ti) total contract
value; (ii) total term payment; (iii) percentage of IBRD financing; (iv)
IBRD's category reference; (v) contract number and (vi) progress payment
certificate number; (b) SPMs of payments to local governments and enter-
prises under PDN loans; or (c) BRI weekly reports for eligible INPRES
expenditures; and BI's debit advice evidencing payment from the Special
Account. For items that World Bank has agreed to disburse against State-
ments of Expenditure (SOE) it is not necessary for BI to submit these
documents to the Bank. Instead they should be cross-referenced to the
withdrawal application and retained by TUA or the PMU for review by Bank
staff. A copy of BI's monthly statement of the Special Account should
also be submitted on a monthly basis or with the application, if such
coincides with the submission of the application.
2/   A signed receipt from the contractor, although actual payment has not
occured at this point.



A13114
- 171 -
Requests for advances are accompanied by an accounting for expenditures made
under the previous advance.
11.       For SPPPs received by TUA:
(a) TUA issues a payment order (SPM) to BI authorizing payment charging
GOI's BUM account, and copies of the SPM are sent to DC IMA and the
PMU and its parent Directorate General;
(b) for payments to contractors, BI transfers funds to the account of
the contractor; and
(c) for advances to PMU, BI transfers funds to the bank account of the
PHU.
12.       Under the present reimbursement procedures, BI is responsible for
preparing the application for reimbursement and sends it to the World Bank,
after which the Bank reimburses the BUN account for eligible expenditures (net
of land and taxes).
13.       Under the proposed Urban Sector Loan, with a Special Account in
place, the use of reimbursement procedures would be minimal as TUA would have
the added advantage of being able to tap the Special Account for payments to
contractora, thus making it unnecessary for GOI to provide prefinancing other
than for the initial payment in the case of advances to PMUs.
Domestic Loan Channels (PDN)
14.       The following procedure is used for the release of PDN loan funds*3/
(a) Public Enterprise or Local Government sends loan application to the
Minister of Finance through DG Domestic Monetary Affairs (DGMDN).
(b) DGMDN evaluates the loan application with regard to technical,
financial, economic and social aspects, and determines whether the
applicant has the capacity to service this and other outstanding
debts.
(c)  On approval the applicant sign a loan agreement with DGMDN.
(d) The applicant submits to DGMDN a proposed budget for the projects
which is periodically updated.
(e) On the basis of the agreed budget, DGMDN sends to DC Budget, an
SPP/SKO which is the authority to allocate funds.
3/   When the Regional Development Account (RDA) or Loan Fund (RGLF) becomes
operational, approved loans from these sources could be eligible for
disbursement from the Special Account under arrangements similar to those
proposed for existing PDN loan channels.



-172-                           AUIU 14
(I) DCMDE follows this with a SPP-SPM to DC Budget which is authorized
to make quarterly payments to the applicant. The sise of the
payment for a given quarter is determined using the forecast of
expenditures for that quarter and the actual expenditures in the
previous quarter.
(g) TUA issues an SPM to BI authorizing payment to the applicant.
For the Urban Sector loan, SPMs issued by TUA could form a reasonable basis
for release of loan funds. The Special Account could be tapped by BI for pay-
ments to applicants. Withdrawal application preparation can also be central-
ied with BI which has sufficent backup documents to support payments. Since
part of the funds made available through PDN is used for acquisition of land,
any application for PDW financing for land would be ineligible for reimburse-
ment from the Bank loan.
Grants by Presidential Instructions (INPRES)
15.       Funds under this scheme are provided for development in eight types
of grants: namely, DATI I (provinces), DATI II (local governments), villages,
schools, health, planting, markets and roads. Annual spending ceilings are
established for each account. After the work programs are reviewed and
approved, the following procedure is followed for the fund releases:
(a) DG Budget issues spending authority (SKO) to the local body;4/
(b) DC Budget issues SPM to BI to make payment from BUN account to Bank
Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) with BRI to hold the funds for later use by
the local body;
(c) The local body issues SPP, SPK, contract and progress report to BRI;
(d) On the basis of these documents BRI provides a line of credit to the
local body;
(e)  As the work progresses, the local body issues checks against the BRI
line of credit to pay the contractor accompanied by updated progress
reports retained by BRI; and
(f) BRI sends signed weekly reports on INPRES payments to DC Budget.
16.       After completion of this cycle, DC Budget has sufficient information
and documents to file a reimbursement application with BI to transfer the
reimbursible funds from the Special Account to BUN and subsequently for BI to
request IBRD to replenish the Special Account. BRI has a reliable system with
sufficient controls to monitor expenditures. BRI also has i.n its possession
additional backup documents. For purposes of the Urban Sector Loan, it is
4/   For INPRES Markets, DGMDN issues the SKO.



-173 -                          ANNEX 14
proposed to reimburse COI for 201 of INPRtS DATI II and INPRES Jlan, expendi-
tures reported by BRI which corresponds to the proportions of such expendi-
tures estimated for urban areas net of land and taxes. It is also proposed to
reimburse a percentage of DATI I expenditures for Jakarta (DKI) on the basis
of documentation of expenditures made. Means would be found to channel pay-
ment requests for DATI I expenditure reimbursements through TUA to be drawn
directly from the Special Account.
17.       While the major portion of the INPRES payments (mostly those under
works contracts) go through BRI, a much smaller portion (mostly for small
local procurements) are channeled through local treasuries .KPN). KPN INPRES
payments are difficult to document, and therefore Bank loan disbursement is
not envisaged.
Payments for Technical Assistance/Training
18.       It is expected that the technical assistance and training require-
ments for the project will be carried out by consultants contracted by several
project agencies. In keeping with GOI's and the Bank's common goal of
centralizing the disbursement function with TUA, means would be found for
these agencies to channel payment requests through BI to be drawn either (a)
directly from the Special Account, or (b) directly from the Loan Account.
Replenishment of the Special Azcount
19.       Replenishment applications would be prepared by BI based on SOE's
reflecting: (i) SPMs issued for eligible DIP expenditures and PDN loan
disbursements; (ii) SPJs issued in respect to advances made for eligible DIP
expenditures; and (iii) BRI weekly reports for eligible INPRES reimbursements,
and ZI's debit advice evidencing payment from the special account.
Procurement Arrangements
20.       The works contracts to be financed are numerous, small in value and
scattered over a wide geographical area. Therefore local bidding procedures
in accordance with KEPRES 29/30 acceptable to the Bank will be used.
IV. Imports Based Disbursement
Responsibilities
21.       Bank Indonesia's International Department would be responsible for:
(a) assembling appropriate documentation of eligible imports for
purposes of reimbursement from the Bank loan;
(b) preparing reimbursement applications, using Statements of
Expenditures;
(c) sending reimbursement applications to the World Bank (RSI); copied
to the DG International Monetary Affairs, Ministry of Finance
(DGIMA);



-174 _MEK 14
(d)  maintaining supporting documentation, as described in para. 24
below, for SOE applications; and
(e)  facilitating timely audits of SOs and stupporting documentation.
22.       DC International Monetary Affairs would be responsible for:
(a)  informing the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of the status of
disbursement for purposes of overall project monitoring; and
(b)  arranging for timely audits.
23.       DC Budget would be responsible for utilizing counterpart rupiah
funds from Bank reimbursement of imports expenditures to finance expenditures
under the agreed urban infrastructure program.
24.       Documentation and SOE Application.  Documentation acceptable to the
World Bank for purposes of preparation of SOEs is the Pemberitahuan Pemasukan
Barang Untuk Dipakai (PPUD), which reflects the LKP certificate issued by
SGS. A format for SOE application form is attached as Attachment 2. SOE
applications would be submitted in amounts of US$1 million equivalent or more
commencing upon loan effectiveness.
25.       Eligible Imports.  Attachmnent 3 provides a proposed list of import
commodities (identified by SITC/CCCN coding number) on which certified
expenditures made after loan signing would be eligible for reimbursement under
the Urban Sector Loan. Restrictions would apply to:
(a)  imports financed wholely or in part by other World Bank loans or
other donors;
(b)  goods and/or materials which originate in countries other than IBRD
members, and Switzerland and Taiwan, China;
(c)  imports less than US$50,000 equivalent in value (or such other
amount as the Bank may agree from time to time).
26.       Procurement.  Imports to be financed by the proposed loan should be
procured through ICB procedures, except for contracts valued at less than
US$5 million equivalent which may be procured in accordance with local
procedures acceptable to the Bank. COI bidding and contract documents would
be subject to random postaward reviews by the Bank. Typical procurement
practices in the private sector for the imports concerned are acceptable to
the Bank.
27.       Bank Loan disbursement.  Upon receipt of SOE applications the Bank
would disburse 100% of the certified C&F value of eligible imports as
indicated on the related LKP.
28.       DG Budget would maintain accounts and supporting documentation
relating to operations of the Special Account and replenishment of the Account



ANNU  14
-175                            ^ 
Page ~
from Bank loan funds. Specifically DC Budget should maintain separate project
accounts based on SOEs and documentation provided by BI, BRI, DGMWDU, TUA, KPN
offices and project agencies for financial transactions on the Special Account
and for project-related DIP, INPRES, PDN and Technical Assistance/Training
accounts. Supporting documentation for evaluation of PDN loans should be
maintained by DGDMDN. A consolidated financial statement to be audited each
fiscal year should be prepared by DG Budget and such consolidated annual audit
reports should be provided to the Bank within six months after the closing of
each fiscal year. Audits of BRI's INPRES expenditures reporting would also be
required.
V. Auditing Arrangements
29.       Audits of expenditures included in SOEs submitted for reimbursement
from Bank loan funds should be carried out by auditors acceptable to the Bank
no later than nine months after the end of the GOI fiscal year in which those
SOEs have been disbursed by the Bank. If private auditors are employed the
Bank wruld have no objection to financing such audits from the loan.



0 z
I
t~~~~~~~~~4
Clm
z~~c
H~~~~om



- 177 -
ANNEX 14
Attachment I
INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
0isbursmoent Arrangsinnts
Disbursement Flows
-------------IRD  --
l               ~~~~LOAN
I          ~~~PROJECTI
I           ~~~TECH. 
IMPORTS                                    CIAL                   OTHER
.  SOEs           .ACCODUNT                                .  DONORS
|~~~~~~~                                     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ apl    
I .                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ! 
APBO   ;PDNI INPRES I DIP
. , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I I 
GOI                              i I
Treasury I                               11        1 ,
(BUN)  I                GOI FY87/88 & 88'89 URBAN
SECTOR EXPENDITURE PROGRAM
i        ~~~       ~ ~~I   I  I 
Legend:
Funds flows
-  Withdrawal rtque5ts



311W~~~~~~~13                             11                Nm  N1
I~~~~~I
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ll
'!imnw C54                U3                                   i119A misU
~~~~~~1ttI   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~IA%S"-KM
kj



-179                          AttE  14    3
INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Eligible Import Commodities
IBRD     CCCN                                                         SITC
code     code            Commodity                                    code
161      25.00.000       Salt, sulphur, lime, cement, etc.          27.00.000
191      25.00.000       Metallic ores                              27.00.000
(27.14.000         Bitumen                                   33.54.000
{  27.15.000 to   Asphalt                                  33.56.000 and
(    27.16.000                                               27.89.000
{
f  39.02.200       Polyethylene                              58.31.000
{  39.02.500       PVC                                       58.34.000
40.09.000       Rubber hose                               62.10.500
44.10.000      Wood board                                 64.16.000
l
161   { 49.06.000        Plans                                      89.28.200
{ 68.00.000        Stone, concrete                         66.10.000 and
66.30.000
{ 69.01.000 to   Bricks, clayware                            66.20.000
(     i69.08.000
{  70.04.000 and  Glass                                     66.45.000 to
{    70.05.000                                               66.47.000
{  73.00.000       Iron and steel                            67.10.000
170      82.00e000       Tools                                      69.50.000



IBRD      CCCN                                                            SITC
code      code             Commodity                                      code
{83.01.000 to   Hardware                                    69.01.100 to
{ 83.02.000                                                  69.91.300
{84.06.600                                                    71.38.900
{84.06.999                                                    71.39.990
{84.09.000                                                    72.33.000
{84.10.300                                                    74.22.000
{84.10.500                                                    740286800
{84.11.290                                                    74.32.900
161   {84.18.210          Machinery, equipment                        74.36.100
(84.21.200                                                    7465207100
f84.22.290                                                    74.42.290
{84.23.200                                                    72.34.100
{84.23.300                                                    72.34. 2G0
{84.47.100                                                    72.81.200
{84.49.130                                                    74.51.100
{84.56.200                                                    72.83.200
{84.56.310                                                    72.83.310
{84.61.900                                                    74.*920900
171      85.01.214        Elcrcleupet71.62.332
85.16.900        Elcrcleupet77.88.290
177      87.03.100 to   Special vehicles                            78.22.100 to
87.0-3.900                                                78.22.900
199      90.14.900        Instruments                                 84..41.200
90.26.300                                                   87.31.300



.   .  .. .. .. .....,   . -.-._
ANN2 14
Attachment 4
INDONESIA
URBAN SECTOR LOAN
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
(US$ million)
Expected disbursements/
Cumulative
Semester    project ex-   Amount  -- Cumulative --
Semester     ending      penditure j              Amount       t
1        12/31/87        267.0       100.0      100.0    37.0
2         6/30/88        527.0        12.0      112.0    41.4
3        12/31/88        7f3.5        47.8      159.8    59.1
4          6/30/89         983.5        57.0     216.8    80.0
5         12/31/89        1005.8        45.3     260.1    96.3
6         3/31/90/c                    9.9      270.0   100.0
L Including non-reimbursible expenditures
/b No comparable operational disbursement profile available
/c  Closing date



)INV7IH SI
3OV%d SIHI
'.TV"S



1- 13 -
ANNEX 15
INDONESIA
URBAIN SECTOR LOAN
Documents Retained in Prolect Files
A.   Expenditure Program
1. GOI Summary Proposal for Urban Sector Development Loan
(Draft - 9/86)
2. Draft Subsector Expenditure Program Submissior,s:
(a) DGCK Directorate of Water Supply (8/86)
(b) DGCK Directorate of Environmental Sanitation (9/86)
(c) DGCK Directorate of Housing (7/86)
(d) DGBM Directorate of Urban Roads (Summary - 10/86)
(e) DGWRD Directorate of Rivers (8/86) (Summary - 11/86)
B.   Local Resource Mobilization
1. Notes on Property Tax/PBB Improvement Program (Lerche 12/86)
2. Implementation of New Property Tax Law and Improvement of the
Valuation System (Mander, 12/86)
C.   Sector Financing
1. Analysis of the Proposal to Establish a Regional Government
Loan Fund (Binder and Devas, Institute of Local government
Studies, University of Birmingham, 2/86)
D.   Planning and Programming
1. Summary of Urban Sector Medium-term Strategic Planning and Policy
Development Process of GOI (Dice 11/86)
E.   Manpower Development
1. Manpower Development and Training Needs of Local Government
in the Field Of Urban Development (Watson 1986)
2. Local Government Manpower Development (Walt 1986)
3. Urban Planning Training Proposal (DGCK, Directorate Tata Kota
dan Daerah)



lBRD 110301
:: * r  : .t: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 7                           )             E~~~~~~~~HILIPPIN3ES  ,,                                
}   P   MALAYSIA   .\             1 it,   -,_         L-                         >         \                          oNDO NESI
MA       AY I Ssel                                                                                                                                         7 AL Y IA
O'   .F5                2 h    r A z tM ,>_  a  23    u         ,  s   sIbol9                 '   4jtA                L  , c b. ' t.                      r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P,
f   t7>X.1.A TA  on_                     ,                                               U                                                     \                       I Z 6'~~~~~~~~G6.1
r                    *Jrs   v A i.t                                                                            ':., .24  5t. WE:t            sC                          i 4
IM                                                                                                                                                                  IRIA '    JAof K,A
40-                                                       121   
S.-     IT"__                                                                                          2       l            rur2                                        3r
65    t"-t                                                                                                                   :     =G                          a  P7i  0t   tB T



