CIRCULATING COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK HLE                 COPf
CONFIDENTIAL
Report No.1 795-MA
MALAYSIA
LOAN 434-MA: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
COMPLETION REPORT
June 15, 1975
This report was prepared at the request of the Government of MalaysiaL. The views
and recommendations contained in the report are those of the authors rather than
those of the World Bank Group. The Government of Malaysia and the authors are
responsible for the release and distribution of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                  Ringgit (M$) 2.30
M$1.00              =    US$0.43
US$1 million        8    M$2,300,000
M$1 million         =    US$435,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYTEM) -/
1 meter (m)              -    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)         =    0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)           -    2.47 acres (ac)
1 million cubic meters
(MM )                       810 acre-feet
1 cuic meter per second              3
(m /s)                8     35.3 ft Is (cusec)
1 ton                         1,000 kilogram (kg)
-    2,205 pounds
1 kilowatt (kW)          8    1.34 horsepower (hp)
NOTATION
-    Less than half the smallest unit shown
- Nil or negligible
Not available separately but included in total
Not available
* Not applicable
e   Mission estimate
1/ Approximate exchange rate in early-1975 and also used for future
currency conversions. Exchange rates for past years are given in
Annex 1.
2/   The metric system is used for the convenience of readers, even though
most previous project documentation uses the Imperial system. Malaysia
is in the process of converting to the metric system.



ABBREVIATIONS
AA        Agricultural Assistant
AO        Agricultural Officer
BPM       Bank Pertanian Malaysian (Agricultural Bank of Malaysia)
cif       Cost, insurance and freight
DID       Drainage and Irrigation Division of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development (Federal); Drainage
and Irrigation Department (State).
DOA       Division of Agriculture of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Rural Development (Federal); Department of Agriculture
(State).
FA        Farmers' Association
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FOA       Farmers' Organization Authority
fob       Free on board
JAA       Junior Agricultural Assistant
KADA      Kemubu Agricultural Development Authority
LCC       Local Credit Center
LPN       Lembaga Padi dan Beras Negara (National Paddy and Rice
Authority)
MADA      Muda Agricultural Development Authority
MARDI     Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
pH        A measure of acidity
SAU       Small Agricultural Unit
GLOSSARY
Gotong royong       -     Cooperative effort
Kampong             -    Village
Sungei (Sg)         -    River
Zakat               -    Religious tax
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   -   December 31






MALAYSIA
LOAN 434-MA:  MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Completion Report
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...........................      i
I.   INTRODUCTION ......................................      1
The Project Area ..............................     1
Project Preparation ..........................      1
II.   THE PROJECT .......................................      2
Construction History             .      .           3
Performance of Consultants and Contractors ...      3
Operation and Maintenance ....................      4
Present Problems .............................      4
III.   AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT ..........................      5
Cropping Pattern, Yield and Production .......      5
Agricultural Supporting Services .............      6
Processing and Marketing .....................      9
IV.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND FARM INCOME .................      9
Economic Analysis              .        .           9
Farm Income                 .          .           10
Economic Impact of the Project        .    .       11
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .......................     11
VI.   COST RECOVERY ..................                         13
This report is based on the findings of a project completion mission composed
of Messrs. P.W. Whitford (IBRD), R.H. Slade (FAO) and P. Judd (Consultant).
Mr. J. Goldberg (IBRD) assisted in the preparation of the report.



-2-
Page No.
VII.   FUTURE DMPROVEMENTS ...............................      14
VIII.   LESSONS LEARNED ...................................      15
ANNEXES
1. Basic Data
2. Project Works
3. Agriculture
4. Organization and Management
5. Economic Analysis
6. Future Development
1521     Muda Project - General Plan



MALAYSIA
LOAN 434-MA: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Completion Report
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Muda Irrigation Project is located in the States of Kedah
and Perlis in the northwest of Peninsular Malaysia. The area is the
traditional rice bowl of Malaysia. Farms average 1.6 ha in size ancd there
is a high degree of tenancy.
ii.       In line with its policy of attaining self-sufficiency in rice
production, mainly through the construction of irrigation systems to serve
traditional rainfed paddy areas, the Government engaged consultants between
1960 and 1964 to prepare the Muda Project. The project was appraised in
early 1965 and a Loan, for US$45 million equivalent, was made in November
1965.
iii.      The project works-consist of the Muda and Pedu Dams, a tunnel
connecting them and improvements and extensions to the previously existing
run-of-the-river irrigation systems in the area. No on-farm development
was included and the distance of field-to-field flooding is typicalLy
2 km. It is doubtful if the engineering data available at appraisal,
especially on damsite geology, was really of feasibility standard, and it
was necessary to make substantial design changes to the dams during con-
struction, including the prestressing of the Muda Dam to its foundations.
iv.       The primary objective of the project was to achieve double crop-
ping of paddy in the area. There was little attention, at appraisal or
subsequently, to yields or alternative crops. Physical construction of
the project was completed six months behind schedule and the first irriga-
tion water was delivered in the off-season of 1970. Three extensions of
the closing date were necessary to allow certain repair and improvement
works to be completed and for the loan to be fully disbursed. The improve-
ment works included pilot projects for water distribution at the farm level.
v.        The final project cost was M$ 245 million (US$840/ha), 7% above
the appraisal estimate. This overrun is entirely accounted for by the
extra works added to the project.
vi.       The Consultants (Sir William Halcrow & Partners) were ill-advised
to undertake feasibility studies under very restrictive terms of reference
and to undertake detailed engineering of the dams without additional
geological studies. However, Halcrows' construction supervision was adequate.
The contractor for the dams (Kajima-Taisei) was criticized in the early
stages for delays and inexperienced staff but these problems were cor-
rected. The other contractors performed well.



- ii -
vii.      The standard of Operation and Maintenance is very good, with a
cost of US$25/ha in 1974, which is reasonable. A computer-controlled
operating system is functioning but is probably over-sophisticated for
the project under present conditions of field-to-field flooding. Remain-
ing problems include: leakage at the Pedu Dam, for which additional grout-
ing is being done; loss of tension in some cables at the Muda Dam, which is
being investigated; bank scour in the Padang Terap River, for which control
measures are proposed; and problems of water distribution at the field
level.
viii.     The net irrigable area has been found to be 98,000 ha, rather
than the 106,000 ha assumed at appraisal. Cropping intensity has increased
at about the forecast rate and now stands at 197%. Yields have increased
more rapidly than forecast at appraisal, due to improved varieties and
a greater use of inputs. Paddy production which was 268,000 tons in 1965,
increased to 678,000 tons in 1974 and is expected to reach 71S,000 tons
by 1980. The net value of production, evaluated in economic prices and
expressed in 1974 currency values, increased from M$74 million in 1965 to
M$413 million in 1974 and is expected to level off at M$200,000 million as
prices decline. The economic rate of return is now estimated at 18%,
compared with the 10% estimated at appraisal. Higher yields, improved
prices, and on-farm production costs lower than those forecast at appraisal
explain the difference.
ix.       The appraisal report considered agricultural supporting services
only briefly. Considerable progress has been made, especially since the
formation of 27 Farmers' Associations in the area, which serve as centers
for all extension, credit and farmer training activities. Institutional
credit now serves about 15% of the farmers and the repayment record is very
good. However, both extension and credit suffer from a lack of suitably
trained field workers and there is a lack of service to farmers who do
not belong to Farmers' Associations.
x.        The project has resulted in an approximate doubling of average
farm incomes, both for owners and tenants, which are above the Government's
target level for smallholder projects. Available evidence indicates that
the project has improved national income distribution but there has been
no marked aggregate change in income distribution within the project area.
Nevertheless, the rise in employment resulting from the project has been
of great benefit to landless laborers and other underemployed groups.
xi.       Even though no provision was made at the outset for the co-
ordination of engineering and agricultural supporting services, this was
rectified by the Government, first by appointing a Project Coordinator and
later by establishing the Muda Agricultural Development Authority, a semi-
autonomous agency with responsibility for operating and improving the irri-
gation system and supplying extension, credit and other services to the
farmers. Due to dynamic management and solid Government support, the achieve-
ments of the Authority have been considerable and, in addition to its opera-
tional responsibilities, it is active in project socio-economic evaluation,
the planning of improvements, mechanization research, and industrial development.



- iii -
xii.      Cost recovery remains a problem.   None of the measures agreed to
by Malaysia and the States of Kedah and Perlis, (viz: to collect water
charges sufficient to cover operation and maintenance costs, to create a
special category of double-cropped land for tax purposes and to ensure that
tenants are not deprived of a substantial portion of project benefits), has
yet been carried out. Up to now, no action has been taken by the Bank on
cost recovery. However, in view of the success of the project in raising
farm incomes, it is recommended that the question of cost recovery and the
enforcement of the Padi Cultivators Act (which is intended to limit rents
and require the registration of tenancy agreements) be discussed between
the Bank and the Malaysian authorities.
xiii.     Even though the Muda Project has fulfilled its original goals,
there is still considerable scope for further development. Proposals for
on-farm development, that is, the provision of ditches, drain and roads to
serve individual farms, have been under investigation for some years. The
project management has recently embarked on a new systematic program of
pilot projects which, if properly directed and monitored, would determine
design standards, test the acceptability of the works to the farmers and
establish the feasibility of project-scale development. If large-scale
investment is recommended, it could also include any necessary repairs to
the Muda and Pedu Dams and possibly an expansion of the irrigated area.
This project appears to have high priority. If the Government decides to
proceed with it, it should be considered for Bank financing.
xiv.      Despite an inadequate level of project preparation by present day
standards, the Muda Project has exceeded the expectations of its planners.
Much credit for this is due to the flexibility and initiative shown by the
project management and the Government in project coordination, and the
establishment of farmers' organizations and a credit system. The moderately
high rate of return achieved indicates that gravity irrigation projects for
paddy growing in Asia can be economically attractive.






MALAYSIA
LOAN 434-MA: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Completion Report
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Now that the construction phase of the Muda Irrigation Project
is complete, it is appropriate to evaluate the extent to which expectations
and objectives at the time the Loan was made have been, or show promise of
being, achieved. It is also useful to record how the problems which arose
during the project implementation were dealt with with and what lessons may
be applied to other projects in Malaysia and elsewhere in the East Asia
Region. For these reasons, a project completion mission, consisting of
Messrs. P.W. Whitford (IBRD), R.H. Slade (FAO) and P. Judd (Consultcnt)
visited Malaysia between November 18 and December 7, 1974.
The Project Area
1.02      The Muda Irrigation Project is located in the States of Kedah and
Perlis in the northwest of Peninsular Malaysia, about 370 km north of Kuala
Lumpur (Map 1521). The project area occupies a flat alluvial plain, about
20 km wide and 65 km long between the foothills of the Central Range and
the sea. Alor Setar, the capital of Kedah, lies at the center of the proj-
ect area, while Kangar, the capital of Perlis, lies at its northern edge.
Soils within the irrigation area are mostly heavy marine clays, well suited
to paddy production, but there are significant areas of acid-sulphate soils
which pose special problems. The irrigable area was originally estimated
at 106,000 ha but is now known to be about 98,000 ha.
1.03      The average farm is about 1.6 ha and there are considerable vari-
ations in farm sizes. Over 40% of the 51,000 farmers are tenants, rents
being paid predominantly in cash. Paddy -is the predominant crop and the
area is known as the rice bowl of Malaysia. Previous irrigation develop-
ment in the project area included controlled drainage and run-of-the-river
supplemental main season irrigation serving about half the area. Despite
these investments, the area was amongst the poorest in Malaysia prior to
the present project.
Project Preparation
1.04      Since about 1900, it has been Government policy to provide, wher-
ever possible, irrigation and drainage to existing paddy areas, pr;Lmarily
to insure the main-season crop against losses and secondarily to permit
double cropping, where suitable perennial water supplies could be provided.
By the early 1960's, rice imports were imposing a serious strain on Malaysia's
balance of payments and the Government decided to embark on the large-
scale Muda and Kemubu Projects, as a means of achieving self-sufficiency
in rice. World Bank assistance was sought for both projects.



- 2 -
1.05      In 1960-61, Sir William Halcrow & Partners (UK) made a prelimi-
nary study of the Muda proposal, which had been conceived by the Federal
Drainage and Irrigation Division (DID). Halcrows were later engaged for
further studies and in 1963 produced a more detailed report, including
topographic mapping and reconnaissance level geological investigations.
Halcrows' terms of reference constrained them from considering the dis-
tribution system and laid down the water duties they were to use. Following
a Bank pre-appraisal mission in 1964, it was necessary to revise the latter
and produce a revised feasibility report.
1.06      The project was appraised in February-March, 1965.   The Loan
Committee agreed to finance some local costs, on country grounds. The
main topic at Loan negotiations was the question of cost recovery and land
tenure (para 6.01). The Loan, of US$45 million equivalent, was approved
by the Executive Directors on November 16, 1965 and signed the following
day.
II. THE PROJECT
2.01      Basic data on the project is given in Annex 1 and a more detailed
description of the engineering components is given in Annex 2. The major
project works included: The Muda and Pedu Dams, of concrete and rockfill
construction respectively; a tunnel connecting them; a headworks and main
canal system; improvement of the existing, and construction of new dis-
tributory canals; drainage construction and ancillary works. No provision
was made for on-farm development. The project cost was estimated at
US$83.1 million, including US$6.9 million for interest during construction,
with a foreign exchange component of US$35.7 million (43%).
2.02      At the time of appraisal, the Bank and the Government saw the
project mainly as a means of achieving full double cropping of paddy in the
project area. Consequently, only secondary attention was given to potential
yield increases and there was little consideration of crops other than
paddy, or of the appropriate level of on-farm development, that is ditches,
drains and roads serving individual farms. It is doubtful if the engineer-
ing data available, especially on damsite geology, were really of feasi-
bility standard. The appraisal mission was concerned with the income dis-
tributional effects of the project, especially the distribution of benefits
between landlord and tenant. The appraisal report was perhaps ahead of
its time in the detail of its cost recovery proposals, including a special
tax on landlords. After much negotiation, the principles underlying these
charges, which would have implied a cost recovery index of 37%, were ac-
cepted by the States of Kedah and Perlis (Annex 2).
2.03      The appraisal report presented a reasonable picture of agricul-
tural production and farming practices in general terms but little data
was available on the use of inputs, yield potential and paddy drying and
marketing (Annex 3). Assurances were obtained that extension staff would



be increased from 36 to 80 and that a credit system would be set up by
1970. However, there were no recommendations on farmers' organizations or
the need to coordinate engineering and agricultural services.
Construction History
2.04      Halcrows were engaged for the detailed design and construction
supervision of the major works, with DID filling this role for the distri-
bution system. Construction began in April, 1966 with the aim of beginning
irrigation in the 1969/70 main season and completing the project by June,
1970, the original closing date. Minor delays were experienced and irriga-
tion began about six months late, in the off-season of 1970. The closing
date of the Loan was extended three times, finally to December 31, 1973,
to allow certain repair and improvement items to be completed and the Loan
to be fully disbursed. These items included booster pumps, farm roads,
repairs to certain works, drainage improvements and three pilot projects
to improve water distribution and farm access. These pilot projects were
aimed at solving specific localized problems rather than raising the
general level of water control. For this reason and also because unit
costs were rather high (US$440/ha), the pilot projects do not provide
an immediately useful guide to possible large-scale improvements.
2.05      The major design changes during construction (Annex 2) relate
to the Muda and Pedu Dams. Foundation conditions at the Muda damsite were
found to be much worse than expected and it was necessary to anchor the
dam with about 200 prestressed cables. At. Pedu Dam, great difficulty was
encountered in obtaining rock of the requisite quality for embankment con-
struction.  Both these problems resulted from insufficient geological
exploration during project preparation and, at one point, it seemed as if
there might be serious delays, a breakdown of relations between the con-
sultant and contractor and large cost overruns.   In the event, the design
changes adopted did not increase costs greatly. Remaining problems at the
dams are discussed in para 2.12.
2.06      The final project cost (without interest during construction) was
M$245 million (US$840/ha), an increase of 7% over the appraisal estimate
of M$229 million. Cost overruns are entirely accounted for by the extra
works added to the project (para 2.04) and the capital cost of the
Farmers' Development Centers (para 3.09). The cost of some individual
project items, however, varied greatly from appraisal estimates, for
reasons which are not entirely clear. The physical contingency allowance
was reasonable and the omission of price contingencies was justified by
events, as inflation in Malaysia was negligible during the construction
period. In order to disburse the loan fuLly, it was necessary to increase
the percentage of disbursement for civil works from 40% to 100% during
the latter part of the construction period.
Performance of Consultants and Contractors
2.07      It is difficult, from the perspective of a Completion Report, to
make a fair and impartial evaluation of the professional performance of the



-4-
consultants and contractors. In this project, errors of judgement were
made and the consultants, contractors, the Government and the Bank may each
have been partly responsible.
2.08      The consultants, Sir William Halcrow & Partners, were probably
ill-advised to agree to undertake feasibility studies under very restrictive
terms of reference (para 1.05). The feasibility reports of 1963 and 1964,
on which the appraisal was based, did not clearly point out that the degree
of geological investigation at the damsites were not sufficient to be used
as a basis for final designs. The Bank and the consultant together should
have overcome the reluctance of the Government to commit additional money
to investigations and insisted on a complete program of geological map-
ing before proceeding to final design and tendering. The approach adopted,
that of continuing investigations concurrently with construction and making
any necessary design changes, has been used in the past but is not advis-
able for contract work.
2.09      The performance of the contractor for the dams, Kajima--Taisei
(Japan), was criticized in the early stages for delays and a lack of ex-
perienced supervisory staff. These problems were later corrected. There
is no record of criticism of the other foreign civil works contractor
Sentab (Sweden), or of the numerous Malaysian contractors.
Operation and Maintenance
2.10      The basic formulation of the Muda Project presents inherent problems
in system operation, as only 23% of the project's water requirements are met
from controlled outflows from the reservoirs in an average year, with the
rest coming from rainfall and uncontrolled river flows. For this reason,
the consultants devised a rather elaborate computerized control system to
calculate the diversion requirements and all gate settings in the system on
a daily basis. The system, which cost M$1.6 million, is working but its full
capacity is not being used, as it is probably over-sophisticated for the
irrigation system, which at present requires continuous field-to-field
flooding over distances of 2 km. Water use efficiency of the system is
about 30-40%, which is not unreasonable for a system of this kind. Proposed
on-farm development (para 7.03) would make greater demands on the computer
control system.
2.11      Maintenance of the project facilities is very good, the main
problem being weed growth on the canal banks. Operation and maintenance
(O&M) costs were M$56/ha (US$25/ha) in 1974, which is comparable to other
well-maintained gravity irrigation systems In Asia and compares to the
appraisal estimate of M$42/ha (in 1974 prices).
Present Problems
2.12      Leakage has been observed at the Pedu Dam since its completion.
At first, leakage through the upstream asphalt membrane was suspected but
a program to plug all visible cracks had little effect. Efforts are now



- 5 -
being directed at installing a new grout curtain to seal the foundations
and abutments. Consultants have been engaged to supervise this work. At
the Muda Dam, it has been found that some of the prestressing cabLes have
snapped. Halcrows are investigating the causes of this. Irrigation re-
leases down the Padang Terap River have led to bank scour and flooding. DID
is proposing a M$6 million program to correct these problems but no details
are available at present.
2.13      The major remaining problem is the difficulty of water distribu-
tion, in a controlled and timely fashion, under the present conditions of
field-to-field flooding. Linked with this are drainage problems and
difficulties of farm access. The need for on-farm development to correct
these problems has been increasingly realized by the project management and
proposals for further development are discussed in Chapter VII and Annex 6.
III. AGRICULTURAI. DEVELOPMENT
Cropping Pattern. Yield and Production
3.01      The appraisal projections overestimated the net irrigable area by
about 8% and assumed 100% double cropping by 1975. The actual rate of in-
crease of double cropping has been very similar to appraisal estimates,
reaching 97% by 1974, and thus the actual planted area has been only slightly
less than that projected. The actual yield prior to the project was over
25% above the figure used in the appraisal report, possibly because data
from Province Wellesley was used by the appraisal mission. Even 'after
accounting for the acid-sulphate soil areas, of which the appraisal mission
was not aware, yields have also increased faster than originally iprojected,
as a result of improved varieties, a greater use of chemical inputs and im-
proved agricultural techniques. While these improvements were foreshadowed
in the appraisal report, they were not used in deriving what was admittedly
a conservative forecast. Paddy production has thus been 8 to 12% above
appraisal estimates and, by 1980, it is estimated that this gap will have
widened to 20%. Production of paddy, which was 268,000 tons in 1965, had
risen to 682,000 tons by 1974 and is expected to increase to 718,000 tons
by 1980. Rates of development are shown, graphically in Annex 3, Figure 1. 1/
1/   These conclusions are based on crop cutting tests for past years and
mission estimates for the future. While the yield sampling methods
(Annex 3) have some deficiencies and require adjustment to harvest
conditions, they are much more accurate than in most Southeast Asian
countries. Measurements of cropped area, however, are less reliable
but are being improved by the use of aerial photographs.



-6-
3.02      Overall, the appraisal team did a good job in estimating future
production. Much credit is due to the project management for coordinating
agricultural services in such a way (para 5.02) as to make rapid increases
in production possible.
3.03      It is valid to ask:   To what extent have yield increases under
the project been due to high-yielding varieties rather than irrigation?
Such varieties now account for 75% of the main-season crop and 93% of the
off-season crop. While it is probably true that the project would not
have been feasible without the development of short-duration, non-
photosensitive varieties, such varieties would have given much less benefit
without the improved water control and fertilizer delivery system intro-
duced under the project. While the appraisal report does not make this
clear, the first of the improved varieties was available at the time of
appraisal. Better varieties have been released progressively since then.
Agricultural Supporting Services
3.04      The appraisal report recognized the need for improvements in
each of the major supporting services: research, extension, credit, and
marketing; and such improvements were included in the Project Description
in the Loan Agreement (Annex 1). However, the covenants and supplementary
letter on these subjects were rather vaguely worded and actual developments
have gone beyond what was envisaged at appraisal, mainly because of the
establishment of Farmers' Associations.
3.05      Research - Research was originally the responsibility of the
Federal Division of Agriculture (DOA) and Kedah operations were based at
the Telok Chengai Experimental Station. In 1966, a Central Rice Breeding
and Research Station was established at Bumbong Lima (Province Wellesley).
This station has done valuable work in rice breeding and other areas. In
1971, the Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute (MARDI)
took over responsibility for research and for the major research stations,
including Bumbong Lima, but not for experimental stations, such as Telok
Chengai. Due to poor planning at the time MARDI was established, clashes
between MARDI and DOA personnel and disputes over the ownership of facilities
continue to this day. These problems are recognized at the higher levels
of Government and there are signs that they are being solved. The recently
approved Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Loan 1115-MA) should
help to continue this process.
3.06      The research needs of the Muda Area are met in part by the Bumbong
Lima Station, which has good facilities and about 20 ha of land but suffers
from an acute shortage of trained staff. There is also a MARDI unit at
Alor Setar, with a staff of six but no land or laboratory facilities, which
carries out rice and sugar trials on farmers' fields (sugarcane is grown
in Perlis, outside the project area). This unit is also studying crop pro-
tection and the treatment of acid-sulphate soils. Meanwhile, the DOA is
still conducting some applied research on fertilizer response and soils
surveys and has good laboratory facilities, which are not available to MARDI.



-7-
3.07      Lack of coordination between research and extension, while not
as acute or as detrimental to the success of the project as in Kemubu, is
still a real problem at Muda and the existing State Integrated Action Com-
mittee seems to be doing little to resolve it. The mission recommends that
either the Committee be strengthened or consideration be given to the forma-
tion of a task force of personnel from MARDI, DOA and MADA to study the most
urgent problems, namely, acid-sulphate soils, water management, fertilizer
response and farm mechanization.
3.08      Extension - Originally the responsibility of the State DOA,
extension in the project area is now provided mainly by the Farmers' Asso-
ciations (FA's) (para 3.10), with training and subject matter support
(crop production, plant protection, etc.) available both from the MADA
headquarters staff and the DOA. Although unfilled vacancies are no longer
a major problem in the Muda FA's, most of the Junior Agricultural Assistants
(JAA's) attached to FA's, even those specifically charged with extension,
are largely occupied with business activities. Extension is therefore
suffering. Given the recent increase in the output of JAA's from the
Agricultural Institutes, it should not be difficult to recruit additional
extension workers and to free more staff for contact with the farmers.
There is also a need for in-service training in some of the more specialized
aspects of irrigated rice production. All this could be implemented at
relatively low cost. Farmer training is well developed with regular courses
on farm mechanization, rice production, home economics and group training
in the villages, whereby the whole community is entertained with films and
talks, interspersed with brief technical sessions.
3.09      Farmers' Associations - Under an Act passed in 1967, "new-style"
FA's were established first in the Muda Area, superseding a number of "old-
style" FA's established in the 1950's, which were small and largely inef-
fective. Twenty-seven FA's have now been established in Muda, each serving
about 2,000 farmers. Each FA is based on a Farmers' Development Center,
which includes offices, a warehouse and farm machinery, and which is supposed
to serve the needs of all agencies dealing with the farmers. No farmer is
more than 5 to 10 km from a Center.
3.10      The concept of FA's in Malaysia was derived from experience in
Taiwan and from the book "Getting Agriculture Moving" by Dr. A.T. Mosher
of the Agricultural Development Center in New York. The objective is to
have self-governing, self-financing organizations controlled by the farmers
in each locality, which provide credit, inputs, marketing services and
extension advice to their members. However, the Government has recognized
that it is not possible to achieve these objectives all at once and thus
it has retained a good deal of control over the FA's and subsidizes them,
mainly by paying the salaries of the FA staff through the MADA budget. The
standard complement of staff is an Agricultural Assistant, as Manager, and
four or five JAA's in charge of administration, accounting, credit, marketing
and extension. Some field assistants are also employed.



- 8 -
3.11      About 20% of the project area farmers are FA members with some
of the longer established FA's reaching 30%. The FA's concentrate on the
supply of credit and have performed well in this role (para 3.14). However,
they must use staff trained principally in agriculture for business operations,
which are therefore handled somewhat inefficiently, while at the same time
agricultural extension is neglected (para 3.08). Some credit cooperatives
also exist but are not as significant as for the Kemubu Project.
3.12      The present Government policy is to bring all FA's and cooperatives
together under Farmers' Organizations. A Farmers' Organization Authority
(FOA) has been set up to direct and coordinate the new bodies. However, the
FA's in the Muda Area have been exempted from this requirement and MADA has
its own plans to strengthen gradually the links between the FA's and coopera-
tives, to rationalize the services that each offers, to strengthen cooperative
management and to disband ineffective cooperatives. This approach appears
preferable to the FOA's policy of forced amalgamation, in that the link be-
tween agricultural and engineering services through MADA would be retained
and control of FA policy would not be excessively centralized. It appears
that the Government's policy towards farmers' organizations is being reviewed
at the present time.
3.13      Credit - Following a request from the Government, the Bank sent
a mission to Malaysia in December, 1966 to evaluate the size and nature of
agricultural credit needs in Peninsular Malaysia, with special reference to
the Muda and Kemubu Projects. The mission found that the main credit need
was for production credit in the paddy areas and recommended a system whereby
inputs would be supplied by local outlets, which would be reimbursed by a
Central Authority.
3.14      Assistance in designing and setting up the credit system was
given by a team of consultants (Public Administration Service and Ohio
State University, USA) in 1968 and 1969 and was financed from Loan 434-MA.
The Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM) was established as the Central Authority,
while FA's, cooperatives and private dealers have been used as Local Credit
Centers, which are responsible for screening applications, disbursing inputs
and for loan recovery.   The Muda credit system began in 1970, on a pilot
basis, and by 1973, was serving about 7,000 farmers or 15% of the total.
Average seasonal credit in 1973 was M$1.9 million (M$300 per recipient).
The repayment record is very good, with at least 90% having been repaid
for all seasons and 95% for recent seasons.    This record reflects the time
and effort expended by BPM and the LCC's on credit supervision and follow
up. However, because of the remaining bad debts and high administrative
costs the system operates at a loss.
3.15      Credit is given at an interest rate of 8.5% per annum and loans
are normally unsecured. Until recently, coupons were issued for each input
through a centralized computer system. This led to delays of two to three
months between the application for credit and the issuance of coupons and
thus the system lacked the flexibility of the traditional moneylender. In



1974, a new system was introduced whereby vouchers are issued directly by
the LCC. It is not yet clear whether the new system has eliminated exces-
sive delays. The number of farmers receiving BPM credit has increased
only moderately in recent years and the reasons for this ought to be studied.
It appears that the LCC staff (particularly in the FA's) are fully stretched
by the present volume of business, which constraint might be eliminated by
in-service training or by replacement of JAA's by staff trained in commerce.
Expansion of the credit program is limited because of a deliberate policy
of MADA and BPM to lend only to the most creditworthy farmers. In view
of the recent findings that increased prosperity in the Muda Area has caused
the farmers to reduce their historic indebtedness to private money lenders
(para 4.05), a much greater proportion of project area farmers should be
able to meet BPM's creditworthiness criteria. BPM and MADA should be ad-
dressing the problem of how to assist the smallest and most indebted farmers,
whose need for subsidized Government credit and the other FA services is
the greatest. Further details on credit are given in Annex 3.
Processing and Marketing
3.16      The appraisal mission wrote:   "Storage and milling facilities are
adequate to cope with further increase in production. Should any expansion
be required, private investment would easily take care of this." (para 91).
This was probably a correct assessment. It does appear, however, that pri-
vate mills were slow to respond to the need for paddy drying following the
first off-season harvest. In 1971, the National Padi and Rice Authority
(LPN) was established to regulate marketing and manage the price support
scheme. LPN energetically addressed itself to the problem of paddy drying
in Muda and has constructed at least nine drying and storage complexes each
with a nominal 10,000 tons per season capacity. However, the private mills,
of which there are about 33 in the area, have now installed low-cost drying
facilities and are, for that reason, drawing most of the business away from
the LPN driers, which are operating at substantial losses. LPN is now
constructing mills at some of its drying complexes in an effort to attract
more business but it is extremely unlikely that these will be able to com-
pete with the private mills, which have very low overheads and more flexi-
ble services. The mission did not attempt to analyze the Government's
decision to continue expanding public sector milling and drying capacity,
despite the lack of demand.
IV. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND FARM INCOME
Economic Analysis
4.01      The project rate of return was calculated using actual construc-
tion and operating costs (including extension services and the cost of
operating the FA's) and benefits based upon recorded yields and prizes of
imported rice (translated to farmgate values) for the period 1965 to 1973



- 10 -
and Bank projections of world market prices to 1980. The details are given
in Annex 5. It was found that actual farmgate prices on which the analysis
of farm incomes (para 4.04) was based were approximately in line with those
of imported rice for most of the period of interest. The actual farmgate
price is expected to decline in real terms by 1980, in line with Bank pro-
jections of world market prices. An evaluation period of 34 years (up to
the year 2000) was used, with a suitable assumption for the project salvage
value.
4.02      All costs and benefits were converted to 1974 constant prices by
use of the deflators shown in Annex 1 and, as far as possible, taxes and
subsidies were eliminated. All farm labor was evaluated at its marginal
opportunity cost, by ccomparing the supply of and demand for labor on a
monthly basis. At full project development, this analysis shows that the
labor supply will have to work longer hours in the three peak months. Wage
rates have already begun to move sharply upward in response to the increased
demand for labor. The probability of attaining equilibrium (and, therefore,
of a labor shortage not occurring) is dependent on the rate of mechanization,
size of the available work force, mobility of labor, and flexibility of
seasonal wage rates. Further studies on these topics should help to clarify
this problem.
4.03      Under the above assumptions, the ex-post rate of return is 18%,
compared with an appraisal estimate of 10%. The difference is mainly due
to higher yields than anticipated, caused partly by the ability of the
Muda Project management to supply the necessary complementary services.
The appraisal report also underestimated the average paddy price over the
life of the project, and overestimated the level of on-farm production costs,
both factors contributing to a substantial underestimate of the rate of
return.
Farm Income
4.04      The following table summarizes the pre- and post-project incomes
for a tenant and an owner each operating 1.6 ha of paddy land.
Family Income (1974 M$)
Year                         Tenant                 Owner
1966 (actual)                 1,790                2,030
1980 (projected)              3,510                4,000
The above estimates are based on data collected in the 1973 Muda River
Study (para 4.06), as well as mission estimates, and includes income from
minor crops and off-farm employment, which is expected to decline. All
cash outlays, including hired labor, taxes and zakat (religious tax) have
been deducted.



- 11 -
4.05      Farm incomes for both tenants and owners have approximately
doubled as a result of the project and are already significantly above the
level of M$2,400/yr used by the Malaysian Government as a target for rural
family income. This indicates that there is scope for additional efEorts
in cost recovery (para 6.03). The difference between the incomes of owners
and tenants is not exorbitant but could be narrowed by the effective en-
forcement of the Padi Cultivators (Control of Rent and Security of Tenure)
Act of 1967, which is intended to limit rents and to require the registra-
tion of all rental agreements. It is clear that the majority of project
area farmers have preferred to use their increased income to repay past
debts and to invest in capital improvements, as personal consumption has
increased only 15% as a result of the project.
Economic Impact of the Project
4.06      Conclusions in this section of the report are based largely on
analyses carried out under the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program's "Muda River
Study", a comprehensive and detailed farm income and regional economic
study. Field work was carried out during 1973 and analysis of the results
is still proceeding. A first report will be available shortly and the
analysis is being continued by the Bank's Development Research Center.
4.07      Income Distribution - Within the rural community, the pattern
of income distribution has not altered appreciably, except in acid-sulphate
soil areas, where an improvement has been noted. The analysis of the
distributional effects of the project within the region is not yet complete
but is is known that the expansion of retail demand in the region has been
more than twice as rapid as could be accounted for by paddy farmers alone.
4.08      Employment - The expansion in employment opportunities in paddy
production (by about 50%), coupled with a reduction in seasonal migratory
labor from Thailand and Kelantan, imply greatly improved opportunities for
local landless laborers and other underemployed groups. No direct measure-
ments of this exist but rapidly rising wage rates are one piece of indirect
evidence.
4.09      Manufacturing - There is no evidence that the economic growth
resulting from the Muda Project has, of itself, led to any increase in
manufacturing capacity in the region. However, the subsidies available
under the Pioneer Industries Act have caused a number of light manufac-
turers to locate in Alor Setar. These include the MADA shoe factory
(para 5.05).
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      There was very little consideration given at the project prepara-
tion and appraisal stages to the form that project management should take
or of the need to coordinate closely engineering planning with agricultural
extension and credit. The appraisal report envisaged that each agency



- 12 -
would play its part independently but, in 1968, the Government recognized
the weakness of this approach and appointed a Project Coordinator. In
1969, the State Agricultural Officer of Kedah was appointed to this post
and he has continued to guide the project ever since, being appointed
General Manager when the Muda Agricultural Development Authority (MADA)
was set up in 1970. MADA is a semi-autonomous agency responsible for
operating the irrigation system and for supplying agricultural services
to the farmers. Further details are given in Annex 4.
5.02      Much of the success achieved in introducing double cropping at a
comparatively rapid rate (para 3.01) has been due to the careful preparatory
work done between 1968 and 1970. This included a series of pilot projects
to dispel the farmers' technical concerns and superstitions about the
feasibility of off-season cropping, a program to multiply seeds of the
high-yielding variety selected for off-season use and also, in 1968-69,
the formation of the first FA's. Full-scale off-season irrigation began
in 1970, coinciding with the introduction of the BPM credit scheme (para
3.14) on a pilot basis. All these activities were initiated and supervised
by the Project Coordinator.
5.03      MADA is statutorily responsible to the Minister of Agriculture
and Rural Development and, having no revenue of its own, is also under
the budgetary control of the Ministry of Finance. However, MADA in fact
enjoys considerable independence, as a result of its achievements and
prestige.  The calibre of MADA's staff is higher than that of the Kemubu
organization and the problem of unfilled vacancies much less serious.
5.04      MADA's staffing level (1,414 for 1974) and operating budget
(M$5.14 million for 1974 or US$53/ha) are higher than for comparable proj-
ects in Asia but the greater range of services offered must be borne in
mind. The bulk of MADA's staff are employed on O&M of the project works
(para 2.11), management of the FA's (para 3.10) and general administration.
However, small specialist units in agricultural engineering, irrigation
planning, agricultural information, project planning and evaluation and
industrial development have done excellent work in monitoring the physical
and agronomic progress of the project, in measuring economic and social
changes in the project area and in laying a base for future development
(Chapter VII).
5.05      The last of these specialist units, the Industrial Development
Division, aims to promote manufacturing in the project area, and thereby
increase employment opportunities for farming families and to raise incomes.
MADA's efforts in identifying opportunities, conducting pre-feasibility
studies, and finding financiers are supplementary to those of the Kedah
State Government. To date, the unit's efforts have resulted in the es-
tablishment at Alor Setar of a shoe factory. It is a joint venture of
International Footwear of Singapore, the State Development Corporation and
MADA itself. IIADA is currently evaluating the prospects of freshwater fish
farming and strawboard manufacturing, but has no immediate plans for further
ventures.



- 13 -
5.06      MADA has become a substantial and diversified organization.     It will
undoubtedly play a role in future infrastructural investment in the region
and in the improvement of agricultural supporting services. In addition,
MADA plans to become involved in land use planning particularly at the
perimeters of the urban areas, and the provision of public utilities to
rural areas.
VI. COST RECOVERY
Cost Recovery
6.01       In supplementary letters, dated January 16, 1966, the Stat-es of
Kedah and Perlis agreed to levy and maintain water charges at the levels
needed to cover all O&M costs, to create a special category of land which
could be double cropped because of the project, to fix the quit rent (land
tax) for this category of land "so that a portion of the moneys invested
will be treated as one factor in (its) determination" (with the proviso
that other land taxes might be substituted for this) and to take steps
to ensure that tenant cultivators were not deprived of a substantial
portion of the project benefits. None of the specific undertakings :Ln
the above list has been carried out. The quit rent for irrigated land was
raised to M$3/ac (M$7.41/ha) in 1972 and cannot be raised again until 1985,
according to the Constitution. No special category of double-cropped land
has been created. Water charges have been raised to M$8.40/ac (M$20.75/ha
or US$9.0/ha), compared with M$4.9/ac before the project and the M$15/ac
(in 1965 M$) envisaged at appraisal. All these figures are far below the
1974 actual O&M expenditure of M$56/ha. No steps have been taken to enforce
the Padi Cultivators Act so as to improve the position of tenants (para 4.05).
6.02      These shortcomings were first pointed out by the 1973 supervision
mission and a letter, dated November 1, 1973, asked the Malaysian Treasury
what action it intended to take for both the Muda and Kemubu Projects. A
reply, dated February 4, 1974, was received which stated in part, "we are
satisfied with the progress made so far ... there are certain prevailing
factors that make it impossible up to now for the authorities to levy the
full water charges. The benefit of irrigation, for instance, has not
spread to all parts of the project area. In addition, the existence of
patches of land prevent the smooth and even flow of water ... the income
of the farmers is still below the expected projected level ... most of
the farm units are   .. below economic sizes ...   While the income of the
farmers have not substantially increased, the current price increases have
... aggravated the situation ...   In view of the foregoing, the Treasury
considers it satisfactory the water charges so far levied and collected
by the State authorities." The reply did not address the problem of tenancy.
6.03      No further action was taken by the Bank on this matter.     However,
in view of the findings of this report on farm incomes (para 4.04) and the
project rate of return (para 4.03), it seems clear that water charges



- 14 -
could and should be raised to at least equal the cost of operating and
maintaining the system. It is recommended that the question of cost
recovery and the enforcement of the Padi Cultivators Act again be discussed
between the Bank and the Malaysian authorities.
VII. FUTURE IMPROVEMENTS
7.01      Even though the Muda Project has fulfilled its original goals,
there is still considerable scope for further development. The main
objective would be to increase yields and lower production costs through
improvements in water control and more effective agricultural supporting
services, particularly extension. Water control will require investment
in minor irrigation and drainage ditches down to the farm level and pos-
sibly land levelling. While further investment in Muda would not produce
as great an income distributional effect as would investments in rainfed
paddy areas, the mission feels that further investment in Muda is still
justified by the area's comparative advantage in rice production, the
probable attractive rate of return and the presence of a very effective
project management. Full details are given in Annex 6.
7.02      Proposals for on-farm development at Muda have been under con-
sideration since 1968 and three pilot projects were constructed in 1971-72.
However, these pilot projects were largely directed at specific local
problems and had high unit costs and were thus not suitable models for
large-scale development. Recently MADA has embarked on a new pilot project
of 500 ha which is being tackled in a much more systematic way, with the
farmers concerned being closely involved in project planning.
7.03      In order to prepare and establish the feasibility of any large-
scale project, a program of pilot projects would be required. This would
be in line with MADA's thinking, even though MADA does not yet have a formal
plan beyond 1975. Such a program would allow studies to be made of the
various levels of investment (for example, various ditch to drain spacings),
the concept of boundary realignment (which may be needed to achieve a
rational and low-cost layout) and to determine the rate at which full-scale
development could be implemented. The proposed pilot project should lead
to a yield increase of 1 ton/ha or so (about half of which could result
from improvements in agricultural services) and experience with projects
of this kind in other countries indicates a probable economic rate of return
of 15-20%. However, this will only be achieved if costs are kept down to a
supportable level.
7.04      Any Muda Irrigation Improvement Project would logically also
include needed investments in stabilizing the Muda and Pedu dams and the
Padang Terap River (para 2.12) and a re-analysis of the hydrology of the
river system. Improvements in water control would also make possible an
expansion of the irrigated area and about 4,000 ha of potentially commandable



- 15 -
land has already been identified. A project of this kind would also include
improvements in agricultural supporting services and possibly even develop-
ment of agro-industries.
7.05      The mission recommends that discussions be initiated between
the Bank and the Government to assess whether the kind of project outlined
above is considered of high priority in Malaysia's development planning.
If this is so, it is recommended that the project be included in the
Bank's lending program. MADA should be capable of handling project prepara-
tion with only a minimum of outside assistance.
VIII. LESSONS LEARNED
8.01      Despite a level of project preparation that would fall far short
of present day standards, the Muda Project was successfully and expeditious-
ly constructed and has exceeded the expectations of its planners. This
outcome was largely achieved by the flexibility and initiative shown by
the project management and higher levels of Government in developing proj-
ect coordination, and establishing farmers' organizations and an agricultural
credit system. Progress might well have been much slower in a country with
a more rigid bureaucratic system, unresponsive to initiative and tied to
conventional methods of administration. This is not to suggest that a
Project Authority is the only solution for irrigation project management
but merely that decentralized decision-making and an equal emphasis on
engineering and agricultural services are needed if full project benefits
are to be obtained.
8.02      The moderately high ex-post economic rate of return is an indica-
tion that gravity irrigation systems with large reservoir storage components
can be worthwhile investments for paddy growing in monsoon Asia, if suf-
ficient agronomic potential, enterprising farmers and effective project
management are present. The Muda River Study shows that projects of this
kind can do much to raise regional incomes as a whole but do not by them-
selves improve income distribution within a region, unless specific fiscal
measures (such as graduated betterment taxes) are imposed.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
MALAYSIA
LOAN 434-MA: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Basic Data
Borrower:                      Malaysia
Implementing Agency:           (original) Drainage and Irrigation Division
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Coopera-
tives (now Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development); (later) Muda Agricultural
Development Authority (MADA).
Amount of Loan:                US$45.0 million equivalent.
Date of Loan Signing:          November 17, 1965.
Date of Loan Effectiveness:    February 1, 1966.
Closing Date - original:       June 30, 1970
- final:         December 31, 1973.
Completion of Disbursement:    August 22, 1973.
Terms of Loan:                 Repayment over 25 years, including a five-year
grace period, with interest at 5.5% per annum
and a commitment charge of 0.375% of the un-
disbursed balance.
Amortization:                  Forty-one semi-annual payments, starting
October 1, 1970 at US$605,000 equivalerLt
and ending October 1, 1990 at US$1,790,000
equivalent.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Exchange Rates and Price Deflators:
Year        Exchange Rate-/         Domestic Price Deflator
(M$ to Us$1.00)              (1974 = 1.000)
1965             3.06                         1.354
1966             3.08                         1.349
1967             3.07                         1.341
1968             3.08                         1.331
1969             3.09                         1.341
1970             3.08                         1.320
1971             2.90                         1.300
1972             2.80                         1.270
1973             2.43                         1.145
1974             2.35                         1.000
a/   Average actual exchange rates reported by the Bank Negara Malaysia.
Conversions in the Appraisal Report and other project documents in
the period 1965-1970 are normally made at the nominal exchange rate
of M$3.00 = US$1.00.
Project Description from the Loan Agreement
1.        The purpose of the Project is so to increase irrigation capacity
in the States of Kedah and Perlis in northwestern Malaysia that an area of
about 261,500 acres (106,000 ha) 1/ can be double-cropped.
2.        The principal works to be constructed as part of the Project
are;
A.   Muda Dam, a reinforced concrete structure with a maximum
height of about 125 feet (38 m) wish minimum spillway
capacity of 60,000 cusecs (1,700 m Is) at elevation 330
feet (100.6 m) m.s.l.;
B..  Pedu Dam, a rock-filled dam with a maximum height of about
215 feet (66 mA, with minimum spillway capacity of 10,000
causecs (280 m Is) at elevation 320 feet (97.6 m) m.s.l.,
to create in conjunction with the Muda Dam mini um usable
storage capacity of 800,000 acre-feet (1,000 Mm );
C.   An auxiliary dam in a low saddle at the Batang site about
4 miles (6 km) southeast of the Pedu Dam;
D.   Saiong Tunnel, linking Muda and Pedu Reservoirs, lined vith
concrete, with a minimum capacity of 1,000 cusecs (28 m Is)
with Muda Reservoir at elevation 300 feet (91.5 m) m.s.l.;
1/   Metric equivalents added.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
E.   Regulatory structures and improvements on the rivers to
prevent excessive flooding;
F.   Pelubang Head Works, including a3re-regulating capacity 1/ of
at least 1,500 acre-feet (1.9 Mm ), to control and regulate
the diversion of water from the Padang Terap (of which the
Pedu River is a tributary) into the Northern and Southern
Canal Systems;
G.   Enlargement, realignment and improvement (including regulating
structures at Jitra and Lana Bulu) of the 23 mile (37 km)
Northern Canal, and construction of the Central and Southern
Canal, approximately 40 miles (65 km) long;
H.   Enlargement and improvement of existing, and the construction
of additional, distributary canals;
I.   Improvement of drainage by constructing new, and enlarging
existing, drains, diking to create salt-water barriers and
the installing of tidal gates; and
J.   An equipment yard and storage warehouse for each of four
Operating and Maintenance Divisions, a headquarters building
and a central repair and maintenance shop.
3.        The project includes the purchase, installation and utilization
of equipment for repair and maintenance operations and also the employment
of consultants.
4.        The project also includes:
A.   The provision to farmers of technical, extension and credit
services, including the establishment of demonstration
areas throughout the irrigated area, to assist them in the
effective use of the irrigation water.
8.   The continued operation of the present experimental and
demonstration farm units working on new varieties and
alternative crops in the irrigated area.
Key Documents
1.   "Report on the Supply of Irrigation Water from the Rivers MIuda and
Padang Terap for Double Crop Rice Cultivation in the Coastal Plains
of Kedah and Perlis," Sir Willian Halcrow & Partners, November, 1961.
1/   Later dispensed with.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
2.   "Short Geological Report on the Muda River Project (Irrigation)",
E. Ledgerwood, Department of Geological Survey, Ministry of Rural
Development, November 1961.
3.   "Report on the Muda River Project," (in four vols.), Sir Willian
Halcrow & Partners, November, 1963.
4.   "Report on Geology of Muda Basin, Muda Dam Site and Main Canal System,"
C.J.R. Esdale, Department of Geological Survey, Ministry of Rural
Development, June, 1964.
5.   "Report on a Reappraisal of the Muda River Project," Sir William Halcrow
& Partners, November, 1964.
6.   "Supplementary Information - Muda Irrigation Project," (draft)
memorandum to L.J.C. Evans by W. A. Dexheimer, May 4, 1965.
7.   IBRD Appraisal Report No. TO-482a, "Muda River Irrigation Project,
Malaysia," October 14, 1965.
8.   IBRD President's Report No. P-456, November 1, 1965.
9.   Supplementary letters between Malaysia and IBRD dated November 17, 1965:
List of Goods
Operating Policies, Agricultural Credit and Technical Services
Consulting Services and Procurement
10. Supplementary Letters between Kedah and Malaysia dated January 16,
1966:
Water Charges, Land Taxes and Tenancy Rents
Extension Services
11. Supplementary Letters between Perlis and Malaysia dated January 16,
1966:
Water Charges, Land Taxes and Tenancy Rents
Extension Services
12. "Double-Crop Rice Irrigation: The System of Control - A Simulation
Study," A Thesis presented for the Degree of Master of Science
(Engineering) of the University of Southampton, David W. Higgins,
February, 1967.
13. "Working Paper on Agricultural Credit for the Muda Project," A.
Protopapas, A. Stoneham, and S. Takahashi, IBRD, June 20, 1967.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
14. "Farm Economic Study of the Muda River Project 1966," Ministry of
Agriculture and Cooperatives, September, 1967.
15. "Short-Term Credit Scheme for the Muda Project," Public Administration
Service, December 16, 1968.
16. C. L. Clarke and R. G. Taylor, "Lessons Learned from Two Rockfil:L
Dams in the Tropics," Tenth Congress on Large Dams, Montreal, 1970.
17. C. L. Clarke, P. M. Jones and N. R. Morgenstern, "Foundation
Conditions at Muda Dam," International Society for Rock Mechanics,
Second International Congress, 1970.
18. E. M. Gosschalk and R. W. Taylor, "Strengthening of Muda Dam Foundations
Using Cable Anchors," International Society for Rock Mechanics, Second
International Congreas, 1970.
19. "Muda Irrigation Scheme: Implementation Report," Project Manager's
Office, Alor Setar, April, 1970.
20. "Muda Agriculture Development Authority - Proposal: Organizational
Structure and Management Policy," Project Manager's Office, Alor Setar,
May, 1970.
21. "Proposed Improvement Works to Internal Reticulation System, Muda
Irrigation Project," Division of Drainage and Irrigation, Ministry of
Agriculture and Cooperatives, July, 1.970.
22. "The Cornerstone of Agricultural Development: Conscious Planning and
Systematic Implementation," Report No. 15, General Manager's Office,
MADA, Alor Setar, January, 1972.
23. Laws of Malaysia, "Muda Agricultural Development Authority Act, 1972,"
March 31, 1972.
24. "The Commercial Farming Behaviour and Attitudes of Farmers in the
Muda Scheme," Report No. 21, General Manager's Office, MADA, Alcor
Setar, February, 1973.
25. S. Hope Thavaraj, "The Necessity of Terminal Facilities for Water
Management at Farm Level," National Seminar on Water Management at
Farm Level, Alor Setar, July, 1973.
26. Roger H. Slade, "The Muda River Study - A First Report," FAO/IB:RD
Cooperative Program, Rome, forthcoming.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Supervision Missions
No.  Year       Mission Members                Mission Dates   Report Date
1.   1966      K.L. Guinness, J. Willems       August 19-26    October 14
2.   1967       S. Takahashi, J. Dumoulin      July 17-26      August 29
3.   1968       H.T. Chang, B.G. Davis         March 5-15      May 3
4.   1969       H.T. Chang, B.G. Davis         March 31-
April 11       May 15
5.   1970       L.W. Bartsch, H.T. Chang       March 3-14      May 19
6.   1971       L.W. Bartsch, H.T. Chang       March 6-17      April 23
7.   1972       J.C. Douglass, P. Peperzak     April 24-May 7 July 6
8.   1973       H.J. Tennent, P.W. Whitford,
A.S. Cheema               July 9-19       August 20
9.   1974       P.W. Whitford,
R.H. Slade (FAO)               November 18-
P. Judd (Consultant)             December 7    Present Report
Agricultural Credit Missions
1.   1966       C.E. Eugenio                   July 16-30      August 5
2.   1966/67    S. Takahashi, A Protopapas,
A. Stoneham                     ..        June 20, 1967
3.   1967       S. Takahashi, J. Dumoulin      July 17-26      August 29
4.   1968       D. Stoops                      January 22-23   February 19
5.   1968       S. Takahashi                   October 13-19   October 29
6.   1969       S. Takahashi                   February 23-27 March 7
7.   1969       P. C. Goffin                   August 10-13    August 21
8.   1970       S. Takahashi                   June



ANNE. 1
MALAYSIA                                           Table 1
'Page 1-
LOAN 434-MA: IMDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
HTOROLOGICAL DATA
ANNUAL RAINFALL.               In irrigation area,                               about 90 Inches
In reservoir area,                               about 80 inches
CATcH4ENT AREAS UTILIZED.       Reservoir                   Muda                    380 sq .iles
Pedu                     66 sq.mlles
Suilgel Pedang Terap                                492 sq.miles
n    Tanjong Paub                                 180 sq.mlles
Repoh                                         52 sq.miles
Ar"au                                         48 sq.miles
Gial                                          14 sq.miles
Kedah                                         15 sq.mlEes
ATM   BALANCE TABLE.
Demand: Irrigation requirements                                             2,750
Co pensation water      Mu"                                            20
Pelubang                                       30
Total demand                                                                     2,800 cusecs
Supply:
L.   Rainfall on padi                                                2,700
ii.   Uncontrolled river flow                                         1,000
lit.   Reservoir                                                       1,100
Total available supply     ,                                                     4,800 cusecs
Spiii iron reservoir                                              200
Surplus rain ano river flow                                      1,800
Total surplus                                                                    2,000 cusecs
Supply utilized                                                                  2,80  cusecs
MAIN CANALS      : ENGINEERING     DATA
Contracts                   Northern      Central     Southern                    Total
Nos. 4A, B, C & D              Canal       Canal       Branch                  Main Canals
aENEAL:
Capacity at intake             2,450       2.400          925          4,850 cusecs (14003/sec)
Capacity at dis end              975         850          600           3,225 cusecs (63s3/sec)
Average slope                33,000       26.000       24,000           1:25,000     (0.004S)
Average bed,width               40'         60'          40'           50 ft.        (15M.)
Average water deptb             13'         12'          10'            12 ft.       (i.Oo.)
Length                          22n.        24m.         15m.           61 miles     (98 Ka.)
Excavation                      40.          4m.          2n.           10. cu;yd.  (8 x 10a3)
NO. OF STUCIURES:
River barrages                   2                        -                      2No.
Canal siphons                    -           2            1                      3 No.
Canal aqueduct                   -           1            -                      1No.
Regulators                       4           5            4                     13 No.
Offtakes - gated                 2           2            3                      1 No.
"     - piped                 4          12            3                     19 No.
Stream Intakes                  29           1            -                     30 No.
Pumping station                  -           -            1                      1 No.
Underdrain siphons              15          15            9                     39 No.
Bridges - Railway                1           1            1                      3 No.
n    - Road                 18           18            7                    41 No.
"'   - Foot                  10           5           13                    28 No.



ANNEI 1
MALAYSIA                                       Table 1
Pag -2
LoAN 434-MAt 1DA IRRIGATION PROJECT
RESERVOIR       ENGINEERIN6      DATA
Contract No.2                  Pedu Basin                               muda Basin
OED  AL:
Reservoir storage        700000 acre-ft. (180 x 1063)             100.000 acre-ft. f120 x 106g3)
Usetul drawdown          320' to 220' IM                            320' to 27D0 MM
Reservoir area           25 aq. lles (65 KM2)                       10 sq.miles (20 Kn2)
Av. flow at dams         130 cusecs (4m3/sec.)                      1.000 cusecs (30s3/sec.)
Type                     Rolled rockfill *itb upstream              Aetursen buttress with over-
aspbalt sembrane.                           flow splillway.
Foundatior               Congloaerate, quartzite, shale             Quartzite, sudstone.
Maxtnus height           200 ft.        (60,.)                       105 ft.       (320.)
Lengtb at top            660 ft.       (200m.)                      770 ft.        (230n.)
Width ot base            7D0 ft.        (210i.)                     180 ft.        (55s.)
Upstream slope           I in 1.7                                   1 in I
Downstream slope         I ln 1.5                                   1.9:1
Descriptlon              Asphalt *enbrane 4" (10 ca.) thick.        28 buttresses at 22 ft. centres,
covering 18,000 sq.yds. (15,0002)          2'-6" to 3'-6" thick, with
facing slabs 2' to 5   thick.
SPILLWAYS:
toc! n flood             10.000 cusecs (280a3/sec)                  70,000 cusecs (2,OOOm3/sec)
Descriptlor.            aeverrlfow spill at Batcng                  Spill over dam
Length of crest          125 ft.       (38a.)                       300 ft.        (90s.)
Level of ctest           320' MSg                                    330'. M_%
DRAW-OFF TRW' DAMS:
Design drav-off          5,000 cusecs (140m3lsecd                    1,000 cusecs (28,3/sec)
Through pipes            2 x 8'-60 dia. (2 x 2.60)                  2 x 4-6" dla. (2 x 1.4a.)
Controlled by            Mollow-Jet discharge regulators, with butterfly guard valves
DAM CONSTRUClN:
Rlver diversion          open channel/drar-off pipes                15 ft. tunnel/open channel
Excavation               100,000 c.yds. (80.000u3)                  40,000t c.yds. (30,000mg'
Rockfill                 900,000 c.yds. (700,000o3)
Concrete                 25.000 c.yds. (20,000s3)                   60,000 c.yds. (46,000v3)
Relmiforcement           1,000 tons                                 1.500 tons
Salong Tunnel
TMINEL'
Geology                  Red absales and conglomerates; grey conglonerates with quartzite bands;
grey *udstone.
Capacity                 1,250 cusecs (35a3/sec) up to 2,500 cusecs (10m3/sec)
Length                   21,800 ft. or 41 miles (6,600..)
Sizte ad thape           15 ft. equivaletnt diameter horseshoe (16.2)
Level and grade          Invert level 270-285' MSM. 1 in 4,500(0.022V
Lining                   8" mlalnum unreinforced concrete.
TUNEL CONSTRUCrIICN:
Excavation               180,000 tu.yds.  (140,000m3)
Working faces            4 faces; intake, outfall and 2 frog 500 ft. long adit
Concrete lining          27,000 cu.yds. (20,0oo0,) paid
Other support            Steel ribs and rock bolts



ANNEX 2
Page 1
MALAYSIA
LOAN 434-MA: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Works
Project Preparation
1.        The Muda Irrigation Project is located in the northwest of Peninsular
Malaysia, about 370 km north of Kuala Lumpur, in the States of Kedah and Perlis
(Map 1521). Further details on project location, topography and clitmate are
given in Annex 3. Two major rivers, the Sg. Muda and Sg. Padang Terap
(called Sg. Kedah near the coast) intersect the coastal plain, and there are
also various minor rivers.
2.        The Kedah-Perlis coastal plain has traditionally been Malaysia's
rice bowl and it has benefitted over the years from various Government in-
vestments. The first of these was a system of controlled drainage, to
alleviate flooding and to open up low-lying areas to cultivation. Coastal
bunds and control gates were built to prevent the ingress of sea water and
to back up fresh water for paddy cultivation.   Later, main-season irrigation
was introduced by the construction of headworks on several small rivers, to
serve the northern half of the plain (50,000 ha). In general, the same
channels acted as irrigation canals in dry spells and drains during periods
of heavy rainfall.
3.        It has long been Government policy to assist paddy smallholders by
providing, wherever possible, irrigation and drainage to upgrade existing
paddy areas, primarily to insure the main season crop against losses and
secondarily to permit double cropping, where suitable year-round water supplies
could be provided. Until the 1960's, such projects were generally small and
were planned and executed by the Drainage and Irrigation Departments (DID's)
of the States.
4.        By the early 1960's, rice production in Malaysia had begun to lag
seriously behind consumption and imports were imposing a serious-strain on
the balance of payments. Therefore, the Government began to plan the
largescale investments needed to approach national self-sufficiency in rice.
Among the larger and more complex of these schemes were the Muda and Kemubu
Projects, for which World Bank assistance was sought.
5.        The Muda Project (originally called the Kedah Plain Project) was
conceived by the Fede6rl DID in the 1950's as a means of introducing peren-
nial irrigation to the whole Kedah-Perlis Plain, through construction of a
storage reservoir on the Sg. Muda and the upgrading and extension of the
existing irrigation and drainage systems. The project was considered



ANNEX 2
Page 2
somewhat beyond Malaysia's resources at the time but, following the Bank's
1960 Economic Report and expressions of interest by the Bank in financing
the project, preparation work continued. As the proposed project was more
complex than any that had previously been attempted by DID, consultant as-
sistance was required. In 1960-61, Sir Willian Halcrow & Partners (UK),
were asked to make a preliminary study of the Muda proposal. This study was
financed by the United Kingdom, through the Crown Agents. Halcrow's report,
dated November 25, 1961, was confined strictly to the technical feasibility
of the project, with a brief reference to economic justification. Halcrow's
terms of reference specifically excluded any investigation of the distribution
system and allowed only one expatriate engineer to visit Malaysia.
6.        Halcrows were engaged for further studies and, in November 1963,
produced a revised report in four volumes. This revision used new water
duties and included topographic mapping of the reservoir sites (by Hunting
Surveys Ltd.) and further geological investigations (by Soil Mechanics Ltd.
and Valentine Dunne and Co.). Water duties were supplied by DID and made
no allowance for rainfall on the paddy land. Consequently, it appeared
that only 75% of the command area would have been irrigable from the availa-
ble water supply. Following a Bank pre-appraisal mission by Mr. D.S. Mitchell
in September, 1964, a further revised report was issued by Halcrows (No-
vember, 1964) which used a more rational basis for calculating water re-
quirements, thus justifying an irrigated cropping intensity of 200%.
7.        During the project preparation period, a number of alternatives
was considered for water storage and delivery. These included various re-
servoir sites on the Muda and Pedu Rivers, and also on the Ahning and Pendang
Rivers (in some of the earlier versions), and diversions from the Muda to
the Padang Terap Basin via a tunnel between the two reservoirs or by diver-
sion or pumping from the Muda at Jeniang. Given the wide range of alterna-
tives studied, it is probable that the project as finally formulated was
near the least cost solution for the given water demands. As mentioned in
para 5, Halcrows did not study the distribution system or its probable
water use efficiency. However, the 1964 report does contain the first
mention of the sophisticated control system that was eventually installed
in order to make optimum use of the uncontrolled river flows diverted into
the system (para 37).
8.        Volume IV of the 1963 report contains information on soils,
agriculture, net value of production, benefit-cost analysis, project manage-
ment, land tenure and agricultural credit, and was prepared by Robert J.
Muscat of the Malaysian Treasury and A. R. McWalter of the Federal Depart-
ment of Agriculture. While this analysis was very brief, it was more
substantial than that produced for the Kemubu Project.
9.        Even though the studies described above were regarded at the time
as being of feasibility standard, it would have been more appropriate, in
view of the size and complexity of the project, to have regarded them as



ANNEX 2
Page 3
preliminary studies and to have interposed a period of detailed investiga-
tion before commencing construction. This is particularly true of geologi-
cal investigations. It appears that the Government felt that it could not
afford to finance these detailed studies unless it was certain that ex-
ternal financing would be assured for the project. By the time of appraisal,
all the parties involved - Government, Consultants and the Bank - seem
to have been anxious to get on with construction as soon as possible.. The
results of this decision are discussed in para 33.
10.       Halcrows also examined the feasibility of generating power at the
Pedu Dam but it was eventually concluded that this would not be economic.
Appraisal and Negotiations
11.       Following a formal request to the Bank for financing of the Muda
Irrigation Project, 1/ dated September 4, 1964, a pre-appraisal was made by
Mr. D. S. Mitchell between September 20 and 25, 1964.    An appraisal mission,
consisting of Messrs. D. S. Mitchell (part-time), T. Threlkeld, J. Willems,
S. Ong (FAO) and W. Dexheimer (Consultant), visited Malaysia between
February 20 and March 13, 1965.
12.       Negotiations were held between June 29 and July 19, 1965.    The
major issue at negotiations was that of water charges, land taxes and
tenancy rents (Sections 5.09 and 5.10 of the Loan Agreement and Supplementary
Letter). In response to the Malaysian objection that the original Blnk
proposals would represent a radical departure from the previous practice in
Malaysia, the Bank softened its position slightly, omitting reference to
absolute levels for the proposed water charges and land taxes (cf paras 120
to 125 of the Appraisal Report).
13.       On country grounds, the Loan Committee determined that it would
be appropriate to finance local costs and, therefore, the loan amount was
set equal to 50% of project costs (compared to an estimated foreign exchange
element of 38%) plus interest and other charges during construction. The
Loan, of US$45 million equivalent, was approved by the Executive Directors
on November 16, 1965 and was signed the following day.
Project Features and Obiectives at Appraisal
14.       The principal project works envisaged at appraisal included:    the
Muda Dam, a concrete buttress structure with a height of 38 m; the Pedu
Dam, a rockfill structure, 66 m high, with an impermeable asphalt membrane;
the Saiong Tunnel, 8 km long, connecting the two reservoirs; the Pelubang
headworks and Northern and Southern Main Canals; enlargement and improvement
1/   The earlier name of the project was the Muda River Irrigation Project
and this is the name used at appraisal. Most subsequent documents,
however, use the name Muda Irrigation Project.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
of the existing, and the construction of additional, distributary canals to
serve 97,000 ha (261,500 ac); river improvements, drainage construction,
coastal embankments and tidal gates; operation and maintenance (0 & M)
equipment; and miscellaneous buildings. The project description from the
Loan Agreement (Annex 1) also included the provision of teclnical, extension
and credit services to the farmers and the continued operation of experimental
and demonstration farm units. However, no provision was made, either in the
allocation of the proceeds of the Loan or in the project cost estimate, for
financing these activities. The project did not provide for on-farm develop-
ment, that is, ditches, drains and roads to serve individual farms. Further
technical details on the project are given in Annex 1, Table 1. The cost
estimate at appraisal is shown in Table 1 to this Annex. Equipment for 0 & M
and consulting services for the design and construction supervision of the
major works were included in the allocation of the Loan proceeds but did not
appear explicity in the appraisal cost estimate.
15.       The original allocation of the proceeds is shown in Table 2.    As
the Loan was intended to finance some local costs (para 13), disbursements
for civil works were on a percentage basis (initially 40%).
16.       The project formulation may be better understood by reference to
Figures 1 and 2. The Muda River has a large catchment area but the poten-
tial dam sites have little storage capacity. The Pedu River, on the other
hand, has a good damsite but a relatively small inflow. The adopted solu-
tion amounts to construction of a diversion dam on the Muda, a storage re-
servoir on the Pedu and a tunnel to connect the two. Water is released at
the Muda Dam to meet the needs of pumped irrigation projects downstream
and for salinity control in the Muda estuary. Water diverted through the
Saiong tunnel and released from the Pedu Dam travels down the Pedu and
Padang Terap Rivers to the Pelubang Headworks, where it is diverted into
the Northern and Southern (Central) Main Canals. Reticulation is generally
via a system of downslope laterals and cross-slope distributaries, the
latter being spaced at 1-2 km intervals. The spacing of the drains is
similar, the secondary drains being adjacent to the irrigation distributaries,
with a road in between. Tidal gates on all drainage outlets to the sea,
and also on the Sg. Kedah, prevent the ingress of sea water to the project
area. Certain parts of the project area are above gravity command and
are served by small diesel-driven booster pumps.
17.       The design of the Muda and Pedu Dams (Figures 3 and 4) was dic-
tated by geological conditions at the sites, which were particularly un-
favorable at Pedu, and by the availability of construction materials.
These designs were changed several times in the course of project pre-
paration. Further changes during construction are discussed in para 24.
18.       At the time of appraisal, the Bank and the Government saw the
Project mainly as a means of achieving full double-cropping in the project
area. Consequently, only secondary attention was given to potential yield
increases and there was little consideration of crops other than paddy,
or of the most appropriate level of on-farm development. The Government,
and to some extent the Bank, have continued to measure the progress of the



ANNEX 2
Page 5
progress of the project in terms of the narrow double-cropping objective.
However, in the last two or three years the Muda authorities have begun to
realize that increasing the cropping intensity is only a first step and
that much development work remains to be done (Annex 6).
19.       On the other hand, the appraisal report was perhaps ahead of its
time in giving considerable emphasis to the problems of land tenure
(paras 84 to 89 of the Appraisal Report) and water charges and taxes
(paras 117 to 119). The need for improvements in research, extension
and credit was also considered (paras 112 to 119) but recommendations were
rather general. Progress in these areas is discussed in Annex 3.
20.       The appraisal report recommended an increase in the water charge
in Kedah and Perlis from M$12.1/ha (M$4.9/ac) to M$$37/ha (M$15/ac) and a
special tax on double-cropped irrigated land of M$50/ha (M$20/ac), to
capture part of the benefits to landlords. These charges would have
implied a cost recovery index of about 37%. However, in Loan negotLations,
the States agreed only to collect water charges sufficient to recover
O&M costs and to create a special category of double-cropped land. Progress
in cost recovery is discussed in para 6.01.
Construction History
21.       The Loan became effective on February 1, 1966, as originally
scheduled. Sir William Halcrow & Partners were retained to design and
supervise the construction of the dams, tunnels, headworks, main canals
and control system. According to the supplementary letter on consulting
services and procurement, the consultants would have been required to re-
view the designs of the distribution system, prepared by DID, and to have
supervised the construction of the whole project. The agreement between
Halcrows and DID did not provide for the latter services and the Bank later
agreed that Halcrows needed only to check that DID's designs for the distri-
bution system were compatible with the designs for the major works.
22.       Construction began in April 1966 with the aim of beginning irri-
gation in the 1969/70 main season and completing the project by June, 1970.
The major works were completed virtually on schedule and overall completion
was estimated at 90% by March, 1970. Impoundment at the Muda Dam began
on March 23, 1969 and at Pedu Dam shortly afterwards. Gravity irrigation
was first available for the off-season of 1970.
23.       Table 3 shows the contracts awarded and their amounts.    Although
international competitive bidding procedures were followed for all civil
works contracts over US$100,000 (except for some urgently needed repair
works to the Pedu Dam, para 27, for which the Bank granted an exemption),
foreign contractors were successful on only the largest of these, nlamely,
the Reservoirs and Tunnels Contract (M$60.8 million) and the largest Main
Canals Contract (M$37.9 million). All other civil works contracts, the
largest of which was worth M$8.5 million, were won by local firms or con-
sortia. Contracts for the supply of valves, gates, equipment and vehicles
were all won by foreign suppliers, mostly from Japan, Austria and the
United Kingdom.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
24.       A number of design changes were made in the course of project
construction. Foundation conditions at the Muda damsite were found to be
much worse than expected, with veins of weathered mudstone being encountered,
along which there was a danger of failure of the dam by sliding. To counter-
act this, over 200 post-tensiored multi-strand cables were used to anchor the
buttress footings. These were anchored about 20 m into the foundation and
grouted with a bituminous compound. At the Pedu Dam, no sub-surface explo-
rations for embankment materials were carried out before the main contract
was let. The contractor found it impossible to quarry rock from the site
designated by the consultants, with a proportion of fine material within
the specification. After some months of delay and discussion between the
contractor and consultant, a revised design was produced, with a less
exacting specification and this the contractor was able to meet by pushing
the quarried material downhill and allowing the coarser material to segregate.
25.       At one point, the above problems caused a serious breakdown in
relations between the consultant and the contractor (Kajima), with the
contractor bringing in his own geological and dam design specialists.
There was also a distinct danger of a substantial delay in project comple-
tion and large contractor's claims and cost overruns. However, the
solutions proposed by the consultant and adopted by the contractor proved
to be quite effective, relations between the parties improved (with both
Halcrows and Kajima strengthening their site staff) and delays and cost over-
runs turned out to be quite minor. The performance of the consultant and
the contractor is discussed in paras 32 to 35 and remaining problems at the
dams in paras 43 and 44.
26.       Other changes in the project included the adoption of the Batang
site for the spillway of the Pedu Dam, the elimination of reservoir clearing,
except in the vicinity of the dams, and the postponement of most of the
river improvement works downstream of the Pedu Dam (para 45). The 1.9 Mm3
regulating pool at the Pelubang Headworks, included in the Project Des-
cription, was not proceeded with. These changes tended to lower project
costs. Other changes, such as the use of a computerized control system
(para 37) and the substitution of light traffic bridges for many of the
planned footbridges, tended to increase costs.
27.        In 1971, a program of improvement works was begun, under a supple-
mental budgetary appropriation. These included booster pumps to serve cer-
tain areas of high ground, farm roads, additional structures, improvements
to the drainage system and the tidal gates, some major repairs to the access
roads and river banks downstream of Pedu Dam and, more importantly, construc-
tion of three pilot projects for on-farm development. All these works were
carried out by locally-advertised contracts. It was necessary to postpone
the closing date of the Loan first to December 31, 1971, then to June 30, 1973
and finally to December 31, 1973 to allow these items to be completed and
the loan to be fully disbursed (para 31).
28.       The pilot projects (Ayer Hitam, Lubok Pinang and Simpang Empat)
were a response to the problems observed in the first years of off-season
irrigation in conveying "presaturation" water to all fields in a block at



ANNEX 2
Page 7
the beginning of the season to allow timely transplanting. In some cases,
it would take 30 to 40 days for water to reach the furthermost plots of
the block and the pilot projects had as their main objective the reduction
of this delay to 20 days at the most. At the same time, the pilot projects
sought to alleviate drainage and access problems within the block. The
solutions adopted were somewhat "ad hoc", in that the canals and drains were
located so as to solve specific localized problems, rather than to raise the
standard of water control to a pre-determined level for the block as a whole.
Even so, unit costs were high (about M$400/ac or US$440/ha in 1972 prices),
due to inappropriately high standards of construction -- lined ditches,
laterite-surfaced roads and purchased rights of way. However, these pilot
projects were a valuable first step in addressing the problems of water
control and vehicular access and will be useful in planning future develop-
ment (Annex 6).
Project Cost and Disbursements
29.       The final project cost, exclusive of interest during construction
and contractors' claims still under arbitration (which amount to M$1 million
or so), was M$245 million (Table 1) compared to M$229 million at appraisal,
an increase of 7%. The increase is fully accounted for by the additional
works included in the project (para 27), which cost about M$9.8 million, and
the construction of Farmers' Development Centers and the setting up of an
agricultural credit scheme (M$7.8 million). The appraisal report estimate
does not show the cost of consultants' services as a separate item, but
probably the civil works cost estimates included an allowance for design
and construction supervision. The allocation of Loan proceeds included
US$2.6 million for the foreign exchange cost of consultants. The actual
costs of consultant services was M$13.7 million (about US$4.7 million), with
a foreign exchange element of US$1.6 million. Thus the Bank allocation
was more than sufficient to cover costs.
30.       The total cost of major civil works was 8% above the original cost
estimate, while the distribution system estimate at appraisal was almost
exactly correct. There were, however, serious discrepancies in some of the
individual items, for example, the main canals. The reasons for these are
not clear -- except the very general one of the preliminary status of design
at appraisal. In the event, the physical contingency allowances of 10-20%,
depending on the status of design, were adequate and were fully used during
project implementation. The omission of price contingencies was alsb
justified by events, as there was almost no inflation in Malaysia in the
period 1966-70, when the bulk of expenditure took place.
31.       As disbursements for civil works were not geared to direct or
indirect foreign exchange expenditures (para 13), it is difficult to compare
the appraisal estimate of 38% foreign exchange with actual experience. DID
figures show a foreign exchange element of about 50% for the completed project
but it is not known whether this is based on payments to contractors or on
reimbursements from the Loan. Several reallocations of the Loan proceeds
were made and the percentage of disbursement against civil works increased
from the original 40% to 100% (retroactive to disbursements made after



ANNEX 2
Page 8
July 17, 1969), in order to disburse the Loan fully. On July 24, 1970 the
Loan Committee deemed that full disbursement should be aimed for, as the
intention of the Bank in making the loan was to finance some local costs,
on country grounds (para 13). The final disbursement allocation is shown
in Table 2.
Performance of Consultants and Contractors
32.       It is difficult, from the perspective of a Completion Report, which
must rely on documentary records which are not complete and personal
reminiscences of people who may be less than disinterested, to make a fair
and impartial evaluation of the professional performance of the consultants
and contractors. In this project, errors of judgement were made and the
consultants, contractors, the Government and the Bank may each have been
partly responsible.
33.       The consultants, Sir William Halcrow & Partners, were probably
ill-advised to agree to undertake feasibility studies under terms of reference
which limited their use of expatriate manpower, confined them to the major
works components of the project and dictated the water duties to be used.
The feasibility reports of 1963 and 1964, on which the appraisal was based,
did not clearly point out that the state of knowledge of the geological
conditions at the Muda and Pedu damsites was not sufficient to be used as
a basis for final designs. Both the consultants and the Bank should have
insisted on a complete coverage by diamond drilling, together with explora-
tory trenching and adits to establish the feasibility of the adopted dam
designs beyond all reasonable doubt and the consultants should have located
quarry sites for construction materials in the quantities and qualities
needed. As mentioned in para 9, the Government was most reluctant to spend
funds for this purpose before obtaining the Bank Loan.
34.       The approach adopted, that of continuing damsite investigations
concurrently with construction and then making any necessary design changes,
has often been used in the past, especially for force account construction,
where work can be easily discontinued if problems are encountered. However,
this is at best an inefficient procedure and one which is entirely unsuitable
for contract construction, if costly delays and litigation are to be avoided.
The contractors, Kajima-Taisei, probably took a gamble in bidding on the job
and their performance in the early stages was criticized both by Halcrows
and DID. After the design changes (paras 24 and 25) had been agreed, the
contractor appears to have performed well and the massive claims, which
appeared likely at one point, did not eventuate. However, technical problems
remain at both dams (paras 43 and 44).
35.       There is no record of any criticism of the other foreign civil
works contractor (Sentab, Sweden) or of the numerous local contractors in-
volved in the project (Table 3). Only minor problems were encountered with
the supply and delivery of gates, valves, equipment and vehicles.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
Operation and Maintenance
36.       The basic formulation of the Muda Project presents inherent problems
in system operation, as only 23% of the project's water requirements are met
from controlled outflows from the reservoirs in an average year. The other
water sources are rainfall, which supplies 56% of average requirements, and
uncontrolled river flows (from the Padang Terap and various small rivers
crossing the project area), which account for 22% in an average year. Other
operational problems include the delay time of about 27 hours between the
release of water at the Pedu Dam and its arrival in the distributory canals
and the lack of water control within the irrigation block.
37.       In order to overcome these problems, the Consultants devised a
rather elaborate operations system whereby data on the average depth of water
on the fields, rainfall over the catchment areas and the irrigated areas,
flows in the uncontrolled streams and reservoir levels are fed daily into a
computer, which calculates irrigation requirements and the setting of all
control gates in the system. In theory, the farmers are supposed to use
wooden weirs at the outlets from their paddy fields. In dry periods, these
should be raised to catch any rainfall while in wet periods, they would be
lowered to prevent drowning of the paddy. It was also intended to operate
the system on a rotational basis to minimize losses to drainage.
38.       The theory of the system was worked out by David W. Higgins, as
part of the requirements for a Masters Degree. The system hardware was
installed by Westinghouse and uses an IBM 1130 digital computer, with card
or paper tape input and printer output, connected by land lines or radio-
phones to the measuring devices and the gatekeepers' quarters. The Control
Center has a mimic board with a diagram of the system and dials showing the
status of each monitored variable. The capital cost of the system was
about M$1.6 million.
39.       The system is working and is proving useful for estimating diversion
requirements. However, its full capabilities are not being used, as it is
probably oversophisticated for the current system of field-to-field flooding
over 2 km or so. Irrigation must be continuous because of the uneveness of
the topography and the wooden weir concept (para 37) has been found to be
impracticable. In addition, many of the system components have been found
unreliable and unsuited to tropical conditions. Servicing the computer has
not been a problem. MADA maintains that Halcrows have not yet provided them
with a complete operating manual for the system and a flow chart for the
computer program.
40.       The computer is also being used for accounting and engineering tasks
and operates six to seven hours a day. MADA would like to operate it for a
second shift, if suitable staff could be found. The full power of the
operating system will be needed when on-farm development makes water control
down to the farm level possible and especially if the irrigated area is
expanded (Annex 6). Water shortages have not occurred at any time since
project completion, even under the present operating system, which probably
means that surplus water is available to serve an expanded area.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
41.       The main maintenance problem of the irrigation system is the
growth of weeds on the banks of canals and drains. Weeds are removed by
hand labor or weedicides. Periodic resurfacing of the O&M roads is another
major task. O&M costs are discussed in Annex 4. The MADA engineers feel
that the O&M budget is inadequate for proper maintenance. However, this
was not apparent to the mission on inspecting the project -- the overall
impression of the standard of maintenance was very good.
42.       MADA has begun a program to measure water use efficiency, based on
measurements of rainfall and the irrigation and drainage flows associated
with selected irrigation blocks. Preliminary results indicate a water use
efficiency of about 50% within the block, which might be equivalent to a
system efficiency of 30-40%. This does not appear unreasonable for a
system of this kind.
Present Problems
43.       Leakage at Pedu Dam - Leakage has been observed at Pedu Dam since
its completion and has gradually increased to 400 1/s (14 ft3/s). At
first, leakage through the upstream asphalt membrane was suspected and
steps were taken by Halcrows to locate and plug cracks in the membrane.
This had little effect on the leakage flow. It now appears that the major
cause may be leakage through joints in the foundations and abutments. The
depth of the original single grout curtain may not have been sufficient and
was definitely based on inadequate geological exploration (para 33). A new
grout curtain is now being installed (from a floating rig) to 50 m depth,
with emphasis on known fault planes. Associated Consulting Engineers
(Pakistan) have been engaged to supervise this work and they have two geolo-
gical surveyors on site.
44.       Muda Dam - The main problem at Muda Dam is the loss of tension
in some of the prestressing cables (para 24), probably due to snapping as
a result of stress corrosion. Halcows are still advising on this problems
and are testing samples of the cables. As in the case of the control
system, the MADA engineers feel that in recommending prestressing, the
consultants used the project as a "guinea pig" to test untried new
technology. This criticism is perhaps unfair in that the prestressing
technique, though unusual, was not entirely new and it remains to be seen
whether the present problems result from design, poor construction or other
causes.
45.       Padang Terap River   -   Irrigation releases down the river have led
to bank scour and flooding of low-lying areas.    This was anticipated during
project preparation but work on river improvement was cut short by DID in
1969 for reasons which are unclear. The present proposal is to spend
about M$6 million to correct these problems but no details are available at
present.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
46.       On-Farm Development - The need for on-farm development has already
been mentioned (paras 18, 27 and 40). Detailed recommendations are given
in Annex 6. It should be added that the need for on-farm development has
been increasingly recognized by MADA officials over the last two years and
a program of pilot projects has begun.






A?CNE) 2
Table 1
MALAYSIA
LO_Ul 434-MA: MJDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Item                          Appraisal eport        Final Cost Estimate
October 14, 196              Mid-1973
------------ KM Million --------------
Major rbrks
Muda Dam                                15.3                     23.38
Pedu Dam                                33.3                     23.13
Saiong Tunnel                           19.3                     14 05
Main Canals                             38.9                     61:10 b
Access Roads-/                           9.0                      9,61
Reservoir Clearing                       c,o                      *-- -
-iver Improvements                       0.8                      0.03-
Sub-total                      121.6                    131.30
Distribution System
Irrigation and Drainage                 58.3                     59.12
Coastal Dikes                            2.1                      5.19
Link ! oads                                                       4.93
Additional Works-                                                 14.88
Control Scheme                           o.6                      1.60
Booster Stations                         -                        0.27
Sub-total                       61.0                     75.99
4gricultural Development
Credit Survey                                                    0.85
Farmers' Development Centers            -                        6.91
Sub-total                                                 7.76
Overheads
Design and Supervfi7ion,
- Consultant s                       -                       13.70
- DID                                8.1                      3.06
Housing and Offices                    ...                       3.59
Commissioning                          ...                       2.48
0TM Equipment                           4.4                      3.21
Sub-total                      12.5                     26.07
TotaL Capital Cost                              195.1                    241.12
Contingencies                                  28.
ORM During Construction                         5:1 i/                   3-45 1/
Total Project Cost                              228.6                    244.57
Interest during Construction                   20.7                      5.80_
GRAWID TOTAL                            249.3                    270.37
a/  Both columns exclude costs prior to appraisal. As several sources of
information, using different categories, have been used in compiling
this table, the total differs from some published figures.
b/ Includes land acquisition of M$2.5 million.
c/ Constructed by Pablic Works Department.
/   Little clearing was carried out.
e/ Most of the river improvement works were postponed.
/ Includes: repairs, drainage improvements ard pilot projects for on-farm
development.
/ Consultants were not listed separately in the Appraisal Report cost estimate -
possibly they were included in the civil works items.
/ Costs of M$L.8 milLion for planning and design prior to 1966 excluded.
i/ Figure of M$9.5 million apparently includes equipment (H$4.4 million).
/ Includes DID costs through 1973, Additional State costs of M$LL.6 million
are excluded, as these would have been incurred without the project.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
MALAYSIA
LOAN 434-MA: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Allocation
US$
Category                             Original               Final
November 17, 1965     August 22, 1973
1.  Civil Works                             29,400,,000           33,914,129
2. Operating and Maintenance and
Communications Equipment              1,900,000               846,711
3.  Consulting Services                     2,600,000             1,639,160
4, Interest and Other Charges during
Construction                           6,900,000            8,600,000
5. Unallocated                             4l,200,000                 0
Total                 45,OOO,OOO            45o.,00oo00



ANNI!l^ 2
Table 3
Page 1
MALAYSIA
LOAN L34-1L,: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJEIT
List of Contractors
Major Civril Works Contracts
Contract            Title                  Contractor          Amount        Date
No.                                   (Country of Origin)   MT million    Awarded
1        Site Inrestigations          Soil Mechanics           .           . 
Ltd (UK)
2        Muda and Pedu Dams,         Kajima Construction      60.8     Nlrch 11,1966
Saiong Tunnel and           Co. Ltd, in assoc.
Associated Works            with Taisei Con-
struction Co.(Japan)
Nominated Sub-contracts
2A       Steel Pressure Pipes,       Sakai Iron Works          o.4         s0
Pedu Dar                    Co. Ltd0(Japan)
2B       Steel Pressure Pipes,       Sakai Iron Works          O.%.
Muda Dam                    Co. Ltd. (Japan)
2C       Draw-off valves,            Sakai Iron Works          0.7
Pedu Dan                    Co. Ltd. (Japan)
2D       Draw-off valves,            Sakai Iron Works          0.2
Muda Dam                    Co. Ltd. (Japan)
2E       Saiong Tunnel Gates         Waagner-Biro Ag.          0.2
(Austria)
2F       Screens and Rake,           Waagner-Biro             0o4
Pedu Dam                    Ag. (Austria)
2G       Screens, Muda Dam and       Nippon Kokan
Saiong Tunnel               Kabushiki Kaisha
(Japan)
*   *   .
Contract
"Jo.
3        Main Canals                 Only one complete tender received.
Contract re-advertised as Contract 41k-D.



ANNEX 2
Table 3
Page 2
Nominated Sub-contracts
Title                  Contractor           Amount        Date
(Country of Origin)       miTlion    Awarded
3A        Barrage Gates, Pelubang     Hitachi Zozen              0.5
and Tanjung Pauh           (Japan)
33        Hinged leaf gates and      Waagner-Biro Ag.            1.0
vertical lift gates for     (Austria)
control structures
3C        Arau Railway Bridge         Nippon Kokan
Kabushiki Kaisha (Japan)   0.06
Contract                            .
No.
RiA       Main Canals - Investiga-    National Construction      7.1
tions, Services & Barrages Co. (Malaysia)
4B        Main Canals - Kubang Pasu   Sentab Svenska            37.9
and Pendang Sections       Enterprenad Ab (Sweden)
4C        Main Canals - South         Lim Quee & Son Ltd/Chye    8.5     Dec.5,1967
&         Pendang                     Hin Const.Co.Ltd/Low Keng
4D        Saman Sections              Huat Const.Co.Ltd. (Quee-
Hin-Huat) (Malaysia)
5         Control Scheme              Westinghouse Brake and     0.9     Dec., 1968
Signal Co. Ltd. (U.K.)
of        Headstocks                           ..                0.1
11        Site Preparation - Housing
12        Housing and Offices         Prefabricated Timber Homes 0.4
Sdn.Bhd.(Malaysia)
13        Control Centre Building     Ooi Mah Huat (Malaysia)    0.1     Dec.8,1968
Sub- Contract
3A        Air Conditioning Plant      I.A.C.(Malaysia)Sdn.Bhd.    ..     Oct.20,1969
Contract
No.                     ~~~.  .  .
NO.
14 1         River Clearance             (Contractor resigned)       ..   (see para 15)
16-17        River Clearance             (Contract   suspended)      ..   (see para 45)
18         Control Scheme -                      ..                ..
Outstation   Buildings
21         Alor Changileh System       Chye Hin Construction      3.3     June 6,1966
Co. (Malaysia)
22         Lana Bulu System            Soon Tat Co. (Malaysia)    4.5
23         Padang Lalang System       Low Hoo & Sons              2.1
(Malaysia)



ANNEX 2
Table 3
Page 3
Contract              Title                Contractor         Amount         Date
No.                                  (Country of Origin) M$ million     _Awarded
24         Housing and Services       Chye Hin Const.        2.8
Co. (Malaysia)
25         Sg.Kedah Tidal Barrage     Chang Soon Lee         4.5       June 27,1968
Construction Co.
(Malaysia)
Sub-Contract
25A        Roller Gates for           Jessops and Co.Ltd.    o.6
Barrage                   (India)
Contract
No.
26        Arau System                Soon Tat Co.           3.8
(Malaysia)
27         Pauh System                Low Hoo & Sons         2.4       July 8,1968
(Malaysia)
28         Perlis Drainage            (Included in Contracts No. 26 and 27)
29         Pendang North System       Chye Hin Const.        3.6       Aug.26,1968
Co. (Malaysia)
30         Pendang South System       Lim Kar Bee            3.3       Dec.10,1968
(Malaysia)
31         Wan Mat Saman East         (Included in Contracts No. 32 and 33)
System
32         Wan Mat Saman North        Chin Ann Co.           4.1       Dec.12,1968
System                     (Malaysia)
33         Wan Mat Saman South        Soon Tat Co,           4.4       Feb.11,1969
System                    (Malaysia)
34         River Inprovements         Chye Hin Const.        3.6       May 29,1969
and Bridges               Co. (Malaysia)
Equipment and Buildings
M1          28 x 2.5 cusec                 to
Portable Pumps
M2
M3          Tidal Gate, Sg. Kuban     Low Theon              0.3       Aug.4, 1968
Rotan                     (Malaysia)
M4'



ANNEX 2
Table 3
Page 4
Contract             Title               Contractor          Amount       Date
No.                                (Country of Origin) M$irIon         Awarded
M5        Management Office         Low Kah Heng           0.08      Oct.1,1968
Building                  (Malaysia)
M6
M7
M8        12 Field Vehicles
19        4 x 70-90 hp              Malaysian Development   0.2
Motorgraders              Machinery (Aveling-
Barford, UK)
11o       4 x 300 hp                United Motor Works      o.4
Crawler tractors          (Komatsu, Japan)
llA       2 x 1 yd3                 Paterson-Simons & Co.   0.2      June 6,1969
Excavators                (Sumitomo-Cunins,
Japan)
M1JB      10 x 3/4 yd3              Tractors Malaysia 13d. 0.7       June 3,1969
Eccavators                (Keohring-Perkins,
Japan)
1LlC      3 x 3/8 yd3               Ruston-Bucyrus Ltd.     0.1      June 1,1969
Excavators                (UK)
M12       14 x 40-50 hp                  so                  ..          ..
Farm Tractors
M13       3 x 6" 0 & 3 x 4"         J Jardine, Waugh         0.02    April 29,
Portable Water Pumps      (Malaysia) Sdn.Bhd.                1969
(Alcon., UK)
D14       21 Gate-Keepers           Prefabricated Timber     0.2     June 23,1969
Quarters                  Houses Sdn.Bhd.(Malaysia)
1L5
M16       D.C. C-enerators and      Lindeteres-Jacoberg      0.01    July 29,1969
Welding Set               (Malaya) Sdn.Bhd.
(ELin-Union,Austria/
MWM (Germany))



AI,T EX 2
Table 3
Page 5
Contract                Title              Contractor           Amount       Date
-No.                                (Country of Origin)    M$ R=on       Awarded
M21       Minor Works in Alor        Low Thepn                 1.0      May 30,1969
Changileh and Lana Balu    (Malaysia)
Systems
M29A      12 x 5 cusec,              General Electric Co.      0.05     Nov.14,1970
B      12 x 10 cusec,             of Malaysia Ltd.          0.08
c      12 x 15 cusec                  (U.K.)                0.1
F      3 x 65 cusec                                         0.07
Diesel-driven Pumps
M29D      12 x 20 cusec,             Trading and Technical     0.1      tlov.2,1970
E      3 x 40 cusec               Services Ltd.            0.05
Diesel-driven Pumps
M30       Enhancement of IBM 1130    IBM World Trade           0.2     Sept. 2,1971
Computer                   Corporation (USA)
Minor Contracts                       (All Malaysian Contractors) M$'000
2/70       Sg.Tiang Grap Syphon       Soon Tat Co.              239     May 27, 1970
*   0   0
10/70       Housing and Renovations    Low Ah Tai                36      Sept.20,1970
1/71        Improvements to Alor       Ooi Hak Lim               83      March 1, 1971
Tok Malek,Kubang Pasu
2/71        Improvements to Padang     Low Kah Heng             122      April, 1971
Lalang System
3/71        Bridge over Sg. Rambai     Wong Fook Wah             19      March 15,1971
i/71        Minor Structures,          Lim Choon Kong           137      May 24, 1971
Kubang Pasu
5/71        Improvements to Padang     Low Theon                142      May 24,1971
Lalang
6/71        Improvements to Padang     Low Theon                149      May 24, 1971
Lalang
7/71        Improvements to Padang     Ooi Hock Lim             97      June 30,1971
Lalang
8/71        Fencing, Sg. Kedah         Ho Hwong Phen             11      June 1,1971
9/71        Tree Planting, Sg. Kedah   Tia Ehg Siew             17       June 1, 1971
Barrage



ANNEX 2
Table 3
Page 6
Contract            Title              Contractor         Amount       Date
No.                                                    M$          Awarded
10/71       Drainage Structures,     Wong Fook Wah          78      June 22, 1971
Pendang North
11/71
12/71       3 x 30 kW Diesel         Sharikat Timor         39      July 21, 1971
Alternators              Sdn. Bbd.
13/71
14J/71      Drainage Crossings       Lim and Lee Const.     51      Aug. 29, 1971
15/71       Stractures, Padang       Loow Mah Heng           54      July 24, 1971
Lalang System
16/71
17/71       Sand Drains, Sg. Kedah   Sharikat Idris         145     March 1, 1972
Barrage                  Berkongsi
18/71       Two Pumphouses, Pendang  Low Theon               83      Aug. 23, 1971
North
19/71       Repair of Bank Slip      Mohd. Tahir b.Ahmad     21      Aug. 10, 1971
20/71       Maintenance of Air       Astoria Sdn. Bhd.
Conditioners
21/71       Laterite Surfacing       Wong Fook Wah           47      July 8, 1971
22/71       Two Punphouses, Arau     Low Lin Aik             79      Sept. 13, 1971
System
23/71       Roads and Drainage       Hap Leong               49     Aug. 3, 1971
21V71       Drainage and Slope       Low Kah Heng           259     Sept. 28, 1971
Protection, Pedu Dam
.   0   a
28/71       Repairs to Bands         Lim and Lee Const.     186      Oct. 7, 1971
29/71       Concrete Bridge          Tan Kim Wha            12      Oct. 12, 1971
30/71       Laterite Surfacing,      Low Ah Tai             13      Aug. 30, 1971
Ayer Hitam Pilot Project



ANNEX 2
Table 3
Page 7
Contract             Title                  Contractor         Amount       Date
No.                                                         MT0TO        Awarded
34/71         Two Bridges, Alor Janggus    Lee Tatt Sing         19       Sept.1,1971
35/71         Minor Structures, Pendang    Wong Fook Wah         74      Nov. 8,1971
North
36/71         Silt Retention Works,        Sharikat Idris       106      Nov. 3,1971
Sg. Pedu                     Berkongsi
37/71         Bank Protection, Pedu Dam    Low Theon            287      Nov. 1,1971
38/71
39/71
40/71         Drains and Structures,       Ooi Ah Bee            23      Sept.22,1971
Ayer Hitam Pilot Project
4171          Laterite Surfacing, Pauh     Lee Toe Seng          24      Oc-t.14,1971
System
42/71
43/71            .                         Cheng Ah Nam          ..
44/71         Farm Road                    Hup Leong             ..      Oct.28,1971
45hl1
46/71         Drainage Improvement         Lim Kooi Cheng        19      Nov.30,1971
47/71         Farm Road                    Mohd. Tahir b.Ahmad   ..      Nov.1,1971
1-06/72       Drainage, Pauh System        Ooi Ah Bee            ..         ..
2-01/72       Band Improvements            Chang Hon Keat        40      Jan.30,1972
2-02/72       Canals and Structures,       Sharikat Lim         213      Mar. 25,1972
Iubok-Pinang Pilot Project   Guan Eng.Const.
2-03/72
2-04/72       Bund Improvements            Wong Fook Wau         81      Mar.15,1972
2-05/72
2-06/72       Laterite Road, Ayer Hitam    Cheng Ah Nam          47      May 3, 1972
Pilot Project



.NNE X_
'able 3
P:age 8
,ontract             Title                    Contractor         Amount       Date
No.                                                              I '000    Awarded
2-09/72      Drains and Structures,           Ooi Hock Lim          35      July 8,1972
Lubok Pinang Pilot Project
2-10/72
2-11/72      Drainage Structures              Cheng Ah Nam          17     Sept.28,1972
5-01/72      Bank Protection,  Muda Dam       Wong Fook Wah         40     June 30,1972
5-02/72
5-03/72      Bank Protection, Pedu Dam        Low Theon Con-       794     Aug.26,1972
Outlet                           tractor Snd.Bhd.
6-01/72
6-02/72      Pumphouses, Arau System          Low Theon Con-       122     May 15, 1972
tractor Sdn.Bhd
6-03/72      Tidal Gate, Sg. Sala             Lim Boon Leong       457     July 1, 1972
6-04/72
6-05/72      Tidal Gate, Sg. Jerlun           See Song             416     July 22,1972
6-06/72       Four Pumphouses, Wan Mat        Low Kah Heng         204     Aug. 10,1972
Saman
6-07/72      Groynes at Kuala Sg.Padang       Wong Fook Seng        15     July 30,1972
6-08/72                ..                     Loh Kah Heng          ..         ..
6-09/72      Sg. Gurun Diversion              Mudajaya Construc-   378     Nov. 15, 1972
tion Sdn. Bhd.
6-10/72      Tidal Gate, Kota Star            Ooi Hiock Lim         a.         so
6-11/72      Pumphouse, Pendang South         Sharikat Lim Guam     96     Dec0 10,1972
Ehg Const.
6-12/72
6-13/72      Pumphouses, Wan Mat Saman        Ewe Thuan Khay
6-15/72      Canals, Drains and Structures,   Ooi Hock Lim       136       Feb.26, 1973
Simpang Empat Pilot Project
7-01/73      Pumphouse, Pendang North         Soon Tat Con-        ..           ..
struction Co.



MALAYSIA                       -ANNEX 2
LoAN 4~34~-mh: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
gjLI
wI~~~~~~~~~~~~*1
t    
-c~~~~~~~~~~~3
-  /"  /Lb,4
I ~~~~  -  /~~~
/  -~~~~~-Z~~~~  44
~~~~~~~W



ANNEX 2
MALAYSIA                        Figure 2
LOAN 431-MAs M1UDA IRHIGATION PROJECT
~~~~~~~~~~~I~~~~~~~~~~
X ;s



MALAYSIA                    ANNIS 2
LOAN 4s34-PIAs MUDA IRRIGAAION PROJBCT   F.uo 
0]               ~   ~~          ~  ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ Xji  /'I



* ALAYSIA              AWExr 2
~~~~~~~~Figure 4
LOAN 434-MA: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
oir ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~   ~   ~  r
-             X                        -Ig
Cyr~~~~~~~ 
Orr ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
Der~~~~~~~II
Olf~~~~~~
oor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ove~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
O.e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
OM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
or~~~~~~~C
Oft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 3
Page 1
MALAYSIA
LOAN 434-MA: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agriculture
A. BACKGROUND
Area and Location
1.        The Muda Irrigation Project is situated at about 5' 30' N Latitude
and 1000 20' E Longitude on the Kedah - Perlis coastal plain in northwest
Peninsular Malaysia. It comprises a gross area of about 140,000 ha (about
90% of the coastal plain), of which about 97,000 ha is irrigated land (about
60% of the plain area). Since the early part of the 19th Century this plain
has progressively become the major rice production area of Malaysia. It
currently accounts for about half of Peninsular Malaysian production.
Climate
2.        The climate is tropical and influenced by the southwest monsoon in
the period May to October and the northeast monsoon in the period November
to March. The average monthly rainfall data presented below shows the domi-
nance of the southwest monsoon.
Average Monthly Rainfall (mm) - Mean of 15 stations 1960-72
Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May   Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec   Total
42   56   90    151  249  219  214  230  339  313  227   106  2,236
About 88% of the annual rainfall occurs in the period May to November, the
traditional rice growing season. There is insufficient rainfall in the De-
cember-April period to grow a rice crop without supplementary irrigation. Av-
erage mohthly rainfall data is misleading since much of the precipitation
occurs as high intensity storms of short duration. Dry periods of up to 10
and 30 days can occur in the wet and dry seasons respectively. Temporal and
areal variations in rainfall pose problems in managing an irrigation and
drainage system. The rainfall distribution pattern also creates problems in
harvesting and drying the dry-season rice crop if the crop is not taken off
before early August.
3.        There are only slight monthly variations in daylength and tempera-
ture regime and, given adequate water control, the area is well suited to
year-round rice production.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Soils, Topography and Drainage
4.        The plain runs north-south and parallel to the coast for about 65
km and varies in width from 8 to 20 km. It is relatively flat, with a slight
east-west gradient. The soils are derived from marine deposits mixed and
overlain inland with alluvial material. The latter originates from the river
systems which rise in the mountain ranges to the east and meander westward
across the plain to the Straits of Malacca.
5.        The soils are typical of many flood plains found in Southeast Asia.
The bulk of project soils comprise heavy poorly drained slightly acidic silty
clays, ideal for rice production. There is a small area of coarser textured
free draining soils near the foothills on the eastern fringes of the project
which is suitable for rice but which may have better potential for upland
crops. Heavy marine soils and mangrove swamps are found in a narrow band
along the coast. These are protected from sea water intrusion by coastal
bunds and, with drainage and good water management, the better portions of
this area are suitable for rice production. Organic and acid-sulphate soils
occur in natural depressions with no free drainage on about 15,000 ha or 15%
of the project area. These are problem soils requiring careful management
of water and nutrient inputs (para 29). Although these areas are used for
rice production, yields and production potential are lower than the rest of
the project area.
6.        The project area is dependent upon the natural river channels and
creeks supplemented by open cut feeder drains for surface drainage. This
system is supplemented by coastal bunds and tidal gates to prevent sea water
intrusion and to discharge drainage water at low tide. Due to the high in-
tensity main season rainfall, the flat terrain and the lack of an adequate
minor drainage system, drainage or lack of adequate water control is a wide-
spread problem.
Population. Farm Size and Land Tenure
7.        The gross population of the project area and associated towns approx-
imates 560,000, of whom 80% are rural. The population is predominantly Malay,
with less 'than 20% Chinese, Indian and Thai Malaysians. About 51,000 farming
families are engaged in rice cultivation. In 1965, the area was amongst the
poorest in West Malaysia in terms of per capita income.
8.        The average rice area operated per family is of the order of 1.6 ha.
Less than half the farmers are owner-operators, while over 40% are tenants
and the remainder are owner-tenants.
Agricultural Production
9.        Under pre-project conditions, farmers were able to grow only a
main-season rice crop each year. The time of planting and choice of variety
were largely determined by the onset of the monsoonal rains, land elevation
and the likely depth and duration of flooding in each area. Long-strawed
native varieties of 180 days duration were transplanted in the lower-lying



ANNEX 3
Page 3
areas in July and harvested in January. About 80% of land preparation was
done with buffalo plows, with most other operations being carried out by
hand. Only the more affluent farmers could afford to use tractors for
plowing. Even under single crop conditions there was a shortage of labor
for planting and harvesting and itinerant labor from Thailand and Kelantan
was employed at peak periods.
10.       Due to the relatively high risk of crop failure, lack of operating
capital, lack of production credit and the inadequacy of the extension serv-
ice, few farmers used chemical fertiliser or agrochemicals prior to the proj-
ect. Most relied on bat guano collected from local caves and buffalo manure
as fertiliser. Little emphasis was placed on weeding and crop losses due to
rats and insect attack were accepted as normal. Average paddy yields are
estimated to have been about 3.2 ton/ha for the better soils and about 2.4
ton/ha for the acid soils. Gross annual paddy production was of the order
of 274,000 tons per year. The production performance was remarkably good,
given the standards of management employed at that time, and gives some
indication of the inherent potential of the project area for rice produc-
tion. Nevertheless, average agricultural income per household was insuffi-
cient to support a family satisfactorily. Therefore, quite heavy reliance
was placed on off-farm employment to maintain an acceptable standard of
living.
Agricultural Support Services
11.       The Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives was responsi-
ble for research, extension, agricultural education and irrigation construc-
tion. The States of Kedah and Perlis were largely responsible for their own
programs through their State Development Officers, State Agricultural Officers,
and State Drainage and Irrigation Engineers. These programs were supplemented
by federal finance and staff. Due to a lack of facilities, poorly trained
staff, inadequate financing and only limited co-ordination of efforts, support
services were rather weak. Because of inadequate extension and credit systems,
agriculture was relatively backward and farmers used few modern innovations
or cash inputs, under pre-project conditions.
B. PROJECT PREPARATION
12.       During project preparation and appraisal, emphasis was placed
on the engineering aspects of the project. No detailed plan was made for
the development of agriculture, the most difficult part of the project to
implement.
13.       A semi-detailed soil survey was available at appraisal which listed
some 40 soil series. However, it was not until 1966 that classification of
the soils in terms of potential land use began and more detailed chemical
and physical measurements were made. The appreciable area of acid-sulphate
soils received little attention during project preparation and appraisal.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
14.       Updated aerial photos were not available until 1966-67, so that ini-
tial estimates of land use and potential irrigable area were by necessity
rather crude. It appears that the net irrigable area was overestimated by
about 8% but this did not seriously affect the viability of the project. A
reasonable assessment of the impact of climatic factors on the project was
made. However, the potential for bigher yields during the off season (due
to higher radiation levels and reduced insect and disease attack) was ne-
glected. Furthermore, attention was not drawn to the problems likely to
arise with the harvesting and drying of the off-season rice crop. In the
preliminary designs of the irrigation and drainage network, insufficient at-
tention was paid to main season drainage and water control and the timely
supply of water to the majority of landholders within an irrigation division.
Insufficient access roads were provided to get materials in and the produce
out.
15.       On the credit side, attention was drawn to the problems associated
with land tenure and the equitable distribution of project benefits. A rea-
sonable generalised picture of agricultural production and farming practices
was presented, but due to the inadequacy of statistical data collection, no
reliable data was available on the average use of cash inputs and credit.
Furthermore, little data was available on the potential yield or economic
response to the introduction of modern techniques or the losses incurred
through their non-use.
16.       The transport, processing, storage and marketing of rice were de-
scribed as satisfactory and adequate, although it was reported that some
farmers were receiving only 70% of the guaranteed minimum price at the farm
gate. It was assumed that private enterprise would respond with expanded
and improved processing facilities to cope with increased production. Sub-
sequent events demonstrated quite serious problems in the harvesting, trans-
porting and drying of the off-season crop.
17.       Although supporting agricultural services were inadequate to cope
with the envisaged intensification of production, no specific proposals were
included under the project to strengthen them or provide training - a major
omission. Assurances were obtained at appraisal that the government would
set up by 1970 a credit system to meet the needs of the project farmers; that
the number of extension staff would be increased from 36 to 80, to provide a
ratio of 1:1,000 farmers; and that priority would be given to improving the
availability of seeds, fertiliser, and machinery in the project area. The
Government's intention to subsidise fertiliser under the Five-Year Plan was
also noted but there was no comment on the desirability of a subsidy or the
required level'of subsidy to encourage fertilizer use.
18.       Agriculture was also neglected in appraising the proposed organ-
ization and management of the project. There were no proposals to extend the
responsibilitity and authority of the Kedah State Agricultural Officer, so as
to co-ordinate the activities of the various agricultural service agencies
and focus their efforts towards meeting the needs of the project. No measures
were recommended to establish a co-ordinated management body, even though the
agencies involved tended to operate independently.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
19.       In summary, the agricultural component of the project was poorly
prepared by present-day standards. The major problems were: the lack of
adequate base data, the lack of sufficiently detailed planning and the ne-
glect of organisation and management. However, it should be pointed out that
there has been a marked change in the philosophy and approach toward preparing
and appraising irrigation projects during the last decade. As the preparation
of the Muda Project was rather typical of its day, it should not be singled
out as an example of 'poor' project preparation.
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AT APPRAISAL
20.       The key objective of the project was to provide off-season irriga-
tion to facilitate double cropping with rice on about 106,000 ha. This in-
volved upgrading the irrigation system serving about 50,000 ha and providing
irrigation and drainage facilities for an additional 56,000 ha (Annex 2).
The main emphasis was to be placed on off-season irrigation with supplemental
irrigation for the main season crop, if sufficient water were available and
if irrigation were required.
21.       The appraisal production targets are summarised below:
Cropping
Cropped Area     Average Yield   Paddy Production   Intensity
Year                   (ha)            (ton/ha)         ('000 tons)        (%)
1965                 105,800            2.32             245.5            100
1970                 137,540            2.51              345.2           130
1975                 211,600            2.63              556.5           200
1980                 211,600            2.76             584.0            200
1990                 211,600            3.00              634.8           200
2005                 211,600            3.45              730.0           200
Review of data now available indicate that yields estimated for 1965 were
at least 20% lower than the actual values and that the available area was
overestimated by about 8%. Potential increases in yield and total paddy
production were also underestimated. However, bearing in mind the limitations
of the data available in 1965, the targets were realistic and the projections
remarkably good.
22.       Annual net farm benefits accruing from the increases in production
were estimated to reach M $ 35 million in 1970, rising to M $ 90 million at
full development. It was estimted that net farm incomes would rise by M$400-
500 per year, representing a doubling of income for the average owner-operator.
The appraisal report warned that benefits to indebted tenants would be minimal
if no measures were taken to improve land tenure and rental arrangements. It
was projected that land values would more than double after the completion of
the project.   Accordingly, it was proposed that the "quit rent" (land tax)
paid by land owners would be raised to provide funds for a partial amortisation
of capital costs (Annex 4).



ANNEX 3
Page 6
D. DEVELOPMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND SUPPORTING SERVICES
Organisation and Management Aspects
23.       The production targets set for the project at appraisal were real-
istic and technically feasible, but insufficient thought was given to how the
agricultural component of the project would be implemented. The Department
of Agriculture (DOA) was not closely associated with project preparation and
hence no firm plans had been formulated. No provision was made under the
project to provide the additional DOA finance, staff and facilities required.
In the absence of good base data, experienced staff and formalized project
coordination, effective planning and follow up action were rather difficult.
Initially, rather heavy reliance was placed on the relatively meagre re-
sources of the State Agricultural Officer.
24.       Little agricultural progress was made during the first year of
project implementation, as noted in the 1966 Supervision Mission report.
The inadequacy of planning and the initial loss of time subsequently placed
considerable strain on project personnel and project-related units of the
Ministry of Agriculture as they tried to reach a reasonable state of pre-
paredness for the first off-season crop, scheduled for 1970. These pressures
caused much of the early planning to be carried out on a piecemeal basis.
The problem was compounded by difficulties in recruiting staff and the often
hurried and rather inadequate training provided them.
25.       Project area farmers had almost no previous experience with double
cropping. The majority were oriented towards "subsistence farming" with
little knowledge of modern production techniques or experience with institu-
tional credit. Furthermore, in some areas there was resistance to change,
based on traditional attitudes and superstition. The majority of project
personnel had no experience in planning and implementing an agricultural
development program of this size.
26.       The period 1966-70 was largely devoted to data collection, studying
problems at the field level, resolving administrative problems, recruiting
and training staff, and attempting to formulate workable programs for imple-
mentation prior to the first stage of double cropping in 1970. As a first
step, 300 ha of pilot areas (later expanded to 800 ha), based on pump irriga-
tion, were established. Although the program was restricted by drought in
the early years, it provided an opportunity to check new rice varieties, water
management requirements and modern techniques at the field level. Above all,
it highlighted the practical and social problems likely to arise when new
methods were introduced to a farming community. Concurrently, soil survey
work was extended, in an attempt to classify rice lands more accurately.
Work was initiated to tackle the problems of .-id-sulphate soils and refine
fertiliser recommendations.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
27.       With Bank technical assistance, credit requirements were reviewed
and a pilot credit scheme initiated in 1969 (para 70). Farmers' Associations
were established as focal points for the extension of credit and technical
information, the supply of inputs, marketing of paddy, and the motivation
and organisation of the farmers (para 64). The problems of harvesting,
transporting and drying the off-season rice crop were recognized. With the
assistance of the Ford Foundation, Louisiana State University and later the
Overseas Technical Cooperative Agency of Japan, existing facilities were
reviewed and recommendations formulated for the establishment of drying
facilities. With the relatively short period between rice crops and an in-
creasing labor shortage at critical periods, an investigational program on
mechanising cultivation, transplanting and harvest was initiated and a train-
ing center established for farmers. Measures were taken to improve seed
production and legislation was enacted to control rents and land tenure. By
1970, project personnel had done a remarkably good job in preparing for the
first off-season crop. Further details are given in Annex 4.
Soils
28.       The extended soil survey in 1966 led to the following general
classification of soils in the surveyed area:
Class I    Class II     Class III    Class IV    Class V
41%       21%           13%         21%          4%
Classes I to III, or 75% of the area, are ideally suited to rice but their
high clay and silt content and their poor drainage characteristics preclude
any alternative crops. Most of these soils have a relatively low nitrogen
and phosphate status and tend to be acidic. Fertilizer response studies have
shown a marked yield response to applied nitrogen, with response to phosphate
on only 14% of the project area. No economic responses to potash have been
recorded. No satisfactory relationships between soil type or soil class and
fertiliser response have so far been achieved. Responses and yields on
Classes I to III appear rather similar and research workers in the project
area question the validity of basing land rents and water charges on the
present soils classification. A more detailed soil survey on a scale of
1:6,000 is proposed, to provide a sounder basis for determining land taxes and
refining fertiliser recommendations.
29.       Class V areas are those soils with high salinity, subject to sea
water ingression and poor drainage. They are of little consequence in the
project area. The Class IV group refer to the extremely acid and sulphurous
soils found in low-lying areas in the center of the northern portion of the
project area and to a limited extent in the south. First estimates put the
area at about 24,000 ha, but, with more detailed work, this has been reduced
to about 15,000 ha. Much of this area has an acid-sulphate horizon in the
profile, fairly close to the surface. If this horizon is allowed to become
dry and aerated, the sulphates oxidise, creating extremely acidic conditions
and toxic levels of certain ions, which can kill transplanted rice seedlings.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
If the soils can be flushed to remove the sulphuric acid and related acid
compounds, and reducing conditions are created by inundation for about two
months, with a resultant increase in pH to 4.0 or better, rice culture be-
comes possible. Prior to project development, the soils dried out in the
off season and became very acid. Farmers cultivated and flushed their
fields two or three times over a period of two months prior to transplanting
the crop, using monsoon rainfall. However, yields were only 50-80% of those
for normal soils (1.6 to 2.9 ton/ha), varying with the soil situation and the
fertilizer input.
30.       Following project implementation, much of this area became more or
less permanently waterlogged, since it is mostly low-lying. Consequently,
oxidation and acidity build-up problems have tended to decrease. On the
debit side, the lower-lying areas now have less water control in the main
season and the depth of flooding has increased to 0.6-1.0 m. Farmers are
forced to concentrate on the longer-strawed rice varieties and face problems
in preparing land and obtaining full benefits from cash inputs. Water
control is thus a key factor in determining the productivity of these soils.
31.       The problem of acid-sulphate soils has been progressively studied
by local agencies, two Dutch research workers and specialists from
Rothamstead, England. Detailed studies are now under way in Malacca, with
the assistance of Dr. Polson, and a report is expected soon. Dramatic yield
responses have been obtained to the application of 2.5 ton/ha of lime plus
fertiliser in some locations but results are variable and the subject of
considerable controversy between research workers. Response will vary with
the depth and intensity of the acid-sulphate layer, the immediate pre-
history of the site with regard to oxidation or reducing conditions, the
depth and type of cultivation, the time of planting after initial inundation
and water control during the life of the crop. To the mission's knowledge,
no work to study all these factors concurrently under field conditions has
been carried out in the project area and curent programs are making little
progress. Until a well planned field investigational program is implemented,
the ultimate potential of the area will not be realized and extension workers
and farmers will be largely operating in the dark.
Rice Varieties
32.       Prior to project implementation, farmers were growing some 70 indica
rice varieties, largely based on Malay and Thai native stock. The large
number was due to the more progressive farmers selecting, naming and releas-
ing what they considered to be superior types. Most were tall, leafy vari-
eties prone to lodging under high fertility conditions and maturing in 160
to 180 days. Under good management, yields of up to 3.5 ton/ha were achieved
by the better farmers in favorable seasons.
33.       In 1964, the variety "Malinjah", which is Pebifoon (Taiwan) x
Siam 29 (a locally selected Thai variety), was released. Its main advantages
were shorter maturation period (135-140 days) and improved grain quality.
Its yield potential was of the order of 3.5 ton/ha. However, it was a tall



ANNEX 3
Page 9
native type prone to lodging and susceptible to "blast" (Pyricularia oryzae)
and was not widely accepted by the farmers. A japonica-indica cross, Taichung
65 x Mayang Ebos 80 (a local variety), named "Mahsuri", was released in 1965.
This was similar to "Malinjah" in terms of yield potential and growth charac-
teristics but again proved to be highly susceptible to blast and heavy "neck
rot" losses were recorded the year after release. It was not widely accepted
and a 1967 survey indicated only a 12% use by the project area farmers. A
backcrossing program to improve blast resistance was initiated and "Improved
Mahsuri" was released in 1969. In the meantime, there was concern that no
satisfactory short duration high-yielding variety was available for the proj-
ect area. The IRRI variety IR8 was released under the local name "Ria" in
1966 and tested under farm conditions. Experimental testing had indicated a
yield potential of 5-6 ton/ha, with 80 kg of applied N, and yields impressed
the farmers, but it soon fell out of favor. The main problems were low quali-
ty, low demand and hence low price, the high standard of management required
and the short stature. Harvest became a back-breaking operation and labor
demanded higher wages.
34.       In 1968, the variety "Bahagia" was released.   This was a Malaysian
selection of the F4 lines of the Peta x Tangkai Rota cross subsequently re-
leased by IRRI as IR5. This was a medium height variety maturing in 13'i-140
days, with a yield potential of 4.5 to 5.0 ton/ha at 80 kg N/ha and moderate
blast and leaf hopper resistance. Grain quality was acceptable and it was
decided to promote Bahagia and Improved Mahsuri as the main improved varieties
for the project. Subsequently, segregation, differential flowering, a high
percentage of empty grains and the inability of small mills to mill Bahagia
satisfactorily for domestic consumption led to a decline in its popularity.
35.       "Murni," A Bahagia x Ria cross with a slightly higher yield po-
tential, a better grain quality and a shorter growing period than Bahag:La,
was released in 1972. This has not proved widely popular due to its reLa-
tively short straw length. The variety C4-63 bred at the University of the
Philippines was released in Kedah State under the local name "Jaya" in 1973.
Its short maturity (120 days), medium height, good quality and good yield
potential proved very popular with the farmers but it has been found suscepti-
ble to neck rot. A program is now under way to produce a blast resistant
line to replace existing seed. The most recent varietal releases were made
in July 1974. Sri Malaysia 1, a sister line of Bahagia with moderate resist-
ance to blast, bacterial leaf blight and leaf hopper has a higher yield
potential (5.5 ton/ha) but rather poor grain quality. Sri Malaysia 2 is a
cross between IR8 and Bankhara 203, an Indian variety. It also has a high
yield potential and blast resistance and matures in 130 days. Both are
medium height varieties.
36.       The build up and significance of the use of improved varieties un-
der the project are indicated by data collected for the FAO/IBRD Muda River
Study:



ANNEX 3
Page 10
Use of Improved Varieties (% of farmers)
1969    1970    1971     1972    1973
Main Season         43        77      30      90      85
Off Season          -         90      91      95      92
This is largely supported by the following data provided by the Agriculture
Division of MADA:
Use (% of farmers)
Off Season             Main Season
Varieties                    1973                   1973-74
Jaya                          44                      31
M4ahsuri                      28                      25
Bahagia                       14                        3
Other high-yielding            7                       15
Local                          7                       26
The latter data highlights the current popularity of Jaya and Improved Mahsuri
and the higher percentage use of long-strawed local varieties in the main
season. The preference for these varieties is the result of: (i) water
control problems; (ii) a preference for the palatability of the traditional
varieties; and (iii) the farmer's tendency to reserve their domestic rice
requirements almost exclusively from the main season crop. Millers pay a
slight premium for Jaya but prefer to handle Mahsuri, as its lower price makes
it easier to market. Bahagia is not favored, due to its poor milling qualities.
The MADA extension service does not recommend specific varieties and leaves
the choice to farmers.
37.       The introduction of improved varieties played a significant role in
the implementation of double cropping and provided a reasonably sound base
for increased production. It is noteworthy that only one out of four locally
bred varieties, Mahsuri, has stood the test of time and that yield increases
have not been spectacular. This highlights the importance of the breeder
understanding the environment and community he is breeding for, and the im-
portance of extension, credit, input supplies and water management in real-
ising the potential of high-yielding varieties.
38.       Rice breeding and research is being continued at Bumbong Lima under
MARDI (para 84) with emphasis being placed on disease and pest resistance,
early maturation and nitrogen response. Efforts are also being made to select
varieties tolerant to acid-sulphate soils, salinity, submergence and drought.
This program should meet the project's future requirements, provided the
area's problems and needs are recognised.



ANNEX 3
Page 11
Cropping Pattern
39.       Before the project was implemented, farmers were planting one crop
of 160-180 day duration per year, during the main season. Planting was car-
ried out in July and August, when monsoon rains were well established, and
harvesting was completed in January and February. With the introduction of
double cropping, it was intended to make water available for the off-season
crop in February and complete harvesting in July and early August. The main-
season crop was to be grown on rainfall, supplemented where necessary by
irrigation in the August-January period. This has proved extremely difficult
to implement.  With supply canals spaced about 2 km apart, without on-farm
development or farmers' organisations to look after farm-to-farm water distri-
bution, it takes up to 40 days for water to reach the ends of the blocks.
In some cases, it is reported that water is also late arriving in the supply
canal.  Given also the shortage of labor for transplanting and harvesting, the
difficulty of access for tractors and the small tenant farmers' difficulty in
raising cash for inputs, planting is staggered and crops can be seen at all
stages of development. The off-season crop may be planted any time in the
period early-March to May and the main-season crop in the period September to
November. Late planting of the off-season crop creates harvesting, transport
and drying problems at the farm level. The present spread of cropping is also
favorable to the build-up and carry-over of pests and diseases. On the credit
side, it undoubtedly spreads the demand for labor and mechanical facilities.
Cultural Techniques
40.       Traditionally most of the rice land was plowed with buffaloes.    With
the increasing demand for labor, the gradual modernisation of techniques, and
diseases which seriously reduced the buffalo populations in 1965-66, there
has been a strong swing to tractor plowing. Most farmers now use 60-70 hp
4-wheeled tractors or 2-wheeled 8-10 hp tractors equtped with rotavators for
the first cultivation. Many still use buffalo for final land preparation.
41.       There has been little change in the planting technique.    Wet seed
beds are prepared and 25-40 day old seedlings transplanted at anywhere from
5-15 seedlings per planting point in random fashion. A forked stick or
"kukukambing" is used for transplanting and it has been suggested that this
could result in the seedling being planted too deep. The use of old seedlings
is a result of deep water or the lack of labor for timely planting. Limited
data indicate that average panicle numbers are a little over 200/m2. This
is low and indicates an urgent need to investigate the effect of planting
technique, seedling density, water depth and nitrogen application on
panicle density and yield.
42.       About 50-60% of farmers handweed their rice crops and all now use
fertiliser. Few use agrochemicals to any extent except where there is obvi-
ous crop damage. BHC, Thiodan and Sevin are the most commonly used for stem
borer and hopper control. Zinc phosphide is used for baiting rats and some
farmers spot spray with 2, 4-D to control weeds. Harvesting, threshing and
winnowing are still largely carried out by hand, with the harvested crop being



ANNEX 3
Page 12
transported to the road and homestead by buffalo sled, bicycle or tractor.
The grain is sun dried on the farm. There are few drying floors and the
majority spread the grain out on mats.
Fertilisers
43.       The original blanket field fertiliser recommendation was 54 kg N,
27 kg P205 and 18 kg K20 per ha, with (27:27:18) applied as NPK basal mix
and 27 kg N top dressed as urea. A small dressing of ammophos NP fertili-
ser was recommended for the seed bed. The analysis of the most common
basal mix used was 16% N, 16% P205 and 10% K20. Urea, 45% N, was the main
source of nitrogen. In fertiliser trials with variety Bahagia, in the
period 1968-1971, carried out by Samy, Leong and Geissenheiner, no response
to phosphate or potash was recorded. Response to nitrogen at an applica-
tion of 70 kg N per application was within the range 7-10 kg of grain per
kg applied N for the off-season, and 8-14 kg of grain per kg N for the main
season. The lower response in the off-season is in line with results ob-
tained in the Philippines and Thailand. These results indicate that more
"native" nitrogen is available during the off-season on zero application
areas. Hence the need for and the response to applied nitrogen is smaller.
44.        Subsequent field trial work indicated that while all the project
area required nitrogen, only about 14% of the area required phosphate, at
the rate of about 22 kg P205 per ha per crop, and none required potash. In
spite of these results, the agricultural service was very slow in changing
its recommendations and only quite recently formulated new interim recom-
mendations. Based on soil type, these include 55-70 kg N and 0, 18 or 27 kg
P205 per ha for the off-season crop. While there is still a need to refine
the soil-type/fertiliser response relationships, the new recommendations are
clearly much closer to actual requirements.
45.       Accurate data on fertiliser use within the project area is not
available but data from the FAO/IBRD Mada River study yield the following
table:



ANNEX 3
Page 13
Estimated Total Nitrogen Use in the Muda Region
% Area
Year      Urea     Basal    Total    Planted    Total     Using
N        N        N        Area        N        N
(ton)   (ton)    (ton)     (ha '000)  (kg/ha)
1965       698      416     1,114     126.3      8.8 /a    63   )
1966     1,350    1,024     2,374     127.5     18.6       57   )
1967     1,912     1,168    3,080     128.3     24.0       62   )
1968     2,610     1,272    3,882     131.2     29.6       67   ) Muda Region
1969     3,910     1,248    5,158     128.0     40.3       76   )
1970     4,419      859     5,278     127.9     41.3       84   )
1971     5,310      915     6,225     143.0     43.5       85   )
1972     6,777      903     7,680     166.0     46.2       88   ) Muda Project
1973     7,722      678     8,400     184.2     45.6       92   )   Area
/a   Total N divided by planted area.
The above table shows a marked increase in nitrogen usage as improved vari-
eties were introduced.   The use of urea increased by six times in the period
1966-73, whereas the use of basal mix declined by 35%, indicating the
farmers' awareness of the value of nitrogen.
46.       At current prices, the cost of nitrogen is as follows:
Nitrogen           Subsidised         Unsubsidised       Basal Mix
Cost               Urea                 Urea           16:16:10
M$/lb                0.51                0.91               1.66
M$/kg                1.14                2.00               3.65
The cost of nitrogen as basal mix is thus about three times the cost of
nitrogen in subsidised urea. Assuming a farmgate price of M$0.45/kg of
paddy, the farmer would need responses of 7.6, 13.5 or 75 kg of paddy
per kg of applied N as subsidised urea, unsubsidised urea or basal mix, to
achieve a marginal return of 3:1. Available data indicates a field response
of 10-12:1 under reasonable management conditions.   The use of urea is obvi-
ously attractive, but in the absence of substantial responses to phosphate
and potash, the use of basal mix probably never has given an economic return
to the farmers. It is thus highly probable that the promotion of basal mix
in the early days slowed down the adoption of fertiliser use and reduced
potential cash benefits to project farmers. With experience gained by the
farmers, the present urea subsidy scheme and the new recommendations, the
problem should soon be resolved. The only further requirement is for
standardisation on an NP basal mixture suitable for nursery application
and field use in areas where phosphate is a limiting factor.



ANNEX 3
Page 14
47.       Since 1971, lime has been recommended at the rate of 2.5 ton/ha
for acid-sulphate soils, reduced to 0.6 ton/ha for subsequent crops, to avoid
creating a nutrient imbalance. A subsidy scheme was initiated in 1972 and
farmers can obtain lime from the Farmers' Associations at M $ 10/ton, which
is about 15% of the landed cost. The sub-district officer must ratify each
application for subsidised lime and the Farmers' Association provides free
transport to the farm. It is estimated that about 2,000 ha, or about 10-12%
of the acid-sulphate area, have received lime. In two areas visited, only
about 20% of farmers using lime had used it twice. While spectacular results
were reported on some farms, results are highly variable for the reasons dis-
cussed in para 31. It is a matter of urgency to provide the extension serv-
ice and the farmers with simple criteria for determining the conditions under
which lime application will give an economic response.
Pests and Diseases
48.       Rice "blast" (Pyricularia oryzae) is the most serious disease, and
appreciable crop losses can occur, especially with neck rot on Jaya or C4-63.
Research data indicates that local races are different from those encountered
in the Philippines and it is claimed that lines regarded as resistant by IRRI
succumb to the local races in some instances. An active screening evaluation
and breeding program is under way and it is hoped to release a blast-resis-
tant line of Jaya shortly. Bacterial leaf blight (Xanthomonas oryzae), sheath
blight (Corticium sp) and yellow-orange virus, locally called Penyakit Merah,
are the only other diseases of economic importance but are not regarded as
serious. The rice breeding program is directed towards building greater
resistance to these diseases into improved varieties.
49.       The major insect pests are the dark-headed rice borer (Chilo
polychrysa) and the yellow rice borer (Tryporyza incertulas). Green leaf
hopper (Nephotettix sp), brown plant hopper (Nilaparvata lugens) and the
rice bug (Leptocorisa sp) also cause damage but are not regarded as serious
pests. No detailed data are available on yield losses due to these pests and
local staff report serious damage as being the exception. Research work at
Bumbong Lima indicates a useful range of predators and parasites which may be
keeping the major pests in check in the absence of wide-scale use of broad-
spectrum insecticides. On the other hand, farmer experience in the Kubang
Sepat pilot area indicates that stemborer populations and damage have in-
creased since the introduction of double cropping. There is an urgent need
to assess yield losses and changes in insect population before advocating
any increase in agrochemical use. In parts of North Java with similar
environmental conditions, insect attack is very serious despite a
background of widespread insecticide usage. A comparative study of
North Malaysia and North Java could yield information valuable to both
areas, in terms of developing rational economic insect control measures.
50.       Rattus rattus argentiventer is the common ricefield rat in Malaysia
and frequently causes serious damage to rice crops in the project area. The
most common control measures are the gassing of burrows, the use of zinc phos-
phide mixed with boiled rice as a bait on the bunds, and rat hunts organised
amongst the villagers. However, there is no regular and systematic approach



ANNEX 3
Page 15
to rat control and, in most areas, concerted action is left until the rats
reach high populations.
51.       Few data are available on the present use of agrochemicals within
the project area. The following figures show the utilization rate for
insecticide in the input package recommended for the credit scheme:
Utilization Rate (%)
Season               Nursery Insecticide       Field Insecticide
1st 1970                       49                     49
2nd 1970                       26                     26
1st 1971                       18                     35
These data indicate that farmers did not believe the recommended investment
in agrochemicals gave worthwhile returns. Data collected in the Muda River
Study on gross sales of agrochemicals in the area also indicates a rela-
tively slow growth in usage:
Year            1965  1966  1967  1968  1969  1970   1971  1972
Agrochemicals
(tons)        80    120    200   150   240   330   380   405
Household expenditure data from the same survey indicates that the average
double cropping household spends about M$ 7 per year on agrochemicals. At
current prices, this is sufficient to buy about one-third the amount of BHC
granules required to provide effective control against stem borer. Tthis
indicates that farmers use very little insecticide and probably reserve its
use for periods of serious damage. As pointed out in para 49, careful in-
vestigations should be made before attempts are made to promote more intensive
pest control measures.
Water Supply and Control
52.       In the main' season, the lack of an effective drainage system is
the key constraint. Since off-season irrigation was introduced, farmers
in the lower-lying areas report that flood waters are now deeper and that
water control and access to the land is more difficult, especially for
land preparation for the main-season crop. The extent of this problem
is not known and it is possible that it is limited to 20-30% of the
project area. Nevertheless, farmers in these areas are often forced to
plant old seedlings and resort to native varieties. Further, they are
discouraged from using cash inputs, and deep water undoubtedly reduces
tillering.
53.       In the off-season, a lack of on-farm development leads to delays
in water delivery and excesses or shortages, depending on the location of
the plot. No measurements of the effect of these factors on production has



ANNEX 3
Page 16
been made but the best local estimates suggest a yield variation of 20-30%
within an irrigation block and the possibility of increasing average pro-
duction by 30% or about 1 ton/ha (0.5 ton/ac) with proper terminal facili-
ties and access roads. To this could be added the value of timely planting,
reduced transport and drying costs, and perhaps a higher value of the paddy
sold, due to a reduction in losses and improved quality. A detailed study
is currently being made of on-farm development with a view to establishing
a number of pilot projects to ascertain potential costs and benefits (An-
nex 6). An accurate assessment of variation in production and the causal
factors should form an integral part of this program.
Mechanisation
54.       As double cropping expanded, so the demand for labor rose.    Peak
demand periods became more pronounced as farmers competed for available
labor supply to harvest one crop and transplant the next. The problem was
aggravated by changes in the Immigration Act in 1970, which prohibited
seasonal labor from Thailand moving in to assist with the harvest. There
has also been a decline in the influx of itinerant labor from Kelantan on
the east coast due to the construction of the Kemubu Project. Data from the
Muda River Study indicate that the deficit has been largely met by increased
on-farm employment of rural workers, with a corresponding decrease in off-
farm work which is now presumably handled by previously unemployed labor
(Annex 5). Nevertheless, labor appears to be scarce in many parts of the
project area and wage rates have escalated by 50-60% during the past year.
As the overall cropping intensity reaches its maximum, so too will the demand
for labor.
55.       This problem was foreseen by the project management in 1967
and a program was initiated to study the possibilities of mechanising culti-
vation, transplanting, harvesting and farm ditch construction, with technical
assistance and equipment from several agencies. For cultivation, comparisons
were made between the 60-70 hp 4-wheeled tractor and a range of 5-10 hp 2-
wheeled tractors equipped with rotary hoes. Under good operating conditions
and for large-scale work, the 4-wheeled tractor proved to be more economic
and its use was promoted. There are, however, several problems. Deeper
cultivation has progressively broken the plow pan in some areas, leading to
bogging problems, even with the use of wheel strakes and cage wheels. In
other areas, soils did not have sufficient bearing capacity from the start.
Trials were initiated with half tracks which, while largely overcoming the
bogging problem, are very costly and may have only a limited life. A serious
practical problem is access for contractors. Farmers are understandably re-
luctant to allow heavy tractors through their fields to reach a neighbor, due
to damage done to bunds and levels. Thus there is no guarantee that a farmer
away from the road can get a contractor in when required.
56.       Two-wheeled tractors have proved to be very popular.   The advantages
are: possibility of farmer ownership and hence timely cultivation; less
downtime due to bogging; less damage to bunds and field levels; and, reduced
access problems. Statistics on the sales of tractors in the Muda area amply
demonstrate the popularity of 2-wheeled tractors:



ANNEX 3
Page 17
1967   1968   1969    1970   1971   1972   Total
Sales of:
4-wheeled tractors        22     38     65    105      60     62     352
2-wheeled tractors       105    330    591    580    558     662   2,826
A leading Kubota dealer in Alor Setar reported the sale of 1,200 2-wheeled
tractor units in the period 1972-74. This dealer reported operating three
mobile service units and giving half-day operator-training courses for new
clients. The main constraints to his operation were slow delivery of new
tractors and the shortage and high cost of spare parts, on which there is
currently a 30% import duty. He reported good repayment records by farmer
clients but a less satisfactory performance from contractors. Financing
through Finance Corporations and commercial banks was reported as being
more satisfactory than dealing through Bank Pertanian, due to slow settlement
by the latter.
57.       Progress in mechanising planting has been less satisfactory.
With Japanese assistance, an operational transplanter has been developed
which can be mounted on 4-wheeled or 2-wheeled tractors, and planting rates
of up to 0.2 ha/hr have been reported. However, farmer acceptance and the
range of conditions under which the machines will operate satisfactorily
have yet to be assessed.
58.       The first attempt to mechanise harvesting came in 1968 with the
introduction of two self-propelled Claymore combine harvesters with an
additional six being added by 1970. The machines, which were provided under
Belgian bilateral assistance, performed reasonably well and were contracted
out at M $ 100/ha. Their output was rated at about 1 ha/hr. However,
problems were encountered with access, traction and the supply of spare parts.
Only four units are currently in use, for training and harvesting purposes,
and make no significant contribution to farm practices.
59.       In 1973, a five-year contract was signed with the Japanese Tropical
Agricultural Research Center, to develop jointly a small 4-row harvester.
The prototype is called "Sabita," and is based on a Suzuki design. Empha-
sis is being placed on high clearance, good traction and maneuverability,
a high standard of grain separation and durability of the wearing parts.
The prototype has a peg tooth drum, steel reinforced rubber tracks, conven-
tional grain separation equipment, and is powered by a 20 hp diesel motor.
Preliminary field tests have been encouraging. Estimated output is 0.2 ha/
hr and the machine produces a clean sample. However, the "tailing" outlet
blocks if conditions are too wet, the high silica content of the local paddy
causes excessive wear on the threshing drum and conveyors, and grain losses
become excessive if the crop is too ripe. Modifications are now under study.
Small portable field threshers are not favored by MADA. A comparative test
carried out at the Bumbong Lima Experiment Station on the IRRI table top
thresher and the traditional wooden hand threshing drum showed traditional
hand methods were more efficient and cheaper. However, the basis of com-
parison is questionable.



ANNEX 3
Page 18
60.       Both the Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute
(MARDI) and MADA have independent research and development programs but there
are differences in approach, personality conflicts and hence little joint
planning and cooperation. It is clear that the ease of access to farmers'
fields and the level of water control that can be achieved in the future
will be key determinants of the types of mechanisation that are practicable
and finally applied. For example, intensive development, land levelling and
good water control could ultimately make direct seeding practicable. Mlech-
anisation research must therefore be closely related to the development of
terminal facilities.
61.       Under present conditions, it is clear that there is a place for both
4-wheeled and 2-wheeled tractors for cultivation. The rural community will
decide the conditions under which each is appropriate. The present situation
appears reasonable and all that MADA needs to do is to ensure that both types
of equipment are readily available under appropriate credit conditions, to
monitor standards of equipment and work, and to continue to look for improve-
ments that will increase productivity and reduce costs. The work on planters
and harvesters is promising and worthwhile. Unless large investments in ac-
cess roads and terminal irrigation and drainage facilities are envisaged,
more emphasis should be placed on small machines that can be owned and opera-
ted by the farmers for operations such as weeding, threshing, winnowing and
crop drying. A serious omission from present mechanisation research programs
is an in-depth study of the nature of the apparent labor shortage.
E. INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS OF DEVELOPMENT
62.       In the early phases of project implementation, the Ministry of
Agriculture and Cooperatives was responsible for research, extension support,
agricultural education and irrigation construction. The Department of Co-
operatives, in conjunction with Banking Unions and the Bank Kerjasama, was
responsible for rural credit societies and rice milling cooperatives, prior
to the formation of the Farmers' Organization Authority.
63.       The project operated under this system until 1970, when MADA was
formed. The State Agricultural Officer was appointed General Manager, and
all project-related activities in the area became subject to his control.
These included extension, credit, supply of inputs, operation and maintenance
of the irrigation system and farmers' organisations. A further change oc-
curred in 1971, with the establishment of MARDI, which assumed responsibility
for research. This severed the formal adminiLtrative link between research
and extension. Attempts to close the gap at the State level have been made
by the establishment of a State Intregrated Action Committee, wiich comprises
representatives from each state agency, representatives from MADA and MARDI,
and representatives from Federal agencies as required. Tnis group meets
monthly at Alor Setar. Another change was the formation of a Farmers' Orga-
nisation Authority (FOA) to supervise all farmers' groups. This Authority
was recently transferred to the Minister of Agriculture's control, and the



ANNEX 3
Page 19
Ministry became the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Currently,
the General Manager of MADA is also State Agricultural Officer and State
Director of the FOA.
Farmer's Associations
64.       Farmers' Associations (FA's) were established under an Act passed
in 1967, as a means of improving the socio-economic status of rural communi-
ties. Malaysian FA's are modelled on the Taiwan system, with modifications
to suit local conditions. The aim is to establish Farmers' Development
Centers as focal points for all social, technical and economic activities
at the village level, with a view to motivating farmers to participate and
eventually run their own organisation. No farmer is more than 5 to 8 km
from a Center.
65.       To implement the FA program in Muda, the project area was d.ivided
into 27 FA units each of about 4000 ha, based on irrigated area and business
activity. Each FA is provided with about 0.2 ha of land, an office block
and meeting room, a grain and fertiliser store and workshop. Each FA is
subdivided into several small agricultural units (SAU's), of about 50 ha,
each of which has representatives on the FA Board of Directors. The Board
comprises seven to nine elected and two nominated members and determines
policy.
66.       To strengthen FA management, a Manager (Agricultural Assistant
or AA) and four or five Junior Agricultural Assistants (JAA's) are recruited
from the DOA to operate and manage the five divisions of the FA, that is,
administration, accounting, credit, marketing and extension. Ultimately, it
is hoped to transfer these roles to the farmers, as leadership and expertise
develop. Members pay a M $ 1 admission fee and a M $ 1 per year subscription.
They are required to purchase a minimum of one M $ 5 share, for which they
receive a 10% dividend. FA funds are generated in a number of ways. The FA's
act as agents for the Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM) credit scheme and receive
3% on all loans processed. The well established units also advance credit
to members for the purchase of small tractors, over a two-year term, at 7.5%
p.a., and for fertiliser and hired labor at 1% per month, when members'
applications are too late for normal BPM credit. They act as agents for the
supply of inputs, and they market paddy for members. Some FA's operate a
truck and tractors to transport goods and cultivate land at reduced rates.
One or two units have established small business enterprises, for example,
the manufacture of school uniforms and furniture, to create employment and
boost funds. The FA is used as a center for extension activities, the
distribution of improved seed and for demonstration and research evaluation
plots.
67.       The rate of establishment and general statistics on FA's in the
Muda area are presented in Table 3. By 1973, 24 out of a potential 27 FA's
had been established, and an additional two Associations were established
in 1974. Membership in the established FA's usually represents 25-30% of



ANNEX 3
Page 20
eligible farmers. In 1973, about 20% of the project area farmers were mem-
bers. The net worth of FA's is now in excess of M $ 0.5 million. They are
handling about 20-30% of input sales but this is likely to expand dramatically,
as the government urea subsidy scheme is being channelled exclusively through
the FA's.
68.       While the FA concept is sound, only a few have so far become viable
units. Most are still heavily subsidised by the government. They have large-
ly attracted the more progressive farmers and many small farmers in need of
assistance are still outside the schemes. Problems which have hampered de-
velopment and are still holding up progress include: the lack of sufficient
qualified and competent staff to fill the administrative posts; the con-
servative attitude taken towards the expansion of credit; the inability of
FA's to compete with the private sector in terms of day to day personal con-
tact and the range and flexibility of the services offered, notably consump-
tion credit (the latter is extremely important to the less affluent members
of the community). Lack of operating capital for the purchase of inputs and
paddy is also a serious constraint on the expansion of FA business activity.
Credit
69.       Traditionally, merchants, millers, friends and relatives were the
major source of credit, with the bulk of transactions being effected in kind.
Rates of interest varied with the circumstances but were frequently within
the range 30-80%. Prior to the project, the only institutional credit avail-
able was cooperative credit, from rural credit societies and multipurpose
cooperatives at the base, Banking Unions at the intermediate level, and the
Bank Kerjasama at the apex. This program had little impact on the rural
community, and few cooperatives were viable, owing to poor management, in-
efficient operations, complicated loan procedures, small membership and poor
repayment records. W4ith about 60% of project farmers under varying degrees
of indebtedness, the introduction of a suitable credit scheme was essential
for successful project implementation.
70.       With technical assistance financed from the Loan, the credit needs
of the project area were reviewed, a credit program formulated and pilot
trials run in 1970. Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM) was established to super-
vise and finance the scheme. Initially, FA's, cooperatives and approved
suppliers of inputs were registered as Local Credit Centers (LCC's). Their
role was to screen applications, to act for BPM in the distribution of inputs
and to recover loans after the harvest. Creditworthiness criteria were laid
down by BPM and land titles were the usual form of collateral. Due to the
unsatisfactory performance of cooperatives and suppliers in using land titles
as collateral, private and cooperative LCC's are being phased out, and most
loans are now granted on an unsecured basis.
71.       The scheme has been operated by using a credit coupon system, with
coupons provided to each successful applicant for the appropriate amount of
fertiliser, insecticide, custom plowing, transplanting and harvest labor
required for the area to be planted.     The farmer could exchange coupons for
goods and services with registered stockists and tractor operators but



ANNEX 3
Page 21
it is understood that there were appreciable delays before BPM provided cash
in exchange for coupons. This was a particular embarrassment to the FA's
since they have limited operating capital and must pay for bulk supplies of
fertiliser and chemicals under normal trading terms. Initially, the process-
ing of applications and issue of coupons was computerized through facilities
in Kuala Lumpur. Due to the long delays in feeding applications to, and
receiving coupons from the computer, applications are now processed by hand
at the LCC. It is not yet clear whether the new system has eliminated the
excessive delays between applying for and receiving credit, which often ran
to two or three months under the previous system.
72.       There is a time limit for applications and the operation of the
system for each season, so that farmers cropping out of phase with the system
face difficulties. Loans are normally granted for a six month cropping season
and the interest rates quoted below refer to a six month period. For the
first five seasons, BPII and the LCC's each charged 4% interest, so that the
farmer paid 8%. An additional 4% was charged on unsecured loans. In 1972,
the interest rate received by BPM and the LCC's was reduced to 3%. Secured
loans were then available at 6%, and unsecured loans at 9%, with 1% per month
penalty charge for late repayment. The interest rate was reduced again in
late 1973 to 4.25% per season comparable to the rate charged by commercial
banks to large borrowers. Repayment is effected at harvest in cash or kind.
Since great stress is placed on developing good credit habits, FA credit
officers spend a lot of time and effort visiting villages and individuals
to collect debts.
73.       The performance of the production credit system is summarised in
Table 4. Up to 1973, about 15% of the farmers and 17% of the paddy land came
under the scheme. Credit utilisation is now of the order of 60 to 70%, and
repayments have been about 95% for recent seasons. While the scheme is
operating quite well, the percentage of farmers covered and credit utilisation
are rather disappointing. The relatively low utilisation can probably be
attributed to lack of day-to-day extension advice and the doubtful validity
of some of the technical recommendations made in the past, for example, the
widespread use of NPK fertiliser. The low participation rate is probably
due to the following factors: preference for, or indebtedness to, the
village merchants and millers; the complex procedures involved in obtaining
a loan, especially for illiterate farmers; and, the conservative attitude
of the FA's who, rather than seeking business, actively discourage farmers
who have limited resources, especially in the acid-sulphate areas.     MADA is
justified in applying restraint to the extension of credit until farmers
have demonstrated that they are responsible. Nevertheless, a review of the
present system, coupled with pilot trials to test alternative approaches to
bringing the multitude of small farmers into the system, would appear well
worthwhile.
Extension
74.       Before the project, extension and training were largely State
functions, under the supervision of the State Agricultural Officer. Tech-
nical support was given by Federal crop production, crop protection, soils



ANNEX 3
Page 22
and education units stationed at the Telok Chengai Experiment Station near
Alor Setar. Contact with the farmers was achieved through District Agricul-
tural Officers, assisted by JAA's. The ratio of field workers to farmers was
less than 1:1,500 in most areas. The JAA's were required to undertake routine
administrative tasks, which made day to day contact with farmers almost
impossible. At project appraisal, plans were made to improve agricultural
services and increase the number of field extension workers to 80. With the
advent of FA's and the formation of MADA, a radical change in extension
services was effected. The FA's became the focal point for all agricultural
services, and the Agricultural Division of MADA assumed responsibility for
all agricultural activities in the project area.
75.       The Agricultural Division of MADA comprises six units under the
supervision of a Senior Agricultural Officer, who reports to the General
Manager. Each unit should be headed by an Agricultural Officer (AO), but
currently there are only three AO's. For administrative purposes, the proj-
ect is divided into a North Region comprising Districts I and II and 14 FA's,
and a South Region comprising Districts III and IV and 13 FA's. There should
be a graduate supervisor (AO) for each region, supported by a Senior Agri-
cultural Assistant and two clerks in each district. In fact there is only
one graduate supervisor and one Senior Assistant for the North Region. No
personnel are available at the district level. The staff immediately con-
cerned with the FA's and extension are thus overworked and find it difficult
to supervise FA programs adequately.
76.       A newly-formed Farm Business Development Section acts as banker,
audits FA accounts and assists with supplies. This unit has yet to be legally
constituted and is currently run by an AA, supported by clerks. An Agricul-
tural Input Development and Distribution Unit supervises the production and
distribution of seed, undertakes field trials and demonstrations in con-
junction with the FA's, cooperates with research and training agencies as
required, and supervises crop cutting, to assess project yields and production.
This unit is headed by a graduate AO who is supported by an AA, two or three
JAA's and a small group of laborers. Again, the team is under great pressure
in trying to service the needs of the project.
77.       The Training Unit runs several courses.   The Farm Mechanisation
Center offers a six-month course in the maintenance and operation of farm
machinery. A follow up two-month intensive course is offered to bright stu-
dents. A special one-month course on the operation of harvesters is also
offered. More than 400 students have passed through these courses since 1970.
There is a one-month course for home economics, and there was formerly a
two-week course in rice production techniques, and a three-day leadership
course for FA personnel. Funds for the latter two courses have now been
diverted to group training at the village level, in which a small team visits
a village for a day and entertains the whole community with films and dis-
cussions, interspersed with brief technical sessions. In this way, all
members of a family have exposure to new ideas in their own environment.



ANNEX 3
Page 23
78.       The Agricultural Engineering Unit, headed by an Agricultural Engi-
neering graduate, is involved in research and development projects on farm
mechanisation. It operates mobile units to service FA tractors and machinery,
and assists with the Farm Mechanisation Training Program. The Federal Crop
Production, Crop Protection, Education and Soils Units, housed in buLldings
adjoining MADA, are now primarily concerned with supporting extension activity
outside the project area; providing specialist services, such as soil survey
and analysis; cooperating with MADA on seed production, farm evaluat:Lon of
research results, training programs; and providing a crop protection ser-
vice to all FA's in the area. Under the latter program, mobile units supervise
the control of insects and pests when there is a serious outbreak.
79.       The general organisation and management of the Agriculture Divi-
sion appears reasonably effective and they have done a good job with limited
personnel. Most existing staff are still on secondment from other agencies.
MADA needs more support to bring its ranks up to full strength as quickly as
possible.
80.       The major weaknesses of the extension program are the lack of day
to day contact with farmers; the lack of extension work on water control and
management; and the lack of farmers' groups based on irrigation blocks, to
supervise water distribution and synchronise farm operations with water re-
leases. At present, FA personnel are too busy attending to the administra-
tion of credit and supplies to be effective extension workers. Furthermore,
the 70% of farmers who are not FA members get little extension advice, even
though they are the ones who probably stand most in need of it.
81.       In the future, consideration should be given to basing SAU's
on the water supply system, and using water users' groups as sub-units.
These sub-units could then be used as the grass roots units for water manage-
ment, agricultural extension, credit and input supply, and recruiting
campaigns for the FA's. Existing agriculturally trained staff at the FA
should be replaced by personnel trained in business management. The JAA's
could then be used for full-time field work with the farmers and provide the
day to day contact now lacking.
Research
82.       Originally, the Federal DOA was responsible for research.    Central
research divisions, covering crop production, soils and crop protection,
operated through experiment stations located in each State, which were large-
ly financed and staffed by the Federal government. These stations carried
out experimental work, adaptive research trials in the farmers' fields and
were responsible for seed production. They also carried out soil survey and
soil testing, gave technical support to the State extension service and
assisted with demonstration plots and the formulation of fertilizer and plant
protection recommendations.
83.       The main station servicing the project area was located at Telok
Chengai near Alor Setar, adjacent to the present headquarters of MADA. A



ANNEX 3
Page 24
sub-station was operated at Tumbun Tulang in Perlis. In 1966, the DOA es-
tablished a Central Rice Breeding and Research Station at Bumbong Lima,
Province Wellesley. Although playing a useful role and providing reasonable
contact between research and extension at the State level, DOA's performance
was hampered by lack of skilled personnel, facilities and finance. Research
activity was fragmented between several departments and good coordination
and a multi-disciplinary approach were difficult to achieve. Nevertheless,
particularly useful background work was carried out on soils in the project
area, and the Bumbong Lima station has made valuable contributions to rice
breeding.
84.       Plans to step up research in the project area were overshadowed
by a major Federal policy decision to transfer all research activity to a
new body, the Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute
(MARDI) in 1969. This decision caused much controversy and considerable op-
position from sections of the Ministry of Agriculture. While the majority
of technical staff in some divisions agreed to transfer to MARDI, many staff
in other divisions (for example, soils) opted to stay with the DOA. This
led to division of limited staff resources, with MARDI becoming strong in
some disciplines and weak in others. Further, there was controversy over the
future role of the weakened DOA.
85.       The headquarters of MARDI was established adjacent to the Agricul-
tural University at Serdang, south of Kuala Lumpur. It began operations in
1971 with temporary buildings, limited facilities and a shortage of trained
staff and received little cooperation from other government agencies. New
buildings are now under construction and a large staff recruitment and
training program has been initiated. A recent Bank loan (1115-MA) will
provide experts, fellowships, additional equipment and facilities and live-
stock to strengthen the Institute's development. The loan also provides
funds for a new headquarters for the Federal extension service, improved
in-service training facilities for State and Federal staff, and funds to send
extension staff for specialised training. This program is intended to
improve liaison between MARDI and the government extension services and
transfer new technology from the research agency to the rural community.
86.       The project area is currently served by the Bumbong Lima Experi-
ment Station, which has become MARDI's Central Station for Rice Research,
and a smAll Regional MARDI Unit at Alor Setar. Only 20 ha of land plus
buildings were transferred to MARDI at Bumbong Lima. Although they are
surrounded by good rice land belonging to the DOA, MARDI has been forced
to acquire an additional 40 ha of rubber land, to expand its program. This
land will be useless for experimental work for at least five years. The
station has reasonable basic facilities and equipment but is very short of
trained staff. It will eventually have five divisions: Crop Research,
Plant Protection, Soil, Water and Engineering, Economics and Statistics and
Project Development. A useful breeding, agronomy and plant protection pro-
gram is under way but shortages of staff and land are restricting progress.
Some of the work is too academic and the limited manpower and resources
would be better used in solving the major field problems.



ANNEX 3
Page 25
87.       The MARDI unit at Alor Setar has no land and very limited facili-
ties and is housed in rather cramped rented offices. The unit has six
graduate research officers, six college-trained assistants and quite a large
cadre of field workers with school certificate qualifications. Research
effort is divided between rice and sugar, which is an important crop in
Perlis. The rice group is involved in the evaluation of breeding material
and varietal screening for disease, plant protection studies, fertiliser
response studies and liming trials on acid-sulphate soils. The unit rents
land from farmers for all field work, with the exception of the "blast"
screening program for which the Federal Experiment Station loans 0.5 ha.
There are plans to construct a new office complex on 2 ha of land, which
will provide some facilities for controlled plot work.
88.       The Federal Station at Telok Chengai is still conducting some re-
search on fertiliser response and pest control and is involved in soiL sur-
vey and soil testing programs. It is the only agency in the area with basic
laboratory facilities and experimental land, but no longer has author:Lty to
carry out experimental work. MADA is running its own mechanisation research
program with only limited liaison with MARDI. The main link between research
and extension is the committee (para 64), which comprises representatives of
all agencies and meets monthly in Alor Setar. The effectiveness of this com-
mittee needs improving, in view of the slow changes that have taken pLace in
fertiliser recommendations.
Supply of Inputs
89.       The local unit of the Federal DOA is responsible for seed production
for Kedah and Perlis. Foundation seed of improved varieties from Bumbong
Lima is multiplied on some 25 ha of land, with a production potential of about
75 tons of seed per season. Since gross seed requirements in the project
area are on the order of 2,400 tons for the main season crop, it would be
impossible for DOA to meet total requirements. In order to meet the needs of
the project area for seed of the short-duration varieties prior to the first
off-season irrigation, the project management adopted a plan of supplying
about 2.5 kg of improved seed free of charge to as many farmers as possible
in the previous main season. The program was widely publicised and farmers
were required to register at nominated distribution centers. Once regis-
trations had been checked, seed was distributed in plastic bags containing
a pamphfet on correct use. Farmers were advised to keep the produce for
planting in the following season. The program worked well.
90.       With the formation of MADA, the Input and Distribution Unit took
responsibility for seed distribution. A seed exchange system was developed,
under which farmers could exchange their seed for improved seed on a weight
for weight basis at the FA. This system still operates but measures are
now being taken to assess the quality of the grain presented by the farmers
in exchange for seed. In main season of 1974, about 33 tons of seed was
exchanged, which would be sufficient to plant about 1% of the planted area.
Slightly higher amounts are distributed for off-season cropping. A desirable



ANNEX 3
Page 26
target would be to change the seed every three or four seasons but this
would require distribution of about 600 tons of seed per season, which is
beyond the capability of the existing system. If full benefit is to be
obtained from the new varieties and the use of cash inputs and irrigation,
the development of a satisfactory seed production and distribution system
is essential, not only in Muda but throughout Malaysia.
Fertiliser and Agrochemicals
91.       Bulk fertiliser and agrochemical supply is handled by a number of
large companies, most of which have office and storage facilities in Alor
Setar. Retail distribution is via the FA's and registered private stockists.
The Farm Business Development Section of MADA assists the FA's with tendering
for bulk supplies. The stockists deal directly with the companies and are
given 60-day credit. According to one supplier, 70% of his business is
transacted through FA's and 30% through stockists. Dealing with stockists
was reported as troublesome, since they deal with a number of companies.
92.       The project area was not seriously affected by the world shortage
of fertiliser supplies during 1972-74, as it was given priority. Neverthe-
less, the shortage did result in a wide range of products in different sized
packages reaching the market. Ammonium chloride and lower-grade urea was
used, causing crop damage in some instances. Furthermore, it is believed
that some suppliers adulterated the limited supply of fertiliser, by pack-
aging it attractively and selling it at a low price. Although regulations
covering the sale and labelling of fertiliser and agrochemicals have been
drawn up, they are not effectively policed.
93.       With the introduction of a 55% subsidy on urea for paddy growers
in 1974, to be supplied solely through the FA's, the market has been some-
what distorted. Farmers will naturally buy urea in preference to basal
mixtures and stockists and suppliers who rely heavily on basal mix sales
may be forced out of business. Subsidy of one fertiliser for one section
of the community will undoubtedly lead to a black market in urea. Industry
had plans to establish a fertiliser compounding plant near the Kedah/
Penang border, to supply rice growers, rubber plantations and the newly
established sugar industry. These plans have now been shelved and the
industry has asked the government to apply a subsidy to all urea so that
basal mixes containing urea can remain competitive, but to date the government
has not reacted.
94.       The following measures are required to improve fertiliser supply
and use in the project area. Basal mixture should be standardised to pro-
vide nitrogen and phosphate only in a suitable ratio, about 1:1. Package
sizes should be adjusted so that fertiliser recommendations can be given
with reasonable accuracy in terms of bags per acre. In addition to brand
name and symbol, each bag should show the net weight of contents, analysis,
recommended retail price and a standard statement regarding proper use.
A regulatory service should be established to spot check analyses and



ANNEX 3
Page 27
prices at the retail outlets. Provision should be made to increase the
operating capital of the FA's and the Government should carefully review
its fertiliser subsidy policy.
Paddy Handling and Processing
95.       Since 1946, the Government has maintained a stockpile of rice
as a strategic reserve, to smooth the flow of supplies and to stabilise
prices. The reserve was originally operated by the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry, and the profit made on buying cheap imported rice was used
to partially offset the high cost of locally produced rice. To further
stabilise rice prices and provide an incentive for increased domestic pro-
duction, a Guaranteed Minimum Price was introduced in 1959, to function as
a floor price for paddy. In 1967, the Government further intervened in
marketing through the establishment of the Padi and Rice Marketing Board,
which licensed and controlled rice mills in the Muda area and established
drying and storage facilities and later milling facilities in open competition
with the private mills. In 1971, the National Padi and Rice Authority (LPN)
was established to absorb the Padi and Rice Marketing Board and the ftnctions
of the stockpile.
96.       A major problem encountered during project implementation was rice
drying. The traditional sun drying floors of the private rice mills had in-
sufficient capacity to handle the wet off-season rice delivered to the mills
in the period July-October. Presumably due to competition, low trading mar-
gins, lack of expertise and information and lack of incentives, the private
mills were slow to introduce mechanised driers. The Padi and Rice Marketing
Board therefore established drying and storage plants. Only two were opera-
ted prior to the first off-season harvest and due to operational difficulties
and inexperienced staff, managed to handle only about 25% of the crop. The
private mills rejected wet and low grade paddy so that the government received
all the wet and low grade produce, which was costly to dry and difficult to
market. LPN, which by 1972 had become fully operational, developed more
drying and storage facilities. Since drying alone was not a viable economic
operation and did not allow adequate intervention in marketing, LPN decided
to provide milling facilities at its installations. It currently has nine
operational complexes in the project area, five with drying and storage
facilities, and four with integrated units with a rice mill. Six more
integrated units are planned.
97.       In the meantime, private mills have installed drying facilities
and now largely monopolise the paddy market. They have developed batch
driers and multi-pass driers, modelled on overseas designs but manufactured
by a local foundry at a fraction of the cost of imported equipment. These
appear to work satisfactorily and at a much lower cost than the large LPN
complexes. In response to the rise in oil prices, they are already experi-
menting with the use of rice husks as a supplementary fuel. An official
scale of deductions has been issued, based on the moisture content and
quality of rice delivered to the mills. However, private mills waive
reductions or reduce them, depending upon circumstances, to ensure a good



ANNEX 3
Page 28
supply of paddy. On the other hand, LPN sticks rigidly to the official
system and pays farmers and FA's by check rather than cash. As a result
the LPN facilities now handle only a small percentage of the crop and must
be running at a substantial loss.
98.       Drying and milling is now a highly competitive business with rela-
tively small profit margins, and millers must use every possible means to
maintain a viable business. This probably has an undesirable effect on the
quality of milled rice marketed. Since the rice is all consumed within
Malaysia, this is having little effect on demand. Some farmers still run
into difficulty in marketing their off-season crop, due to the centralisation
of drying facilities and deductions. The value of drying floors and small
batch driers at the village level warrants further investigation. This would
also be an appropriate time for the review of available drying, milling and
storage facilities in the project area, to establish if the expansion of LPN
facilities is justified.
F. DATA COLLECTION AND PRODUCTION PERFORMANCE
Data Collection
99.       The lack of reliable data posed problems in project preparation and
appraisal and created difficulties in the current project evaluation. Relative
to many other countries, the Federal Department of Statistics, which is res-
ponsible for data collection, is efficient and well managed, having a survey
team in each key provincial center for data collection. It is thus disap-
pointing not to find statistics on such items as buffalo and cattle numbers,
fertiliser and agrochemical sales, tractor sales, milling and storage capac-
ity. In many cases, little cost would be involved in collecting this type of
data on an annual basis.
100.      Yield and production data are collected with the assistance of
the district extension staff. Based on methodology developed by a visiting
FAO expert in 1965-66, paddy land is divided into a number of Artificial
Crop Units of about 13 km2. Selection of sample areas within a unit is
based on the list of paddy growing lots held by the State Land Office.
These are assigned numbers and six are selected at random for each season.
The district extension officer is required to select three of the six for
sampling, based on whether the lot is representative in terms of planting
time and other key parameters. At the first visit, the extension officer
is required to estimate visually the lot area and average yield and peg
out a 7m x 5.5m section for sampling. He is also requested to record cul-
tural details (e.g. variety, inputs used) and arrange a harvesting date
with the farmer. At harvest, the yield of the whole plot is measured volu-
metrically. Two gantangs (5 kg) of paddy are purchased from two of the
plots in each Artificial Crop Unit. There are returned to the local DOA
office and weighed. They are then sun-dried for 15 days or until they
reach constant weight. The average yield of the plot is then calculated
in terms of dry paddy.



ANNiEX 3
Page 29
101.      Although the system appears to work quite well, there are several
potential errors that could affect the accuracy of the resulting yield and
production estimates. Planted and harvested areas within a district are
checked by eye. The cutting is biased towards farmers planting and har-
vesting at the prescribed periods and takes no account of losses that occur
at harvest or after harvest. On the basis of data provided by MADA, these
are probably 8-10%. There is no check on the final moisture content of the
plot sample, which could lead to another 2-3% error. The site selection
and sampling procedures as described in the manual are quite complicated
for a JAA to follow. Furthermore, there are inherent dangers in making an
officer responsible for taking measurements, which to some extent, reflect
on his own professional performance.
102.      Since MADA is supervising the work for the Muda Project area, the
results are likely to be more reliable. To allow for the likely differences
between actual yields and the results of crop cutting tests, the official
yield data were reduced by 10% in evaluating project production.
Production Performance
103.      Planted areas, average yields and gross paddy production "with"
and "without" the project are presented in Tables 1 and 2, Figure 1 and Annex
5, Table 2. These data were used as the basis for project analysis. A com-
parison of the appraisal and actual production parameters for key years
is presented below:
Planted Area            Average Yield         Paddy Production
(ha)                 (ton/ha)               ('000 ton)
Year   Appraisal     Actual    Appraisal     Actual    Appraisal     Actual
1965   105,800        94,300     2.32         2.94        245.5      277.3
1970   137,540       127,890     2.51         3.06       345.2       391.8
1971   158,700       143,000       .          3.26           .       465.53
1972   179,200       165,200       .          3.27           .       540.06
1973   190,400       184,200       .          3.55           .       654.08
1974   201,000       190,900 /a    .          3.57 /a        .       682.29
1980   211,600       193,500 lb  2.76         3.71 Tb     584.0      717.93
/a   Mission estimate.
/b   Projected.
The appraisal projections overestimated the net irrigable area by about 8%,
and assumed full double cropping by 1975. Hence, the actual planted area
is lower than the appraisal estimate for the period 1965-74. Nevertheless,
the projected rate of double cropping adoption matches the rate achieved
in practice very closely. The appraisal projected 100% adoption by 1975,
whereas the actual figure will be of the order of 97%. Yield was under-
estimated by over 20% at appraisal. The appraisal report mentioned the



ANNEX 3
Page 30
possibility of much higher yields during project development, due to the
introduction of new varieties and techniques, but little allowance was
made for this. The gap between projected and actual yield has thus
widened with time.
104.      As a consequence of underestimating yield and overestimating cropped
area at appraisal, total paddy production projections were 8-12% below those
actually achieved. Overall, this was a remarkably good exercise in projec-
tion by the appraisal team. In terms of rate of development, the project
has equalled expectations, and in terms of total paddy production, it has ex-
ceeded them. This is a credit to project management, especially since this
result was achieved without the benefit of a detailed development plan and
no special administrative and financial provisions built into the project at
the outset.
G. FUTURE POTENTIAL
Production Issues
105.      Project management would be the first to agree that what has been
achieved is only the first major phase of development. The basic infra-
structure and institutions have been established and double cropping has
been achieved. However, yields and hence production are still only 75% of
the potential of the existing rice varieties and technology. There is also
scope for increasing the efficiency of production, lowering production costs
and increasing the percentage of saleable quality rice.
106.      The obvious means of increasing production is to intensify the
physical works, that is, the terminal water supply and drainage ditches,
and the access roads. This type of program has the advantage of rela-
tively easy phasing and control. The major disadvantage is the high
capital cost of works and the probability that benefits will not match
investment, unless there is a vigorous concurrent program to intensify
agricultural services, credit supply and the use of inputs. Physical
works and agricultural services are interdependent in terms of the ben-
efits they will produce. MADA's current philosophy is to concentrate
efforts on ways of improving physical infrastructure and water control,
through a series of pilot projects (Annex 6). However, no thorough study
has been made of the many factors affecting yield in representative irri-
gation blocks. It is quite clear that present seed distribution, credit
and extension programs are only reaching a small proportion of the project
area farmers. There has been no attempt to form water users' groups, and
there is no effective water management extension to maximize the value of
existing water supply and drainage facilities. It is highly probable that
about half the difference between existing and potential yield (that is,
0.5 ton/ha) could be achieved at relatively low cost by intensifying the
agricultural services.



ANNEX 3
Page 31
Organizational Issues
107.      The development of MADA played a key role in establishing sound
project organisation and management. As in many other countries in Asia,
the expertise and authority required for project management were dispersed
among several uncoordinated departments. MADA brought that expertise together
under common management in the project area, so that implementers with local
knowledge of problems were able to play a decisive role in planning. A key
factor in the success of MADA was its direct access to the top levels of
government, which led to policy decisions in favor of the project and assured
a reasonable level of support from the other government agencies. The de-
cisive importance of good men and political influence, as opposed to organi-
sational structure, in the successful implementation of a project is high-
lighted by a comparison between Muda and Kemubu. On paper, the Kemubu
Agricultural Development Authority has a similar structure and functions
to MADA. In practice, results at Kemubu have been rather disappointing,
since until recently that project lacked strong leadership. This draws
attention to the importance of selecting good men in each major discipline,
preferably at the project preparation stage.
108.      One problem with Project Authorities is that, if they become too
strong, as MADA has tended to, they dominate and either emasculate or absorb
the regular service agencies in the area. At the end of the project develop-
ment period, there may be a problem of how one phases out an Authority and
resumes normal support services through the line agencies. A potentia:L solu-
tion in Malaysia would be to integrate agricultural services (including MARDI)
at the State level, on an "Authority" basis. Accommodated on one campus and
under the direction of a dynamic State Director of Agricultural Development,
they could jointly plan and implement State Agricultural Development pro-
grams. When a project requiring special supervision arose, a Project Author-
ity could be established, comprising special service units staffed by per-
sonnel seconded from the State organisation. Once the project was estab-
lished, the Authority could be phased out and the service units returned to
the State organisation. MADA already controls agricultural in much of Kedah
and Perlis. Reorganising it as a pilot State Agricultural Development Author-
ity, along the lines just proposed, would absorb it back into normal govern-
ment structure and ultimately spread the benefits of good organisation and
management. Reorganisation along these lines might also clarify the roles
of MARDI and the Federal and State DOA, and facilitate the pooling of re-
sources to the advantage of all agencies. On the other hand, it must also
be recognized that the growth element in agricultural services is dependent
on Federal support, which may be incompatible with a strengthening of State
responsibilities. The optimal roles of Federal and State line agencies and
special-purpose Authorities is far from clear.
Research Issues
109.      An evaluation of the key factors affecting yields within represen-
tative irrigation blocks should be implemented as soon as possible. This
would be combined with the proposed program of pilot projects (Annex 6).



ANNEX 3
Page 32
Exercises in the intensification of agricultural services should be in-
cluded in the proposed pilot development projects. Special emphasis should
be placed on extending seed distribution, credit and effective extension
services to the bulk of farmers. The intensification of the physical in-
frastructure should not proceed too far until these agricultural problems
have been addressed.
110.      Until MARDI has developed to full strength and the problem of
the administration of research on local problems has been resolved, con-
sideration should be given to strengthening research efforts on problems
of interest to the Mluda Area. This might take the form of strengthening
of the existing State Integrated Action Committee or it may require a
special task force, comprising personnel from MARDI, the DOA and MADA,
under the direction of a competent research director. The following
problems require immediate attention:
(a) Management requirements of acid-sulphate soils to maximise
yield, with special reference to water control;
(b) The effects of water management on yield, so as to establish
minimum water control requirements;
(c) A thorough evaluation of present cultural practices, including
yield losses and potential increase in yield and net income
from the use of inputs and recommended cultural practices;
(d) A detailed study of insect pests, their parasites and predators,
and potential insect damage within the project areas, with a
view to formulating a rational policy on the use of insecticides;
(e) Work on the factors affecting the response to nitrogen and
nitrogen recovery and losses, the formulation of a standard
NP basal compound suitable for use in Muda, and establishment
of longer term field trials to check the potential decline in
soil phosphate and likely maintenance requirements;
(f) A continuation of the farm mechanisation program to include:
a thorough analysis of the nature of labor shortage; the
effect of physical infrastructure and water control on the
type of mechanisation required; development of small equip-
ment which the small farmers can own and operate; and the
potential value of drying floors and small sack or batch
driers at village level, to reduce deductions and increase
the farm gate price of paddy.
Extension Issues
111.      The organisation, operation and staffing of the extension serv-
ice, credit service and FA's should be reviewed with a view to effectively
reaching the 70% of the farmers not served at present. Measures which



ANNEX 3
Page 33
should be considered are: the formation of water users' groups as fieLd-
level units for extension, credit and supply, and as organizational sub-
units of the FA;.expansion of the FA extension service to cover all farmers;
replacement of FA agricultural staff concerned with business activity, with
staff trained in commerce, and the release of the JAA's for field extension
work; measures to increase the operating capital of the FA's and to further
streamline credit; and an expansion of credit activities to include loans
for small tractors and equipment. More formal arrangements are needed to
support the MADA extension staff with technical backup from DOA specialists.
At the Federal level, measures should be introduced to standardise the anal-
yses, packaging and labelling of fertiliser supplied to Muda area, with pro-
visions for spot checking the quality and price at retail outlets. The
impact of the urea subsidy on the sale of basal mix and the trade should
be reviewed. Arrangements for seed multiplication and distribution need
to be reviewed, to ensure that seed can be replaced every three years.






MALAYSIA
LOAN 434-MA: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Rate of Irrigation Development
M a i n    S e a s o n                                  O f f    S e a s o n                        Annual                Cropping
Yer_or            al So l     Acid__ __ _Soils__ __  T_ __ _ _rea___      _ __ ___a/___                      ___           _'I__                            a/
Year         Normal Soils     Acid Soils      Total                Normal Soils    Acid Soils        Total              Cropped Area             Intensity
------------ ('000 ha) ------------                   ____________-   ('000 ha)--------------'000 ha)                                ()
*        w              w            w                w       w       w                                  V       ha w
1966         76.6     76.6    14.5  14.5    91.1   91.1             -        -      -      -       -      -           91.1     91.1              92      92
1967         78.2     78.2    14.9  14.9    93.1   93.1             -        -      -      -       -      -           93.1     93.1              95     95
1968         78.5     78.5    15.0  15.0    93.5   93.5             -        -      -      -       -      -           93.5     93.5              95     95
1969         78.5     78.5    15.0  15.0    93.5   93.5             -        -      -      -       -      -           93.5     93.5              95      95
1970         79.2     79.2    15.1  15.1    94.3   94.3             -       26.7    -      6.9     -     33.6         94.3    127.9              96     130
1971         79.3     81.7    15.1  15.1    94.4   96.8             -       38.0    -      8.2     -     46.2         94.4    143.0              96     145
1972         79.4     82.1    15.1  15.1    94.5   97.2             -       57.8    -     11.0     -     68.8          94.5   166.0              96     169
1973         79.5     82.1    15.1  15.1    94.6   97.2             -       74.0     -    13.0     -     87.0          94.6   184.2              96     187
1974         79.6     82.1    15.1  15.1    94.7   97.2             -       80.1    -     13.8     -     93.9         94.7    191.1              96     194
1975         79.7     82.2    15.1  15.1    94.8   97.3             -       80.2     -    13.8     -     94.0         94.8    191.3              96     194
1976         79.8     82.4    15.1  15.1    94.9   97.5             -       80.2     -    13.9     -     94.1         94.9    191.6              96     194
1977         79.9     82.5    15.1  15.2    95.0   97.7             -       80.3     -    13.9     -     94.2         95.0    191.9              96     195
1978         79.9     82.5    15.1  15.3    95.0   97.8             -       80.3    -     14.0     -     94.3         95.0    192.1              96     195
1979         79.9     82.5    15.1  15.4    95.0   97.9             -       80.5     -    14.0     -     94.5          95.0   192.5              96     195
1980 etc.    79.9     82.5    15.1  15.5    95.0   98.0  /                  81.5    -     14.0     -     95.5         95.0    193.5              96     196
* = without project
w = with project
a/ Refers only to irrigable area of 98,000 ha - land area within the scheme
boundary devoted to rubber, horticulture, other tree crops and kampongs excluded.
b/ This is considered to be the maximum irrigable area in 1980 without further investment.
It is 6,800 ha less than the area used for appraisal, a reflection of land lost to
new roads, canals, etc..
> :.



ANNEX 3
Table 2
MALAYSIA
LOAN 434-MA - MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Total Paddy Production
('000 tons)
Normal Soils        Acid Soils       Main & Off-Season
Total
Year            W         W          W        W         W         W          Change
1966 Main     247.42    247.42     36.10    36.10     283.52    283.52         0.00
1967 Season   257.28    257.28    37.84     37.84     295.12    295.12         0.00
1968          259.05    266.11     37.50    39.30     296.55    305.41         8.86
1969          259.05    260.62     37.65    38.40     296.70    299.02         2.32
1970          262.94    266.90     38.05    39.26     300.99    391.80        90.81
1971          264.26    263.89     38.20    37.75     301.64    465.53       163.89
1972          266.78    261.08     38.35    36.99     305.13    540.06       234.94
1973          268.71    294.74     38.50    41.83     307.21    654.08       346.87
1974          270.64    298.02     38.66    42.13     309.30    682.29       372.99
1975          272.57    300.03     38.81    42.43     311.38    687.65       376.27
1976          274.51    302.41     38.96    42.73     313.47    693.31       379.84
1977          276.45    304.42     39.11    43.32     315.56    698.98       383.42
1978          278.05    306.07     39.26    43.76     317.31    703.92       386.61
1979          279.65    307.72     39.26    44.20     318.91    709.34       390.43
1980, etc.    279.65    309.37     39.26    44.64     318.91    717.93       399.02
1966 Off         -         -         -
1967 Season      -         -         -         -
1968             -         -         -        -
1969                       -         -
1970             -       71.56       -      14.08
1971             -      140.60       -      23.29
1972             -      210.97       -      31.02
1973             -      279.72       -      38.09
1974             -      301.98       -      40.16
1975             -      304.76       -      40.43
1976             -      307.17       -      41.00
1977             -      309.96       -      41.28
1978             -      312.37       -      41.72
1979             -      315.56       -      41.86
1980, etc.       -      321.92       -      42.00
W = without project
W - with project



MALAYSIA
LOAN 434--MA: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Basic Statistics on Farmers' Associations in the Muda Area
1968       1969      1970       1971       1972      1973
Number of FAts                   1          2        14         16        19         2h
Membership                     215        g90      5.,349     6,259     8,195     10,909
Share Capital (M1$ '000)       1.93     11.38      46.60      55.98     83.56     222.89
Net Worth (Ms '000)            ..         ..       80.65     185.62     311.05    498.97
Value of Input
Sales (M$ '000)            ..        ..       114.72    350.97     618.80   1,435.?
Source: MADA



YiA"Y SI A
LOAM 434-MA: MUDA IRidIGATION PROJECT
Performance of' the Production Credit Sstem
No. of     No. of       Area       Amount          %            %
Year      Season       LCC       Farmers      ha       M$ '000      Utilization   Xepayment -/
1970       1st            7          431       766          88            66         100
2nd           28        1,733      3,527        456            50          98
1971       1st           43        3,091     6,469       1,031            56          93
2nd           67        3,873      9,241      1,L438           58          88
1972       1st           70        4,868     10,626      1,916            60          89
2nd           79        5,398     12,418      2,295            59          89
1973       1st           76        5,903    16,352       2,792            65          95
2nd           78        7,007    16,885       3,h58            59          95
197[4      1st                       ..        ..        4,500e           70
1/ Total repayment as of August, 1974.



MALAYSIA
LOAN 500-MA: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
A Comparison of Projected and Actual Planted Area, Yield and Production
800
GROSS ANNUAL PADDY PRODUCTION
Actual
700  -           Projected                             ____ 
600  -
0
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~                            - - 
0
500
00  - 
v     _
2.4 __-------~             ~~        -------.-                    _
200
,0        .   ~~~~~~~Actual_
3. 10   -
1964  65   66   67  - i  69  70  71  72  73   74  75  76 -  77  78  79 -80
300 
200             P rojected
3.6W- - - - - - Actual -
00
3.
194V           6 6   8   6    0   71  7    3   7    5   7    7   7    9  8
~~  200  -  - Projected ~ ~ ~ ~ Crppig  ea
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol ak97






iNEX 4
Page 1
MALAYSIA
LOAN 434-MA: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Organization and Management
History of Prolect Management
1.        The subject of project management is described only briefly in
the feasibility studies and is covered in only a few paragraphs in the
appraisal report. It was envisaged that the (Federal) DID would be the
"executing agency for the project." There is no reference in the appraisal
report to the need to coordinate engineering planning with agricultural
extension and credit activities.
2.        The problems of project management were discussed by the 1966
and 1967 agricultural credit missions. By 1968, the Government had appointed
a Project Coordinator, to coordinate the work of the several Government
agencies. After a brief tenure by another occupant, this post was filled
in 1969 by Mr. (now Datuk) Mohamed Tamin bin Yeop, who has continued to
guide the project ever since. As Coordinator, Mr. Tamin not only obviated
any inter-agency conflicts which might have impeded the progress of the
project but also took the initiative in recruiting high calibre staff, and
directing the pilot projects for off-season irrigation, the formation of
Farmers' Associations (FA's), and the supply of seeds and inputs.
3.        Much of the success in introducing double cropping at a compara-
tively rapid rate was due to the careful preparatory work done between 1968
and 1970. First, the farmers' technical concerns and superstitions about
the feasibility of off-season paddy production were dispelled by a series
of pilot projects, using water pumped from streams and drains by portable
diesel pumps. These pilot projects covered 700 ha in 1968. In 1969, a
different approach was adopted, with 14 small areas, totalling 100 ha,
being irrigated. In 1970, full-scale irrigation began in the northern
half of the project area and pilot projects were initiated in the southern
part. Under the pilot projects, all necessary inputs were provided by
the Government.
4.        Another important preparation activity was anticipating the huge
incremental demand for high-yielding short-duration paddy seeds. Thus a
large scale program for multiplication of "Bahagia" seed on the farmers'
fields was initiated (Annex 3). Consequently, seed availability was not
a constraint on the adoption of off-season cropping.
5.        The first new-style Farmers' Association (FA) was formed in
September, 1968 and was based on one of the pilot project areas. Further
FA's were formed in 1969 and subsequent years, the 27th and last being
formed in 1974. Further details are given in Annex 3.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
6.        The development of the credit system, administered by Bank Pertanian
(BPM), was also built around the irrigation pilot projects and the newly-
formed FA's. The scheme began in the off-season of 1970 and used seven Local
Credit Centers, including two FA's. At about this time, a BPM branch office
was set up at Alor Setar and full-scale operations began the next season.
7.        Other preparatory activities in the period 1968-70 included the
administration of a fertilizer subsidy program and the establishment of a
training center and farm mechanization center.
8.        The Muda Agricultural Development Authority (MADA) was estab-
lished by ordinance in early-1970 and confirmed by Act of Parliament
(No. 70 of 1972) on March 31, 1972. The former Project Coordinator (or
Project Manager) became the General Manager of the new Authority. Since
1970, MADA has grown in size and diversified its operations, to include
sociological and economic surveys, industrial development and regional
planning.
Present Status
9.        MADA is a semi-autonomous authority, responsible to the Minister
of Agriculture, and governed by a Board of nine members, including repre-
sentatives from the Federal DID, the Federal Agricultural Marketing Au-
thority, BPM, LPN and the States of Kedah and Perlis. MADA's statutory
functions are:
"(a) to promote, stimulate, facilitate and undertake economic
and social development in Muda Area;
(b) to plan and undertake within the Muda Area such agriculture
development as may be assigned to it by the State Authority
of the States of Kedah and Perlis."
10.       MADA's autonomy is limited, not only statutorily by the power
of the Minister to direct it (especially in the disposal of assets), but
also by the power of the purse. As MADA has no revenue of its own, it is
dependent on Federal budgetary support and thus there is some indirect
control of its programs and staffing levels by both the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development, and by the Ministry of Finance. De-
spite these limitations, MADA enjoys considerable independence, as a
result of its success and the prestige of the General Manager.
11.       MADA's chief executive is its General Manager (and Deputy Chairman)
who is also State Agricultural Officer and State Director of the Farmers'
Organization Authority for Kedah. This joint appointment facilitates
coordination between the agencies concerned and, as most of the State's
smallholder agriculture falls within the Muda Area, does not impose an
undue burden on the General Manager.






s~~~~ l
S   /          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



MALAYSIA
LOAN 434-MAt MIDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(m$al.llion)
Year                     1965   1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1971   1972    1973  1974    1975
ProJect Coordinator's Offlce            e      .      .    0.03   0.07   0.08
MADA - Adistration                .**                                             **     **     ***
- Agricultare                             *      *      O      *      ...    ***    eoe    eee    oo.
- E&gLneering                      e      .      .      .      *      ..     t.     *.    2.39   3.60_ -
Sub-total                         .      .      .      .    0.19   0.53   3.57    3.32   5l14   6.00
DOA
Federal a                          0.20   0.20   0.20   0.25   0.25   0.J0   0.30   0.35    0.40   0.45   0.50
State                              0.07   0.07   0.08   0.08   0.12   0.16   0e42   047    0.50   0.50   0o.0
DID
Federal (senior staff salaries)    0.13    0.25  0.38   0.54   0.53   0.48   0.43   0.31    0.40 O.40 o   0.40
State (O&M contribution)           1.45    1.45 1.45    1.45   1.45   1.45   1.45   1.45   1.45   1.45   1.45
Total - Current N$                    1,85    1.97  2.11   2*35   2.42   2.66   3.13   6.15   6.07    7.94   8.85
- Constant 1974 M$              2.42    2.66  2.71   3.12   3.24   3.50   4.06   7.81   6.95   7.94    8.85
Area Irrigated (1000 ha)               93      91    93     94     94    128    143    166    184    191      ..
Operating Cost (Constant 1974 prices)
- P/annum                     -      25      27    28     32     33     36     42     81     72     82     91
- i/ha irrigated                     26      29    29     33     34     27     28     47     38     42     e
- usVhaannum                          8       9     9     10     U1     12     14     29     30     35     41
- US$/ha irrigated                    8       9     -9    U1     31      9     10     17     16     19      ..






ANNEX 4
Page 3
12.       MADA has three divisions:   Administration, Agriculture and
Engineering. All the senior officers in the technical disciplines are
on attachment or secondment from the Federal DID and DOA and thus have
close contact with and receive technical support and supervision from
their parent agencies. Staff shortages, which have been a problem in
the past, particularly in agriculture, have now been largely overcome and
the vacancy rate is a manageable 10%. Approved staffing levels for 1974
are shown below:
Division                  Staff
Administration                    60
Agriculture                      192 /a
Engineering                    1,162
Total                1,414
/a   Does not include Field Assistants,
who are employed directly by the FA's.
13.       It is intended that MADA should recruit its own staff but
experience has shown that this is unlikely to be successful, as senior staff
would have limited career opportunities in this organization of only moderate
size. Therefore, it is reasonable to expect that MADA will have to continue
to rely on seconded senior staff for the foreseeable future.
14.       The Agriculture Division is divided into two main branches,
one for Agricultural Input Development and Distribution (which includes
subject matter specialists in farm management, seed supply, demonstra-
tions and plant protection) and the other for providing FA personnel,
together with their training and supervision. There is also a small
Agricultural Engineering Section. Each FA has a building, the Farmers'
Development Center (formerly called Agricultural Development Centers)
and a staff of five, whose salaries are paid by MADA (Annex 3). In
addition, the State DOA has district extension staff and subject matter
specialists (Annex 3).
15.       The Engineering Division is divided into two regional O&M bran-
ches, as well as a Control Branch (to operate the dams and the computer
control system) and a Planning Branch, which undertakes design work,
hydrologic observations and staff training. There are also workshops,
stores and administration units. The Division is largely independent
of the regular DID structure.
16.       MADA also has the following small units which report directly to
the General Manager: Planning and Evaluation, which employs an economist,
a statistical assistant, and a sociologist; Industrial Development (para
5.05); Agricultural Information, which compiles agricultural statistics;



ANNEX 4
Page 4
and Information and Public Relations. These supporting units have done
excellent work on evaluating the results of the project, on publicizing its
successes and in planning future development.
17.       MADA's 1974 budget was M$5.14 million, with M$3.6 million going
to O&M and other engineering services and most of the remainder being used
to pay FA staff. An additional M$2.7 million was spent by the Federal and
State DID and DOA on services to the project area and these have been in-
cluded as operating costs in the economic analysis (Annex 5). The total
project operating cost in 1974 was equivalent to M$82/ha (US$35/ha), of
which M$56/ha (US$24/ha) is accounted for by the engineering O&M cost of
the irrigation system. Full details are given in Table 1. The unit ex-
penditure on O&M is comparable to other well-maintained gravity irrigation
systems in Asia (for example, US$15/ha in the Philippines, US$26/ha in
Korea). The cost of administration and agricultural services is high, re-
flecting the high standard of the services offered. FA staff costs, which
are the major FA operating costs, are included in the above figures. How-
ever, there is some hope that the FA's will eventually become financially
self-supporting (Annex 3), at least in their business activities.
Future Potential
18.       MADA has become a substantial and diversified organization.    Even
though the Muda Project is now officially completed, there will be a con-
tinuing role for MADA to play in the following three areas:
(a) Infrastructural improvement and development;
(b) Improved agricultural supporting services; and
(c) diversification into new fields.
19.       The likely shape of (a) and (b) is discussed in Annex 6.    Diversi-
fication will probably take place at two levels. At the regional level,
further industrial development is likely. MADA is also interested in be-
coming involved in land use planning, particularly with regard to urban
development, and to the provision of public utilities to the rural areas.
At the local level, the FA's are seen as a focus for centralizing all
services to farmers, for operating and maintaining minor irrigation works
and for sponsoring small commercial enterprises.
20.       There is no doubt that, given a continuation of the dynamic
leadership that has characterized it from the beginning, MADA will be
capable of meeting these challenges. It thus provides a useful model
for other areas in Malaysia and elsewhere in Asia.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
MALAYSIA
LOAN 434-MA: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Prices
1.        All inputs and outputs have been evaluated in constant 1974
Ringgits. Adjustments of historical prices are based on the exchange rates
and domestic price deflators given in Annex 1. Projections of future price
trends are based on Bank commodity price projections in constant 1974 U.S.
Dollars, converted at the rate of US$1.00 to M$2.30.
2.        Paddy prices:   Two separate price series have been used to
evaluate the project area's output of paddy. Farm income analysis has been
based on actual historical farmgate paddy prices and projections of future
trends for these prices in line with Bank projections of the price of Thai
rice (fob Bangkok) and emerging Malaysian Government policy.
3.        For the economic analysis, farmgate prices have been linked as
closely as possible with actual and projected prices of imported rice with
tariffs and subsidies eliminated to the maximum extent possible. Although
Malaysia has made substantial progress over the past decade in reducing its
dependence on imported rice, approximately 10% of the nation's requirements
are still imported. Furthermore, the progress made in import-substitution is
to a large extent due to developments in the project area itself, 1/ implying
that without the project Malaysia would be significantly more dependent on
imports. Thus, for the period 1966-1973, farmgate paddy prices have been
based on the cif price of whole milled rice imported into Peninsular Malaysia.
For 1974 and thereafter, Bank estimates and projections of the price of Thai
rice (5% broken, fob Bangkok) were used as a basis. As the grades produced
in the project area are rather closer in quality to 15% broken Thai rice
than to the 5% export grade, the fob prices of the latter were reduced 10%,
maintaining the price ratio between these two grades which has prevailed
in recent years.
1/   The project area currently produces a volume of paddy equivalent to
about 600% of current imports into Peninsular Malaysia.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        The required freight and handling costs (to Kuala Lumpur) have
been added to the price series, while transport costs between Kuala Lumpur
and Alor Setar have been subtracted. The paddy/rice conversion rate used
(61%) is below the average milling rate in the project area (64%) to account
for milling costs in excess of the value of by-products. The price structure
used in the economic analysis is given below for three illustrative years:
Constant 1974 M$/ton
1966        1973          1980
Export price, fob Bangkok                 ...         ...           559
Ocean freight                             ...         ...            34
cif, Port Klang                           606         728           593
Port Handling and Transport to
Kuala Lumpur                          19           16           14
Wholesale price of rice, Kuala Lumpur     625          744          607
Transport, Alor Setar - Kuala Lumpur       26           22           27
Price of rice, Project Area               599          722          580
Paddy equivalent price, Project Area      365          440          354
The complete price series used for paddy for both farm income and economic
analyses are given in Table 1.
5.        An effort has been made to eliminate distortions in prices of
other inputs and outputs in the economic analysis. In particular, the full
unsubsidized 1/ price of urea (currently about M$950/ton) has been used.
Yields and Project Development
6.        The cultivated area, rate of project development and yields are
those described in detail in Annex 3.
7.        Production costs (Table 1) covering current inputs, namely seed,
fertilizer, land preparation charges and other agricultural chemicals
(mainly pesticides and herbicides) have been evaluated at constant 1974
market prices. These production costs have been raised above past levels
during the period 1975-80 as a reflection of the expected improvements in
management standards which are described in detail in Annex 3.
1/   There is currently a 55% subsidy on urea in Malaysia.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Labor Costs
8.        The cost of labor in production equation was evaluated at a
shadow price derived by computing total labor demand for the project area,
for both the with and without project situations in 1980 (Table 3). At
full development with the project, the estimated peaks of labor demand
fall in March and August/September when labor demand and stressed supply
are almost precisely equated whilst in the peak month of January in the
without project situation this condition is approached but not fully
realized (Figure 1). Wage rates (in constant 1974 M$) pertaining at
various times of the year have been empirically verified, and together
with an estimated minimum wage which must be paid to call forth an
initial unit of labor, used to derive an opportunity cost curve for labor
in the project area at full development (Figure 2). From this curve the
monthly marginal and average opportunity costs for labor were calculated
for both the with and without project situations (Table 4). The resulting
total annual labor costs for 1967 and 1980 were used, in conjunction with
the rate of project development, to generate the shadow priced labor cost
streams contained in Table 2.
Capital and O&M Costs
9.        The capital costs are the same as those given in Annex 2 except
that capital expenditures in the years before 1966 when the loan became
effective have been converted into their present value in 1966 and added to
costs in that year. Operation and maintenance costs are based on the data
presented in Annex 4, Table 1.
Project Life
10.       To avoid the difficulties of projecting project benefits into the
indefinite future, a project evaluation period of 34 years (up to the year
2000) has been chosen and a salvage value of M$100 million assigned to the
project facilities at that date.
Economic Rate of Return
11.       The above assumptions provide the basis for calculating the cost
and benefit streams detailed in Table 2, which result in an estimated rate
of return of approximately 18%. A return of 10% was projected at appraisal,
and the discrepancy has mainly been due to higher yields and prices than
anticipated and to lower on-farm production costs.
12.       The Appraisal Report assumed initial (1965) average paddy yields
to be 2.32 ton/ha. Actual results in 1966 were 3.23 ton/ha on normal
soils (84% of project area) and 2.49 ton/ha on acid soils, with an overall
average for the project area of 3.11 ton/ha. This 25% underestimate of
average yield was partially compensated for by a 16% overestimate of land
available at the start of the project, with the result being a 12% under-
estimate of output in 1966 1/. For 1980, the Appraisal Report projection
1/   The underestimate for 1965 was 8%.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
of total output was 19% too low, composed of a 10% overestimate of available
land and a 26% underestimate of average yield (2.8 ton/ha versus current
estimate of 3.7).
13.       The farmgate price of paddy foreseen at appraisal was equivalent
to M$302/ton in constant 1974 currency values. As Table 1 shows, this
estimate was below the actual financial farmgate price since 1966 and below
current projections for the remainder of the project life. The shadow price
of paddy, based on cif import prices, dipped below this value once, in 1971,
but exceeded it in every other year of the project life.
14.       A final factor which seriously depressed the Appraisal Report
estimate of the project's rate of return was the forecasted level of on-
farm production expenses. The following table presents the estimates made
at appraisal and current estimates and projections:
Constant 1974 M$/ha
Appraisal            Current
Estimates           Estimates
1966             $  357              $  122
1970 /a             802                 370
1980 /a             802                 553
/a   Double-cropped land.
It is not clear from the Appraisal Report whether the original estimates of
production costs included estimated 0&M costs, but as the Report projected
these costs at only M$26/ha in 1966 and M$42/ha in 1970, this would not have
accounted for the large discrepancy. One reason for the overestimate may
have been the assumption at appraisal of heavy basal mix fertilizer applica-
tions, while in actuality only urea has provided a significant response
and basal mix usage has been minimal. 1/
15.       The economic value 2/ of project area paddy production is given
below for illustrative years:
1/   Annex 3, paras 43-45.   The discrepancy is not due to the fertilizer
subsidy, as this has been eliminated in the calculations.
2/   Evaluated at the shadow prices given in Table 1.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Paddy
Output         Price        Gross Value
(tons)       (1974 M$)   (1974 M$ million)
1966               284,000           365           103.7
1974               682,000           723           493.1
1980               718,000           354           254.2
About 46% of the total increase in gross value of paddy production between
1966 and 1974 was due to the rise in prices, with the remaining 54% due to
the increase in output. Of the increase in output, about 6.6% would probably
have been achieved in the absence of the project, extrapolating a normal rate
of yield increase for the project area. Thus about 51% of the total increase
in gross value of production between 1966 and 1974 is directly attributable
to the project. 1/ The entire increase in gross value of production between
1966 and 1980 would be attributable to increased production, since economic
prices are anticipated to decline slightly over that period. Thus about
92% of the increase in output and gross value of production at full develop-
ment would be directly attributable to the project.
Farm Incomes
16.       The farm budgets (Table 5) indicate that, following the expected
increases in farm practices detailed in Annex 3, net farm incomes will more
than double by 1980 and total net income will also approximately double by
that date. These results, however, should be regarded as merely illus-
trative mainly because they represent the 'typical farm size' under average
tenancy and owner operator conditions. Further they represent the product
of applying 'likely' trends in yield, input utilization and management
practices.
17.       There is now a considerable body of statistical, economic and
social data available and relevant to the Muda scheme.   The most compre-
hensive is that developed by the Muda River Study. 2/    This material was
collected during the mid-point of the project's implementation, for the
specific purpose of studying changes in farm household economic behavior
under c6nditions of rising income. Preliminary indications from this
data generally support the above remarks.
1/   The economic rate of return includes the effects of relative price
changes, of course.
2/   The field work for the study was undertaken by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program between 1972 and 1974 and a first-stage report is expected soon.
Further work on this data is also being undertaken by the Bank's Devel-
opment Research Center.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
18.       Judging from this study, it appears that total net incomes have
increased on an average by approximately 80%, with a range of 50-180%.
Because, however, the farm households opt to place a high priority on the
repayment of historic debt and on investment in capital assets they have
voluntarily restricted the increase in their net disposable income for
consumption purposes to about 15% over the pre-project situation. Thus,
farm households have yet to feel the full impact of the income increases
on consumption spending.
Distribution of Income and Farm Size
19.       This aspect of the Muda River Study is continuing, but utilizing
data from the Study, the distribution of annual income is as given in Table 6.
The Study showed that farm size is less unequally distributed than annual
income, suggesting that the efficiency of management is not uniform and that
there are probably increasing returns to scale. More important, however, is
the probability that the overall distribution of income has worsened during
the period 1966-1972, while the distribution of farm size has somewhat
improved. This is explained, at least in part, by: (a) tendency for the
inequality of income distribution to diminish amongst farmers cropping acid
sulphate soils, whilst amongst those farmers cropping the more normal soils
there has been an increase in the inequality of income distribution; and
(b) the possibility that these trends in the pattern of income distribution
are in large part due to farmers in the acid soil area coming up against
a more restrictive production frontier whilst for cultivators of non-acid
soil the introduction of a double cropping regime has moved the production
possibilities frontier substantially outwards, thus widening the available
range of income opportunities. The fixed-rent system predominant in the
Muda area has resulted in the retention by tenant farmers of almost the
entire increase in padi farm income (Table 5), with average rents rising the
equivalent of only M$60/ha.
The Project's Wider Economic Impact
20.       The Muda River Study defined the impact area of the project and
found it to contain a population of 696,000, of which the paddy farming
population numbered 289,000, or 40%. The impact of the project on its
economic hinterland of the local economy has not yet been fully evaluated
but certain broad conclusions are apparent.
21.       Rural Employment.   The introduction of double cropping has substan-
tially increased the total farm labor input per unit area. This increase in
labor inputs has been met by a transfer of family labor previously occupied
off farm to on-farm employment and an expansion in the use of hired labor.
The significant opportunity cost of this transfer of employment has been re-
flected in a sharp decline in income earned off farm. However, the impli-
cation of this trend and an analysis of net farm incomes and investment
indicates that the returns to the marginal unit of labor on-farm and off-
farm are not yet equated - the former being the higher. This is clearly
a contributory factor in the rapid take-up of the opportunity to double
crop by farmers throughout the scheme.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
22.       However, the increased use of hired labor and the withdrawal of
a large part of the padi farming community from the off-farm labor market
implies that a large pool (estimated at between 9,000 and 13,000 man-years)
of off-farm work opportunities have been filled by the previously unemployed
or underemployed in the region is unknown, two separate pieces of informa-
tion imply that there must have been a substantial increase in employment
within the local economy and specifically within the Muda Scheme.
23.       First, the prohibition of immigrant seasonal (harvesting) labor
from Thailand in 1970 and the decline since 1970/1971 in the same type of
labor from Kelantan on the east coast indicate that the increases use of
hired labor in the Muda Scheme must have brought hitherto unemployed (or
underemployed) into the workforce.
24.       Second, the marked expansion of aggregate demand at the retail
level in the rural and semi-urban areas cannot be fully accounted for by
income changes amongst the padi farming community. It has been estimated
that the following incremental expansion of aggregate demand (in M$ million
at constant prices) at the retail level has taken place:
1970     1971     1972    1973
12.1     19.1      8.5     3.1
of which by padi farmers                  5.8      7.7       2.9    1.2
Thus the substantial portion not accounted for by the padi farming com-
munity must be the result of increased purchasing power in the hands of
non-farmers.
25.       Economic Growth.   Because the padi farming community forms a major
proportion of the population (44%) in the local economy the expansion of
their aggregate demand has stimulated economic activity across a wide front.
This increase has followed from the widespread introduction of a double
cropping regime for padi cultivation through the Muda Scheme.
26.       Because, however, the capital investment in the Muda Scheme was
massive in comparison to the secular trend of public and private sector
development expenditure in the local economy, this of itself, by increasing
the money supply and raising the level of activity in the labor market,
provoked a significant pre-project increase in economic activity which was
maintained or increased (depending on the sector) by the post project
expansion of demand.
27.       There is no substantial evidence to support the view that the
increase in aggregate demand has promoted an increase in manufacturing
capacity in the local economy. Such evidence as there is tends to indi-
cate that incremental demand has been met by increased imports into the
local economy from the remainder of the Peninsular Malaysian economy.
Similarly, there is very little evidence to show that this regionally



ANNEX 5
Page 8
created incremental demand has been in any way sufficient to affect in-
vestment decisions in the rest of the Peninsular Malaysian economy or
decisions concerning the location of capital investment. In short, be-
cause of its relatively isolated position in the peninsula of West Malay-
sia it is unlikely that the local economy will autonomously be capable
of expanding its manufacturing capacity unless, as has recently been the
case with MADA, special privileges under the Pioneer Industries Legis-
lation are offered to potential investors.
28.       Judging from the limited evidence of the retail business sector,
it is probable that the development of the non-agricultural components of
the local economy has affected the distribution of income in the region in
two main ways. First, it has probably raised absolute levels of income in
the non-farming component of the rural sector but has at the same time re-
duced their relative position in comparison to urban income levels - i.e.
a substantial portion of incremental income has been transferred from the
rural to the urban sector. Second, even though the numbers of people
participating in the business sector has expanded, this expansion has
probably taken place in the upper reaches of the income distribution and
has therefore, because of the relatively small numbers involved, adversely
affected the regional distribution of income.
MADA and Industrial Developient
29.       The Kedah State Government in coordination with the Federal Govern-
ment has mounted an intensive drive to develop the manufacturing sector in
the state. The increasing emphasis given to the establishment of more
manufacturing units in the state is aimed essentially at increasing employ-
ment. In its industrialization drive, the Kedah State Government has ini-
tially opened up 4 industrial estates to provide all the necessary infra-
structural facilities for the establishment of manufacturing units in the
area. The biggest of these estates is in Alor Setar. In addition to the
setting up of industrial estates, the Kedah State Government has also estab-
lished a State Development Corporation which acts as its principal agency
for industrialization and establishes manufacturing plants either by itself
or in joint-ventures with the private sector.
30.       Supplementary to this State level activity, MADA has established
its own Industrial Development Division (Annex 4), headed by a professional
economist and shortly to be expanded, which aims to promote industrial
development in the project area and provide increased employment opportunities
for farming families. MADA itself pays no active role in managing the
resulting enterprises but confines itself to identifying opportunities, con-
ducting pre-feasibility studies and finding financiers. MADA is however
empowered to participate in the equity of enterprises which are established.
31.       To date MADA's efforts have resulted in the establishment on the
Alor Setar industrial estate of a factory manufacturing canvas and rubber
shoes exclusively for export. This factory was granted pioneer status and
commenced operations in February 1974. This enterprise is financed by paid



ANNEX 5
Page  9
up capital of M$1.2 million and a term loan of M$1.2 million from the
Malayan Banking Corporation. It is a joint venture between International
Footwear Pte. Ltd of Singapore, MADA and the State Development Corporation
and involved a capital outlay on construction and equipment of M$1.7 million.
It employs 400 people, mostly young Malay women, many of whom come from
rural farming families. The primary raw materials are rubber, canvas and
chemical solvents and adhesives which are mostly of domestic origin. Whilst
details of the financial operations of the factory are not publicly available,
it is generally regarded as a success.






ATlEX 5
Table 1
MALAYSIA
LOAN 434-MA: MJDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Price Series for Paddy -
Financial Farmgate      Shadow Farmgate
Price                Price
1966                               366                  365
1967                               360                  460
1968                               247                  495
1969                               425                  406
1970                               349                  303
1971                               324                  273
1972                               343                  325
1973                               356                  44o
1974                               439                  723
1975                               435                  606
1976                               425                  550
1977                              2415                  493
1978                               405                  430
1979                               395                  379
1980                               385                  354
etc.                               385                  354
1/  In constant 1974 M$/ton.






MALAYSIA
LOAN 434-MA: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Net Value of Production (Shadow Farmgate PriceA/'
Production Costs bt
Yields                              Gross Value of Production         Normal          Acid
Normal Soils     Acid Soils                Normal  Soils       Acid Soils        Soils           Soils
--------- tons/bli ----------              --------- M$/ha -------------         ------- M$/ha ------
Price
Year            W       W       W       W      M$ ton       w        w             w        w          w      w       w
MAIN SEASON    1966          3.23    3.23     2.49    2.49     365      1,179     1,179      909      909     125    125    105    105
1967           3.29    3.29    2.54    2.54     460       1,513    1,513    1,168     1,168    140    140    120     120
1968          3.30     3.39    2.50    2.62     495       1,633    1,678    1,237    1,297     152    152    120     130
1969          3.30     3.32    2.51    2.56      406      1,340    1,348    1,019     1,039    160    165    125     145
1970           3.32    3.37    2.52    2.60     303       1,006    1,021      764       788    170    180    125     15 -
1971           3.34    3.23    2.53    2.50     273         912      882      691       682    180    195    130     180
1972          3.36     3.18    2.54    2.45     325       1,092    1,033      825       796    190    210    130     200
97;1           3.3S   3J..,9   2. )55   2.77     440      1,487    1,580    1,122     1,219    200    225    i35     230
1974          3.40     3.63    2.56    2.79     723       2,458    2,624    1,851     2,017    200    230     140    235
1975           3.42    3.65    2.57    2.81     606       2,073    2,212    1,557     1,703    205    235     145    240
1976           3.44    3.67    2.58    2.83     550       1,892    2,018    1,419     1,556    210    240    150     240
1977          3.46     3.69    2.59    2.85     493       1,706    1,819    1,277     1,405    210    240     160    245
1978           3.48    3.71    2.60    2.86     430       1,496    1,595    1,118     1,230    215    250     170    250
1979          3.50     3.73    2.60    2.87     379       1,326    1,414      985     1,088    220    250     170    260
1980, etc.    3.50     3.75    2.60    2.88     354       1,239.   1,327      920     1,020    220    260     170    270
OFF SEASON     1966           -       -        -       -       365        -         -        -        -        -      -      -       -
1967            -       -       -       -       460         -        -        -         -       -      -       -      -
1968            -       -       -       -       495         -        -        -         -       -      -       -      -
1969            -       -       -       -       406         -        -        -         -       -      -       -      -
1970            -      2.68     -      2.04     303         -        812      -         618     -     210      -     140
1971            -      3.70     -      2.84     273         -      1,010       -        775     -     230      -     160
1972           -       3.65     -      2.82     325         -      1,186      -         916     -     240      -     165
1973           -       3.78     -      2.93     440         -      1,663      -       1,289     -     255      -     180
1974           -       3.77     -      2.91     723         -      2,726       -      2,104     -     260      -     185
1975            -      3.80     -      2.93     606         -      2,303       -      1,776     -      265     -     190
1976           -       3.83     -      2.95     550         -      2,106       -      1,622     -      270     -     200
1977           -       3.86     -      2.97     493         -      1,903       -      1,464     -      275     -     210
1978            -      3.89     -      2.98     430         -      1,673       -      1,281     -      280     -     225
1979            -      3.92     -      2.99     379         -      1,486       -      1,133     -      290     -     240
1980, etc.      -      3.95     -      3.00     354         -      1,398       -      1,062     -      300     -     240
W  =  without project
W  =  with project
Oaf ct
a/  All values in constant 1974 M$.
b/ Excluding labor costs.



MALAYSIA
LOAN 434-MA: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
E1onom-c Rate of Retur,
Net Value of Production                                                                    Total Labor        Total Benerits
Normal Soils        Acid Soils         Normal Soils         Acid Soils                                               LO5s5        (Normal & Acid Soils)
--------- MS/-h ----___-_              ------ Total Value '000 MS ----                    Costs                  -   ---- MS million: ---------------
-----   -M$  million  a/! -- -
Year                    W                 W     W   W          W                   W      Construction     0!/      Total       W        W                     W W
RAIN SEASON    1966         1,054    1,054      804      804     80,736     80,736    11,650    11,653       35.97 b/    5.28 "    41.25     18.95    18.95      65.59      65.59
1967         1,373    1,373    1,048    1,048    107,369    107,369    15,615   15,615        62.24       2.71      64.95     19.36    19.36     103.62     103.62
1968         1,482    1,526    1,117    1,167    116,258    119,789   16,755    17,505        79.52       3.12      82.64     19.45    20.42     113.57     114.12
1969         1,180    1,183      894      894     92,630    92,865     13,410    13,410       63.77       3.24      66.41     19.45    21.40      86.59      84.87
1970           836      841      639      633     66,211    66,607     9,649     9,558        29.86       3.50      33.36     19.61    36.45      56.25      59.09
1971           732      687      561      502     58,048     56,128    8,471      7,580       20.06       4.06      24.12     19.64    40.76      46.88      57.63
1972           902      823      695      596     71,619    67,568     10,494    9,000        14.11       7.81      21.92     19.66    47.31      62.45      92.20
1973         1,287    1,355      987      989    102,316    111,245   14,904     14,934        5.44       6.95      12.39     19.68    52.50      97.54     192.28
1974         2,25B    2,394    1,711    1,782    179,737    196,547    25,836   26,908         1.50       7.94       9.44     19.70    54.46     185.88     393.01
1975         1,868    1,977    1,412    1,463    148,880    162,509   21,321     22,091        0.50       8.85       9.35     19.72    54.52     150.48     315.42
1976         1,682    1,778    1,269    1,316    134,224    146,507   19,162     19,872         -         8.85       8.85     19.74    54.61     133.65     278.79
1977         1,496    1,579    1,117    1,160    119,530    130,267    16,867    17,516         -         8.85       8.85     19.76    54.69     116.64     241.26
1978         1,281    1,345      948      980    102,352    110,962    14,315    14,798         -         8.85       8.85     19.76    54.75      96.90     197.65
1979         1,106    1,164      815      828     88,369     96,030    12,306    12,503         _         8.85       8.85     19.76    54.86      80.91     163.25
1980, etc.   1,019    1,067      750      750     81,418    88,389     11,325    11,325         _         8.85       8.85     19.76    55.27      73.06     145.08 -
OFF SEASON     1966               -        -        -              -          -         -         -
1967           -        -        -        -         -          -
1968           -        -
1969           -                          - _                  - _       _
1970           -        602      -        478       -        16,073      -        3,298
1971           -        780      -        615       -        29,640      -        5,043
1972           -        946      -        751       -        54,679      -        8,261
1973           -      1,408      -      1,109       -       104,192      -       14,417
1974           -      2,466      -      1,919       -       197,527      -       26,482
1975           -      2,038      -      1,586       -       163,448      -      21,887                                ESTIMATED RATE (F RETURN 18.,3.
1976           -      1,836      -      1,422       -       147,247      -       19,766
1977           -      1,628             1,254       -       130,728      -       17,431
1978           -      1,393      -      1,056       -       111,858      -       14,784
1979           -      1,196      -        893       -        96.278      -       12,502
1980, etc.     -      1,098      _        822       -        80.389      -       11,508
-w     without project
W     n  with project
a/ Constant 1974 M$.
b/ Expenditures were made during 196i, 1964 and 1965 totalling M$6.55 million at current prices. After being expressed as the present value in 1966 in 1974 constant prices the
resulting sum of MS9.94 million was added to construction costs in 1966.
c/ Expenditure of MS2.15 million in 1965 treated as in footnote 'b'.
d/ At end of evaluation period in the year 2000 the project is assumed to have a salvage value of M$100 million.



MALAYSIA
LOAN 434-MAt MODA IRRIGATIOW PhOJECT
Peoleer Are, Total Labor Derand
Jmnuary         February        Mareb           April             May           J-m              JDly          Augoat          S.pteob-r       Ontober         Nonbar          D-ehb-r          T o t   I
-(ht)               (hr.)          (hr.)           (hr.)            (hr.)         (hr.)            (hr.)          (hr.)            (hr.)           (hr.)           (hr.)           (hr.)            (hr.)
Padi Farm Labor (par h.)
6.eaer),y (r                                                  50                                     20              30                                      50                                                                      50      100
LAnd Prptrmtinn '/                                                           60                      40              70                                                     60                                                       10      120
Tranaplt-t                                                                   45              75              30                      70              70                     45              75              30                      140      300
F.rtili..r Applitign                                                          10                              7       6               6                                      10                              S                       12       35
P"attoida    licti9nlW-eding                  20                                                             20              35              20                     20 70                            t0     20              35       50      150
RMe_.tag_                            150      90     so      150             90                                                             100             170             100                                     60              290      700
Othar Wn,A _/                                                         LO      15    1)       30      15      15      15      25                                              10             20               10             25       5S      150
TOTAL PER RECTA  RRIIAL SOtL             10     110     SO      200      10     220    00      105      75      72     121      60      76     120      70     220      20     225      20      95      10      68      60     60       707    1,555
ItOTAL PER  ECTAE ACITD SOL A/          123      94     68      170       9     L87    13       89      64      61     102      51      65     102      60     107      10     191      la      01       9      58      51      5      60 5    1,322
PRSOJCT AREA TOTAL 7/Al0O FOR
PADI FAR8M LA80R ('000) _             13.918  10,532  7,446   19,370     935 20,753   1,395   9,804   6,959   6,722   9.819   5,604   7,054  11,208   6,499  20,778   1,870  21,300   1.870   9,094     935   6,50-   5.5t4    740   64,264  147,415
OTHER FARI WORK ('000) f/              1,234   2,150  1,234      870   5,757     870   5,243  2,509   4,318   4,557   1,234   5,427   1.336   2.150   1,850     870   7,402     870   7.402   2,509   5.551   4.557  J3.0.    7.42J   46.467   32.764
OSI`ER CASAL WORW ('000)               1,798   1,073  1,798    1,073   1,798   1,073   1,798   1,073   1,798   1,073   1,798   1,073  1,798   1,073   1.798   1,073   1.798   1.073   1,798   1,073   1,798   1.073   1.79S   I0.73   21(576   12,74
Ot8ER REUOLAR WORE ('000) 8           11,875  15,293 11,875   15,293  11,875  15,293  11,875  15,293  11,875  15,293  11.875  15,293  11,875  15,293  11,875  15,293  11.875  15,293  11,875  15,293  11.875  15.293  1I.875  I55293  142.500  (10)504
PR0JECT AREA TOTAL UIBOR
lDEMAN  ( 000)                        28,825  29,048 22,353   36.606  20,365  37,989  20,311  28,679  24,950  27,645  24,726  27,397  22,063  29.724  22.022 32,014  22,945  38,536  22,945  27,969  20,150  27,432  23,143  27,534  274,807  376,573
* . without proJect
a     with preJent
1   S bat-tlal declia. in hour. per ht..are per Crop tes.lt. frg high level of aahaolatioo anticipated in 1980.
h/   anclede. Iabor for a11 anauitat.d operation. - -utting, threahing, aOovol3   dry"og and in-field tr.neport.
c Toneldee I oor for et., aernteul.
d/ Etited at 85) of re-,i-re,ent. for -orl .ol..
B.aed sn cropped area. preteoted In Table     of A-oen
[nclud.a labor for tt.edIog to boff.lo and other Ilve-tocik,   i.alt.inig fore bhildingo. an.h on o- n
hboelot md ether minor crop., fahing etc.
B, Cml Labor of 1 typea reuired by the -oo-far.iog aector in the proJcJt re..        ml7. i. .op.ted to declio-
der tha mIth project itoatLn,
h/ Eati-ted to b. that portion of th, labor for-e permanently nd regularly ro9q1y.ed. Thio 1. epocted to
ipcram-. by about 287 over the without project aita tin.






MALAYS IA
LOAN 43444A: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Total Annual Opportunity Costs for Project Farm Labor
January    February     March      April        May        June      July       August    September   October     November   December      Total
a    w      w     w    w     w    w      w          w           w    w     w    0     w    0      w    w     w    w      w   0      w    *      w
1. TOTAL PROJECT AREA DEMAND FOR /
FARM LABOR (million man hours)-   13.9   10.5   7.4  19.4  0.9 20.8   1.4   9.8   6.9  6.7   9.8   5.6   7.1  11.2  6.5  20.8  1.9  21.3   1.9  9.1   9.4   6.5   5.6  5.7  72.7 147.4
2. MARGINAL OPPORTUNITY COST (M$/hour) 0.44  0.38  0.33 0.65  0.21 0.72  0.22  0.38  0.32  0.32  0.38  0.30  0.32  0.40  0.31  0.72  0.23  0.75  0.23  0.36  0.37  0.31  0.29  0.30
3. AVERAGE OPPORTUNITY COST (M$/hour)  0.32  0.29  0.26  0.42  0.20 0.46  0.21  0.29  0.26  0.26  0.29  0.25  0.26  0.30  0.25  0.46  0.22  0.47  0.22  0.27  0.28  0.26  0.24  0.25
4. TOTAL IMPUTED COST (M$ million)-!/  4.45  3.05  1.92  8.15  0.18 9.57  0.29  2.84  1.79  1.74  2.84  1.40  1.85  3.36  1.63  9.57  0.42 10.01 0.42  2.46  2.63  1.69  1.34  1.43 19.76 55.27
w= without project
w - with project
a/ From Table 3.
b/ Row I times Raw 3.
(X



MALAYSIA
LOAN 434-MA: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budgets (Constant 1974 14$)
 -----1966                                                                   1980   ------------------------------------
Tenant           Owner                                  Tenant                                        Owner
Padi Area (ha)                           1.61            1.61                                    1,61                                         1.61
Other Crops and House Lot (ha)           0.28 a/         0.28                                    0.28                                         0.28
Family Size                              5.58            5.58                                    5.58                                         5.58
Main Season     Main Season               Main Season     Off Season     Annual       Main Season      Off Season     Annual
M$              M$                        M$             M$            M$             M$             M$             M$
Seed/Seedlings                              32              32                       24              27          51               24             27          51
Nursery Fertilizer -/                        9               9                       15              17          32               15             17          32
Land Preparation                            75              60                      120             125         245              100            110         210
Field Fertilizer                            80              96                      160             180         340              190            220         410
Agricultural Chemicals                       3               3                         8              9          17                8              9           17
Hired Labor                                100             145                      115             135         250              160            190         350
Land Tax                                    -                5                        -              -           -                -              -            15
Rent                                       190                                       -               -          250               -              -           -
Zakat c/                                    60              76                       -               -         178                                          217
549             426                        -              -        1,363               -               -        1,302
Yield (ton/ha)                          2.90             3.50                     3.40             3.60        7.00           4.10            4.30          8.40
Farmgate Price M$/ton)                    366              366                      385             385         385             385             385         385
Gross Padi Farm Income                  1,708            2,062                    2,107           2,231       4,338           2,540           2,666        5,206
Net Padi Farm Income                    1,159            1,636                      -               -         2,980                             - -        3,720
Other Sales Income d/                     140              100                              -       _           120             -               -             80
Home  Production e/                        85               85                                      -            85             -                _            85
Off-Farm Income   f/                      350              30D                       -              -           150             -                -           100
TOTAL NET INCOME                   1,734            2,121                                      -         3,330             -                          4,169
a/ Assumed to be owned
b/  Including expenditure on plastic sheeting and fencing wire.
c/  Religious tax currently levied at about 8% per annum on value of gross production
and paid only by landowner.
d/  Includes income from the sale of minor crops, livestock products and handicrafts.
e/ Value of non-rice food items produced and consumed.
f/  Income from casual employment of all types, intra family payments and remittances.



ANNEX 5
Table 6
MALAYSIA
LOAN 434-MA: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Distribution of Gross Annual Income (M$)
Size Class           % of          Cumulative %        % of        Cumulative %
(M$)             Households      of Households      Income       of Income
0 - 500           1.99              1.99            0.26           0.26
501 - 1,000        10.34             12-33            2.61          2.87
1,001 - 1,500        16.69             29.02            7.10           9.97
1,501 - 2,000        14.32             h3.31             8.bo        18.37
2,001 - 2,500        13.57             56.91           10.37         28.74
2,501 - 3,000        11.83             68.74           11.07          39.81
3,001 - 3,500         6.io             7L.84            6.70         46.51
3,501 - 4,000         5.98             80.82            7.60         54.11
4,0o1 - 4,500         5.11             85.93            7.34          61.45
5,501 - 5,000         2.49             88.42            4.07         65.52
5,001 - 5,500         1.50             89.92            2.68         68.20
5,501 - 6,ooo         1.30             91.22            2.47         70.67
6,001 - 6,500         1.50             92.72            3.16          73.83
6,501 - 7,000         1.12             93.8L            2.59          76,142
7,001 - 7,500         0.50             94.34            1.22          77.64
7,501 plus            5.66            100.00           22.36        100.00
Median income = $2,234 Giricoefficient    0.40575
Mean Income = $2,944






ANN%K
F'igure1
MALAYSIA
LOAN 434-MA: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Monthly Project Area Labor Supply and Demand
40
1980 Stressed Supply-
35 _                             1980 Supply -/
30                                                           1980 Demand
with Project
E               I                                          1980
I ~ |                                    Demand
w o  25        L _ n             r           l _ _     without
2 E     25 
1E25 _Project
0    1
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
< 0 _
10
15
10
J     F     M      A     M      J     J     A      S     0     N     D
Month
World Bank-9573



MALAYSIA
LOAN 434-MA: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Marginal Opportunity Cost of Farm Labor
1.20
1.00
C
.~' 0.60_
-C
E 0     0.40
0
0.sn
~-a
CL 
0-
_   0.40
002
0'~~~
0)        D                                      III 
0            5            10           15           20           25            30           35          40
Farm Labor Demand
(million man hours/month
World Bank-9574



ANNEX 6
Page 1
MALAYSIA
LOAN 434-MA: MUDA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Future Development
Background
1.        Annexes 2 and 3 show that, even though the Muda Project has achieved
all its original goals, there is still potential for further development. The
aims of such development would be two-fold:
(a) In order to maintain Malaysia's self-sufficiency in rice,
a continuing expansion in production will be required.
The Muda area seems to offer a comparative advantage for
this, as the cost of further development at Muda would be
less than the irrigation of virgin land or rainfed paddy
areas;
(b) Further investment would accelerate economic growth in
the region and lead to further increases in farm incomes,
purchasing power and rural employment, all of which will
be necessary to redress imbalances in income distribution,
both between urban and rural dwellers and between ethnic
groups (Annex 5).
2.        On the other hand, Muda Area farmers are no longer near the
bottom of the national income scale and it is valid to ask whether funds
for further development should not be spent in areas (such as rainfed
paddy areas) where the national income distributional effects would be
greater. However, there would seem to be room in any balanced develop-
ment plant for both kinds of activities, with lesser income distributional
effects of further development at Muda being balanced by the area's com-
parative advantage in rice growing, an attractive rate of return and the
existence of a very effective project management. If Malaysia does con-
template further investment in Muda, leading to even higher farm incomes,
the Government will need to review its policies on cost recovery (para
6.03).
3.        Improvements to the Muda Project have been under consideration
for some time. In 1968, proposals for "quaternary canals" were mooted
and, by 1970, a report was produced which outlined and costed a program
for increasing the density of distributary canals and improving farm
access roads. There was internal discussion in the Bank on a possible
second loan for these activites. It appears that these proposals were
dropped because the Government was not ready to proceed with them. The
need for further development has been increasingly realized by MADA over



ANNEX 6
Page 2
the last two or three years. While the early series of pilot projects
was mainly aimed at overcoming severe local problems of water distribution,
they also fostered the feeling that improvements would ultimately be re-
quired over the whole system.
4.        The 1973 supervision mission noted that the Muda Project had been
a considerable success and was being managed by an impressive organization,
which would be well capable of handling further development activity. How-
ever, the mission felt that the pilot project works constructed in 1971 and
1972 had not been planned in a sufficiently systematic way to form a basis
for appraisal of a project and that further feasibility studies and pilot
projects would be required. Consequently, the Bank offered to finance such
studies under the proposed loan for the Western Johore Agricultural De-
velopment Project (Loan 973-MA). MADA replied that they felt that their
continuing contract with the East-West Center in Hawaii would achieve the
same end and that Bank financing of studies would not be required. However,
in 1974, MADA decided that the assistance from the East-West Center was
rather too academically oriented for their needs and this contract was
terminated.
Pilot Project Program
5.        MADA has now embarked on a new Pilot Project in the Tanah Merah
irrigation block of the Muda Scheme. This is seen as the first in a series
of pilot projects and/or full-scale investments, the scope of which is only
vaguely defined at present. While MADA staff expect that, if the pilot
project is successful, its principles will be applied on a larger scale,
they are not yet thinking in terms of a well-defined project preparation
period followed by the implementation of a major project.
6.        The Tanah Merah Pilot Project will differ from previous efforts
in that the water supply, drainage and farm access needs of the whole
block will be considered together and that full consideration will be
given to agronomic, economic and social factors in planning and imple-
mentation. The pilot project area encompasses 500 ha (1,235 ac) of paddy
land, farmed by 295 families. At the time of the mission, MADA was carrying
out a detailed economic, social and cultural survey of the area. The
engineers had produced a tentative layout of ditches, drains and roads,
based on topography, but was expected that several cycles of discussion with
the farmers and redesign would be needed to produce a layout which would
be socially as well as technically acceptable. In the meantime, operational
studies were being made, to arrive at a rotational irrigation system which
would spread transplanting and harvesting labor requirements over a longer
period and thus avoid labor shortages.
7.        Boundary realignment is not envisaged under the present proposal,
although it is interesting to note that the MADA senior staff now regard
realignment as "quite difficult," rather than "impossible," as they did
in 1973. Tertiary ditches would be constructed across farm boundaries in



ANNEX 6
Page 3
purchased rights of way, and would be flanked by roads. Quaternary ditches
would follow farm boundaries and would serve about 50% of the farms direct-
ly. The drainage system would be constructed using similar criteria. Land
levelling would be done by the farmers themselves, if required. These
proposals are somewhat similar to the proposed "extensive" areas under the
Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project in Thailand (Credit 370-TH). MADA
staff have visited the pilot projects in the Chao Phya plain, as well as
Bank-assisted projects in the Philippines.
8.        A committee of MADA senior staff is meeting monthly to coordinate
planning for the Tanah Merah Pilot Project. Construction is expected to be
completed in 1975 using MADA's own forces. A budget of M$600,000 is availa-
ble out of the supplementary allocation for completing and improving the
Muda Project (Annex 2). At present, it is not intended that the farmers
should repay any part of the cost. It is expected that operation and
maintenance would be handed over to irrigation committees at the local
level, as they develop the capability for such responsibility.
Proiect Scope
9.        Inevitably, the agencies concerned, namely MADA, the Ministry
of Agriculture and Rural Development and the Economic Planning Unit, will
have to make a decision on the scope and timing of future investment in
Muda. While funds are available for a series of pilot projects, a large-
scale project would need to be considered on its own merits and included
in the Third Malaysia Plan. In order to generate the data needed to prepare
and evaluate any such project proposal, a systematic pilot project plan will
be needed. It would be unreasonable to expect to reach firm conclusions
on technical standards, unit costs and probable benefits in less than
about three years. This would allow about three or four pilot projects
to be constructed and monitored.
10.       The financial and manpower resources available to MADA should
allow some basic problems of on-farm development to be addressed in a
more rigorous way than has been attempted in most Asian countries.    For
example, little is known of the optimum level of investment, that is, the
density of the canal system (or the ditch to drain distance), that wouLd
maximize.the economic rate of return under Malaysian conditions. Another
question which could only be answered by field trials is whether boundary
realignment is feasible from a social point of view and desirable from
technical-and economic standpoints. MADA should include boundary real:Lgn-
ment, on a voluntary basis, in one of its pilot projects, in order to
answer this question. While on-farm development schemes are relatively
easy to plan on paper,, practical implementation requires that the executing
agency work closely with the farmers, a process which takes time and slcill.
Time is also needed to develop an organization which is capable of preparing
the multitude of plans and documents that are required for an extensive
system of small-scale works. Therefore, the speed at which the agency could
implement a large-scale project is another variable which can only be
answered in the pilot project phase.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
11.       Given MADA's past tendency to "overbuild" its pilot projects,
for example, by concrete lining quaternary ditches and laterite surfacing
the farm roads, there will be a need for careful cost control with an
eye to economic feasibility in carrying out any pilot project programs.
MADA expects a yield increase of about 30% (or 1 ton/ha) from the Tanah
Merah standard of on-farm development (para 7) and this appears reasonable,
if extension services are strengthened at the same time. Experience in
other countries indicates that projects of this kind, if well conceived
and with good control of costs, have attractive rates of return, typically
15-20%.
12.       It is likely that, if the pilot project program is successful,
on-farm development would be gradually extended over the whole 97,000 ha,
probably using a variable standard of development and including first those
areas which have particularly difficult water control problems. The acid-
sulphate soil areas (Annex 3) will require special attention, particuarly
on the depth and spacing of drains. Besides on-farm development, any Muda
Irrigation Improvement Project should include related investments, such as
the works needed to stabilize the Muda and Pedu Dams and the Padang Terap
River (Annex 2). The improvement in water use efficiency resulting from
rotational irrigation and water control down to the farm level (para 6)
would permit an expansion of the irrigated area. About 4,000 ha of land
adjacent to the irrigation area could be commanded by gravity and it is
likely that further areas exist which could be served by low-lift pumping.
Some of these areas would be suitable for crops other than rice.
13.       Another important activity which should be carried out as part
of any large project is a re-analysis of the hydrology of the Muda System.
The project was based on analyses made in the early 1960's with a rather
poor data base and very approximate methods (Annex 2). DID has already
shown, in the case of the Western Johore Project, that it has the capability
to apply up-to-date hydrologic methods. Such studies would be essential
to assess water requirements and availability and also to check the
adequacy of the spillway capacities at the dams and thus the safety of
the structures.
14.       Any proposed project would be a natural vehicle for implementing
improvements of a capital nature in the main agricultural supporting
services such as research, extension and credit. This might take the
form of buildings, equipment and training. Considerations should also
be given to finance for some of MADA's other activities, such as small-
scale and large-scale industrial development.
Recommendations
15.       As explained in para 5, MADA has not yet begun to think in terms
of a large project for which external financing might be required. However,
the mission feels that development along the lines outlined above would be
of high priority, both regionally and nationally, and recommends that dis-
cussions be initiated between the Bank and the Economic Planning Unit and
the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development as to whether the
Government considers such development to have high priority and desires
external financing for it.



z i~~P. 4'@ doi
140%ul~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t-lY~ ~~~                  C-/ -\s      4              0v8X- 9-
,<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u
5, FT AF
-J a. '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



