RESTRICTED
Report No. P-456
FILE C'my
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
MALAYSIA
November 1, 1965



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
PRESIDENT'S REPORT AND RECOM1ENDATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO M4ALAYSIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Malaysia in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $45 million
for an irrigation project on the mainland.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The application for the proposed loan was received by the Bank
on September 4, 1964. The field investigations were carried out in February
and March 1965.
3.        Negotiations for the loan were concluded on July 19, 1965.  The
Borrower w-ras represented by Mr. Rama Iyer, Treasury; Mr. H. S. Ong, Solicitor
General; Mr. Ow-Yang Hong Chiew, Director, Department of Drainage and Irriga-
tion and Mr. Lew Sip Hon, Deputy Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture.
The States of Kedah and Perlis were represented by Mr. Haroon bin Hashim,
Legal Adviser. On October 5, 1965, the Government informed the Bank that
the draft loan documents wiere accepted by Malaysia as well as Kedah and Perlis.
4.        The proposed loan would be the fourth made in Malaysia.  Particulars
of the previous three loans are given in the table below, which also includes
the loan made to the Public Utilities Board in Singapore in February last under
the guarantee of Mialaysia.
Amount
Amount Net of Undisbursed
Cancellations on Sept. 30
Year  Borrower                       Purpose       ($ million)  ($ million)
1958  Central Electricity Board      Electric Power     28.6        1.2
1963  Malaysian Industrial Develop-  Industrial
ment Finance, Ltd.            Finance            8.0        5.0
1963  Central Electricity Board      Electric Power     51.9       39.1
1964 PUB - Singapore                 Water Supply        6.8        6.3
Total, net of cancellations                       95.3       51.6
Of which has been repaid                         1.7
Total now outstanding                             93.6
Amount sold                     6.0
Of which has been repaid       1.1           4.9
Net amount now held by Bank                       88.7
5.        The rate of withdrawal under the second power loan is roughly in
line with expectations, and no particular difficulties are foreseen.  The
utilization o2 the Development Finance Company loan has been somewhat slower
than expected; the uncommitted balance, however, should be fully committed
within the next few months.



- 2 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
6.        Given below are the main features of the proposed loan:
Borrower:                   Malaysia
Amount:                     Equivalent in various currencies to
$45 million.
Term:                       25 years.
Amortization:                In 41 semi-annual installments
commencing on October 1, 1970.
Interest Rate:               5 1/2% per annum.
Commitment Charge:           3/8 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        A detailed description of the Project is given in the attached
Report, Muda River Irrigation Project, Malaysia (TO 482a), (No. 1).
8.        The Project for which the loan would be made comprises the construc-
tion of three dams, a tunne'l connecting two of the reservoirs, ancillary
structures and a system of irrigation canals in the States of Kedah and Perlis
to provide wvater for two crops of paddy a year on an area of 261,500 acres.
About half of this area is at present served by an irrigation system, which,
however, supplies water for a single crop of paddy; the rest of the acreage
is entirely dependent on the monsoon. The Project is designed, on full
development, to produce an increase in net farm benefits amounting to US$30
million per year. The rate of return to the economy is estimated to be 10%
per annum.  The increased output will also reduce the amount of paddy that
would otherwise have to be imported to meet the needs of a growing population
and a rising standard of living; the gross annual import savings may be of the
order of US$35 million.
9.        To reap these benefits, the Central Government and the two States
Governments will have to provide adequate institutions and services, and
appropriate incentives to farmers. Malaysia is undertaking to expand and
improve agricultural research and the supply of seeds, fertilizers and farm
machinery. Assurances are also being obtained from Malaysia in regard to
strengthening the agricultural credit system for the benefit of farmers in
the Project area. Complementary undertalings will be obtained from the States
of Kedah and Perlis regarding matters that are wvithin their constitutional
powers.  These States will expand the agricultural extension service as
required from time to time. They will also undertake to make approprielte
adjustments in the water rates and land taxes so as to ensure recovery of the
operating and maintenance costs and, to the extent practicable, of monies
invested in the Project.  At the same time, the States iwill undertalce to
ensure that the farmers' incentive tomake use of the facilities created by
the Project and supporting services are not reduced through unreasonably high
water charges or rent and taxes.



10.       The proposed loan wiould cover approximately half the estimated
construction cost of the Project ($76.3 million), together with interest
during construction ($6.9 million).  The foreign exchange component of the
investment is estimated to be about $28.8 million. The proposed loan would
cover the whole of this element and approximately $9.3 million equivalent
(or about 201) of the local currency expenditure.
11.       Purchases of major items of imported equipment and the awarding of
all major construction contracts will be made on the basis of international
competitive bidding. All other procurement (except for petty items) will also
be made through local competitive bidding, as required by the departmental
rules of the Central Government's Department of Irrigation and Drainage (DID),
which will be the agency responsible for carrying out the Project.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND LEGAL AUTHORITY
12.       The dra't loan agreement between iMalaysia and the Bank, which has
no special features, is being circulated separatcly to the Executive Directors,
together with a draft supplementary letter from the States of Kedah and Perlis
on lWlater Charges, Land Taxes and Tenancy Rents (see paragraph C above).
13.       The report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank is also being
distributed separat-ely.
PART V - ECONOMIC SITUATION
14.       An economic report (FE-4la) on Malaysia, including 5ingapore, was
distributed to the Executive Directors on January 7, 1965 (R65-4). An
interim report on Malaysia, followring Singapore's separation, entitled
"Preliminary Memorandum on ilalaysia's Economic Position and Development
Problems" (FE-49) is attached, (No. 2). A new report on the economic
prospects of Malaysia is now being prepared.  The separation has so far caused
hardly any disruption to the I-4alaysian economy, because only loose economic
ties had been created; in the long run, however, the growth prospects of both
Malaysia and Singapore are lilkely to be adversely affected unless the continuing
problems of mutual economic cooperation are satisfactorily resolved.
15.       Malaysia's total output has been rising at around 6% a year, but
real income has grown by less than 5% because of the decline in export prices.
Apart from some growth in the manufacturing and related sectors, the bulk of
the recent growth in real income can be traced to the spurt in public
investment, which caused a growth in the investment rate from 12-130 in
1959/60 to 18/ in 1965.  This groTith which took place mainly in the public
sector, led the investment rate to exceed the average savings rate w,hich has
remained at about 14%. This has been reflected in a growsing external deficit,
the financing of which. will require capital inflow from abroad for years to
come. Because of the financial constraints which are now being felt, the
rate of growth of government spending is expected to fall off, and GWP growth.
is likely to fall to around 4.5% p.a. The bulk of recent investment has been
for productive purposes; however, since much has been invested in slow
yielding assets, the impact on output is unlikely to be felt until the early
1970's.



16.       The Government is now preparing a new Malaysian Development Plan
for 1966/70, and in general the magnitudes and direction of the proposed
expenditures appear to be well-conceived. Public investment, excluding
security, is planned to amount to M$3,800 million, or about 20% more than
during 161/65. Because of heavy defense expenditures, and increasing
recurrent costs reflecting improvements in education and other services, the
proportion of public investment which can be financed by domestic resources
is unlikely to exceed 60%. A substantial external deficit is likely to emerge,
and reliance will have to be placed upon foreign grants and loans, and use of
accumulated assets.
17.       In the past Malaysia has not had to rely heavily upon external
capital assistance, but the prospects for the next few years to indicate
that if an excessive drawdown of foreign assets, or a cut back in investment,
is to be avoided, it will be necessary to seek substantial help from abroad.
It is with this need in view that the Bank recently convened a preliminary
meeting of a number of countries to establish a Consultative Group for
Malaysia. The response has been favorable, and it is hoped that the
collaborative efforts of the Group - including the Bank - will be a
significant factor in i'Ialaysia's achieving a satisfactory rate of growth.
18.      IMalaysia's present external debt is low, with peak debt services
below 2% of project export earnings. Even on the basis of heavy additional
borrowing, perhaps totalling over U5$300 million between 1966 and 1970,
annual debt service charges should not exceed 4% of projected export earnings
in 1970.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE IWITH THIE ARTICIES OF AGREEMENT
19.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the requirements
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOivENDATION
20.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
Resolution:
RESOLVED:
THAT, the Bank shall grant a loan to Malaysia, in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-five
million United States dollars (U.-S.$45,000,000), to
mature on and prior to October 1, 1990, to bear interest
at the rate of five and one-half per cent (5 1/2%) per
annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions as
shall be substantially in accordance with the terms and
conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Muda
Irrigation Project) between the Bank and Malaysia, which.
has been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
W4ashington, D. C.
November 1, 1965



