RSTUP!9       T-)    |Report No. TO-482a
REPORTS DESK
WITHIN 
LONE WEEK             |
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
MUDA RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT
MALAYSIA
October 14, 1965
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
l Malayan $   =      0. 33 U.S. $
1 U.S. $      =      3 Malayan $
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 ton         =      2, 240 lbs.
1 gangtang    =      5.6 lbs.
1 picul       =      133. 3 lbs.



IMLYSIA
MUDA RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMKARY                                               &ii
I.  INTRODUCTION                                          1
II. BACKGROUND INFORMATION                                 1
III. THE PROJECT AREA                                       2
A. General                                            2
B. Climate                                            2
C. present Irrigation Development                     2
D. Population and Industry                            3
E. Transportation                                     3
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Definition                                         4
B. Project Works                                      4
C. Water Supply                                       7
D. Water Requirements                                 9
E. Soils - Topography - Drainage                     11
F. Present and Anticipated Crop Production           12
G. Land Tenure and 0 & M Costs                       13
H. Marketing and Prices                              14
I. Construction Cost Estimates                       14
J. 0 & M Cost Estimates                              15
K. Financing                                         15
V.  CRGANIZATION AND MNAGMENT                            16
A. Construction                                      16
B. Operation and Maintenance                         17
C. Research and Extension                            17
D. Agricultural Credit                               18
E. Water Charges and Taxes                           18
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION                            19
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                       20
ANNEXES
1. Map - The States of Malaya
2.  Map - Muda Project - General Plan
3. operation & Maintenance Equipment
4. Water Balance Study - Average Year
5. Map - Padi Soils of Kedah & Perlis Coastal Plain
6.  Present & Projected Yieldsp Costs & Revenues for Project Area
7. Water Rates Per Acre
8. Marketing & Prices
9.  Estimate of Costs
10.  Construction Schedule
11. Administration Chart - Operation & Maintenance
12.  Agricultural Credit
13. Assumptions for Calculation of Net Rate of Return



Nf A L A Y S I A
MUDA RIVER IRR11ATION PROJECT
SUMM4ARY
i.       The Government of Malaysia has requested a Bank loan to help finance
the Muda River Project to provide irrigation for 261,500 acres in the States
of Kedah and Perlis in Northwest Malaya.
ii.      Irrigation farming, particularly rice growing, is important in the
Malaysian economy. Bringing in additional land together with providing a
dependable water supply for the existing irrigated land in this area for
double cropping will take care of increasing imports of rice and provide the
requirements of an expanding population.
iii.     The project would consist of two dams, a connecting tunnel, head-
works, irrigation and drainage works. The cost of the public works of the
project, which would be carried out over four years, is estimated at M$ 249.3
million (US$83.1 million).
iv.      The amount of the proposed Bank loan would be M$ 134.7 million (say
M$ 135 million - US$45 million), approximately 50% of the cost of the project
plus interest during construction. The proposed Bank loan would meet the
foreign exchange cost of the project amounting to M$ 86.3 million (US$28.8
million), interest during construction of $ 20.7 million (US$6.9 million)
and M$ 27.7 million (US$9.2 million) of the local project costs. The balance
of M$ 114.6 million (US$38.2 million) would be met by the Government from
regular sources of funds for development. Ancillary works and services will
be financed through regular Government budget, and loans through cooperative
banks and private sources.
v.       The project would be executed by the Drainage and Irrigation Division
(DID) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives. The major project
works would be constructed by contract after international competitive bidding.
There is a competent staff organization for the operation of the project.
The proposed project works have been soundly planned and the cost estimates
are realistic.
vi.      It is proposed by the Government that water charges and taxes would
be increased to cover operation and maintenance, and as much as practicable
of the money invested in the Project.
vii.     Water charges and taxes would be assessed and shared between land-
lords and tenants on such a basis that tenant-cultivators will have an
incentive to maximize production.   These charges would be collected by the
State Government.



- ii -
viii.    The economic benefits from the project include an increase in annual
net farm benefits, estimated at M$ 35 million in 1970 and M$ 90 million as
they reach full double cropping and increased yields in 40 years. The rate
of return to the economy would be about 10 per cent. In addition to this
rate of return the investment would result in gross annual import savings of
approximately M$ 80 - 110 million.
ix.      The project is sound and is suitable for a Bank loan of US$45 million
for a term of 25 years including a grace period of five years. The Borrower
would be the Federal Government of Malaysia.



MALAYS IA
MUDA RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.       The Government of Malaysia has requested a Bank loan to assist in
financing the construction of the Muda River Project, comprising 280,000
acres (261,500 acres net) of the coastal plains of Kedah and Perlis States
in the northwest of Malaya. The area is bounded approximately by the
Thailand/Malaya border in the North, Kedah Peak in the South, the main moun-
tain range to the East and the Malacca Straits in the West. (See maps,
Annexes 1 and 2).
2.       This report contains an appraisal of the project based on the find-
ings of a Bank mission which visited Malaya in February-March 1965, and on
documents submitted by the Malayan authorities.
II. BACKGROUND INFORMATION
3.       Agricultural production represents about 35 per cent of Malaya's
gross national product and agricultural products about 60-65 per cent of
total exports. The most important export crops are rubber, oil palm and
coconut products. The annual growth rate of agricultural production for
the States of Malaya is currently assessed at 3.6 per cent and that of
population at 3.3 per cent. There is now a pressing need to produce more
basic foods domestically, especially rice, to meet the growing demand of
the rapidly increasing population, to maintain the national diet and to
curtail the imports of basic foods. Malaysia is an importer of rice and
the rice production has not increased in proportion to the population
demand.
4.       Farming in the States of Malaya is practiced with varying degrees
of intensity over 6 million acres of the country's gross area of 29 million
acres. This represents about one acre of cultivated land per inhabitant.
Over much of the country the scope is severely limited by natural conditions.
The flatter arable lands are mainly confined to the coastal plains and the
southerm half of the country; rainfall varies from 60" to 150"; mountainous
areas and jungle preclude agricultural practices in other areas. As a
result of this combination of natural factors, the agricultural land poten-
tial of Malaya is restricted.
5.       Government financed irrigation programs account for more than half
of all public capital expenditures for water control purposes. Drainage
schemes, concentrated along the western coastal areas, improve and protect
land under rubber, coconut, rice and other crops.



- 2 -
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. General
6.       The Muda River project area is in the northwest of Malaya in the
States of Kedah and Perlis approximately 230 miles north of Kuala Lumpur,
the capital of Malaysia. It is at about 5030' North latitude and 100020'
East longitude. A flat, gently sloping alluvial plain 5 to 12 miles wide
parallels the west coast along the Straits of Malacca. Inland to the east
the hills rise steeply to the Main Range forming the divide between the east
and west Malaya. Peaks up to 3,000 feet elevation rise along the Main Range
only 45 miles from the coast.
7.       The coastal plain is a highly productive agricultural area mostly
in rice. Some small valley areas in the hills grow rice. Rubber is exten-
sively grown on the lower hill slopes.  Bananas, citrus and other fruits,
vegetables and livestock are grown in farm plots mostly for local consump-
tion.
8.       The steeper hills and mountains are almost entirely covered by
dense jungle containing hardwood trees, bamboo, shrubs and vines, and are
inaccessible.
B. Climate
9.       The climate within the project area is tropical with two monsoon
seasons, the heaviest rainfall being recorded in August to November. The
rainfall is erratic and not uniform over the area. Average annual rainfall
varies from 60 inches to 120 inches. High intensity showers of short
duration in limited areas with up to 100 per cent variation in precipitation
in short distances are the usual pattern. Rainfall records in the area
show wide differences in precipitation between stations in daily rainfall,
as well as in annual and in monthly totals. Monthly total rainfall often
occurs in one or two high intensity storms of less than 24 hours' duration.
Occasional dry periods with little or no precipitation for a week or ten
days during the normal monsoon (August to November) and during the dry
season (December to March) droughts of 30 to 40 days are recorded.
10.      Temperatures are very uniform throughout the year and range from
a high of 980F. in March and April to a low of 600F., although they seldom
go below 70°F. Daily temperature ranges usually are 730 to 85°. Humidity
ranges between 40 per cent and 95 per cent.
II.      Light winds up to 10 m/p.h. are usual.but the area does not have
the tropical hurricane winds which occur in the South Pacific Ocean and the
Bay of Bengal. Tides vary from about -2 feet to +6 feet m.s.1.
C.  Present Irrigation Development
12.      There are three drainage and irrigation diversion schemes in
operation. These generally cover the northern half of the project area.



-3-
The existing schemes totalling 130,000 acres use rainfall and run-of-the-river
diversion into canal systems for irrigation of one crop of paddy per year.
Drainage is provided by open channels and natural streams for surface water
and excess rainfall. Dikes along the coast and the river channels with tidal
gates in the river channels prevent salt water intrusion and permit gravity
drainage during low tide periods. These are being extended for the balance
of the project area.
13.       Another area of 104.,000 acres on the plain east of the railway line
grows one crop of paddy but is entirely dependent on rainfall and yields are
less than in areas with the supplemental irrigation water supply.
14.       A third part of the project area of 27,500 acres receives too
little rainfall for paddy growing in most years although part of the area
is planted. Yields are lower and some years there are crop failures.
D. Population and Industry
15.       The population of the project area is estimated at 500,000 with
approximately 325,000 of these engaged in and dependent upon rice cultiva-
tion. There are many large, commercial rubber plantations. Lumbering,
fishing and service industries are important to the area.
16.       The population is predominantly Malayan by race. Malaysians of
Chinese descent make up 3 to 5 per cent of the population and are the bankers,
shopkeepers and millers.
17.       There appear to be adequate facilities for rice milling of the
present output and for services and marketing of paddy and other crops.
E. Transportation
18.       The general area is served by the main north-south railroad and
the main highway extending from Thailand south to Singapore, connecting
with the major shipping centers on Penang Island and Port Swettenham. A
network of 110 miles of hard surfaced all-weather roads has recently been
built so that the coastal plain is well served.
19.       The Public Works Department of Kedah State is building a two lane
all-weather road to each of the proposed Muda project damsites. These are
open for jeeps to the Muda and Pedu sites and jungle clearing and trail
building is in progress to link them together across the mountains, approxi-
mately 15 miles.
20.       Water buffalo are the predominant farm work animals, but very few
carts are used on the improved roads. Trucks, cars and bicycles carry most
of the transportation load, and motor scooters and three-wheeled bicycle
rickshaws are numerous in the cities.
21.       Malaysian Airlines maintain daily service between Kuala Lumpur and
the major cities in the project area.



IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Definition (Map, Annex 2)
22.       The Muda River Project proposes to provide irrigation water
and pertinent facilities for growing two crops of rice per year on
261,500 acres in the States of Kedah and Perlis in Northwestern Malaysia.
23.       The project to be financed is the construction of Muda dam,
Pedu dam, reservoir clearing, a 5 mile long tunnel connecting the two
reservoirs, river improvements, diversion works, two main canals and
distribution systems, drains, salt water barriers and tidal gates.    It
includes equipment and facilities for operation and maintenance and
Consultant services.
B.   Project Works
24.       The Division of Irrigation and Drainage retained a consulting
firm to plan major works of the project and perform the necessary investi-
gations to prepare the preliminary location, design and cost estimates
for the following:
Muda Dam
25.       The Muda dam would be a reinforced concretestructure of con-
ventional buttress and slab design reinforced with heavy beams between
buttress footings to spread the loading on the rock foundations.     The
dam would be approximately 125 feet in maximum height and 800 feet
along the crest.   A central section would be built as an overflow
spillway with crest elevation at 330.   It was agreed that a capacity
for flood discharge of at least 60,000 cusecs would be provided.
26.       The Muda dam would create a reservoir about 6 square miles
area, with a capacity of about 200,000 acre feet and a useable volume
above the tunnel invert of about 100,000 acre feet.
Pedu Dam
27.       The proposed Pedu Dam is a rock fill type with an asphalt water
barrier covered with an articulated reinforced concrete apron on the
upstream face.   The dam would be approximately 215   feet in maximum
height, about 800 feet along the crest and have a volume of about
1,050,000 cu. yds.
28.       The reservoir created by Pedu dam at Maximum water level of
Elev. 320 would-cover about 20 sq. miles and contain about 730,000 acre
feet, of which about 700,000 acre feet are useable.   The combined use-
able reservoir capacity for the Muda and Pedu could be about 800,000
acre feet.
29.       An auxiliary dam in a low saddle (approximately elevation 325),
about 4 miles southeast of the Pedu dam site, known as the Batang site, is
also required.   Ground surveys and exploratory drilling had not yet been
accomplished at the time of the mission's visit (March 1965).    The only



topography available was from aerial survey plotting with contour accuracy
of ± 20 feet.
30.      Consideration is being given to including a spillway for the Pedu
Reservoir at the Batang auxiliary dam. The dam proposed would be a rock fill
with central concrete core wall about 85 feet high and 600 feet along the
crest. A decision concerning the final location of the spillway for Pedu
Reservoir will be made after additional investigations are completed.
31.      The present plan and estimated costs include a spillway on the right
abutment of Pedu dam with a minimum capacity of 10,000 cusecs.
Saiong Tunnel
32.      The Saiong tunnel, approximately 5 miles in length, is proposed to
carry water from Muda reservoir to the Pedu reservoir. The large watershed
(379 sq. mi.) of the I4uda produces the greatest flows, but because of the
steep gradients in the jungle covered hills and steep, narrow valleys, no
adequate reservoir site is available in the upper reaches of the Muda basin.
The upper Pedu basin, on the other hand, has relatively wider, flatter valleys
and provides an economical reservoir site.
33.      The tunnel would be a horseshoe section equivalent to a 15-foot
inside diameter circular section, reinforced concrete lined to carry 1,000
cusecs with Muda Reservoir at elevation 300 feet M.S.I.
34.      There are four possible alignments of the tunnel and the exact one
will be chosen after further analysis of the drilling data. The present
estimated cost will take care of whichever alignment is chosen.
River Improvements
35.      The Muda river downstream from the dam site has been subjected to
large floods and appropriate improvement work will be executed in the lower
reaches to prevent excessive flooding in future.
36.      The Pedu river below the dam site has an estimated flooding capa-
city of 3,000 cusecs. The maximum irrigation releases are to be 5,100
cusecs and this might be occurring at the same time as spills. Accordingly,
the Pedu river channel downstream to its confluence with the Pedang Terap
would be cleared and widened, and protective dikes constructed as necessary
to carry at least 5,100 cusecs which might be released from the dam without
flooding additional adjacent cultivated land, habitation or roads.
Pelubang Headworks
37.      The Consultants propose to provide the major storage in Pedu
reservoir and to make all irrigation releases to the Pedu river, a tribu-
tary of the Pedang Terap. Diversions into the main Northern and Southern
canal systems would be made from the Pedang Terap at the Pelubang headworks.



38.       The new headworks would be built across the Pedang Terap river
where it enters the coastal plain from the foothills.    It would consist
of a concrete overflow weir section approximately 130 feet long, set on
piling with appropriate gates to control the pond water level and for re-
leasing excess flood water.   Two sets of gated culverts at river level
would control water releases to meet downstream requirements.    Wing
structures on each side of the main weir would have canal intake
structures with control gates for water supply to the Northern and the
Southern main canals.   A short culvert section below the control gates
would discharge into the open cut unlined canals.
39.       It was agreed that dikes are required for some distance up-
stream on both sides of the river to provide a re-regulating pond of at
least 1,500 acre feet above the canal full supply level of +21.0 feet.
This is considered essential to enable uncontrolled river flows, which
often come in sharp rises due to heavy precipitation in a few hours, to
be diverted into the canals.
Canals
40.       The main canals would be made in open cut and unlined.    Con-
crete lining would be provided for sections where the soils are permeable
and in a few areas of rock and through swamp.   Roadways are provided
along one berm of all main and secondary canals.   The Northern and
Southern main canals will each serve about 130,000 acres and design
capacities are 2,460 cusecs of each.
41.       Regulating and control structures with gates would be provided
at each offtake canal.
Northern Canal
42.       The 23-mile long Northern canal will be an enlargement and some
realignment of the existing canal.   Most of this work would be accom«ished
while the canal is not in use after the paddy irrigation stops in December
until it starts again in May or June.
43.       New regulating structures will be required at Jitra and Lana
Bulu to maintain full supply levels in the main canal and to improve the
intake of water from the Tanjong Pauk river at Jitra.
44.       The existing distributary canals and drainage system would be
enlarged and improved.
Southern Canal
45.       The main Southern canal of 371/2 miles would include the Central
and Southern irrigation area.   The canal sizes and capacities are similar
to the Northern canal.   The new location for Pelubang headworks would
modify plans for passing floods and also make the elimination of a 1,000
feet long tunnel and a heavy rock cut section possible.



-7-
Distribution System
46.       The secondary canals from the main canals are located to command
an area determined by the topography for gravity irrigation. They vary in
size and capacity.  Each one will have a berm on one side which, after
compaction and lateriate surfacing, will serve as a roadway for operation
and maintenance and for marketing.
47.       Distributaries would be built as required to provide delivery of
a minimum of 1 cusec to each block of land of 48 to 55 acres. A few small
areas require pump lifts into distributaries.
Drainage
48.       In general the drainage will follow the slope of the land to
natural water courses and existing drainage channels, New open cut drain
ditches and enlargement of others is required in much of the area to permit
rapid runoff of excess rainfall and drainage of the paddy fields.
49.       The main drains lead to the major rivers. As part of the project,
dikes are being built along the coast to protect the entire irrigation
area from sea water intrusion. Tidal gates in the rivers are being installed
and drainage can be discharged during low tide periods.
Operation and Maintenance Facilities
50.       A headquarters building, equipment yard, storage warehouse and
housing are to be provided for each of the four 0 & M divisions of the
project and a central repair and maintenance shop is to be built. Equip-
ment to be purchased is shown in Annex 3.
Hydroelectric Power
51.       The feasibility of a power development at one of the dams was
investigated by consultants for the Central Electricity Board (C.E.B.),
an autonomous government agency responsible for power generation and trans-
mission in Malaya. They found that such a development was not economically
attractive under Muda project plans proposed at this time.
C. Water Supply
General
52.       The water supply for the irrigation of 261,500 acres for two crops
of paddy per year has been considered in two parts: The controlled supply,
and the uncontrolled supply. The controlled supply is the water available
from storage reservoirs as provided from the catchments above the dam sites
in the upper Muda and Pedu river basins. The uncontrolled supply includes
rainfall and the run-of-the river flows below the dam sites and above the
canal headworks which may be collected and useable. These include flows
of the Muda and Pedang Terap rivers and to a lesser extent the Repoh, Gial,



Arau and Tanjong Pauh rivers. These sources are now being used by existing
irrigation systems.
53.       A combination of the estimated average supply available from the
above sources and the portion of each source which can be economically used
to meet the water requirements is the basis for determination of the water
supply.
Rainfall
54.       The rainfall patterns are produced from the monsoons with heaviest
rainfall in the months of August to November. The annual rainfall in the
area varies from 60" to 120". Rainfall records are available for many years
from stations along the western coastal area of Malaya although some records
are incomplete. A few recent and short term records are available in the
foothills.
55.       Unlike most tropical rice growing areas where rainfall is fairly
uniform during a growing season, the Muda Project area rainfall is very
erratic. A high percentage comes in intense precipitation lasting only a
few hours and covering localized areas. Fifty per cent of monthly rainfall
often comes in a few hours or in a 24-hour period, During the drier months
of the year the storms are even more localized. Often only a few square
miles will receive a heavy downpour while adjacent areas receive little or
no precipitation.
56.       Daily records show 4 to 10 days of no precipitation during the
normally wet months and during the dry months (December through April),
periods of drought of 30 to 40 days are recorded.
River Discharge
57.       Four main rivers in the Muda project area have been used to cal-
culate the water supply available for irrigation. All the gauging stations
are downstream from the proposed points of storage and of diversion.
Using these monthly average flow records with appropriate adjustments, the
inflow to the storage reservoirs and the uncontrolled flows into the rivers
between the reservoirs and the canal headworks have been calculated by the
Consultants. Monthly flows during 17 years have been used to calculate the
average available storage and the uncontrolled supply.
58.       The daily and the monthly discharges have wide variations. They
vary with rainfall and rainfall intensities. The total yearly discharge
variation is also great.
Calculated Useable Water
59.       The useable water from the available supply is calculated to meet
the crop requirements for double cropping paddy. The dates and the field
conditions with allowable fluctuations in depth of water in the paddy field
determine the average useable amount of the rainfall and the balance to be



met by the canal delivery. Because of wide variations in precipitation the
average daily rainfall of five selected stations was put into a computer by
the Consultants to determine the amount of rainfall that could be used or
stored in the fields and the surplus to be drained off. Deficiencies in
rainfall to be met by canal deliveries were also thus obtained.
60.       The useable uncontrolled water supply from the rivers, that is the
available flow that could be put into the canal system when needed, was
also computed as well as the portion of this uncontrolled supply that could
not be diverted into the canal system and would therefore be spilled down
the river.
61.       Releases from the reservoir storage are calculated to make up the
balance of the water supply requirements not provided by the uncontrolled
supply. A water balance study is shown in Annex 4.
62.       It was agreed with DID and the Consultants that active storage
w ould be provided for 800,000 acre feet in the combined reservoirs. With
this storage capacity in the reservoirs and pondage at the canal headworks
to even out uncontrolled stream flow, the water supply appears to be adequate
to meet the requirements.   These modifications were discussed with D.I.D.
and their Consultants prior to leaving Kuala Lumpur.
63.       The water supply will provide the full requirements for double
cropping paddy in an average year with careful distribution. During
prolonged drier-than-average periods such as occurred in 1963 (1 year in
17 years of record) there would be shortage of about twenty per cent in
meeting the full supply requirements for the main crop during August and
September. There would also be some intermittent shortages of ten to
fifteen per cent when rainfall is much below average in August (2 years in
17).
D. Water Requirements
64.       The project water requirements are based on two crops of rice per
year, one a long-growing variety and one short. The dates and amounts of
water required are similar to those of nearby areas where double cropping
is practiced, but adjusted for the climate in the project area.
65.       The main crop requires 49.,4f water during 15C days, including the
nursery period, pre-saturation of the soil for plowing, cultivation and
transplanting and the field growing season. Drainage, drying and harvest
are given 21 days followed by 26 days lying fallow..
66.       The second crop, a short growing variety, requires 47.01' water
during 122 days.



_ 10 -
MUDA PROJECT - MALAYSIA
WATER REQUIREMENrS
Double Cropping Rice
Main Crop             Dates         Days     Inches/    Total     Acres
Month      Inches    Cusec
Pre-saturation        5 Aug - 16 Sep     40       13        17.0       55
(nursery and
cultivation)
Growing season       17 Sep - 3 Jan     110        9        32.4       79
Drainage & harvest    4 Jan - 24 Jan     21        0          -        -
Total                         171                 494
Second Crop
2/
Pre-saturation       19 Feb - 1 Apr      40       15        20.0       48-
Growing season        2 Apr - 22 Jun     82       10        27.0       71
Drainage & harvest   23 Jun - 13 Jul     21        0          -        -
Total                         143                 47.0
1/ Delivered to field.
2/ Maximum requirement.
67.       The maximum irrigation requirement occurs during pre-saturation
for the second crop in the dry period of the year. The canal system is
designed to deliver the maximum requirement during the pre-saturation period.
as rainfall during this period is not enough to be useful and is erratic
in time and in distribution over the area.
68.       In addition to water requirements for the Muda project irrigation,
there are downstream requirements to be met. Irrigation requirements from
the Muda below Jeniang include the Bumbong Lima, Pinang Tunggal existing
irrigation schemes. Using the same water duties and including the flow
required to prevent the intrusion of saline water into the pump intakes for
the proposed Pekula scheme requires a flow of 550 cusecs for tides up to
five feet at Kuala Mqda. Tides above five feet, which occur for only a small
percentage of recorded tides, would make it necessary to stop pumping for
periods of two hours.



- 11 -
69.       These downstream requirements can be met by natural inflaw into
the Muda river below MIuda Dam in an average year except in March and April.
In March, 200 cusecs and April 450 cusecs would be required from storage
at Muda reservoir. In exceptionally dry years, releases from storage would
be required at intervals to make up natural stream flow and rainfall deficien-
cies,
70.       The Alor Star city water supply intake at Bukit Penang in the
Pedang Terap River below Pelumbang headworks requires about 30 cusecs.
Coastal dikes and tidal gates prevent the daily backing up of polluted
water.
71.       Ample surplus flow in the Pedang Terap River passing the Pelumbang
headworks would meet these extra requirements in about six mornths of the
year. Releases of up to 50 cusecs from Pedu Reservoir would be made as
needed for the other six months. The existing downstream requirements can
be easily met by the project and they have priority rights to natural flaws.
Losses
72.       The evapo-transpiration in the paddy field is six inches per
month. Other field losses (except excess rainfall runoff) are estimated
at 30 per cent of field delivery.
73.       Coniveyance losses in the rivers and canals are estimated at five
per cent of re6er.voir re:Leases. Seepage losses are likely to be small as
most of the canzLIs will be excavated in the coastal plain alluvium with a
high water table and the saturated alluvium is almost impermeable. Depo-
sition of silts carried in suspension in the rivers should seal any
permeable areas of the canals in a short time.
E. Soils, Topography arid Drainage
74.       The coastal plain, approximately 40 miles in length and 5 to 12
miles in width, consists mainly of alluvium deposited by the river systems
which rise in the mountains to the east and traverse the plain in meandering
courses westward to the Straits of Malacca.
75.       A reconnaissance soil study by a soils chemist of the Malaysian
Department of Agriculture was made of the project area. Some 40 odd
"families" of soils were classified on the basis of observed differences in
profile characteristics. These have been grouped into six main classifi-
cations based on their formation, their age and drainage status. They are
shown on the Soils Map, Annex 5.
76.       Most of the soils are deep alluvial or colluvial deposits of clays
and silts from the parent sandstones, conglomerates, granites and mudstones
in the mountains. M4arine deposits are found in a narrow strip near the
coastline and organic deposits in the river estuaries, and in low trough
and basin areas.



- 12 -
77.       The irrigation area is a gently sloping plain from 25 feet to 4
feet above mean sea level.        Dikes protect the land from sea water
intrusion. It has been demonstrated that low areas subjected to salt water
flooding can be reclaimed and the soil made productive.
78.       A few areas of coarser grained soils near the foothills are rela-
tively free draining. While two crops of paddy may be grown in these soils
with slightly increased water supply, they might be better adapted to other
crops rather than a second paddy crop. The balance of the soils are fine
grained clays and silts and are well suited to growing wet paddy.
79.       Surface drainage is essential to remove excess rainfall and to
drain the paddy fields prior to harvest, It is provided by the natural
surface slopes, open cut channels and natural stream beds. These empty
into the major rivers which discharge to the sea during low tide periods.
80.       Sub-surface drainage is impracticable in the tight, relatively
impervious soils. The dry season water table is 4 to 5 feet below ground
level. The top soil dries 6 to 12 inches deep with closely spaced open
cracking. When saturated there is almost no percolation through these
tight soils, however salinity or alkalinity are not expected to be problems.
F. Present and Anticipated Crop Production
81.       The project will provide irrigation water for cultivating two
crops of paddy per annum over 261,500 acres in this area.!/ Of this area,
130,000 acres at present have an irrigation supply sufficient for a single
crop of paddy and another 104.,000 acres grows paddy based on rainfall. A
further 27,500 acres grows various catch crops in most years but does grow
paddy during good rainfall seasons. Present paddy yields, as estimated for
the various irrigated, rainfed or marginal areas in the project over the
last few years average about 2072 lbs per acre for single cropping, which
is about the average for wet paddy for Malaysia as a whole. Projected
yields (Annex 6) are based on various assumptions regarding the rate of
development of double cropping. Experience with double cropping in Province
Wellesley has also been taken into account. The first basic assumption is,
that, as in Province Wellesley, double cropping will not be generally applied
before the sixth year (1975) after water for double cropping becomes avail-
able. The other projection deals with the yields to be obtained. Recog-
nizing initial problems of extension, credit, use of fertilizer, etc.,
it is assumed that double cropping yields will be rather low at 4i,480 lbs
per acre at the beginning of double cropping in 1970. By the time the
whole project area has double cropping, yields might have started to
increase to 4,700 lbs per acre per year. From there on a gradual further
increase of 5 per cent per 5 years can be expected as conditions improve
till a level of 6,160 lbs per acre per year will be reached in 2005. This
rather slow long term increase in yields is in accordance with the general
I/ It is envisaged that in the further development of the project, the
cropping pattern will not be limited to paddy. Other cash crops will
be developed to supplement or partly to rotate with paddy cultivation.
These crops in general will yield a higher income to the farmer.
Diversification is now being studied by the Ministry of Agriculture
as a way to further develop Malaysian agriculture and increase the
farmers' income.



- 13 -
slow change in rice yields as a whole during the last decade or more, when
in M4alaya strong attempts were made to raise the yields. A breakthrough in
yields is, of course, possible. A new discovery in varieties or a rapid
improvement in extension, education, use of credit and other inputs could
accelerate this process, but the mission prefers to keep its estimates con-
servative because of the many institutional factors involved, which usually
take a long time to change.
82.        At the present time comparatively little artificial fertilizer is
used.  There is a tendency, however, in the last few years to use more fer-
tilizer including buffalo and bat guano manure. A fertilizer subsidization
scheme has been included in the Five-Year Plan to provide readily available
fertilizer at as cheap a price as possible.
83.        Cultivation is mainly by buffalo-drawn implements.  It is proposed
to stimulate increased mechanization of the area by providing Government
tractor units on a hire charge arrangement to take care of 25 per cent of
the demand. As in the neighboring province of Wellesley, where double crop-
ping is practiced, it is also expected that private contractors will come
in and do the bulk of the ploughing and levelling. The Government further
plans to set up repair depots throughout the area and provide training
facilities for drivers and mechanics to take care of the problem of machine
maintenance and provide spare parts.
G. Land TenuLre and Operation and Maintenance Costs
84.        The fact that over half of the paddy land in Kedah and Perlis is
not owner-operated raises questions regarding rental terms after the intro-
duction of second cropping and the resultant distribution of benefits
between landlords and tenants. Many tenants at present pay up to 30-40 per
cent of their crop in the form of rent and it will be necessary to limit
the rent if tenant farmers are to have a sufficiently high incentive to
initiate double cropping in the area.
85.        The Government has asked the Ford Foundation to carry out a survey
of the land tenure problem. The results of the survey indicate that not-
withstanding legislation, rents in general have increased particularly in
areas where double cropping developed. The report states that so far the
Paddy Cultivators Ordinance Act of 1955, which regulates rent, has been
implemented quite effectively in Kedah. The mission shares the conclusion
of the report that continued legislation and Government support is required
to prevent the major benefits of double cropping accruing entirely to the
landlords.
86.        At the present time the tenant is paying M$ 4.9 water charges per
acre if his crop exceeds 400 gantangs (2,240 lbs) per acre. This goes
towards the present 0 & M cost of the existing scheme.
87.        In view of the expected returns, the total 0 & M costs plus a
portion of the amortization charges should be borne by both the tenants and
the landlord. In order to accomplish this, it is suggested that the rental
for the tenant be restricted to the present basis for the first crop of paddy



- 1 -
only, with a water charge increasing over a period as suggested by the Goveri1-
ment (Annex 7).
88.     The landlord, whose rent would increase from higher yields on the
first crop and whose land would more than double in value, should then pay
a supplementary land tax to pay for a portion of the amortization charges.
89.     The matters referred to in the immediately preceding paragraphs
refer to the State Governments, and during negotiations assurance were
obtained from these Governments as well as from the Federal Government in
order to ensure the incentive for double cropping to the tenant.
H. Marketing and Prices
90.     Marketing and prices of rice, as described in detail in Annex 8 are
largely controlled by the Government. As it is most likely that the Govern-
ment's rice policy and also the international rice position will remain about
the same, the present system can and probably will be maintained. The
Government plans to regulate paddy marketing further, have still to be worked
out. In the opinion of the mission these plans will not have any significant
effect on the economics of the project or on the price the farmer receives
for his paddy. Therefore, the mission assumes that at an official Governmsent
paddy support price of M$ 16 per picul (133 - 1/3 lbs) the farmer will
continue to receive M$ 13.50 per picul (that is the mill door support price
minus various deductions for transport, bags, quality and moisture content,
etc.) as the at farm gate price.
91.     Storage and milling facilities are adequate to cope with further
increase in production. Should any expansion be required, private invest-
ment would easily take care of this.
I. Construction Cost Estimates
92.     The cost estimates for the project are based on preliminary designs
prepared by consulting engineers or DID for all principal project features.
93.     The costs include alliworks to be built after March 1, 1965,
including the costs to complete the dikes, tidal gates, flood control works
and project roads, all of which are now in process and are being financed
by the Malayan Government. Expenditure on these facilities during the period
1960 to 1965 has amounted to about M$ 17.9 million (US$ 6.0 million).
94.     The construction of four 0 & M project divisional headquarters,
buildings and a central repair and maintenance shop are also included in
the costs as well as housing and operating facilities at each dam. Costs
include a radio and telephone communications system. A list of equipment
to be procured costing M$ 4.39 million (US$1,775,100) including two years'
supply of spare parts is shown in Annex 3.



- 15 -
95.       The estimated costs were favorably compared with unit prices in
the tenders for the Batang Pedang hydroelectric scheme (1963) and with
DID's contract for Stage II of the Sungei Lemal irrigation scheme. The
foreign currency requirements include costs of plant, equipment, supplies
and materials not available in Malaysia, shipping costs, the consulting
engineers' costs and fee and the contractors overhead, foreign salaries,
bonds, insurance and profit and interest during construction on the pro-
posed Bank loan.
96.       A contingency allowance of 10 to 20 per cent is included as
appropriate in the various parts of the work based on the status of infor-
mation and plans. The cost estimates are believed to be reasonable and
adequate. Details are given in Annex 9 and are summarized below:
Local Currency    Foreign Exchange    Total
Malaysian ($ Million)           $   142.3               107.0        249.3
US ($ Million)                       47.5                35.7         83.1
J. Operation and Maintenance Cost Estimates
97.       The operation and maintenance cost is estimated to be M$ 3 million
per year beginning 1969. This includes salaries and wages, administrative
and clerical costs and supplies, maintenance on buildings, equipment
amortization, and the operation and maintenance of equipment, vehicles,
and project facilities.
98.       The annual operation and maintenance costs in M$ millions are:
1965     1966     1967     1968     1969     1970
1.25     1.75      2.5      2.5      3.0      3.0
K. Financing
99.       The proposed Bank loan would cover the foreign exchange component
of the public investment, a portion of the local expenditures and interest
during construction on the loan. Foreign exchange would be used for imported
equipment and spare parts, materials, shipping costs, consulting services
and interest during construction.
100.      The amount of the proposed loan would be M$ 135 million (ULS45
million). The balance of the project costs of M$ 114.6 million (us$38.2
million) would be met by Government budget allocations.
101.      The expenditure schedule, including disbursement of the proposed
Bank loan, would be approximately as follows:



- 16 -
In Million M$
Calendar Year          1st     2nd     3rd     4th     5th     Total
IBRD loan
Foreign Exchange     19.0    23.2    26.1    1h.o    4.0      86.3
Local expenditure     0.7     0.3     2.3    18.4    6.0      27.7
Interest              1.1     2.4     4.1     6.1    7.0      20.7
Total Bank loan        20d     25.9    32.5    3b.5   17.0     134.7 say 135
Malayan Govt
Local currency       19.9    23.8    28.5    32.4   10.0     114.6
Total           40.7    49.7    61.0    70.9   27.0     249.3
Equivalent in mil. US$ 13.6    16.6    20.3    23.3    9.0      83.1
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
102.      The DID of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives would be
the executing agency for construction of the Project. The DID was estab-
lished in 1932 to develop and administer the water resources of Malaya.
They have successfully carried out irrigation development of projects
totalling 330,000 acres and are capable of handling the Muda project.
A. Construction
103.      The planning, design and construction of the Muda Project is under
the Director of the Division of Irrigation and Drainage (DID).
104.      Planning of the irrigation reticulation system, the coastal dikes,
tide gates and construction in the irrigation area is done by the DID.
105.      A consulting firm has done the planning, mapping and exploratory
work for the dams, tunnel, river improvement and the main canals.
106.      The construction of major works would be done by unit price con-
tracts after international bidding. A consulting firm acceptable to the
Bank would be retained to prepare specifications and tender documents,
design the works and supervise construction.
107.      The DID would prepare bidding documents, let contracts and
supervise construction of the secondary canals, drains and salt water
barriers. Distribution works would be done by Malaysian contractors who
are capable of handling this work.
108.      The schedule for construction is shown in Annex 10.  If construc-
tion can begin early in 1966 water would be available for supplemental
irrigation of the main crop in August 1969 and for double cropping thereafter.



- 17 -
B.   Operation and Maintenance
109.      The operation and maintenance of the Muda Irrigation project
is to be under the administrative supervision of the State Drainage and
Irrigation Division.   The State Engineer will receive technical super-
vision and approval of annual budgets by the Federal Drainage and
Irrigation Division of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
The State Engineer with headquarters in Alor Star will supervise the
entire project.   He now administers present irrigation schemes totalling
130,000 acres in the two States of Kedah and Perlis.
110.      The 0 & M organization would be expanded for the 261,500 acre
Muda irrigation area.   It would include a Deputy State Engineer, four
Resident Engineers - one in Kangar for Perlis State, one at Jitra for the
north Kedah area, one at Pokok Sina to supervise the dam and reservoir
operation, Pelubang headworks and the east Kedah irrigation area, and the
fourth at Alor Star to supervise the west Kedah area.   A mechanical
engineer would supervise the workshops and the operation and maintenance
of all mechanical equipment and vehicles.   Each of these engineers would
have an assistant and such overseers, inspectors and workmen as are
required.
111.      The existing 0 & M organization will be expanded and with re-
cruitment and training during the construction and development periods,
the mission believes that a competent and adequate organization will be
available.
C.   Research and Extension
112.      There is an experiemental station in the project area at Telok
Chengai, Kedah and a testing station at Tambun Tulang, Perlis.    A research
station (Bukit Merah) is adjacent to the area.   These government stations
appear adequate for the project.   They have done extensive work on new
varieties of rice and double cropping of paddy.    This workwould be
extended to alternative crops under irrigation.
113.      In addition, Government plans have been drawn up to provide for
the expansion in agricultural extension services that will be required to
reach the double cropping production goals.   The Government would extend
the present cadre of thirty agricultural officers in the States up to
eighty officers, provide shorter-growing rice varieties, cheaper
fertilizers and increased mechanization.
114.      It is planned that senior extension staff will consist of one
State agricultural officer and three assistant agricultural officers, each
of whom will in turn supervise junior agricultural assistants.    The total
requirement of junior agricultural assistants is estimated at 80 on the
basis of one assistant for no more than 1,000 farm holdings, and an assumed
total of 80,000 farm families.   Recruitment of staff will commence three
years before the first year of double cropping and build up gradually to
provide the increased staff required as the double cropping acreage
expands.



- 18 -
115.     This plan should receive Government priority for the area in order
that suitable candidates may be recruited and adequate training facilities
provided to teach the recruits in the new techniques. The possibility of
using men and training facilities in the Province of Wellesley where double
cropping is practiced should not be overlooked.
116.     The Government has given assurances on an adequate program for
agricultural extension services and priority to support farm mechanization
and fertilizer availability in the project area.
D. Agricultural Credit
117.     The existing agricultural credit system, as described in Annex 12
is to be strengthened. It is readily admitted that so far the attempts to
reform agricultural credit under the cooperative Apex credit system have
had little impact. Various proposals (reorganizing the co-op credit, credit
through farm association, organizing people's credit banks) are under serious
study and consideration.
118.     With the present inadequate Credit Organization for single cropping
of rice and with the onset of double cropping by 1970, assurances have been
obtained from the Government that by that date there will be set up a
Credit Organization which will meet the need of the Muda project farmer.
Complete reorganization of the cooperative credit system will probably be
the fastest and best way to implement such a program.
119.     The Bank would wish to follow the implementation of the program
through periodic reporting. Supervision of these activities should be made
part of the regular supervision procedures for the project.
E. Water Charges and Taxes
120.     In discussions with State ministers and DID the mission was advised
that a water charge for Class I irrigated land in Kedah and Perlis is 4$ 4.9
per acre. This land grows 400 or more gantangs of paddy per acre in one crop.
The State proposes to increase gradually the per acre charges as set out in
Annex 7.  The water charge w.ould be raised to M$ 15 per acre after double
crop production is achieved and the farmers have the financial ability to pay.
121.     If the entire 261,500 acres were paying If$ 15, it would more than
cover annual operation and maintenance costs.
122.     The tenants and landlords should pay all operation and maintenance
costs and a portion of the amortization of the capital costs.
123.     If the farmer (usually a tenant) pays the increased water charge
and is not obliged to pay more rent than 30 to 40 per cent of the first crop,
his incentive to grow a second crop would be sufficient.



- 19 -
124.     A supplemental land tax assessed on the landowner would provide
funds for partial amortization of capital costs. Assuming that the landlord
receives 40 per cent of the first crop in rent, his revenue will increase
from about M$ 70 per acre at present to about M$ 110 per acre (because of
higher yields) in the future. In the meantime the value of his land will be
more than doubled from about M$ 900 per acre to over M$ 1,800 per acre.
If only half of his increase in rent revenue were taxed, this would amount
to M$ 20 per acre or about M$ 5.2 million per year as a contribution to
amortization. These are only figures to indicate the amounts involved in
the problem of allocation of costs. The actual levels of rent and taxes
will be worked out in legislation by the Federal and State Governments.
125.     A firm commidttment along these lines from the Government was obtained
during negotiations for the loan.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
126.     The project is an irrigation scheme in an area to intensify the
cropping pattern from partially irrigated single cropping of paddy to total
double cropping of paddy, the basic food for the Malaysian population.
Imports of rice in the last few years were between 350-400,000 tons and
the projected increase in production from the project is estimated to be
275,000 tons at full development.
127.     The direct investments for this project are estimated at M$ 229
million, amounting to about M$ 900 - US$ 300 per acre. On-farm investments
will be very limited as no settlement is involved and paddy growing is
the present agricultural pattern. Besides irrigation water, there will be
complementary inputs such as extension, credit, fertilizer and mechanization,
the cost of which will be partly reflected in the cost-price figures used
to compute the net value of production.&j As explained in the section on
future yields, it is conservatively expected that full realization of the
potential of the project will take a rather long time, about 30-35 years,
because of the various institutional elements involved. Gross value of
production for the project will increase from about M$ 54 million per year
at present to about m$ 165 million at full development.
128.     The individual benefits from the project and relatedly the incen-
tives for the paddy farmer, cover a wide range from the most favorable
position of the farmer-owner with a sufficiently large holding who has access
to cheap credit, to the small totally indebted tenant who will barely see
any improvement in his economic situation unless there is a change in land
tenure rentals. Calculations from farm budgets indicate that increases
1/ The costs for extension have been accounted
for in the net-benefit computation.



- 20 -
in individual farm or family income, including labor, but excluding the
unknown effect of indebtedness, may vary from about M$ 400-500 per year;
almost double the previous level under single cropping.    The lower level
is for the tenant who usually has a larger plot (average four acres) com-
pared to the owner-cultivator (with about three acres) who will get a
higher net income.
129.      For the calculation of the rate of return of the project, the
mission has made conservative assumptions (as spelled out in Annex 13.
See also Annex 6 on yields and costs).   Discounting the annual benefits
over the lifetime (50 years) of the project, the rate of return to the
economy would be 10 per cent as a minimum, which is acceptable to the
economy,
130.      The savings in rice imports resulting from the project will be
about M$ 80-110 million per year, which is more than the presently estimated
foreign exchange costs of the construction program.   If the value of imports
for additional agricultural inputs (fertilizers, insecticides, machinery,
etc.) at M$ 10-12 million per year has to be deducted from this amount as
well as temporarily the annual repayment and interest on the proposed Bank
loan at about M$ 13 million, the balance of payment effect of the project
still remains substantial.   The importance of improving domestic supplies
of an essential food for the population is quite evident.
131.      Accurate data on the per capita income in the project area are
not available;  however, it is well known that this is one of the lower
income areas of the country.   The execution of the construction work, and
later the expansion of various extension and other services will undoubtedly
revitalize the economy in the area.   Doubling of the value of agricultural
production and its further effect in the area will certainly be highly
beneficial to the local people.   The effect of a substantial shift from
subsistence non-monetary economy to marketing cash-economy will be very
significant.   For Malaysia as a whole, the economic strengthening of the
poorer Malayan areas in the country is highly desirable.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
132.      Irrigation is important in Malaya and in particular to the rice
growing economy of Kedah and Perlis States.
133.      Qualified consultants with wide experience in design of dams and
irrigation works will be employed to review, design and supervise the
major construction.
13h.      The Agricultural Division of the Ministry of Agriculture should
become more closely associated with the project.
135.      Incentive to farmers is essential.    Therefore, water charges
and taxes on land in the Project Area are to be assessed and shared between
landlords and tenants on such a basis that tenant-cultivators will have an
incentive to maximize production.



- 21 -
136.      The total 0 & M costs plus a portion of the amortization charges
would be borne by the tenants and the landowners.
137.      The Federal DID will be responsible for the construction phase
of the project and the State DID will be responsible for the administration
of the scheme (Paras. 103 - 109 ).
138.      The cost estimates are realistic (Paras. 92 - 96).    The project
is sound and economically justified and is suitable for a Bank loan of
US$45 million.   The Borrower would be the Federal Government of Malaysia
and an appropriate term would be 25 years, including five years of grace.
October 14, 1965



'-4~C
* 2~~~~~~X
I,.  -4)~~~~L
-  'I~~~~~~~c
InJ
11.12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
Lai
'-'2                                           C
11.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
I-                                                / ~e77/
f0U'
LU~~~~~~~~~~f...4                    ~   /



ANNEX 2
S. PDG. MALAU.
IMUDA PROJECT
) 9     R          T   H   A        Q~ i &S RE
S. RA  P 52mie            /    /   Total catchatant area utilized
4,, ,43Ce                  4-S          V
~TAN~N  PAUH
N0 R  E0 
o0ot T."S aSSIS  D
A LOR  STA R  -A0O
X                                                  9.
b. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1
° ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~   ~~     ~~~~~~~~~ 0'''  5  0  IS0f
RSTAR ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ IE
|PRIL  e965                              laRD  -1521
G.    S. iPE 4 /<M           I 
APRI L 1965                                           IBRD -1521



ANNEX 3
MUDA RIVER PROJECT
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
UNIT COST-US$
(CIF PORT SWETTENHAM)
No:          EQUIPMENT:                (NO IMPORT DUTY)         COST:
2      5 passenger car                    3,500                7,000
10      Jeeps (or Landrover)               3,h00               34,000
5      Pickup Trucks - 3/4 ton            3,800               19,000
2      Excavators (Dragline) - 21/2 cy 150,000               300,000
4      Excavators - 3/4 cy               38,000              152,000
h      Road Graders                      23,000               92,000
8      Tractors - Rubber Tires - 35 HP    1,500               12,000
2      Crawler Tractors (D8)             48,ooo               96,000
(With Bulldozer, Winch, Etc.)
4      Crawler Tractors (D4)             28,000              112,000
2      Overshot Loader                    3,000                6,000
Trucks
1         Low Bed - 30 ton               25,000               25,000
12         5 ton Dump - 4 x 6              7,000                8h,000
3         4 ton-Flat Bed-Service 4 x 4    6,500               19,500
1 set     (Power Winch & Machine Tools)  15,000               15,000
1      Portable Electric Welder - 300 AMP 1,800                 1,800
2         "     Compressor - 210 CMF      4,500                9,000
1                    1      365 CMF      8,000                 8,000
2 set Air Tools and Hose (Lump Sum)                           10,000
2      Mobile Crane - 5 ton              12,000               24,000
1      10" Suction Cutter Dredge        200,000              200,000
1      Pile Driver - h0 ft. Frame        25,000                25,000
6      81" Water Pump (Low Head)          2,000               12,000
6      4"  "     "      "                   500                 3,000
3      Concrete Mixer - 28 cu. ft.        7,500               22,500
3         n      i      11 cu. ft.       2,500                 7,500
4      Generating Set - 15 kw Diesel      4,500               18,000
6         t      it      5 kw Diesel      1,300                 7,800
2      Crushers                          15,000               30,000
1      Aggregate Screening Plant         30,000                30,000
Lot     Radio Equipment                                         20,000
1 set Shop and Miscellaneous Equipment 125,000                125,000
3      Launches                           3,000                9,000
Spare Parts (2 yrs)                                    239,000
TOTAL US$         1,775,100



ANNEX L
U'JDA PPO,ECT - 'iALAYSIA
HATER BALANCE STTDY - AVERACE YEAR
- MAIN CROP                                 -   SECOND CROP
DATES            5 Aug-16 Sept    17 Sept-3 Jan     4 Jan-18 Feb    19 Feb-i Apr    2 ADr-22 Jun     23 June-h Aug     TOTALS
DAYS                  hO               110                               h0                2
Water Supply
Average Rainfall-inches               15                29             2.5              4.2             17.3           11.2             79.2
Est. Useable                          11                22.5          0                 4.2             lb             0               51.7
Acre Ft. Useable (261,500 acres)    239,800           490,500         0               95,560          305,200          0               1,131,000
Uncontrolled River Flow-Acre Ft.       179,300           378,000                         27,300           59,800         33,000
Downstream Requirement-Acre Ft.       b,200            11,000                          I.,000           8,200          L,ooo
Estimated Useable-Acre Ft.          130,800           216,000         0               21,000           L5,oo0          0                 412,800
Useable Rain Plus Uncontrolled
Storage Reservoirs-Acre Ft.           370,600           706,500                        116,560          350,200                          1,5b3,800
Pedu (Inflow-3% Seepage)             19,b70            50,600          1,160           1,300           11,500          6,190
Muda     "                           75,600           3h6,600         57,700          39,000           59,300          73,300
Total Inflow                  95,070           397,200        58,860           40,300           70,800         79,500
Minus Evaporation              4,ooo            12,200         5,300            5,100            8,500          h,700
91,070           385,000         53,560          35,200           62,300          7L,800            701,930
Initial Storage - (Minimum)            150,000
Curnulative Storage                    241,070           626,000        679,600         71h,800           hlL,700        ll1,200
Releases (Line 28-Line 9)x 105%          0                 0              0             335,o00          355,300           0
379,h00            86,hoo
Field Delivery - Rain                  239,800 Lo90,500                                  95,600           305,200
- Uncontrolled                      130,800           216,000                         21,000          1h5,oO
- From Storage                        0                 0                            319,bhO          338,L00
Total - Acre Feet            370,600           706,500         0              Lj36,coo         688,600                          2,201,700
Water Requirements - inches              17                 32.h          0               20                27             0               96.h
Acres per Cusec                       55                79                             L8                71
Acre Feet-(261,500 Acres)           370,600           706,320          0             L36,OOO           688,O00          0              2,20],590
(Includes 30 ' Field Loss)



ANNEX 5
\~~  KArJuAI9-      I KeAdk
<  _             ~  ~~~~~~~~~~' Li1
_mECEI   -  -E     I
r u__ _ _   c  I     J    \. i  II 
C  L  -R                   . . I
PADI~~ ~~ SOIL OF KEA ADPRLS-          1'-
RAILWAYS
0  2sL 4       ---  --a
APRIL ~ ~  OATA 196                             IBRD-1520 Il vX \ 
o~  ~~~X.,lS                   ''1
0 5- I       /h t,  -'I',.t,E:.E 
I   -  I  ;''LL'J.|4LL.Ii''.li:/   , ,.------7X,1i
I~~~ K edltr     |     '1RIEY
PADL SOILS OFKEAHANDPRIS520-q 



ANNEX 6
Present and Projected Yields.-Costs and Revenues for Project Area
Present                        Pro.jected
single cropping                double cropping
Yields in                           1970     1975      2005 and on
*gantangs per acre      370            800      840     1100
Farm-gate price
M$ per picul         13.50            - - - - 13.50 - -   -
Gross value M$
per acre              208            454       476      624
Cost of production
(excl. land rent)
in M$ per acre        107            246       246      266
Net revenue in M$
per acre              101            208       230      358
Rent in I$ per acre
for tenant             70            (at 40% of first crop only)
102       107      130
Net Acreage
under cropping      261,500         - - - - - - 261,500 -    - -
Rate of double cropping             Before 1970        Nil
in % of total area
1970       30%
1971       50%
1972       70%
1973       80%
1974       90%
1975      100%
After  1975      100%
/ As arbitrarily assumed by the Mission.   The Malaysian authorities
anticipate a much more rapid introduction of double cropping.
*  1 oantana = 5.6 lbs.



MUDA PROJECT AREA
WIATER RATES PER ACRE
1965     1966    1967     1968     1969     1970    1971     1972     1973     1974    1975
Central Perlis       -       2.00    4.00     4.90    6.00     6.00     8.00    10.00   12.00    15.00    15.00
South Perlis        2.80     4.00    4.90     6.00    6.00     6.00     8.00    10.00    12.00   15.00    15.00
Kubang Pasu         4.90     4.90    4.90     6.00    6.00     6.oo     8.00    10.00    12.00   15.00    15.00
WIan Mat Saman      2.80     4.00    h.90     6.00    6.00     6.oo     8.00    10.00    12.00    15.00   15.00
Note: From 1971 onwards any area not being double cropped due to
insufficiency of irrigation supply will be charged at a
maximum rate ofM$6/- per acre for the single crop.



ANNEX 8
Marketing and Prices
Marketing and prices for rice are largely controlled by the Govern-
ment to promote domestic production of rice and ensure an adequate national
stockpile.
The marketing is controlled by the licensing of trade and imports
in particular. Imports are only permitted in order to bridge the gap
between domestic supplies and consumption. In many cases the Government
is the importer for the national stockpile on a country to country contract
basis. Private importers are granted import licences based on obligatory
purchases of domestic rice. Kedah rice is the most favored locally produced
rice. The Government uses the profits made on imported rice to cover part
of the costs of its stockpiling program and other marketing activities.
So far the system has worked satisfactorily. The price control is based
on the guaranteed minimum price for dry paddy which after 7 years at M$ 15
per picul (133-1/3 lbs.) was raised to M$ 16 per picul in 1963/64 and
probably will be maintained on this level for the next few years. This
price is not based on cost-price studies but a straight income support
price for the low income Malaysian paddy farmers. Taking into account
various deductions by middlemen for quality and moisture, transportation
costs, bags, etc., the actual price received by the farmer varies between
M$ 12.50 - 14$ 1450 per picul. Based on the minimum price plus the assumed
milling costs, the Government stockpile buys milled rice at a guaranteed
price of about M$ 440 per long ton delivered at Government warehouses
(godowns). As long as the margin between import prices and domestic prices
is not too large but still a sizeable quantity of imported rice is bought
to carry some of the costs of the program, this system to support local
production can, in practice, be maintained.
Long-term projections by the Bank and FAQ rice experts assume that
rice prices will remain around the present level. In this case the gap
between imported high-quality rice and the domestic support price will not
become too large or result in excessive illegal trade.
The Malaysian Government expects that domestic consumption will
remain at least on the same per capita level and thus increase at the same
rate as population growth.
There seems to be no specific basic problem with regard to market-
ing and the production can always be sold in the domestic market.
Rice milling and storage capacity so far appears to be adequate
to take care of the expected increase in paddy production in the area.
In the project it has been assumed that the farmer will continue
to receive M$ 13.50 per picul for his paddy. A continued selection of
preferred varieties will at the same time simplify marketing.



MUDA RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT
ESTIMATE OF COSTS
IN MILLIONS OF MALAYSIAN DOLLARS
WORK ITEM                   LOCAL     FOREIGN
CURRENCY   CURRENCY    TOTALS
PEDU DAM                                                    33.3
Excavation and Quarry              3.7        3.6
Rockfill                           6.3        6.4
Batang, mban1anent                 2.0        1.5
Other 1                            4.9        4.9
SAIONG TUNNEL                                               19.3
Excavation                         5.1        4.0
Concrete Lining                    5.0        5.2
MUDA DAM                                                    15.3
Excavation                         0.7        1.0
Concrete                           7.0        4.2
Other I                            1.0        1.4
ACCESS ROADS (by PID)                 9.0                    9.0
RESERVOIR CLEARING                    2.9        2.1         5.0
RIVER IMPROVEMENT                     0.5        0.3         0.8
NORTHERN CANAL                                              21.3
Excavation                         4.0        4.0
Structures                         6.0        5.5
Land Acquisiton                    1.8         -
SOUTHERN CANAL                                              17.6
Excavation                         3.3        4.0
Structures.                        2.0        6.3
Land Acquisition                   2.0         -
DISTRIBUTICN SYSTEMS                 41.5       16.8        58.3
COASTAL DIKES & FLOOD CONTROL         1.3        0.8         2.1
O & M DURING CONSTRUCTION             8.0        1.5         9.5
COMMUNICATIONS                        0.2        0.4         O.6
SUB-TOTAL                        118.2       73.9
CONTINGENCIES (10 to 20%) a"         16.05      12.4        28.45
OVERHEAD (D.I.D.)                     8.05                   8.05
INVESTMENT FOR ECONOMIC ANALY~S     142.3       86.3       228.6
INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION 21                 20.7        20.7
TOTAL  (M$ MI-LLION)             142.3      107.0       249.3
(US$ MILLION)                47.5       35.7        83.1
iJ Includes Access, camps, foundation treatment, gates, valves, etc.
/ Based on status of design work.
/ 5 1/2% on IBRD loan.



*   .  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~             ..a.. ~~~~~~~ANNEX 1O
I    'ubA PR   TVFiY~A,
0Q*~VAUCTi i45~s
1~6                ip6l       i-106          1969         17
is8ut   T9ND9A$  itiLy  AW   ......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$ i~
TENDERSIECIVED     ft       
CONTRACTI PLACED
LAND ACQ ISITION              -
~ACCES$ ROADS V.
(by Kedah P.WD.~                                                          ..._..
~~II]  I  J  LLL7  j.}        I       ~~~~irr;gation 
._T                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~Aug  1969.
EXCAVAT ON-
CONRE1FACING
BATANGDAM            ...,'                                      i
MUDA DAM
RESERVOtR ClEARING
CAMP PM PIAT 
EXCAVAT10N_---. ..-~-7
C0NCRE1t                                      I
RESERVOIR IFILLING' . 
SAIONG TUIIINRL 
PLANT              .     ... 
EXCAVAT4ON .......___
CONCFET* LINING               ..._..._.
nIVER IPtVMU
NORH.TERN OANAJ                                I 
STRUC'TURES.....
CENTRAL &ISOUTHERN CA 4ALS
EXCA   TO             .       .   I     >
STfUTJs 
DISTRIBIJTTON CANALS



NIDA RIVER PROJECT
ADMINISTRATION CHART - MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION
S.D.r Edah/Perlis
Deputy
S.D. I.E.
1--                                1                               l     ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                   II
D.l.E., Perlis                              D.I.E.. North Kedah                        D.I.E. Central Kedah East          Mechanical Engineer    D.I.E. Central Kedah West
(Kangar)                                       (Jitra)                                    (Pokok Sena)                                              (Alor Star)
I                               ~           ~~                     ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~I  I 
A.D.I.E.                                      A.D.I.E.                                      A.D.I.E.                                                  A.D.I.E.
F- I                          ~~                                            ~                    ~~~~~~~~I  1        I                     I
Technical                                     Technical                                     Technical                           Technical              Technical
Assistant                                     Assistant                                     Assistant                           Assi tant              Assistant
C.I.I.                      C.I.I.            C. I. I.                    C.I.I.                                                    C.l.l .           C. I.I1.
Technician           Technician
(Pedu & Padang        (Pedu & Muda
Terap Rivers)        Dan & Reservoir
mintenance)
5 No.                        5 No.            5 No.                       5 No.                                                     5 No.             5 No.
1D. IsD.                                      LISD.                       I.Is.                                                     I..                .8
T                            r                T                           IT                                                         T
10 No.                       10 No.           10 No.                        10 so.                                                  10 No.             10 No.
I.Os.                        I.0s.            I.Os.                        I.Os.                                                    I.Oe.             I.Os.
ROTE:
S.D.I.E.     *     State Drainage & Irrigation Engineer
D.T.E.             Drainage & Irrigation Engineer
A.D.I.E.           Assistant Drainage & Irrigation Engineer
C.I.I.       *     Chief Irrigation Inspector
I.l.         *     Irrigation Inspector
1.0.         *     Irrigation Overseer



ANNEX 12
Agricultural Credit
Credit facilities for paddy farmers in Malaysia are largely domina-
ted by the traditional moneylenders, middlemen, shopkeepers and religious
leaders. The credit is given for both productive and consumptive purposes
without any formality but at exorbitant repayment charges, frequently up
to 300 per cent per season. Cash hardly enters into these credit transac-
tions as supplies and repayments are effected in kind. In many cases this
leads to a semi-permanent indebtedness of the farmer to these credit
suppliers. In Malaysia a system of cooperative credit under the Apex Bank
has been attempted buit itsimpact has been small, not because of lack of
initial financial resources, but because the implementation of the credit
policy failed. It failed firstly because of limited co-op membership, as
less than 20 per cent of the farmers became effective members of a co-op.
The remaining 80 per cent could not afford membership for financial reasons,
or refused to for social-political reasons. Furthermore, the effectiveness
of this attempt to provide cheap (usually 8 per cent per year) productive
credit to the farmers was also reduced because of the small size of the
co-op societies, red tape procedures, rigid and limiting rules for allowing
credit, defaults because of lack of cash, and rather large scale occurrences
of fraud in the local administrations. Lack of coordination with extension
services led to failure in the case of fertilizer credits where poor quality,
faulty timing because of the delay in the loan procedures and/or lack of
instructions on fertilizer application resulted in large scale repayment
failures.
Nevertheless, the system has not been too much of a dis-incentive
to paddy farming. There is still sharp competition for paddy land and
whenever there is water available, the farmers in the area will try to grow
a rice crop. This is probably partly because of lack of alternatives of
economic activity in the area, the force of the traditional habit and the
acceptance of indebtedness as a normal state of affairs, A gradual change
can be expected as a result of larger income incentives resulting in a
demand for consumer goods and a greater demand for transportation and
improved educational facilities. To be effective, this should be supported
by a continuous strong effort of the various authorities to give assistance
to farmers who want to improve their economic position.
One of the major drawbacks for a healthy credit development has
been crop failure. It is considered that with an adequate water supply and
other improved agricultural services, this risk will be largely eliminated,
thus creating better conditions for organized credit facilities.
At an estimated M$ 70 per acre per year for seasonal credit, the
necessary Government credit facilities would be in the order of M$ 18
million per year for the project area. In particular, fertilizer needed for
double cropping will urgently require seasonal credit facilities.
The Government is presently exploring new ways and means of improving
credit facilities, i.e, through larger cooperative credit unions, credit
farmers' associations, or the establishment of a people's credit bank system.



kNNEX 13
Page   1
APPENDIX TABLE
Assumptions for calculation of Net Rate of Return
ACREAGE:          261,500 acres net at present and in future
TINE SCHEDULE:    Double cropping starts  1970 - 30%
1971 - 50%
1972 - 70%
1973 - 80%
1974 - 90%
1975 - 100%
LIFETIME OF PROJECT:    50 years.
BENEFITS
YIELDS:    At present 370 gts. per acre
At start of double cropping - 800 gts. per acre per year for
double cropped acreage.
At full development of d.c. in 1975: 840 gts. per acre
Increasing 5% per 5 years up to 1100 gts. per acre per
years in 2005.
PRICE:     M$13.50 per picul (133-1/3 lbs.) present and future at farm
gate price.
VALUE OF PRODUCTION
In M$             (Per Acre)
Gross         Cost of Production      Net
Present -single crop      210                  107             103
1970-74-single  crop      227                  107            120
double  crop      454                  246             208
1975-79                   476                 246              230
1980-84                   499                  246             253
1985-89                   522                  250             272
1990-94                   544                  255             289
1995-99                   567                 260              307
2000-2004                 595                  263             332
2005 - on                 624                 266              358
1J  Cropping paddy only. IWith other crops the value would be higher.



ANNEX 1 3
Page   2
NQI-+. U   t1ii= ni fo.nm ao+  fnor nr"nie-+. _-ea - Mt millieNn
Present, sir.le croppi>       ,,- ^- wi 27 milli n
107,  - ,,i vn_L.                           v
1071 - 1.1                        I Oa5  - 71
1970 - '6                         1990-9' -76
1973 -                            ,- 1995=99 = onV
197 (+  ) IC- ,2                  2000-44 - Of
1975 - 79 - 60                    2005-on  - 94
ILncrement in net value. Net Vvalue of production Ln each year
minus M$27 million of present net value.
COSTS
INVESMENT CO6TS as given in para 100.
Cost 1964-65 . . . 6.0 million M$ carried in year one (1966) of
calculation.
0 and M costs as given in para 98.
Costs of Extension
MS million
1966             1.9
1967             1.7
1968             2.1
1969             2.2
1970             2.0 and so on
Cost of other inputs (fertilizer, seeds, mechanization, etc.) are
accounted for in cost price of production, which also includes the
value of the farmer's (family) labor.-'/
1/ At the standard rate of M$ 2.50 per man per day.



