Report No. PID10747
Project Name                     Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, ...@
Republic of Serbia Structural
Adjustment Credit
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sectors                          Public Expenditure Management, Energy,
Health, Social Protection
Project ID                       YFPE74586
Borrower                         Ministry of Finance, Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia
Implementing Agency
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Republic of Serbia
Nemanjina 22 - 26
Belgrade, Yugoslavia
Telephone: 381-11-3616-548
Fax: 381-11-3616-535
www.mfin.sr.gov.yu
Contact points:
H.E. Miroljub Labus
Deputy Prime Minister
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
H.E. Bozidar Djelic
Minister of Finance and Economy
Republic of Service
Environment Category             C
Date this PID prepared           October 15, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         October 29, 2001
Projected Board Date             December 18, 2001
Country Background
FRY was formed in 1992 out of the Republics of Serbia and Montenegro as the
former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was breaking up in civil
conflict. Nearly ten years of strife, international isolation and poor
economic management have left in their wake a collapsed economy, fragile
institutions and increased vulnerability. GDP today is less than half its
level of ten years ago. During the past decade, FRY experienced chronic high
inflation and accumulated large domestic and external debts. Delayed
transition and extensive decapitalization have left the enterprise,financial
and infrastructure sectors in dire condition. Living standards have declined,
and the level of absolute poverty is estimated to have doubled since 1990 to
around 12 percent of the population. This increase in poverty was accelerated
by a deterioration in social protection and health systems, including
declining efficiency and targeting.Available financing fell below levels of
existing entitlements, creating chronic arrears in some benefit payments.
Unemployment is high and long-duration in nature, symptomatic of rigid labor



markets.
Federal elections in September (and Serbian elections in December) 2000
brought a dramatic change in government in FRY, with the Yugoslav people
demonstrating through this process their strong desire to break with the past.
The new Federal and Serbian governments came to office with mandates to pursue
modernization, market-economy reforms, and international re-integration.
They are committed to a decisive program of macroeconomic, structural and
institutional reforms that will be a necessary first step towards recovery.
Over the past year, these new governments have made substantial progress on
their economic reform agendas. In Serbia (by far the larger republic, with
around 95 percent of FRY's population and a similar share of GDP), progress
since elections has been extensive. Immediate stabilization measures,
supported by the IMF, have already brought exchange rate stability, reduced
inflation, and better budget execution. In parallel, the authorities have
taken the first steps in an agenda of structural reforms aimed at buttressing
these gains and at reversing the delayed transition of the past. In addition
to reforms in areas supported by the SAC, important progress has been made
in six other areas: price liberalization, foreign trade reform, tax reform,
the framework for privatization, banking reform, and the fight against
corruption, the gray economy and smuggling.
The Federal and Serbian governments have now developed a more complete
adjustment and reform program. The inclusion of improved fiscal management
among its priority objectives reflects that the roots of current macroeconomic
imbalances are in the large fiscal imbalances of the past. During the last
decade, the public finance system of FRY was undermined by mismanagement,
structural weaknesses in the processes and institutions of public finance, and
extensive quasi-fiscal activities. As a result, public expenditures as a share
of GDP have reached high levels by regional standards, especially for social
protection, health care, and defense. Although cash budgets were close to
balance, substantial hidden deficits were accumulated, especially as direct
budgetary arrears on pensions, health care and social assistance payments.
Such arrears increased the vulnerability of poorer citizens dependent on the
timely payment of these transfers. The single largest accumulation of quasi
fiscal liabilities has been in the energy sector, where the annualized losses
of the Serbian power utility alone had reached over 10 percent of GDP in
late-2000. These losses,sustained for many years, reflected the chronic
setting of tariffs at well below cost recovery levels.
The SAC would support key elements of the government's program focused on the
enhancement of medium-term fiscal sustainability. These include structural and
institutional reforms to strengthen processes and institutions of fiscal
management and reduce underlying sectoral imbalances. These reforms are
focused on four areas which have been identified as posing the greatest
immediate fiscal risk to the Serbian budget,and therefore to macroeconomic
stability and the transition to a market economy:
Strengthening public expenditure management. Reforms are needed to
prepare and execute budgets in ways which better align commitments with
available resources, and to ensure more transparent and efficient use of
public and donor resources. To this end, the Government plans to pass a new
Law on the Budget System, which will lay the basis for a more consolidated and
comprehensive medium-term framework for budget preparation, to improve budget
- 2-



execution through introduction of a Treasury system, and to improve the
transparency of the budget through enhanced inspection, auditing and
procurement procedures.
Reforms of the energy sector. To begin addressing this large source of
quasi-fiscal liabilities, the Government has begun a phased program of revenue
and cost containment measures to return the Serbian electricity utility EPS to
financial self-sufficiency. It has also commenced other reforms to reduce
energy demand, reduce costs by increasing productivity, and improve the
efficiency of energy use.
Reform of social protection and labor markets. The program includes
parametric reforms and improved implementation of the existing pension
system as crucial first steps in containing expenditures in a longer process
of change. Reforms to social assistance are needed to better cushion the
impact of adjustment on the poorest members of society and to place these
benefits on a more sustainable financial footing. Reform of labor markets, as
embodied in the new labor and employment laws, will reduce quasi-fiscal
pressures by removing structural impediments to cost containment in the
enterprise sector,and limit direct fiscal pressures by removing a key driver
of overstaffing in budgetary institutions. It will also stimulate growth in
employment by increasing flexibility in the labor market.
Reform of the health care system. Reforms to begin restoring financial
balance of this system are a prerequisite for improving its functioning and
its ability to provide basic health care services to all citizens. To this end,
the Government plans to take initial steps in reforming the system of health care
financing (including the introduction of co-payments and the adoption of a more
limited essential drugs list), addressing structural inefficiencies in the delivery
system,and laying the foundations for a new policy and legal framework.
Together with maintaining a sustainable macroeconomic framework, these inter-
related and mutually reinforcing reforms are designed to address near-term
causes of fiscal imbalances. They will also begin progress towards medium-term
benchmarks which will be achieved through deeper structural reform measures
to be completed beyond the horizon of the SAC
The Proposed Credit
The proposed Structural Adjustment Credit would be a single tranche operation
of around US$70 million equivalent from IDA. The credit would be on
exceptionally hardened IDA terms, with a maturity of 20 years, including a
grace period of 10 years.It will be extended to the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia and on-lent to the Republic of Serbia. The project will be
coordinated by the Serbian Ministry of Finance and Economy. Implementation of
the reforms supported by the credit will be the responsibility of the
Republican Ministry of Finance and Economy, Ministry of Mining and Energy,
Ministry of Labor, Ministry of Health, and Ministry of Social Affairs.
Rationale for IDA involvement
The Board of Executive Directors endorsed a Transitional Support Strategy
(TSS) for FRY on May 8, 2001, which proposed temporary, exceptional access to
IDA resources for FRY given the countries extremely difficult macro-economic
circumstance and crushing external debt burden. The TSS outlines three key
- 3-



objectives of Bank support - (a) restoring macroeconomic stability and
external balance; (b) stimulating growth and creating the basis for a
sustainable supply response; and (c) improving the social well-being of the
most vulnerable and building human capacity. Adjustment lending is proposed
as the principal vehicle for achieving these objectives, given the Bank's
comparative advantage with this type of financing. This Structural Adjustment
Credit has thus been developed as an IDA lending operation in FRY consistent
with the objectives and mechanisms outlined in the TSS.
Environmental Category
The proposed SAC is not expected to result in any negative impact on the
environment. For the purposes of Operational Directive 4.01, it has been
placed in Category C, which does not require an environmental assessment.
Poverty Category
The proposed SAC and the Government program which it supports will have
important impacts on poverty. Some reforms, such as higher energy prices and
the introduction of co-payments for health care services, could have negative
initial impacts. These will be addressed through reforms to improve the
immediate and medium-term effectiveness of social welfare programs, and to
enhance the potential for donor support for payment of such benefits.
The SAC will have other positive effects on poverty. By supporting the
formulation of more realistic budgets and improved budget execution, it will
limit the accumulation of arrears on social transfers, thereby enhancing the
predictability of incomes of those dependent on such transfers. It will reduce
hidden enterprise subsidies which have delayed restructuring and often led to
ad hoc crowding out of pro-poor expenditures,as the emergence of hidden
liabilities forced adjustments in other expenditures. It will work to reduce
unemployment by creating more flexible labor markets.
By improving macroeconomic stability, the SAC will also reduce the risks of
renewed inflation which could have particularly negative impacts on the poor.
A stable macroeconomy, together with better functioning labor markets and a
more secure supply of energy, will also create the basis for investments
needed for medium-term growth and employment creation, and thus for more
sustained poverty reduction.
Benefits and Risks
The proposed SAC will provide a range of potential benefits, in addition to
the positive impacts on poverty described above. It will work to preserve and
enhance the substantial stabilization gains made so far, both by supporting
reforms which enhance medium-term fiscal sustainability, and by providing non-
inflationary financing to close budgetary gaps and bolster external reserves.
The Bank's assessment of the structural reform efforts in FRY and Serbia will
also send a positive signal, both to other donors and to potential private
investors and creditors. By working for a more stable and prosperous FRY and
Serbia, it will indirectly promote economic recovery in the wider Southeast
European region.
The proposed first SAC also entails risks. External shocks could strain
Serbia's ability to maintain a sustainable macroeconomic framework and return
- 4 -



to growth. A marked slowdown in the economy of key trading partners or a
renewal of regional conflict could reduce the growth of exports and private
capital inflows. While the June Donor Conference raised more pledges than
requested, some disbursements could be delayed. Even debt relief on the most
favorable terms will lead to a sharp jump in debt service payments, further
stretching fiscal and external balances. Debt rescheduling accords with the
Paris and London Clubs which are delayed or insufficiently deep would increase
macroeconomic fragility.
There are several sources of political risk. The ongoing discussion of
changes to the constitutional structure of the Federation may divert attention
from economic issues,and could also delay much needed foreign investment. The
timing of the next elections in Serbia could also affect the pace of the
reform program.
Finally, the SAC tackles issues which have proved difficult in other economies
in transition. The government wants to continue to move quickly and has set
ambitious targets and deadlines. While the near-term reform agenda has been
designed to focus on measures which are consistent with existing
implementation capacity and already established technical assistance efforts,
this will be a greater constraint on follow-up measures.
Contact Point:
Mr. Ardo Hansson
Sr. Country Economist
The World Bank
1818 H Street , NW
Washington, D.C, 20433
Telephone: (202) 473 9499
Fax:   (202) 522 2754
For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458 5454
Fax:   (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be
included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending November 16,2001
- 5 -



