Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7494-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 55.5 MILLION
(US$70 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
December 21, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization



GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of October 12, 2001)
Currency Unit = Yugoslav dinar
LC = US$0.01464
US$1 = 68.3 YUD
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRA      Bank Rehabilitation Agency                  MOFE    Ministry of Finance and Economy
DEM      German Mark                                 MOP       Material Assistance to Families
ECA      Europe and Central Asia                     NBY      National Bank of Yugoslavia
EPS      Electric Power Industry of Serbia           PEIR    Public Expenditure and Institutional Review
ESW      Economic Sector Work                        SAC       Structural Adjustment Credit
EC       European Commission                         SBA      Stand-by Arrangement
EU       European Union                              SDR      Special Drawing Right
FDI      Foreign Direct Investment                   SEE       Southeast Europe
FRY      Federal Republic of Yugoslavia              SFRY    Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                      TA       Technical Assistance
HIF      Health Insurance Fund                       TSS      Transitional Support Strategy
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and    UK       United Kingdom
Development                                 UNDP   United Nations Development Programme
IDA      International Development Association       VAT       Value Added Tax
ILO      International Labor Organization            WHO    World Health Organization
IMF      International Monetary Fund                 WTO      World Trade Organization
LBS      Law on the Budget System                    YUD      Yugoslav Dinar
Vice President:  Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:  Christiaan Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Director:  Pradeep Mitra, ECSPE
Sector Manager:  Kyle Peters, ECSPE
Team Leader:  Ardo Hansson, ECSPE



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Amount:                    SDR 55.5 million (US$70 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Exceptionally hardened IDA termns with a 20-year maturity,
including a 10-year grace period, with no acceleration clause.
Objectives and Description:   The proposed credit is a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) to
support the governments of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(FRY) and its larger constituent republic, the Republic of Serbia,
in the implementation of a structural reform agenda with the
main objective of enhancing medium-term fiscal sustainability as
a basis for sustained growth and poverty reduction. The reform
program to be supported by the proposed operation works to
achieve these objectives through implementing specific reforms
in the areas of: (i) public expenditure management; (ii) the
energy sector; (iii) social protection and labor; and (iv) the health
care sector.
Benefits.                  The SAC will work to solidify the stabilization and reform
progress made thus far in FRY and Serbia, and provide a basis
for building a more comprehensive program. By targeting the
sources of macroeconomic imbalance, the SAC will enhance the
effectiveness the World Bank portfolio and other donors'
programs. The credit will also send an important signal to donors
and private investors and creditors, and thereby help stimulate
much needed official support and private investments. Given the
importance of developments in FRY to the overall prospects for
Southeast Europe, this credit for stabilization and recovery in
FRY will also have important effects to the region as a whole.
Risks:                     The need to redefine the constitutional structure of the Federation
and relations between the constituent republics is a central and
difficult political issue. Negotiations on this issue could prove a
distraction from the reform agenda. Expectations of the
population in FRY are high, and limited institutional capacity
within the government may limit the pace of reform. Economic
recovery could also be affected by a global economic downturn
(exacerbated by the after effects of the recent terrorist attacks on
the United States), by delays in the disbursement of pledged
donor assistance, and by a failure to conclude or meet the
conditions for implementing concessional debt restructuring
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



arrangements with the Paris and London Clubs.
Schedule of Disbursements:   The full credit is expected to be disbursed by February 2002.
Poverty Category:          Not applicable.
Project ID Number:         YU-PE-P074586
Map                        IBRD No. 31506
This operation was prepared by a Team including Ardo Hansson (Team Leader), Juan Carlos
Ginarte, Sergei Shatalov, Marina Wes (ECSPE); Timothy Gilbo (ECC04); William Dorotinsky
(PRMPS); Gary Stuggins, Felix Martin (ECSIE); Arvo Kuddo, Mamta Murthi, Philip O'Keefe,
Pierella Paci, Laura Rose (ECSHD). Legal, disbursement and financial management support
were provided by Friedrich Peloschek (LEGEC), Joseph Fornoso (LOAGI), and Roberto
Tarallo (ECSCS). The peer reviewers were Mauricio Carrizosa (LCSPE) and Frank Lysy
(CEIED). Processing assistance from Mismake Galatis is gratefully acknowledged.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT TO
THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. INTRODUCTION ...........................................................1I
II. INITIAL CONDITIONS, REFORM PROGRESS AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENTS ............................................................4
A. The Legacy of the Past ............................................................4
B. Stabilization Measures and Recent Economic Developments ...............................................5
C. Recent Progress in Structural Reforms ....................   ........................................7
III. THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ........................9
A. Strengthening the Management of Public Expenditures ...................................................... 12
B. The Energy Sector ...........................................................              15
C. Reform of Social Protection and Labor Markets ...........................................................  17
D. Reform of Health Care ...........................................................          20
E. Medium-Term Prospects and Financing Requirements .................................... ....... 23
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT ........................................... 25
A. Project Implementation ...........................................                         26
B. Coordination with the IMF and Donors ........................................... 27
C. Poverty Implications ........................................... 27
D. Benefits and Risks ...........................................                             28
V. RECOMMENDATION ........................................... 29
ANNEXES
Annex 1        FRY at a Glance
Annex 2        Key Economic Indicators
Annex 3        Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex 4        Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex 5        Letter of Development Policy
Annex 6        Policy Action Matrix
MAP            IBRD No. 31506






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT TO
THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.    I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed first
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) in the amount
of SDR 55.5 million (US$70 million equivalent).' The Credit would be on IDA terms with a
final maturity of 20 years and a grace period of 10 years2 and would be disbursed in one tranche
immediately after Credit Effectiveness.
I. INTRODUCTION
2.    National elections in October 2000, followed by elections in the Republic of Serbia later
in the year, brought to office reform-oriented governments in FRY with a mandate to bring
greater democracy, modernization and integration with the international economy. Nearly ten
years of poor economic management, conflict and international isolation have left a daunting
economic and human legacy (see Section II.A. for details). Recorded per capita GDP is only
about one-half of its 1989 level. Inherited macroeconomic imbalances and external debts
represent a serious challenge for economic policy makers. Delayed transition and the extensive
decapitalization have left the enterprise, financial and infrastructure sectors in dire condition.
Living standards have declined, and the level of absolute poverty is estimated to have doubled
since 1990, now representing 12 percent of the population.
3.    The governments of FRY, Serbia and Montenegro, have made substantial recent progress
on their economic reform agendas. In Serbia, progress over the year since elections has been
extensive, including: major liberalization of prices, foreign trade and foreign exchange; tax
reform; improved frameworks for privatization and bank restructuring; enhanced transparency in
the budget process; and reductions in the gray economy and smuggling (see Section II.B below).
Although in Montenegro reforms began earlier, supported by donor technical and financial
assistance, implementation in some areas has been less rapid, in part because of more serious
capacity constraints.
4.    In October 2000, the FRY asked the Bank to open a dialogue on membership and
resolution of its substantial (US$1.7 billion) arrears to IBRD.3  After fulfilling the relevant
conditions, on May 8, 2000, FRY succeeded to membership in the Bank after a nearly decade-
long hiatus. At the same time, the Bank's Board of Executive Directors endorsed a Transitional
Support Strategy (TSS),4 which sets out a plan to resolve FRY's IBRD arrears and establishes
FRY was formed in 1992 out of the Republics of Serbia and Montenegro as the former Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia (SFRY) was breaking up in civil conflict. Serbia is by far the larger of the two republics, with
around 95 percent of FRY's population and a similar share of GDP.
2 Exceptionally hardened IDA terms for FRY were agreed by the Executive Board in the context of the discussion
of FRY's membership and the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy.
3 The former SFRY ceased to be a member of the World Bank Group in February 1993.
4Yugoslavia: Transitional Support Strategy (Final), July 26, 2001 (Report number 22090-YU).



temporary IDA eligibility for FRY on an exceptional basis.5  Up to US$540 million in IDA
resources are allocated over the FY02-FY04 period, with actual lending to be determined based
on policy performance.
5.     The proposed World Bank program foresees up to 80 percent of commitments in the form
of adjustment credits supporting critical policy reforms in two core areas: (i) improving
macroeconomic sustainability; and (ii) transition reforms to stimulate growth. The Bank's FY02
program includes the proposed SAC designed to address the fiscal risks to macroeconomic
stability, and a second operation under preparation to support transition reforms in private and
financial sector development. These two operations (designed to lend early support to an already
substantial reform program) should lay the foundations for follow-up operations in FY03 and 04,
which can in turn reinforce the reforms being commenced now. With the benefit of additional
analyses and greater lead time for preparation, these future operations could build on institutional
strengthening measures supported by donor-funded technical assistance now coming on stream.
6.     The TSS  also outlines a complementary program  of investments, with a focus on
mitigating the effects of reform on the poorest and stimulating a supply response in the economy.
Grants totaling US$30 million from the Trust Fund for FRY (TFFRY) are supporting social
protection (through one-off payments to the poorest), emergency energy repairs, environmental
infrastructure, and technical assistance for privatization and financial sector reform.6 IDA credits
are also planned to finance projects in education, export credit insurance, trade facilitation, and
microcredit. The Bank's program of analytical work began with the major economic report
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia - Breaking with the Past, prepared for the first Donor
Conference for FRY in June 2001. The program for FY02 includes a Public Expenditure and
Institutional Review (PEIR), Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), and a
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR). All three studies have been prepared in
parallel with the SAC, with strong thematic overlap. Their initial findings supported preparation
of this SAC. Their final conclusions, along with the results of a poverty survey being conducted
in parallel with Bank-supported efforts to enhance the capacity for poverty monitoring and
analysis, will provide a strengthened analytical basis for future operations.
7.     The TSS proposes that overall support be provided to FRY's two Republics on an
equitable basis. Due to the highly devolved nature of the Yugoslav federation, most areas of
economic policy are the competence of the republics.7  Moreover, the different starting points
and pace of reforms call for differentiated reform and assistance programs in each republic.
5 FRY's arrears to IBRD are being resolved through the consolidation of existing principal and interest due and
overdue into a package of "Consolidation Loans", which were approved by the Board of Executive Directors on
December 13, 2001, signed on December 17, 2001, ratified by the Federal Assembly on December 20, 2001, and
which are expected to be effective in early-January 2002.
6 The TFFRY was created on March 13, 2001 when the Board of Executive Directors approved the transfer of
US$30 million of surplus IBRD net income to finance urgent projects prior to the resolution of arrears and the
resumption of lending activities.
The Federal Constitution of 1992 reserved as the main federal functions monetary policy, foreign affairs, trade
and defense, while most other functions are the responsibility of the republics. The republics have primary
responsibility for economic policy and play the central role in public expenditures and revenue mobilization. Less
than one-fifth of consolidated government spending is at the federal level. Montenegro has further expanded its
autonomy by taking over monetary policy (in November 2000, the German mark became the sole legal tender),
trade policy and customs.
2



Thus, a fine-tuning of the approach laid out in the TSS has been agreed with the Governments
whereby the policy reform program - and the Bank's planned adjustment lending - is structured
to address the specific needs of each republic. In Serbia, two adjustment credits are proposed
during FY02 (see para. 5). In Montenegro, given its differing set of needs and its smaller relative
size, a single adjustment credit is planned to address both fiscal and transition issues during
FY02. These credits would be provided to FRY, which would make the counterpart funds
available to the Republics to back primarily Republic-level reforms. Such a differentiated
approach will allow better accounting for the different starting points, reform challenges and
pace of reforms in the two republics and avoid the risk of delaying disbursements to one republic
due to a lagged reform effort in the other.
8.    This first one-tranche operation builds on the Serbian government's strong recent track
record on reforms, and addresses key risks that threaten fiscal sustainability. While it focuses on
short term exigencies, it is also designed to begin progress towards defined medium term
benchmarks to be achieved through further reforms possibly supported by future adjustment
operations.8 The proposed operation has three pillars: strengthening of public expenditure
management; energy sector reform; and social sector reform  (in particular pensions, labor
markets and health). The program, which builds on the agenda outlined in the Bank report
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia - Breaking with the Past, and the preliminary findings of the
PEIR, is described in the attached Letter of Development Policy (Annex 5) and Policy Action
Matrix (Annex 6). It represents a consistent and mutually supporting subset of the overall policy
reform agenda of FRY and the Republic of Serbia. As a first step the Federal and Republican
governments have implemented the core measures indicated in Table 1, and are committed to
work towards achievement of the more medium-term outcomes described in the Letter of
Development Policy and the final column of the Policy Action Matrix.
9.    In addressing the economic reform agenda, the governments of FRY face a number of
challenges (see section IV. D). Foremost is the need to redefine the constitutional structure of the
Federation and relations between the constituent republics. Negotiations on this very difficult
issue could distract from the reform agenda. Expectations of the population in FRY are high,
and limited institutional capacity within the government may limit the pace of reform. Economic
recovery may also be affected by the global economic downturn, exacerbated by the after effects
of the recent terrorist attacks on the United States. However, despite these challenges, the
proposed SAC will serve to solidify the important gains made thus far in FRY and Serbia, and
provide a basis upon which a more comprehensive program can be built. By targeting the
sources of macroeconomic imbalance, the SAC will enhance the effectiveness of the World Bank
portfolio and other donors' programs. The credit will also send an important signal to private
investors and creditors, and thereby help stimulate needed private investments. Given the
importance of FRY to the overall prospects for Southeast Europe, the benefits of this credit to
stabilization and recovery in FRY will also have important flow on effects to the region as a
whole.
s This approach of adding outcome benchmarks to a one-tranche operation was deemed preferable to a multi-
tranche approach. At this moment, several factors make it difficult or even unadvisable to agree on precise
reforms to be implemented in the future. These factors include the uncertainty regarding future constitutional
arrangements in FRY, and the lack of a full and precise multi-year reform program due to the still very early stage
in Serbia's reform process and the need for completion of further analytical studies by the Bank and other donors.
3



II. INITIAL CONDITIONS, REFORM PROGRESS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
10.   FRY and Serbia began the renewed transition to democracy and a market economy under
very difficult political, economic and social conditions. In less than one year, their governments
have taken impressive first steps to address this daunting legacy of the past. These policies have
already brought visible improvements in key economic indicators, and begun to create
foundations for a more sustained recovery of output and living standards.
A. The Legacy of the Past
11.   The difficult conditions faced by FRY and Serbia are the combined legacy of three broad
developments over the last decade:
*  Very poor macroeconomic outcomes. Even after a slight rebound in 2000, recorded per
capita GDP remained below one-half of its 1989 level.9 Foreign trade volumes also fell
sharply, with exports in 2000 down 60 percent and imports 30 percent from 1989 levels.
During the last ten years, FRY experienced chronic high inflation, including severe
hyperinflation in 1993. These imbalances fueled demonetization, with Ml/GDP falling
from around 20 percent of GDP in the early 1990s to 6 percent in 2000, and led to the
emergence of multiple exchange rates and currency inconvertibility. During the past
decade, FRY had accumulated large domestic and external debts, with the latter reaching
around 141 percent of GDP in 2000.10
*  Severe deterioration of the enterprise, financial and infrastructure sectors. The past
decade saw a lack of deep restructuring and an economy-wide running down of enterprise
capital and physical infrastructure. The latter was the result of significant deferred
maintenance and underinvestment in the face of tightened financing constraints. Fueled
by the chronic setting of prices at well below cost recovery levels, and compounded by
the impact of the Kosovo conflict, this deterioration was particularly severe in the energy
sector. Aside from one large investment in the telecoms sector, foreign direct investment
(FDI) was negligible. In addition, a complex web of arrears was built up between
governments, companies, banks and people. As a result, FRY embarks on its renewed
transition with a still dominant state- and socially-owned enterprise sector which is
inefficiently organized, substantially loss-making and excessively indebted.
*  Worsened social conditions of the population. Serbia has experienced a rise in poverty,
primarily driven by poor economic performance and a resulting decrease in real earnings.
About one-third of the population lives in near-poverty, and about 12 percent in absolute
poverty - about double the 1990 number. This increase was accelerated by a deterioration
9 Key economic outcomes for 2000 and beyond are presented in Table 2, while a more detailed overview of is given
in Annex 2.
1 GDP figure excludes the Serbian Province of Kosovo. About 90 percent of FRY's debt can be attributed to the
Republic of Serbia.
4



in social protection and health systems as available financing fell below levels of existing
entitlements. It led to chronic arrears on some benefit payments, aggravated by arrears in
contributions from the federal and republican govenments to the social funds and intra-
social funds arrears. Unemployment is high and of a long-duration nature symptomatic of
rigid labor markets.
12.   These negative trends reflected both external and domestic factors. The former included:
the impact on established trade links of severe regional conflict (the breakup of the SFRY and
subsequent conflicts with FRY's neighbors); international isolation and economic sanctions; the
Kosovo conflict, which also led to the destruction of productive assets; and the severe drought of
2000, which cut agricultural and hydroelectric power output. Even before these events, the
SFRY had a history of severe macroeconomic imbalances. It had accumulated a large external
debt and its growth rate had begun to decline. In FRY, the last decade brought long delays in
economic transition, with sporadic progress giving way to periods of reversal. While many other
countries in Central and Eastern Europe pursued comprehensive reforms and stabilization to lay
the foundations for growth, delays and reversals left FRY ever further behind. Authoritarian rule,
high military spending and general mismanagement further reduced efficiency and eroded fiscal
balance. Finally, weaknesses in governance and institutions eroded implementation capacity and
created fertile ground for corruption.
B. Stabilization Measures and Recent Economic Developments
13.  In breaking with this difficult legacy of the past, the Federal and Serbian governments
face three key challenges:
* Restoring macroeconomic stability and external balance;
* Stimulating growth and creating the basis for a sustainable supply response; and
* Improving the well-being of the most vulnerable and building human capacity.
Since taking office less than a year ago, the respective governments have made impressive
progress in meeting these challenges. This has involved a two-pronged approach combining
immediate stabilization measures with the first steps in an agenda of structural reforms aimed at
buttressing these measures and reversing the delayed transition. Stabilization measures and their
initial impact are described in this section of the report, and initial progress in structural reforms
is outlined in Section II.C.
14.   The authorities began their stabilization efforts in late-2000 by tightening macroeconomic
policies, first through their own efforts and later with the support of an International Monetary
Fund (IMF) Emergency Post-Conflict Facility approved on December 20, 2000. Under that
program, the Serbian parliament adopted a 3-month budget and the Federal and Montenegrin
parliaments passed full 2001 budgets. The consolidated cash-based budget was balanced through
a combination of expenditure and revenue measures.  In parallel, the National Bank of
Yugoslavia (NBY) shifted to giving almost no credits to the budget or to enterprises. It also
reformed exchange rate policy. In December 2000, the exchange rate was unified at the highly
5



depreciated market rate of 30 Yugoslav dinars (YUD) per German mark (DEM). The dinar was
then made convertible for current account transactions by the reduction of administrative
impediments to foreign currency purchases and sales. Despite a formal managed float, tight
macroeconomic policies have sustained that rate while allowing the NBY to accumulate
additional foreign reserves. This combination of significant initial real depreciation, exchange
rate unification and current account convertibility has worked to improve prospects for growth
and export expansion.
15.   On June 11, 2001, the IMF Executive Board approved a Stand-by Arrangement (SBA)
for SDR 200 million (US$249 million equivalent), spanning the period through end-March 2002.
As extensive demonetization leaves little if any room for monetary financing of the fiscal deficit,
the SBA makes the adjustment of fiscal deficits to levels financeable from non-inflationary
sources the key policy instrument to restore macroeconomic stability. To this end, it includes a
detailed fiscal framework for 2001, backed by a full year Serbian budget. This framework
currently envisions an increase in the consolidated (cash-based) fiscal deficit (excluding grants)
from 0.9 percent of GDP in 2000 to 2.4 percent in 2001. The higher deficit partly reflects a more
realistic budgeting of expenditures (particularly by setting allocations for pensions and social
assistance more in line with actual entitlements), thus enabling the containment of new arrears
(and even some reductions). The greater realism of the budget, its nearly full financing from non-
inflationary sources, and its enhanced prioritization of pro-poor expenditures (most notably in
the areas of social assistance and education), combine to make the higher cash deficit more
sustainable than the low recorded deficit of 2000. Additional inroads into the structural sources
of quasi-fiscal deficits (e.g. higher energy prices), and the initialing of a highly concessional debt
restructuring agreement with the Paris Club, further enhance medium-term fiscal sustainability.
16.   Recent economic developments. The described measures have already brought some
improvements. As in many other ECA countries, the most visible initial changes were exchange
rate stability (described above) and substantially reduced inflation. Following a pre-election
burst of public spending and the freeing of prices in October 2000, inflation jumped to over 20
percent per month, resulting in an annual December-to-December rate of 115 percent in 2000. In
2001, this rate is expected to fall to around 40 percent, the combined result of sharp increases in
administered prices and a core inflation rate closer to 15 percent per year.
17.   The growth of real GDP shifted from the highly negative rates of 1999 to 5 percent in
2000, and to an expected 5.5 percent in 2001. Growth in 2000 was primarily driven by a rebound
from the lows of the Kosovo conflict.'2 Growth in 2001 has been driven by strong recovery of
the agricultural sector from the severe drought of 2000.13 In contrast, sales of the industrial sector
(which accounts for around 35 percent of GDP) are likely to contract by a modest 1 percent in
2001, reflecting the onset of a transitional recession resulting from shifts in relative prices and
the establishment of harder budget constraints.
" Until that month, Yugoslavia had a multiple exchange rate regime, with the gray market rate reaching a level five
times more depreciated than the official rate of 6 YUD/DEM.
12 In 1999, the year of the Kosovo conflict, recorded GDP fell by 16 percent.
3 The agricultural sector accounts for around one-quarter of Serbia's GDP. Some of the rebound in this sector can
also be attributed to donor financing of key inputs.
6



18.   Foreign trade volumes have similarly increased. Following a 18.6 percent increase (in
US dollar terms) in 2000 (again driven by a rebound from the lows of the Kosovo conflict),
exports of goods and services are expected to increase by a further 6.6 percent in 2001. More
rapid growth has so far been precluded by capacity and liquidity constraints and a less favorable
external environment. In 2001, imports of goods and services are expected to grow by a much
more robust 22 percent in US dollars, primarily reflecting the greater provision of donor
financing, including for energy imports.
19.   The higher growth of imports than exports led to a slight increase in the current account
deficit from 4.2 percent of GDP in 2000 to an expected 5 percent in 2001. These relatively
constrained levels reflect the past dearth of financing, which was limited to some official credits,
the drawing down of foreign exchange accounts, and some accumulation of arrears, e.g. on
natural gas imports. They also obscure a much more negative resource balance (17 percent of
GDP in 2000), which has historically been financed by significant private transfers from the
large Yugoslav diaspora, and to a lesser extent by targeted donor and humanitarian support.
C. Recent Progress in Structural Reforms
20.   The second pillar of initial efforts of the Federal and Serbian governments was the
initiation of structural and institutional reforms across a wide front. These reforms, some of
which were included in the IMF arrangements, were implemented while simultaneously
addressing three other difficult challenges - meeting the urgent humanitarian needs of the winter
of 2000/2001, achieving a rapid reintegration into the international community (including
membership in most major international organizations), and preparing for the first Donor
Conference for FRY in June 2001.
21.   The initial measures in the four areas covered by the SAC are more fully described in
Section III below. They include greater consolidation of government budgets, enhanced fiscal
transparency, and sharp increases in remaining controlled prices towards cost recovery levels. In
addition, the Federal and Serbian governments have made particularly important progress in the
six other areas:
*  Price liberalization. In the early autumn of 2000, the fixing of numerous key prices at
well below market clearing levels had led to chronic shortages, particularly of food, fuels
and medicines. As one of its last decisions, the outgoing Serbian government freed most
of these prices, leaving a small set of controls similar to that in most ECA countries. The
resulting (often several fold) price increases quickly restored balance to product markets
and worked to improve incentives, at the cost of further straining the living standards of
the most needy. Remaining controlled prices have been raised closer to cost-recovery
levels, including at more than doubling of power prices during 2001, higher natural gas
and district heating prices, and higher pharmaceuticals prices.
* Foreign trade reform. The new Federal Government inherited a highly distorted foreign
trade regime, which also hampered revenue collection and created fertile ground for
corruption. In December 2000, the Federal Government moved to suppress the most
egregious administrative controls, and (with input from the Bank) to prepare a more
7



fundamental reform of the trade policy. This reform, approved in May 2001, drastically
simplified the tariff regime (reducing the number of tariff rates from 37 to 6), removed
almost all foreign trade licenses, and limited the use of quotas. The Federal government
also began the longer-term process of accession to the WTO and the negotiation of a EU
Stabilization and Association Agreement, both of which will work to institutionalize and
deepen recent reforms. In addition, it has reformed customs and taken other measures to
limit corruption and smuggling.
* Tax reform. The new Serbian govermment inherited a highly complex tax regime, with
around 250 different taxes and levies. In spring 2001, it successfully implemented a bold
tax reform which sharply cut the number of taxes and levies, widened the tax base, and
thus allowed a lowering of key tax rates. In April 2001, the previously multiple (often
earmarked) turnover taxes were unified, while most exemptions were eliminated. Excise
taxes were similarly streamlined. In June 2001, expansion of the base for the personal
income tax (by bringing in previously non-taxed benefits) allowed a significant cut in the
payroll tax rate. All of these measures will work to improve incentives, enhance revenue
collections and reduce possibilities for arbitrary application and corruption. The
government is now preparing a law on tax administration, further revisions of excise tax
laws, and the introduction of a synthetic personal income tax and a VAT (the latter by
2003).
* Frivatization. The new Serbian Government also moved quickly to halt privatization
under the flawed existing framework, which involved opaque procedures and favored
insiders. In parallel, and building on the experiences of other transition economies, it
quickly developed a new framework allowing 70 percent of enterprise equity to be
offered to strategic investors in a transparent fashion, with a view to establishing clearly
defined and dominant owners. The new Privatization Law, adopted in June 2001, has
been followed by the creation of a privatization agency, the adoption of secondary legal
acts, and the beginning of the process of selling about 30 "early win" firms with the
assistance of international investment banks. This whole process has involved extensive
technical assistance from the Bank.
* Banking reform. Reforms are under way to promote the entry of new banks and improve
prudential regulations and their enforcement. In tandem, efforts have begun to develop a
strategy to restructure insolvent banks in Serbia (including a time-bound plan to intervene
the largest banks) and to strengthen the Federal Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA) to
manage the resolution and liquidation process (again with extensive technical assistance
from the Bank). A prerequisite for these interventions, a comprehensive audit of most
banks, has been completed.
* Anti-corruption. The Serbian government has been pursuing a multi-pronged strategy in
this area. In addition to measures described above (legal reforms, simpler and more
transparent trade and tax regimes, customs reform, and a more transparent process of
privatization), and the initial reforms to public expenditures described below, this has
included a clampdown on illegal trade in tobacco and liquid fuels (already bringing
sharply increased excise tax revenues and reduced gray market trade), and the
8



establishment of both an advisory body and a separate commission to examine all
existing laws to identify loopholes which need to be changed.
In several cases (e.g. foreign trade policy and tax policy), the Federal and Serbian governments
were able to achieve in months what many other ECA countries did in years. The commitment
evidence by the ability of these govermnents to implement such reforms while facing severe
capacity constraints is encouraging for the reforms to be pursued under the proposed SAC.
i11. THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
22.   After taking the early actions and achieving the initial outcomes described in Sections
II.B and II.C., the Federal and Serbian governments have now developed a more complete
adjustment and reform program, again across a wide front. They have requested the
Association's support for several important sub-blocks of this program. The proposed SAC
would support those key elements of the program which are focused on the enhancement of
medium-term fiscal sustainability.
23.   The early focus of the authorities on promoting fiscal sustainability is motivated by two
factors. First, as detailed below, FRY's significant inherited macroeconomic imbalances were
primarily driven by large fiscal and quasi-fiscal deficits. Second, the experience of other ECA
economies shows that governments which achieved credibly sustainable macroeconomic control
were better able to create the foundations for lasting growth and improved living standards. This
experience also shows that initial progress in stabilization is unlikely to last without commitment
to, and implementation of, further policy and institutional reforms to directly tackle the structural
sources of fiscal imbalances.
24.   The program to promote fiscal sustainability addresses immediate budgetary pressures
through essential short-terrn measures supported by the IMF SBA (see Section II.B). In parallel,
and for the reasons described above, it includes measures to strengthen processes and institutions
of fiscal management, reduce underlying sectoral imbalances and begin supporting key reforms.
The latter reforms are the core of the proposed first SAC.
25.   The thematic and sectoral focus of this program has been developed through analysis of
the fiscal outcomes of the recent past. Two characteristics identified by this analysis have
particularly influenced the design of reform measures. First, total expenditures on a cash basis
have reached high levels. In 2000, consolidated government expenditures were 39.8 percent of
GDP. This high level reflected the difficulty of controlling expenditures in the face of a severe
economic contraction, which was exacerbated by weaknesses in the procedures and institutions
for public financial management. Relative to regional averages, spending rose to particularly
high levels in pensions, health care, and defense. Even excluding military pensions, cash outlays
on pensions were 11-13 percent of GDP over the last few years. Health care absorbed a further 6-
7 percent of GDP. Defense outlays in 2000 (including military pensions and benefits) were
9



estimated at around 6 percent of GDP.14 As the tax burden is already high (total revenues
excluding grants were 38.8 percent of GDP in 2000), the focus of efforts to enhance fiscal
sustainability must be on the expenditure side.
26.    Second, past fiscal outcomes have been characterized by small cash deficits but large
quasi-fiscal deficits.'5 Tn 2000, the consolidated government deficit on a cash basis was 0.9
percent in 2000. This low level was the result of four types of measures which allowed the
maintenance of cash balance under very limited financing, but at the cost of accumulating hidden
fiscal liabilities:
* The non-servicing of public debt. With interest and penalty payments, this has left a very
large stock of debt, most of which is in arrears.
* A severe curtailment of public investments, which in turn contributed to a reduction in
growth potential.)6
*  The accumulation of direct budgetary arrears, especially on pensions, social assistance
benefits, and health care, as these systems were pressed in scaling back commitments to
match the lower level of available resources. In 2000, the flow of new arrears of over 2
percent of GDP increased the vulnerability of poorer citizens dependent on the timely
payrnent of these transfers.
*  Attempts by previous govenments to indirectly shift the burden of spending to the loss-
making and overstaffed enterprise and banking sectors. The resulting accumulation of
quasi-fiscal liabilities was particularly large in the energy sector, where the annualized
losses of the Serbian power utility alone reached over 10 percent of GDP in late-2000.
27.    Such policies are not sustainable. Their necessary reversal (i.e. the renewed servicing of
public debt, higher public investments to reverse past decapitalization, more realistic budgeting
of social transfers in line with actual commitments, and the elimination of quasi-fiscal deficits in
enterprises and banks) will add further pressure to already strained cash outcomes. Without
corrective measures, this would further increase macroeconomic vulnerability and crowd out
private investments.
28.    The program  to be supported by the SAC begins to tackle many of the gaps identified
above. It focuses on discrete policy reformns as well as on the first steps in what will be a longer
process of institutional development. At its core is a set of structural and institutional reforms in
four areas which the above analysis indicates are among the largest sources of budgetary and
quasi-fiscal pressures:
14 In FRY, defense is a federal responsibility. In its 2001 budget, the Federal Govenment has already cut defense
expenditures by over one percentage point of GDP, and will pursue further such measures (including possible
demobilization projects) through cooperation with other organizations and donors.
5 This also implies that expenditures on a commitment basis were even greater than the already high levels
indicated by cash outcomes.
16 The relatively high public investments of 2000 (3.3 percent of GDP) reflected domestically-financed
reconstruction following the Kosovo conflict. In the more representative period of 1998-1999, public investments
averaged 1.5 percent of GDP.
10



*  Strengthening public expenditure management. Gaps in the associated procedures and
institutions have contributed to the loss of fiscal control. Reforms are needed to prepare
and execute budgets in ways which better align commitments with available resources,
and to ensure more transparent and efficient use of public and donor resources. To this
end, the Government plans to pass a new Law on the Budget System, which will help lay
the basis for establishing a more consolidated and comprehensive medium-term
framework for budget preparation, to improve budget execution through the introduction
of a Treasury system, and to improve the transparency of the budget through enhanced
inspection, auditing and procurement procedures.
*  Reforms of the energy sector. These are critical for addressing the single largest past
source of quasi-fiscal liabilities in the form of chronic losses of key utilities. To this end,
the Government has begun a phased program of revenue and cost containment measures
to return the Serbian electricity utility EPS to financial self-sufficiency. It has also
commenced other reforms to reduce energy demand, reduce costs by increasing
productivity, and improve the efficiency of energy use.
*  Reform  of social protection and labor markets. As noted, pensions have been a
particularly large source of budgetary outlays and arrears. Delays in social assistance
payments have had a particularly negative effect on the most vulnerable. The program
includes parametric reforms and improved implementation of the existing pension system
as crucial first steps in containing expenditures in a longer process of change. Reforms to
social assistance will work to better cushion the impact of adjustment on the poorest
members of society and to place these benefits on a more sustainable financial footing.
Reform of labor markets, as summarized in new laws on labor and employment, will
reduce quasi-fiscal pressures by removing structural impediments to cost containment in
the enterprise sector, and limit direct fiscal pressures by removing a key bottleneck to
reducing overstaffing in budgetary institutions. It will also provide an impetus to growth
in employment by increasing flexibility in the labor market.
*  Reform of the health care system. This sector was also identified as a major source of
government expenditures and arrears. Reforms to begin restoring financial balance are
also a prerequisite for improving its functioning and its ability to provide basic health
care services to all citizens. To this end, the Serbian Government plans to take initial
steps in reforming the system of health care financing (including the introduction of co-
payments and the adoption of a more limited essential drugs list), addressing structural
inefficiencies in the delivery system, and laying the foundations for a new policy and
legal framework.
29.   Together with the maintenance of a sustainable macroeconomic framework consistent
with the IMF SBA, these inter-related and mutually reinforcing reforms are designed to address
both near-term and medium-term causes of fiscal imbalances, and to set Serbia on a path for
deeper structural reforms to be completed beyond the horizon of the SAC. The full program of
reforms supported by the SAC is given in Annex 6, while core elements of the program are
summarized in Table 1.
11



A. Strengthening the Management of Public Expenditures
30.    The unsustainable fiscal policies of the past were the result not only of inappropriate
sectoral policies, which have now begun to be reversed, but also of distorted and inefficient
public expenditure management mechanisms. Much public spending was conducted off-budget
in a non-transparent fashion, making a comprehensive assessment of fiscal operations and their
efficiency impossible. Limits on the govemment's ability to control unplanned expenditures and
align commitments with available resources (including the absence of multi-year planning
framework  and  weak  commitment controls) worked  to  increase  unplanned  outlays. The
budgeting processes in social funds were not harmonized with the republican budget process, and
republican budget deficits were often shifted to the social funds. The Serbian Ministry of
Finance and Economy (MoFE), the extra-budgetary funds, and line ministries, inhenrted a weak
or non-existent ex post budget inspection function, and an absent external audit function. Finally,
the unreformed legal framework for public procurement led to the limited use of competitive
procurement procedures.
Table 1- Key Policies and Reforms
Reform benchmarks by Board Presentation
Medium-term macroeconomic framework
Maintenance of an appropriate medium-term macroeconomic framework.
Budget management
The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted a Law on the Budget System (LBS), satisfactory to the Association, to
the Serbian Parliament.
The Serbian MoFE has completed the inspection of all major Republican-level govemment agencies and social funds and
submitted the Inspection Report to the Serbian Parliament.
Energy
Based on the findings of working groups established to explore cost savings, the Electric Power Industry of Serbia (EPS) has
prepared and begun to implement an action plan to reduce its operating costs, including measures to limit any increase in the
nominal wage bill of EPS during 2001 to no more than 5 percent.
The Government of Serbia has increased average power prices by 40% in June and a further 15% in October 2001.
Social protection and labor
The Federal Government has presented to the Federal Assembly amendments to the Law on Pensions that would at a minimum:
(a) raise the statutory retirement age from 60 years for men and 55 years for women to 63 years for men and 58 years for
women and, in parallel, raise the minimum age at which pensions can be drawn by 3 years; (b) change indexation from wage
growth to the arithmetic mean of wage growth and growth in the cost of living; and (c) set the minimum pension at a unified
rate of no more than 20 percent of the average gross wage. The new law was approved by Federal Parliament in December.
The Government of Serbia has submitted a new Labor Law, satisfying conditions agreed with the Association, to the Serbian
Parliament. The new Labor Law was subsequently approved by the Parliament in December.
Health
The Government of Serbia has adopted a new and more limited Essential Drugs List for publicly financed drugs.
The Government of Serbia has introduced co-payments for selected health services, with some exemptions for the most needy.
12



31.   Reform Objectives and SAC measures. The reform measures supported by the SAC are
intended to enhance fiscal sustainability by laying the basis for a phased strengthening of public
expenditure management standards and practices. These reforms aim to better align
commitments with available resources, to raise the overall efficiency and limit unplanned
expenditures, and to unlock the donor funding needed for the near-term balancing of fiscal
accounts. To this end, the SAC will support priority reforms targeting the key areas of budget
formulation, budget execution, and control (inspection, audit and procurement).
32.   Budget formulation. A characteristic feature of the past process of budget formulation
was a disconnect between govemment policies and budgetary allocations. The budgeting process
lacked a medium-term context against which shifts in budget allocations could be measured. The
lack of forward budget planning meant that in-year spending reductions were handled in an ad
hoc fashion, negating much of the work done during the budget preparation phase, and with no
trade-offs considered across functions or results. This also led to accumulation of arrears. The
insufficient consideration of extra-budgetary areas also led to a lack of accountability (of
ministries to the Government, and of the Government to the Parliament and public) and control.
33.   To improve budget formulation, the SAC supports: (i) the submission to the Serbian
Parliament of a new Law on the Budget System (LBS) as the critical basis for establishing a
more consolidated and comprehensive medium-term framework; (ii) the development of a
Budget Preparation Instruction based on new Government Financial Statistics (GFS) to be issued
to the line ministries in time for use in preparation of the 2002 budget; (iii) the development by
MoFE of a consolidated fiscal framework; and (iv) preparations for the establishment of two new
departments (Budget and Macroeconomic and Fiscal Analysis) that are key to the successful
implementation of reformed budget preparation practices. These reforms will raise the
accountability of the Budget by improving the classification of expenditures and paving the way
for the introduction of a Treasury.
34.   Budget execution. So far, budget execution in the Serbian MoFE has been restricted to
the control of daily cash transfers from the budget account. No systematic process of forecasting
and reconciling intra-year cash flows existed, and no record of detailed expenditures of budget
users was kept by the MoFE. Budget execution has been geared towards matching cash outflows
with cash inflows, rather than aligning spending commitments with expected revenues and
assuring that ministries have the funds available to meet their prograrn objectives. At the same
time, any unexpected commitment falling due, or any shortfall in expected revenues, has
translated into arrears and/or disruption in government services and public investments. Fiscal
reporting was similarly weak. While in principle, MoFE was supposed to provide central
oversight of the spending process, its severe staff shortages prevented it from doing any in-depth
analysis of budget execution.
35.   To improve budget execution, the SAC will support key measures centered around the
introduction of a Treasury system following adoption of the LBS. The MoFE is already working
on the definition of general functions, staffing and structure of the Treasury department, and is
rationalizing its accounting and payment system framework (including by closing numerous
dedicated accounts) in preparation for the creation of a single Treasury account. The Serbian
Government is also taking steps to satisfy donor expectations of transparent and efficient use of
13



aid. The SAC will support the MoFE and the Ministry for International Economic Relations
(MIER) in taking early measures to strengthen the control and efficiency of use of donor funds
ahead of the creation of the Treasury. These include: (i) prohibition by the MIER of the
establishment of new accounts for donor funds without its prior approval; and (ii) a requirement
for all aid agreements to be double signined, including by the MoFE. Once the Treasury is
established, it should become an authorized representative for all aid accounts.
36.   Transparency and accountability of public spending. This has been curtailed by key
gaps in the system of public expenditure management. To begin removing these gaps, the SAC
supports the Government of Serbia in completing an impressive inspection of public spending in
the Budget Year 2000. This inspection has already led to the presentation of 55 criminal charges,
and another 100 charges for lesser civil offenses. Some extra-budgetary funds (e.g. the Health
Insurance Fund) are also undertaking inspections of their operations. While the government is
committed to increase accountability, its capacity in this area remains limited. The task force that
carried out the inspection of Budget 2000 remains ad hoc, drawing from other public finance and
law enforcement agencies. Spending ministries and social funds have equally modest or lower
inspection capacity, and no supreme audit institution exists in Serbia.
37.   The SAC will support near-term capacity-building and medium-term reforms in ex-post
control and procurement procedures. MoFE's measures to strengthen the budget inspection and
audit include: (i) completing the inspection of all major republican-level government agencies
and social funds and submitting the inspection report to Parliament; (ii) defining the functions
and structure of its strengthened Budget Inspection Department; and (iii) initiating a study on the
suitability of different external audit models for Serbia. The SAC will also support the following
reforms to improve transparency and enforcement of procurement regulations: (i) submission to
the Serbian Parliament of a new Law on Public Procurement based on good intemational
practice; and (ii) as an interim measure prior to the adoption of this law, the establishment of
temporary requirement that any request for sole source procurement be approved by the
Government of Serbia.
38.   Medium-term reform objectives. To achieve significant and sustainable improvements,
all elements of the program focused on development of effective institutions and processes will
require a sustained multi-year reform effort and donor support focused on the full
implementation of the LBS and the Treasury. In the area of budget preparation, the medium term
agenda includes the introduction of a multi-year fiscal framework as a basis for the budget
process, in time for the 2003 budget. This will further consolidate the strategic budget framework
and strengthen the linkage between govermment policy and resource allocations. Successful
implementation of a multi-year planning framework will also require sustained progress in
reducing inflation. In budget execution, the Government is committed to establishing the core of
the new Treasury department, and a transparent and consolidated system of public accounting
that provides for informed fiscal policy formulation. It also intends to establish more effective
systems for the control of public sector commitments, and the management of public sector debt
and cash balances. To further enhance the monitoring and accountability of the budget, the
government will reform internal audit procedures and institutions and establish an external audit
function. The new Public Procurement Law will be enacted, with at least 60 percent of contracts
by value being awarded by competitive tender.
14



B. The Energy Sector
39.   The energy sector has been characterized by the chronic setting by the state of prices,
particularly that of electricity, at levels well below the cost of production. The 1990s saw
considerable de-capitalization of the sector due to lack of investment and deferred maintenance,
which was compounded by damage from the Kosovo conflict. In recent years, the disruption of
oil and gas supplies necessary for district heating, in conjunction with the under-pricing of
electricity, resulted in the widespread use of inefficient electric space heating, which now
accounts for about 60 percent of electricity supplied in the winter. This renders the task of deep
structural reform while protecting the poorest segments of the population especially difficult.
The containment of costs in EPS remains a critical issue, which will further complicate the
challenge of retaining highly skilled staff.
40.   As demand has increased, the electricity sector has become a major drain on fiscal
resources due to large quasi-fiscal deficits in the fonn of losses by the state power company, the
Electric Power Industry of Serbia (EPS), which have been covered by transfers from the state or
through arrears financing.17 In late 2000, the annualized quasi-fiscal deficit in the electricity sub-
sector alone was estimated at US$1.1 billion, or over 10 percent of Serbia's GDP. Barter
payment for electricity by the enterprise sector has also become commonplace. International
donor funding for repair of equipment and the import of electricity enabled the system to
function through the 2000/01 winter, albeit with regular rolling blackouts. Due to the structural
nature of the deficit, rapid reform is necessary to achieve fiscal balance in the medium term.
41.   Reform Objectives and SAC Measures. The SAC supports the efforts of the Serbian
government to mitigate the fiscal costs associated with the electric power system by allowing it
to self-finance in as short a time as possible, while maintaining adequate protection for the poor.
To this end, it supports reforms in two broad areas: a) the implementation of a staged program
of revenue and cost containment measures to return EPS to financial self-sufficiency, including
covering deferred maintenance and new investment; and b) the rationalization of demand and
improvement in energy efficiency.
42.   Reducing the quasi-fiscal deficit generated by EPS. The SAC supports the following
core reforms aimed at reducing the quasi-fiscal deficit being generated by EPS:
*  The preparation and initial implementation by EPS of an action plan to reduce its
operating costs, based on the findings of working groups established to explore cost
savings. These measures include the limiting of any increase in the nominal wage bill
during 2001 to no more than 5 percent, which would result in a reduction in the real wage
bill of around 25 percent.18
*  Building on the previous electricity price increase of 60 percent in April 2001, and 40
percent in June 2001, a further increase in average electricity prices of 15 percent in
October 2001. The resulting increase in the average price of electricity from 0.9
17 Both residential and industrial consumers are the source of these deficits.
18 In late-2000, the average wage in EPS and some other large state enterprises was several times the republican
average. While the noted decline in the real wage bill works to achieve a more balanced relative wage structure,
this reform has encountered resistance from workers who accustomed to receiving much higher real wages.
15



cents/kWh at end-2000 to 2.03 US cents/kWh is alone expected to reduce the losses of
EPS by over US$300 million, or over 3 percent of GDP.19
* The announcement and initial implementation of a program of disconnection of non-
payers, based on clearly established procedures. This will work to improve collections,
harden budget constraints, and reduce the risk that higher prices will spill over into higher
budgetary and inter-enterprise arrears.
Other reforms which support the reduction of the deficit are:
*  The public announcement and beginning of implementation of a policy that all
collections are to be cash based, with a goal of reducing the share of barter in total
collections to a maximum of 20 percent.
*  The elimination of third-party barter, with only direct barter of goods and services needed
by EPS remaining for now.
43.   Reducing energy demand and improving energy efficiency.  Measures have already
been implemented to improve the incentives for inter-fuel substitution, with a focus on
increasing the use of oil and natural gas for heating. The price increase supported by the SAC
will also contribute significantly to demand reduction, accompanied by other supporting reforms
including: The establishment of an energy efficiency capacity in the Ministry of Mining and
Energy and the selection of accountable persons within the ministry; and urgent steps to raise
energy efficiency, focusing on building level savings, and supported by a media campaign.
44.   Recent progress notwithstanding, the energy sector - and electricity in particular -
remain key risks to fiscal balance and macroeconomic stability.   The system  remains
operationally fragile and stretched to the limit by years of deferred maintenance. Possible major
breakdowns or an exceptionally cold winter could further increase the need for imports and/or
emergency maintenance, which would eventually need to be financed from the budget. Ensuring
that the poorest will be able to afford heating in an environment of rising electricity prices will
also require careful monitoring, and may require further assistance through the social protection
system.
45.   Medium-Term  Reform  Objectives. The reforms described above are important first
steps in a long term program aimed at returning EPS to financial self sufficiency. In the interim,
donor and budget support for investments and electricity imports will continue to be needed to
ensure the financial sustainability of EPS. Planned policy reforms will work to achieve a gradual
phasing out of these subsidies. To further increase the level of cost recovery, the Government
and EPS will by mid-2002 implement further difficult but necessary measures, including
increases in average power prices totaling at least 50 percent, sustained progress in containing
the real wage bill, and the achievement of initial reductions in physical losses and theft. The
'9 In designing the package of revenue and cost saving measures to improve the financial position of EPS, the
Government has paid particular attention to protecting the neediest in a setting where robust poverty indicators
and a well-targeted social safety net are under development. For this reason, the program shifts larger price
increases towards the end of the heating season, and includes less rapid price increases for low volume consumers.
16



Government and EPS are also committed to achieve further improvements in collections and to
fully eliminate barter as a source of payment. The price rises, in conjunction with other demand
side measures, are expected to reduce overall demand by more than 1,000GWh, or 3 percent over
the next winter. To begin development of an effective framework and institutions to protect
consumers and regulate pricing in the energy sector, the Government is committed to adopting
an Energy Sector Strategy, and the MoME to developing draft legislation to provide the legal and
regulatory framework to support the reform program.
C. Reform of Social Protection and Labor Markets
Social protection
46.   The system of social protection in Serbia consists of both social insurance (in the form of
pensions) and social assistance. As evidenced by the chronic past accumulation of arrears,
Serbia's mandatory pay-as-you-go pension system has been unable to meet its legal obligations
out of contribution revenues. Generous benefits, combined with a rapid fall in the number of
contributors, means that spending over the past decade has reached high and unsustainable
levels, at about 11-13 percent of GDP between 1998 and 2000 (excluding arrears and military
pensions). In addition to contributing to high and burdensome labor taxes, the system is a
significant source of fiscal pressure, as meeting pension obligations requires large transfers from
the budget. During 2001, such transfers are estimated at well over 2 percent of GDP. The trend in
dependency ratios, and the experience of other transition economies, suggests that the present
situation is unlikely to improve in the absence of critical reforms.
47.   Putting the pensions system  on a secure financial footing is thus essential for
macroeconomic stabilization. As a first step in the reform process, the tax base was expanded
during early 2001 by bringing a range of non-taxed allowances into the tax net. This allowed a
lowering of the overall rate of payroll taxation by 8-10 percent. Since the end of 2000, there has
also been considerable progress in reducing the arrears in social assistance and in farmers'
pensions with help from the donor community.
48.   Serbia's system of social assistance has also come under severe pressure over the past
decade owing to the growing impoverishment of the population and the declining resources of
the state. Many obligations were simply postponed, leading to a significant build-up of arrears
by the end of 2000. Going forward, Serbia needs to develop an adequate and affordable final
safety net for those who cannot provide for their minimum needs, and make effective use of the
contributions donors are willing to make to assist those who cannot work or fend for themselves.
49.   Reform Objectives and SAC measures. In order to bring pension entitlements in line
with available resources, the SAC supports the implementation of reforms that can bring
demonstrable fiscal savings already in the near term, as well as improvements to the
implementation of the existing system. It will also support reforms to enhance the fiscal
sustainability, equity and coverage of social assistance.
50.   Changes to the pension system. Parametric reforms to the existing pension system have
been complicated by the fact that while most pension rights are regulated by Federal laws,
17



obligations are largely the responsibility of the Republican level. Both the Federal and Serbian
Governments are now committed to bring the pension system more in line with available
resources and lower the overall burden of labor taxation while protecting the poor. The SAC
supports the Federal Government in presenting to the Federal Assembly amendments to the Law
on Pensions that would at a minimum20:
*  Raise the statutory retirement age from 60 years for men and 55 years for women to 63
years for men and 58 years for women, and, in line, raise the minimum age at which a
pension can be drawn by three years;
o  Move from full wage indexation of pensions to indexation to the arithmetic mean of wage
and cost of living increases; and
*  Set the minimum pension at 20 percent of the average gross wage.
Together, the increase in the retirement age and the change to indexation are expected to yield
growing annual fiscal savings, rising from about 0.5 percent of GDP in 2002 to 2.0 percent in
2005. While these measures will result in some loss of benefits for those individuals who must
postpone retirement and for pensioners who will see a lower annual increase in their pension
payments, the standard of living of the poorest pensioners will be protected by an adequate
minimum pension and by the positive impact of a more sustainable fiscal framework on the
timeliness of pension payments
51.   In addition, the SAC supports reforms to improve the efficiency of the existing system,
including efforts to ensure that there is no deterioration in the timeliness of pension payments,
and to continue recently introduced measures to ensure the timely transfer of health contributions
for pensioners. The resulting greater predictability of pension benefits and better functioning of
the health care system will primarily benefit the poorer residents whose welfare is most
dependent on timely receipt and efficient delivery of such benefits.
52.   Enhancing the equity and coverage of social assistance. The Government is critically
aware of the need to protect the standard of living of the most vulnerable members of society, in
a fiscally sustainable way. To this end, it has already mobilized donor assistance to make one-
off payments targeted at groups perceived to be most vulnerable before the onset of winter,
including an additional child allowance to poor families with children and an additional pension
to low income pensioners. The measures will bring additional relief without creating the
expectations and capacity requirements associated with new benefit programs. Improvements in
the use and management of donor funds, including through better prioritization and
improvements in procurement practices, fund transfers and auditing standards, will also
contribute to enhancing the effectiveness of social assistance.
53.   The Serbian Government also intends to improve its main program of social assistance,
the so-called material assistance to families (MOP). Currently, the lack of a uniform benefit
eligibility thresholds results in inequities in the treatment of the poor across Serbia. To this end,
the government will pilot the introduction of a uniform, Republic-wide eligibility threshold.
20 The new Law on Pensions was approved by the Federal Parliament at the end of December, 2001.
18



Take-up rates and overall program costs will be carefully monitored during the pilot phase, and
the evaluation of the pilot will feed into the reform of MOP.
54.   Medium-term reform objectives. The Federal and Serbian governments are committed
to achieve demonstrable reductions in pension spending as a share of GDP and to further limit
the average payment lag in the system. To this end, they will work for adoption of the proposed
amendments to the Federal Law on Pensions. While these changes have already been discussed
across the political spectrum and with key stakeholders, the experience of other ECA countries
shows that their implementation will require strong political will. Further progress will be made
with respect to administrative arrangements, including measures to tighten access to disability
pensions and improve contribution compliance. The system will also need to further diversify
the sources of pensioner income. In the longer term, this would include an examination of the
options and development of a time frame for diversifying the pension system beyond the first
(public) pillar.
55.   In social assistance, the Serbian government is committed to make further changes,
including reforms to MOP, to develop a more adequate, equitable, affordable and efficient social
safety net. These changes will be guided by the implementation of an improved poverty and
living standards survey which strengthens the basis for identifying the poor, withdrawing
benefits from the non-poor, and establishing cost-of-living related benefit eligibility thresholds.
The development of an integrated system for monitoring and analyzing poverty will also
facilitate the formulation of more effective measures to mitigate negative near-term social
impacts of future reforms.
Labor Markets
56.   Current labor law in the Republic of Serbia is amongst the most rigid and protective of all
transition economies, and represents a serious obstacle to labor market flexibility. Overly
generous entitlements, such as severance pay of 24-36 months of salary, rigid preconditions for
valid dismissals, and other impediments have hindered enterprise restructuring and civil service
reform. In addition, the high cost to employers inherent in the law discourages official
employment and pushes economic activity into the informal sector, thereby impeding efforts to
raise public revenues and leaving many workers with no legal protections. Current labor
legislation is also a serious drain on fiscal resources, particularly in the context of the nascent
privatization program and overall re-alignment of the economy towards private sector driven
growth.
57.   Unemployment compensation in Serbia is generous, but spending is not high. This is
because benefits are confined to those who have a minimum contribution history, and to date
there is little open unemployment amongst this group due to limited restructuring. In addition,
long-term unemployment prevails and many job seekers have exhausted their eligibility to
benefits. As a substantial increase in the number of claimants is forecast, the system of needs to
be made more affordable and incentive compatible. Furthermore, the dramatic reduction in
official employment during the 1990s by 700,000 people (or 29.8 percent of the workforce) has
overwhelmed the National Employment Agency. Activities of the Labor Market Bureaus are
excessively focused on wage subsidies, self-employment programs, and job "creation", rather
than activities such as providing information on vacancies and job-search assistance.
19



58.   Reform Objectives and SAC measures. Rapid action to reform the labor relations
framework is a crucial element in the transition of the Republic of Serbia to a market economy.
This reform is a central element of a range of policy measures that aim to improve the capacity
of the economy to adjust to changing circumstances. It is a prerequisite for success of the
privatization program, for attracting foreign direct investment, and for the development of a
dynamic small and medium enterprise base.
59.   The SAC will support reforms aimed at creating a more flexible labor market and a more
affordable and efficient system of unemployment benefits. To this end, the government has
developed, with the support of key donors and intemational agencies (including the Intemational
Labor Organization and the World Bank), a draft revised Labor Law which has been broadly
debated within government and civil society. The draft Law, submitted to the Parliament of the
Republic of Serbia, includes provisions to: (i) limit the duration of severance pay; (ii) ensure that
collective agreements are not automatically binding on employers not represented in bargaining;
(iii) remove restrictions on conclusion of fixed term, temporary and part time contracts; (iv)
reduce special leave entitlements; (v) introduce alternative mechanisms for settlement of
individual labor disputes; (vi) reduce the minimum replacement rate and payment period on sick
pay paid by the employer; and (vii) ease preconditions for valid dismissal
60.  In addition, the SAC supports the preparation of a new draft Employment Law aimed at
improving the incentives for labor supply and job search, and the implementation of pilot labor
redeployment programs to begin addressing the problem of mass redundancies following
enterprise privatization and restructuring.
61.   Medium-Term  Reform  Objectives. The Government of Serbia is committed to
achieving passage of the Labor Law and the Employment Law by mid-2002, which will
represent a major realignment of the labor relations framework. The Government of Serbia will
also work with the Federal Government to introduce changes to current Federal labor legislation
in order to ensure consistency. The government will also define a medium term labor market
strategy that will be constructed to dovetail with its wider agenda in enterprise and public sector
reform.  An integral element of this strategy will involve the development of a labor
redeployment program to address expected widespread redundancies, including pre-layoff and
post-layoff services, and a strengthening of labor market institutions responsible for offering
these services. The government will also work to define the role of the Labor Market Bureau in
the new environment, and enhance various labor market institutions necessary to enforce the new
legal framework for labor relations.
D. Reform of Health Care
62.   Serbia's current payroll contribution-based health insurance system is administered by
the Health Insurance Fund (HIF). As in other ECA countries, the worsening economy has
resulted in an increasing financing gap between contributions and expenditures. Several factors
exacerbate the situation: (i) the collapse in the FRY economy has been more severe than in other
ECA countries; (ii) weak ex ante and ex post payment controls have allowed misallocation and
21 The new Labor Law was approved by both houses of the Serbian Parliament in December, 2001.
20



abuse of HIF funds; and (iii) the system offers few incentives to providers or patients to control
costs. By 2000, the arrears in the HIF were estimated to be around 0.75 percent of GDP. This
visible financing gap has been increasingly covered by the Republican budget. Patients have also
picked up an increasingly large portion of the cost of health care services in the form of informal
payments.
63.   Restoring fiscal balance to the public health financing system will require structural
reforms to improve the revenue situation of the HIF and the efficiency of the delivery system,
based on a close examination of what is affordable. Many of these changes can only be achieved
as part of a sustained reform package over the medium term. Experience from the ECA region
has shown that achieving major improvements in efficiency (e.g. restructuring the delivery
system and eliminating excess capacity, shifting from a overly specialized health care system,
and introducing new financial incentives and contracting mechanisms) are challenging given the
myriad of affected interest groups and required behavioral changes. These reforms require time
to develop and implement and may need significant up-front investments. In contrast, reforms
on the revenue side are usually easier to introduce both technically and politically. The current
system of contributions to the HIF is both inequitable and unsustainable. On the expenditure
side, the HIF has hitherto been liable for reimbursing the cost of essentially any health care
service provided by any health care provider. The budget is also responsible for covering the
health care costs of a set of vulnerable groups. While the largest long term improvements in
efficiency will be the result of major structural reforms, it is necessary to start with some of the
financing reforms described above, which are both technically and politically easier to introduce.
64.   Reform Objectives and SAC Measures. The immediate reform priority is to achieve a
phased restoration of the fiscal sustainability of the health care system. To this end, the SAC
supports reforms in three areas: (i) reforming health financing; (ii) improving efficiency through
reform of the delivery system; and (iii) laying the basis for reform of the policy and legal
framework. These measures will also support future reductions in the tax burden and will
enhance equity by improving access to basic health care for the poorest and most vulnerable
segments of society.
65.   Reforming health financing. Systematic prioritization and rationing of services and
changes in the contribution rates can come only after a detailed analysis of epidemiological and
cost data. The SAC supports a variety of measures to bring more immediate term relief to the
HIF. On the expenditure side, the main category of spending where the quickest progress can be
made is on drugs. Pharmaceutical expenditures are expected to decline by at least 10 percent by a
combination of measures that includes:  (i) reducing the 'essential drug list' eligible for
reimbursement by the HIF from 406 to 301 drugs, and including mostly generic drugs; and (ii)
temporary measures to enhance the competitiveness of procurement for pharmaceuticals ahead
of a full reform of public procurement. Another set of measures supported by the SAC address
the efficiency of HIF operations. Ex post inspections and audits have been introduced to identify
the most obvious cases of misuse of funds. A first inspection of the HIF has been completed by
the Ministry of Finance and Economy and follow-up measures have been taken. The HIF has in
turn inspected each of its local branches.
21



66.   The main short term  measure supported by the SAC to increase revenues is the
introduction of small co-payments from patients. Exemptions for the poorest and other
vulnerable groups are part of the system. A comprehensive evaluation of the scheme has been
commissioned to analyze its effectiveness and to plan its more comprehensive implementation.
The Government will also attempt to improve the revenue situation of the HIF and harden
economy-wide budget constraints by regularly monitoring and reporting on the timeliness of
enterprises contributions, and by working to ensure that the employment and pension funds begin
to pay their contributions to the HIF in a timely manner. A longer term solution for these inter-
fund transfers will be considered as part of the medium term health financing strategy.
67.   Reforming the delivery system. Addressing existing structural inefficiencies is a
precondition for the long term fiscal sustainability of the health sector. The existing health care
capital, both human and physical, clearly exceeds the needs and is not affordable. A stock taking
of services has been completed and a health facilities master plan, which will propose measures
to create a more (allocatively and technically) efficient and affordable delivery system,
consistent with current and future health needs, is under preparation.  In the interim, the
Government has established a National Health Technology Commission that is charged with
approving capital investments above DEM 20,000 (around EUR 10,000). Given the importance
of using scarce donor resources wisely, all non-essential capital investments will be frozen until
the Commission is operational. As a first step in tackling the excess supply of health sector labor,
the HIF will sign new contracts with health care providers which stop paying for staff hired
without authorization after 1992.
68.   Laying the basis for reform of the policy and legalframework. The SAC has supported
the formation of a working level Health Care Reform Commission. This Commission has been
formed and has begun developing a national health policy document, which will specify the
Government's position on key health policy issues such as access, equity, private sector
participation, decentralization, and financing. A higher level Task Force has also been formed to
provide guidance to the Health Care Reform Commission and to oversee the preparation of the
policy document.
69.   Medium-Term Reform Objectives. The reforms outlined above represent the first steps
in a very long reform program. The Government will subsequently undertake several steps to
further strengthen the fiscal situation of the HIF. Chief among these will be to reduce the benefit
package and introduce other incentives to ensure that lower cost alternative drugs and procedures
are used. Changes in national procurement practices are expected to bring significant benefits to
the health sector, particularly in the purchase of pharmaceuticals. A program of capacity
building at the HIF should lead to administrative efficiency gains, particularly in important areas
such as financial auditing, contracting, and provider payment. On the revenue side, the Health
Insurance Law is expected to specify who is responsible for covering the cost of the uninsured,
regulate the payment of contributions and actions in the case of non payment, and eliminate the
practice of granting employers exemptions from paying HIF contributions.
70.   Medium-term reforms in the delivery system will result in cost savings and better quality
of services. The facilities master plan will provide guidance on where services should be offered
in order to provide adequate coverage for the population without unnecessary duplication.
22



Implementation of this plan will require difficult dccisionis to merge or close some facilities. The
Health Technology Commission will be able to guide needed capital investments to pnonty
health facilities. Difficult but necessary refonns in the levels and structure of staffing should
lead to a smaller but better paid and better distnrbuted work force.
E. Medium-Term Prospects and Financing Requirements
71.    Following a 5 percent growth rate in 2000 and an expected 5.5 percent growth rate in
2001, which primarily reflected one-off rebounds from earlier exogenous shocks, recorded real
GDP is expected to grow at a more sustainable 4 percent average rate from 2002 onwards. In the
near-term, this growth is expected to be dnrven by exports (see next paragraph), a more vibrant
SME sector better integrated into the official economy, improved balance in the energy sector,
and greater donor financing. These factors are expected to outweigh the contractionary near-term
impact of fiscal adjustment and remaining transitional recession. Medium-term growth will also
be driven by greater productivity and enhanced financial intermediation (including as a result of
accelerated privatization, improvements in the business environment and banking reforms
supported by other adjustment operations), the entry of new foreign and domestic firms,
infrastructure rehabilitation and investments in new productive capacity.
Table 2: Federal Republic of Yugoslavia - Medium-Term Macroeconomic Prospects
2000     2001      2002     2003      2004
National Accounts
GDP (US$ millions) 1/                         8071    10537    12078    13026    14102
Real GDP growth (%)                             5.0      5.5       4.0      4.0       4.0
Investment (% of GDP)                          15.3     14.8      16.1      17.5     18.5
Gross Domestic Savings (% of GDP)              -2.8     -5.7      -3.0      0.5       3.3
Public Sector Balance 2/
Expenditures (% of GDP) 3/                     39.8     43.7      49.1     48.0      46.7
o/w public investment                          3.3      1.4       2.7       3.5      4.0
Revenues and grants (% of GDP)                 39.6     42.3      44.0     43.3      42.5
Deficit (% of GDP)                              0.2      1.4       5.1       4.7      4.2
External Accounts
Exports of goods and services (% change)       18.6      6.6      12.9     15.9      11.5
Imports of goods and services (% change)       13.1     21.8      10.1       7.4      5.8
Current account balance                        -339     -524      -885     -822      -716
as % of GDP                                   -4.2     -5.0      -7.3      -6.3     -5.1
Indebtedness 41
TDO/XGS                                       447.9    428.4    275.2    252.6    243.1
TDO/GDP                                       141.3    110.4      69.8      68.9     68.3
TDS/XGS                                         2.3      2.1      10.7      11.4     14.2
Inflation
Retail price inflation (e.o.p.)               113.5     40.0      20.0      12.0      8.0
1/ GDP estimates exclude Kosovo. The economy of Kosovo is estimated to be about 6% of the total FRY economy.
2/ Excludes Kosovo.
3/ Amounts based on cash accounting.
4/ Stock of debt includes short-term obligations.
23



72.   Export demand will be an important determinant of growth. The growth of exports of
goods and services (in US dollars) is expected to rise from 6.6 percent in 2001 to around 16
percent in 2003, before returning to more sustainable but still high rates in the outer years. The
initial rise of export growth will primarily reflect the phased restoration of business contacts
following the removal of sanctions, and will be concentrated in the European Union (EU) and
South East European (SEE) markets. In the later years, export recovery could be supported by a
rebound in the economies of key partners, deepened trade integration (including through the
WTO process), the rehabilitation of infrastructure networks, productivity improvements, and
higher FDI.
73.   Successful implementation of the structural reform program will bring an initial rise in
the twin fiscal and current account deficits, followed by their gradual decline. However, the
initial increases will be matched by a parallel increase in non-inflationary budgetary and external
financing, primarily greater privatization revenues and enhanced donor support. These more
sustainable fiscal policies are expected to support a reduction of inflation from 40 percent in
2001 to about 20 percent in 2002, and then to around 8 percent in 2004.
74.   The cash-based consolidated fiscal deficit (including official grants) will first increase
from 0.2 percent of GDP in 2000 to 5.1 percent in 2002. This is because the expenditure savings
from the structural reform program will initially be outweighed by a sharp increase in debt
service payments, the more realistic budgeting of commitments (i.e. lower accumulation of
arrears), and the bringing on budget of some quasi-fiscal activities. This deficit will then begin
to decline, falling to 4.2 percent in 2004, reflecting a leveling off of debt service payments, the
ability (due to reforms begun under the SAC) to make deeper cuts in expenditures, and
improvements in tax administration. In parallel, structural reforms to improve the financial
position of energy utilities, other enterprises and banks, will make inroads into hidden quasi-
fiscal deficits. While cash outlays (net of interest payments on public debt) will rise by 5.3
percentage points of GDP from 2000 to 2004, the program significantly reduces expenditure
commitments. In 2000, the flow of direct budgetary arrears was at least 2 percent of GDP and
quasi-fiscal deficits in the enterprise sector at least 10 percent of GDP. This means that on a
commitment basis, the program would cut consolidated expenditures (including quasi-fiscal
deficits) by at least 8 percentage points of GDP from 2000 to 2004, with the biggest direct
impacts coming from the energy and pension reforms.
75.   The close link between the public savings-investment balance and the current account
deficit, in particular the high share of public liabilities in FRY's external debt, mean that the
current account deficit will exhibit similar dynamics. This deficit is expected to rise from 4.2
percent of GDP in 2000 to a peak of 7.3 percent in 2002, driven by the increase in debt servicing
costs and investment. It will then begin to gradually decline, reaching around 5 percent in 2004.
These relatively high levels reflect a fundamental structural imbalance between a low savings
rate (growing out of a deep decline in living standards, the erosion of enterprise profitability, and
low budgetary savings), and the increased investment needs of a country emerging from a decade
of severe decapitalization. Gross domestic fixed investment as a share of GDP is expected to rise
from a low 15.3 percent in 2000 to 16.1 percent in 2002 and 18.5 percent in 2004. In parallel,
and supported by a strengthened banking system and a sustained increase in enterprise
24



profitability, gross domestic savings will increase from -2.8 percent of GDP in 2000. to 3
percent in 2004. In the early years, donor grant funding will play a significant role in closing the
gap between national savings and investment needs.
76.   Financing needs. To achieve this macroeconomic scenario and finance the transition to a
market economy, FRY and Serbia will require substantial capital inflows. The combination of
severe output decline and the chronic non-servicing of external debt, increased this debt to 141
percent of GDP at end-2000 and left most of it in arrears. Between 2001 and 2004, gross external
financing requirements are estimated at about US$16.1 billion. These resources are needed to
finance US$9.5 billion of debt restructuring, US$4.0 billion in current account deficits
(excluding interest and official transfers), US$1.2 billion in increased international reserves (to
raise these to a level of 3.1 months of imports), and the remainder of US$1.4 billion to fulfill net
income obligations. During this period, as the fiscal deficit is increasingly brought under control,
these needs will shift from the budgetary sector to the private sector.
77.   Financing sources. These needs are projected to be met from  several sources.
Multilateral, bilateral and commercial creditors are assumed to finance US$9.5 billion of these
financing needs through agreements to restructure and reduce outstanding debt stocks and
arrears. With good progress on reforms, including those supported by the proposed first SAC and
future adjustment operations, foreign direct investment (FDI) and other private sector finance
will grow from current low levels to total around US$2.9 billion. The remaining US$3.8 billion
of financing during this four year period will come from official bilateral and multilateral
sources.  The Bank program  generally, and the proposed adjustment operations more
specifically, would represent a significant share of this financing, and can thus play a crucial role
in ensuring adequate financing for the reforn programs in FRY and Serbia.
78.   Assuming debt relief on appropriate terms, debt service indicators are expected to decline
significantly to still high levels. FRY's total external debt is expected to fall from 141 percent of
GDP in 2000 to 70 percent in 2002, driven primarily by deep debt relief, but also by real
appreciation from the highly depreciated exchange rate of late-2000. This ratio will then
stabilize in the range of 68 to 70 percent in the period 2002 to 2004, before declining further to
55 percent in 2010. FRY's ability to maintain a relatively stable ratio of debt to GDP despite
relatively large current account deficits, will initially be facilitated by the high degree of average
concessionality of official external financing, and later by increasing inflows of private capital.
The ratio of total debt service to exports would fluctuate in the range of 11-14 percent in the
period 2002-2004, and reach a level of around 20 percent in the medium-term.
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
79.   This section provides a summary of the proposed credit including: (a) details on the credit
and its implementation; (b) coordination with the IMF and other donors; (c) poverty
implications; and (d) benefits and risks. The broad rationale and objectives of the credit, and its
links to the Bank's TSS, were discussed in Section I.
25



A. Project Implementation
80.   Credit Amount, Borrower, Terms, Tranching. The proposed Structural Adjustment Credit
(SDR 55.5 million) will be made to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, represented by the
Federal Ministry of Finance. The credit will be on exceptionally hardened IDA terms, with a
maturity of 20 years including a grace period of 10 years, and no acceleration clause. It will be
released in one tranche upon approval of the Credit and notification by the Association of Credit
Effectiveness. We consider the full completion of the core measures in Table 1, in addition to
significant progress already made (see Sections II.B and III), sufficient to justify the release of
this tranche.
81.   Implementation and Monitoring. During credit preparation, the Association has assisted
the Federal and Republican Governments to ensure timely implementation of the agreed reforms.
To assess the impact of the proposed operation, and the potential for follow-up operations, the
Association will monitor progress in achieving the medium-term outcome benchmarks described
in the Letter of Development Policy. The Federal and Serbian governments are aware that such
progress will be evaluated when assessing the desirability, timing and form of potential future
adjustment operations in these areas. This impact assessment will be conducted jointly between
staff of the Bank Office in Belgrade and headquarters-based staff.
82.   Loan management. The Federal Ministry of Finance will open and maintain a Deposit
Account in the National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY), on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.22 Loan administration will be the responsibility of a loan manager employed by the
Federal Ministry of Finance, who will be responsible for preparing the withdrawal applications,
maintaining the Deposit Account, arranging for their timely audit (if requested by the
Association). The loan manager will also be responsible for coordinating the preparation of
contributions of the Federal and Serbian Governments to the Implementation Completion Report
and for writing those sections related to loan administration. The Credit will be subject to
ratification by the Federal Assembly before it becomes effective.
83.   Disbursements. Upon notification by the Association of Credit Effectiveness, and with
the submission by the Borrower of a withdrawal application, the proceeds of the Credit will be
deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account of the Borrower. Based on the enactment
of a law approved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia (a condition of Effectiveness),
the Borrower will then transfer to a deposit account of the Republic of Serbia (represented by the
Ministry of Finance and Economy (MoFE)) the dinar equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. If, after deposit in the Deposit
Account, the proceeds of the credit are used for ineligible purposes (i.e. to finance items
imported from non-member countries, or goods and services from the Association's standard
negative list), the Association will require the Borrower to either: (i) return the amount to the
account for use for eligible purposes; or (ii) refund the amount directly to the Association.
22 The initial CFAA missions have discussed the flow of funds for structural adjustment operations with the National
Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY) and found no apparent difficulties in transferring and tracking credits from the
Association to the NBY and then to government accounts.
26



84.   Reporting, Accounting and Auditing. The Federal Ministry of Finance, with the assistance
of the National Bank of Yugoslavia and the MoFE, would maintain records of all transactions
under the credit in accordance with sound accounting practices. Although routine audits of the
deposit accounts will not be required, the Association reserves the right to require audits at any
time. In such cases, the Borrower should furnish and audit report not later than four months after
the date of the Association's request for such an audit.
85.   Closing Date. The expected closing date of the Credit will be August 31, 2002.
86.   Environmental Impact. The proposed SAC is not expected to result in any negative
impact on the environment. For the purposes of Operational Directive 4.01, it has been placed in
Category C, which does not require an environmental assessment.
B. Coordination with the IMF and Donors
87.   The achievement of SAC objectives will be supported by the Bank's close collaboration
with the IMF and donors. The Government's overall reform program has been designed within a
macroeconomic framework consistent with FRY's SBA with the IMF (see Section I.B). The
SAC incorporates this macroeconomic framework. The SBA and the SAC were prepared in close
cooperation between the Bank and the Fund, and complement each other. The IMF has provided
important technical assistance in areas covered by the proposed operation, including public
expenditure management, while Bank input was important in developing the structural elements
of the SBA. At a Donor Conference for FRY held on June 29, 2001, multilateral and bilateral
donors pledged a substantial initial package of financial and technical assistance totaling around
US$1.3 billion. The Bank has worked particularly closely with the European Commission (EC),
which is supporting FRY/Serbia through macro-financial support and a large assistance program
(EUR 230 million), with important contributions in the areas of health care and energy. The
Government of Switzerland is expected to provide parallel financing of the Serbian budget of
around CHF 10 million following the Effectiveness of the SAC. Donors are providing important
financial and technical assistance in all four areas supported by the SAC. They include the EC,
EBRD, DFID (UK), USAID, US Treasury, KfW (Germany), SIDA (Sweden), CIDA (Canada),
France, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Spain, UNDP, ILO, and WHO.
C. Poverty Implications
88.   The proposed SAC and the Government program which it supports will have important
impacts on poverty. Some reforms, such as higher energy prices and the introduction of co-
payments for health care services, could have negative initial impacts. These will be addressed
through two channels. First, the SAC will support reforms to improve the immediate and
medium-term effectiveness of social welfare programs, and to enhance the potential for donor
support for payment of such benefits. Second, the Serbian Government has demonstrated a clear
concern for mitigating any negative social impacts of reforms. Its 2001 budget included a
substantial increase (roughly one percent of GDP) in resources for social welfare relative to 2000
levels. Its appeal to the donor community prioritized financial and technical support for social
assistance programs. Finally, it is working closely with the Bank and other donors to develop the
27



data and analytical capacity required to ground future adjustment operations in a deeper
understanding of the impact of various policies on the living standards of the poor.
89.   The SAC will have other positive effects on poverty. By supporting the formulation of
more realistic budgets and improved budget execution, it will limit the accumulation of arrears
on social transfers, thereby enhancing the predictability of incomes of those dependent on such
transfers. It will reduce hidden enterprise subsidies which have delayed restructuring and often
led to ad hoc crowding out pro-poor expenditures when the emergence of hidden liabilities
forced sudden adjustments in other expenditures. It will work to reduce unemployment by
creating more flexible labor markets.
90.   By improving macroeconomic stability, the SAC will reduce the risks of renewed
inflation or crises which could have particularly negative impacts on the poor. A stable
macroeconomy, together with better functioning labor markets and a more secure supply of
energy, will also create the basis for investments needed for medium-term growth and
employment creation, and thus for more sustained poverty reduction. The operation will
complement a country program with a strong emphasis on human development (see Section I).
D. Benefits and Risks
91.   The proposed SAC will provide a range of potential benefits, in addition to the positive
impacts on poverty described above. First, it will work to enhance the substantial stabilization
gains made so far, both by supporting reforms which enhance medium-term fiscal sustainability,
and by providing non-inflationary financing to close budgetary gaps and bolster external
reserves. By supporting immediate up-front actions to tackle fiscal imbalances, as well as the
commencement of deeper sectoral reforms, the SAC will promote enhanced macroeconomic
stability. Second, the Bank's assessment of the structural reform efforts in FRY and Serbia will
send a positive signal, both to other donors wishing to provide budgetary support and to potential
private investors and creditors. Third, by working for a more stable and prosperous FRY and
Serbia, it will indirectly promote economic recovery in the wider South East European region.
92.   The proposed first SAC also entails external, political and implementation risks. Various
external shocks could strain Serbia's ability to maintain a sustainable macroeconomic framework
and return to growth. A marked slowdown in the economy of key trading partners or a renewal
of regional conflict could reduce the growth of exports, foreign direct investment and other
private capital inflows. The resulting more rapid depreciation of the dinar would erode progress
in controlling inflation. While the June Donor Conference raised more pledges than requested,
some disbursements could be delayed, leading to unfilled financing gaps. Finally, even debt
relief on the most favorable terms will lead to a sharp jump in debt service payments, further
stretching fiscal and external balances. Failure to meet the conditions for full implementation of
the recent debt rescheduling accord with the Paris Club, or major delays in reaching a similar
accord with the London Club, would increase macroeconomic fragility. These risks, which have
been heightened by the more uncertain global economic trends following the terrorist attacks on
the US, increase the need for an additional cushion of fiscal and external financing which the
SAC can provide. While most external shocks cannot be mitigated, the Bank and EC are together
working to ensure that donors convert pledges into actual disbursements.
28



93.   There are several sources of political risk. The unresolved future of the federation (see
Section I) could divert the attention of the authorities from economic issues, complicate federal-
republican or inter-republican relations and hamper foreign investment. While the current
Federal and Serbian Governments have strong ownership of the program, the ending of their
"honeymoon period" could weaken reformers. A public expecting rapid improvements in living
standards could eventually tire of the required sacrifices, eroding support for the program.
Finally, reforms could slow ahead of new elections in Serbia, which could be precipitated by
political tensions within the governing coalition. While all core measures have been taken, the
implementation of follow-up measures could be delayed. The Bank is working to mitigate these
risks through continued policy dialogue, increased outreach to the public and civil society, and
IDF and post-conflict grants to support communication of reform strategies and public dialogue
on key policy issues. The linkage of future adjustment operations to progress in achieving the
medium-term outcome benchmarks described in the Letter of Development Policy will also
increase the prospects for success.
94.   Finally, the SAC tackles issues which have proved difficult in other economies in
transition. The government wants to continue to move quickly and has set ambitious targets and
deadlines. While the near-term reform agenda has been designed to focus on measures which are
consistent with existing implementation capacity and established technical assistance efforts, this
will be a greater constraint on follow-up measures. This will be mitigated by the coming on
stream of substantial additional technical assistance pledged at the June Donor Conference.
Fiscal risks arising from possible policy slippage in enterprise and financial restructuring will be
mitigated by a sectoral adjustment operation focused on these areas.
95.   On balance, the risks are outweighed by the potential benefits to be derived by improving
the political economy at a difficult and critical juncture of the reform process, by providing much
needed budgetary support, and by creating a more secure and consistent foundation for other
donors to provide similar support. Recovery will remain difficult and will not be possible
without adequate and timely support from the Bank and other donors. These benefits will be felt
not only in Serbia and FRY, but also in the wider South East European region, as FRY's more
rapid and sustainable recovery allows it to become a stabilizing force in the region.
V. RECOMMENDATION
96.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the credit.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C.
December 21, 2001
29



Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
Yugoslavia, FR (Serb./Mont.) at a glance   11/30/01
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                           Yugoslavia,   Central  middle-
Fed. Rep.     Asia  income       Development diamond*
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                     10.6       475     2,046                     1 if.
GNP per capita (At/as method, US$) 1/                990     2,010     1,140
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                    10.5       956     2,327
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                       0.2        0.1      1.0
Labor force (%)                                      0.5        0.6      1.3     GNP                               Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                             per                    n. primary
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)                              p                           erlmn
Urban population (% of total population)              52        67        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      72        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              13        21        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             2         ..       11
Access to improved water source (% of population)               90        80              a'o'< t. :
Illiteracy(% of population age 15+)                   ..         3        15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  69      100       115               -     Yugoslavia, FR (Serb.lMont)
Male                                                69       101       116                     Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              70        99       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1999     2000
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                           ..        .        9.8      8.1
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                          ..       11.1     15.3
Exports of goods and services/GDP                      ..      21.2     31.6                   Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                            ..       -2.6     -2.8
Gross national savings/GDP                            ..        3.6     11.1
Current account balance/GDP                   ..       .       -7.8     -4.2
Interest payments/GDP 2/                      ..      ..        0.9      0.5     Domestic                       Investment
Total debWGDP                                 . .                .    141.3      Savings
Total debt service/exports 2/                 ..                4.7      2.3
Present value of debt/GDP
Present value of debtexports
1979-89  1989-99    1999      2000  2000403                 InHpht-d,--
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  ..      ..   -15.7        5.0       4.6                     Yugoslavia, FR (Serb.iMont)
GNP per capita                      ..       ..       ..        ..        ..                     Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       ..       ..   -45.6        18.6     13.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1999     2000      r.-wth nf in-tnr-nt .n, rnP IN0.
(% of GDP)                                                                       30
Agriculture                                  ..    18.2        26.5       ..     20
Industry                                      .     42.5      35.8         ..     o-    _ _   _E   _   _ _,   _ _ _ _
Manufacturing                                .       ..        ..        ..   -10       s    9    97   98            000
Services                                            39.3       37.7             -20-
Private consumption                           .        ..     75.3      84.8    -0
General govemment consumption                ..       ..      27.1      17.9                         GDI           GDP
Imports of goods and services                ..       ..      34.8      49.6
197949  1990-99      1999      2000     Growth of exports and imports 1%)
(average annual growth)                                                          30 -
Agriculture                                         -4.1        1.2        .    20-
Industry                                            -7.1     -25.6        ..    i                                     Y
Manufacturing                                         .         ..        .     o
Services                                             -6.5     -32.5        .   -is-    9    w       97   98   99  2009
Private consumption                                    .      -13.1     22.3   .30.
General govemment consumption                         ..      -7.1    -37.7    40
Gross domestic investment                             ..    -38.1       24.8   -so-
Imports of goods and services                         ..    -32.8       13.1                    -Exports    "Olmports
Gross national product                                ..    -15.8        4.9
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
1/ Excludes Kosovo and is calculated using the market exchange rate. 2/ On a cash basis.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
Yugoslavia, FR (Serb. /Mont.)
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1999      2000      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                        120
(% change)                                                                             irs
Consumer prices (e.o.p.)                                            49.9     113.5      80--
Implicit GDP deflator                                               55.6      77.8      40
40
Govemment Finance 2'                                                                    20
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                      ol
Current revenue                                   ..       ..          .      38.8              95   9S   97   so   99   2000
Current budget balance                                                         2.3             -GDP deflator           CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                    ..                 -0.2
TRADE
1979     1989       1999      2000       Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                .        .      1,677     1,923     0,ooo
Food                                                      .        3.52.
Fuel and energy                                                                      4,0 - 
Manufactures                                             ..        453                3,000-
Total imports (fob)                               ..        .      3,296     3,711     2,000-             M
Food                                             .        .        330
Fuel and energy                                  ..      ..        396                1000
Capital goods                                    .        ..       725         .
94   95  06   97   98  90  2000
Export price index (1995=100)
Import price index (1995=100)                                                                      U Exports      U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         ..       ..                   .,
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                 1979     1989       t99       2000       Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                                      2,148     2,547      0
Imports of goods and services                                      3,539     4,004     -1  94   95   95   97   98
Resource balance                                                  -1,391    -1,457     -2                              *
-3 
Net income                                                           -41        -1      4
Net current transfers                                               668      1,119      s                                   I
Current account balance                                             -764      -339      s -
Financing items (net)                                               653       585      -8
Changes in net reserves                                             ''111     -246     .9 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           ..        ..         ..      516
Conversion rate (DEC, locatMUS$)                 ..       2.9       19.6      44.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1999      2000
(US$ millions)                                                                          Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                                        11,407
IBRD                                                                       1,812                     G.663     A: 1,812
Total debt service                                                     .        56                                       152
IBRD                                            .        ...                  0                 /
IDA                                                       ..                  0        F 3,334                        D 578
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                                     ..      271
Official creditors                              ..                          213
Private creditors                                                    .       16
Foreign direct investment                                                    25
Portfolio equity                                                    ..        0                                E: 4,868
World Bank program
Commitments                                                         ..        0       A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                                       ..        0       B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                           ..        ..         ..        0      C- IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                      ..        ..         ..        0
Interest payments                              ..        ..          .        0
Net transfers                                  ..        ..         ..        0
Development Economics                                                                                                    11/30/01
21 Excludes Kosovo.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
Yugoslavia, FR (Serb./Mont.) - Key Economic Indicators
Estimate             Projected
Indicator                1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Total Consumption                          ..        .        .      103     106      103      100       97
Gross domestic fixed investment                                       15      15       16       18       19
Government investment                                                3        1        3        4        4
Private investment                         .                        12       13       13       14       15
Exports (GNFS)a                                                      32       26       25       27       28
Imports (GNFS)                                                        50      46       44       44       43
Gross domestic savings                      .        ..      ..       -3      -6       -3        0        3
Gross national savings                              ..                11      10       10       11       13
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                      ..      ..       ..   8071   10537   12078   13026   14102
(US$ million at current prices)
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 2000 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices        .        ..         5.0      5.5      4.0      4.0      4.0
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 2000 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices   ..       ..       ..      ..      5.3      3.8      3.8      3.8
Total consumption                         .        ..       ..      ..    17.4       5.3      0.4      1.2
Private consumption                                ..      ..       ..    11.6       5.7      1.5      2.0
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)a                         3265    3947    2148    2547    2714    3065    3552    3960
Merchandise FOB                      2447    3033    1677    1923    1989    2234    2598    2880
Imports (GNFS)a                        5161     5270    3539    4004    4878    5370    5768    6104
Merchandise FOB                      4799    4849    3296    3711    4506    4944    5315    5693
Resource balance                       -1896    -1323    -1391    -1457   -2164   -2305   -2216   -2144
Net current transfers                    310      655      668     1119    1636    1644      1727    1810
Current account balance                -1561    -660    -764    -339    -524    -885    -822    -716
Net private foreign direct investment    740      113      112       25      120     300      500      500
Long-term loans (net)                     54       25       12     213      689      521      474      490
Officialb                                54      25        12     213      619      439      320      310
Private                                   0        0        0       0       70       82      154      180
Other capital (net, incl. errors & onsfnissions)  749  407  529     347      127     314       86       32
Change in reservesc                       18      115      111    -246    -412    -250    -238    -306
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)                -.        .        .    -18.1   -20.5   -19.1    -17.0   -15.2
Annual dollar-value growth rates
Merchandise exports (FOB)               19.8    23.9   -44.7       14.7      3.4    12.3    16.3    10.9
Merchandise imports (CIF)               17.0      1.0   -32.0      12.6    21.4       9.7      7.5     7.1
(Continued)



Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
Yugoslavia, FR (Serb./Mont.) - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Estimate             Projected
Indicator                1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)d
Current revenues                           ..      ..       ..    38.8    41.4    42.8    42.3    41.5
Current expenditures                      ..       ..       ..    36.5    42.3    46.4    44.5    42.7
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)  ..     ..       ..      2.3    -0.9    -3.6    -2.2    -1.2
Grants                                    ..       ..       ..      0.8      0.9      1.2      1.0     1.0
Capital expenditure                       ..       ..       ..      3.3      1.4      2.7      3.5     4.0
Overall balance                                                    -0.2    -1.4    -5.1    -4.7    -4.2
Monetary indicators
M2/GDPe                                             ..              9.1      9.1     10.0    12.1    15.2
Price indices( 2000 =100)
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)               ..      ..       ..   100.0   130.0   137.6   136.7   138.3
Retail price index (% change)             ..       ..    49.9   113.5    40.0    20.0    12.0           8.0
a. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
b. Includes use of IMF resources.
c. On a gross basis.
d. Consolidated general government.
e. Comprises Serbian money supply only.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 1
Yugoslavia, FR (Serb./Mont.) - Key Exposure Indicators
Estimate          Projected
Indicator             1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004
Total debt outstanding and                                 11407  11628   8435   8972   9626
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (US$m)a              ..      ..      ..   229    689    521    474    490
Total debt service (TDS) (US$m)         ..     ..      ..    56      59    335    413    577
Debt and debt service indicators (%)
TDO/XGSb                              ..     ..      ..  447.9  428.4  275.2  252.6  243.1
TDO/GDP                               ..     ..      ..  141.3  110.4   69.8   68.9   68.3
TDS/XGS                               ..     ..      ..    2.3    2.1   10.7   11.4   14.2
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   41.1   28.8   27.4
Preferred creditor DS/public DS (%)  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   57.8   54.0   38.6   56.4
IBRD DS/XGS                         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.0    2.6    2.5
IBRDTDO(US$m)d                    1144   1128   1148   1119   1012   1834   1834   1919
IDA TDO (US$m)d                       0       0      0       0       0    290    460    540
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.



Annex 3
Yugoslavia, Federal Republic of - Status of Bank Group Operations
Operations Portfolio (IBRD/IDA and Grants)
As of 12/19/2001
Active Projects                                                                                                   Difference Between
Last PSR                                                            Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating                Orizinal Amount in US$ Millions          Disbursements
Project ID  Project Name              Develooment  Implementation  Fiscal Year IBRD"  IDA GRANT  Cancel. Undisb.    Orig. Frm Rev'd
Obiectives     Progress
P074136  EMG ELEC PWR RECN                 S             S           2002                        6              5.4      1.4
P074127  FIN SEC DEVT TA GRANT             S             S           2001                        6              5.7      1.6
P074145  PRIV SECT DEVT TA                 S             S           2001                        6               6       1.4
P074124  SOC ASST                          S             S           2002                       10              10
CONSOLIDATION LOAN A                                       2002     429.86
CONSOLIDATION LOAN B                                       2002     813.39
CONSOLIDATION LOAN C                                       2002     384.56
CONSOLIDATION LOAN D                                       2002      53.29
CONSOLIDATION LOAN E                                       2002       129.6
CONSOLIDATION LOAN F                                       2002      59.82
I. FRY's arrears and principal not yet due to IBRD are being consolidated into six new "Consolidation Loans." The new loans were approved by the Board of
Executive Directors on December 13, 2001 and signed on December 17, 2001, and are expected to become effective in early January 2002. The
Amounts shown will be adjusted as of the Effective Date depending on exchange rate movements and accrued interest up to the Effective Date.
Yugoslavia, Federal Republic of - Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 10/31/2001
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                                Disbursed
FY Appri Company                     Loan          Equity         Quasi    Partic  Loas Equity Quasi  Partic
1982/87  Igalo                               2.49              0          0        0  2.5       0        0       0
1985 Jugobanka                           3.92              0          0    0.84  3.9        0       0   0.84
1980 Monte Hotels                           2              0          0        0    2       0       0        0
1980 Radoje                              1.17              0          0        0  1.2       0       0        0
1980 SMSIE Yugo                          1.08              0          0        0  1.1       0       0        0
1987/89  VB                                20.03               0          0    5.79  20         0        0   5.79
Total Portfolio:                 30.69               0          0    6.63   31        0       0   6.63
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan         Equity         Quasi    Partic
2002 MFB Yugoslavia                      3.65               1         0        0
2002 MFI MEB Kosovo                         0           1.12          0        0
2002 Raiffeisen I Yug                       0               1         0        0
Total Pending Commitment:                3.65            3.12          0       0



Annex 4
Timetable of Key Processing Events
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia - Proposed Structural Adjustment Credit
Time taken to prepare:             7 months
Identification Mission:            June 2001
ICM Review:                        July 23, 2001
Preparation Mission:               September 2001
ROS Review:                        October 19, 2001
Appraisal departure:               October 29, 2001
Negotiations:                      December 5-7, 2001
Board presentation:                January 29, 2002



Annex 5
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
STRUCTIURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT-REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
LE'I'TER OI DEVELOPMENT POLICY
December 14, 2001
Mr. James Woltensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433. USA
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
I     Introduction
Having succeeded to membership in the World Bank on May 8 of this vear, the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia is requesting support from the Bank for a comprehensive economic reform program. The
govcrnment believcs that it is best to prcsent the reform efforts of the two constituent republics of Serbia
and Montenegro separately for consideration for support from the World Bank, as each republic is at a
different stage in its process of transition, and is facing specific challenges and priorities. This Letter of
Development Policy describes the core elements of the economic rciorm program of the Republic of Serbia
to be supported by a first World Bank Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC). These retbrms seck to
overcome the legacy of a decade of economic decline and macroeconomic instability.
We are committed to pursuing a rapid and comprehensive transformation to a market economy in Serbia and
FRY in order to return to growth. As a sustainable macroeconomic framework will be esscntial for a
successful return to growth, and as past macroeconomic instability has been primarily driven by fiscal
imbalances our immediate priority is undertaking measures to improve thc management of our fiscal
resources. The policy reforms outlined in this letter are designed to meet this objectivc in four areas which
we believe are the most critical for improving fiscal outcomes - public expenditure management, energy,
social protection and labor, and health. Our reform program is being implemented in the context of a
macroeconomic framework supported by a Stand-By arrangement of the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
that was agreed in June, 2001.
The constitutional arrangements outlining the rclationship between FRY and its constituent republics will be
reviewed in the near future. While the dctailed legislative requiretnents to implcment the reform program
described below may change as a consequence ol this review, both the Government of FRY and the
Governmcnt of Scrbia arc committed to thc full implementation of the program  regardless of the
constitutional structure of FRY.



if     Macroeconomic Framcwork
As you are awarc, FRY is currcntly dcaling with the dirc consequenccs of morc than a dccade ol' cconomic
mismanagement, cxaccrbatcd by rcgional conflicts and sanctions. GDP stands at bclow one-hall' of its 1989
level, having declincd by 16 percent in 1999 alone. In 2000, cxports werc doown ovcr 60 pcrccnt and
imports more than 30 pcrcent from 1989 levcls. High inflation has hcen a recurring prohlcm, with priccs in
Serbia at cnd-2000 being 115 percent above thc level or onc year prcvious. Living standards havc fallen in
tandem with the decline in economic indicators. Bctween 1991 and 20)00, real wagcs lost 60 percent of thcir
value, and in Serbia avcrage net wages now stand at around US$90 pcr month. Povcrty indicators have
worsened, with about one-eight of the Serbian population being in absolule povcrty in 2000, in addition to
13 percent of individuals who are poor and about 20 perccnt who are near poor. Unemployment is high and
on a rising trend, with the unemployed appcaring to have the highest risk of povcrty.
The key elements of the IMF-backed macroeconomic stabilization program are reducing macroeconomic
imbalances, initiating economic restructuring and mobilizing external assistance, including for debt relief.
Supported by' restrictive monetary policy by the National Bank of Yugoslavia. fiscal policies of the Federal
and Serbian governments should sct the stagc for furthcr rcductions in inflation, while social policy will aim
|to protect the most vulneraible. The target consolidatcd budget deficit for 2001 is 2.3 pcrcent of GDP. No
increases in this dcficit will be allowed unless concretc extcrnal financing sourccs arc idcntilicd. Wc are
strongly committed to continucd adhcrence to a sustainable macrocconomic framework.
The transition to a market economy in the Republic of Scrbia vwill rciuirc rapid and simultancous progress
in many sectors, as wcll as commitmcnt to furilicr oltcin very difficult rcforms during a numbcr Or ycears.
Ovcr the past year wc have madc substantial progrcss. At the Fedcral lcvcl. the liberalization of tradc and
forcign cxchangc rcgimes has helped to creatc a morc l.tvorable hasis for export-lcd growth. and has
increascd the transparcncy of our foreign trade system. In Scrbial. extensive liberalization of priccs, reform
of the tax policy and administration, reforms to the budgetary proccss to allow for grcatcr control and
transparency, rcduction of the gray economy and smuggling. and the beginning of a rcstructuring and
privatization of the financial and enterprise sectors have all contributed to the stabilization of the cconomy
and, wc believe, the bcginning of economic recovery. Wc anticipatc working closely with the World Bank
and the IMF over the coming years to build on this progress.
In addition to the broad reform agenda we have begun. as described abovc. improving the management of
fiscal resources has emerged as a new priority. We would likc to use a first World Bank Structural
Adjustment Credit to initiate immcdiate reforms in fiscal management. witlh a view to achieving rapid gains
as well as to creating a basis upon which subsequent structural adjustment operations could support required
follow-up reforms. The implementation of priority reforms in the idcntified sectors wvill have maximum
impact and enable the achievement of fiscal balancc in the shortest possiblc timc. Details of the immediate
policy reforms to be undertaken in these arcas are outlined below. along with an1 indication of the kcy
elements of a medium term policy agenda.
III    Public Expenditure Management Relormn
Context. The unsustainable fiscal policies of the past were the rcsult not only of inappropriate sectoral
policies, which we have begun to reverse and which arc discussed later in this letter. but also of gaps in our
processes of public expcnditure management. In the first half of 2001, we already made some progress in
adjusting scctoral policies, particularly through measurcs to raise prices - and thereby remove hidden
subsidies - and to bring existing state subsidies onto the budget. However, governmcnt institutions have not
had the capacity to adequately manage the fiscal situation, or to efficiently determine and rationally
implement needed reductions in public spending.
Wc believc that it is particularly important to address gaps in three areas of pulblic expenditure managcment.
First. a characteristic feature of the past process of budgct formulatioll was a disconnect betwcen



government policics and hUdgetary allocations. Ilc budgeting proccss, lacked a propcrly classified and
consolidatcd view of' statc finances and a medium-term  context lor planning budgct allocations. This also
led to accumulation of arrears. Second, the processes ol' budget execution which we inheritcd give us
insufficient control over budgetary commitments. In the absencc of a Treasury, budgct exccution lias been
primarily gcared towards malching cash outilow with cash inflow on a daily basis, rathcr tihan aligning
spending commitments with expected rcvCnues and ensuring that ministries havc thc adequate funds to mect
their program objectives. As a result, any unexpected commitmcnt ralling due, or any shortfall in cxpected
revenues, has been translated into arrears and/or undue disruption in government services.
Third, inherited gaps in our system of public expenditure managcment havc reduced the transparency and
accountability of public spending. The major riscal adjustmcnt which we have vigorously commenced, and
which wve must sustain lor many years, will only be supported by our citizcns and by the donor community,
if we are able to show that scarce public funds and donor support are bcing spcnl efficienily and on
legislated goals. To achieve these standards, we need to make fundamental improvements in ex-post revicw
and procurement procedures. The state audit function is still vcry limited in effectiveness. In the Serbian
government, the Budget Inspectorate in the Ministry of Fifiance and Economy had declincd to four staff. and
had not conducted audits of republican ministries for over live years. Parliamentary control over spending
has existed only on tilc aggregate level, and cxternal audit functions havc been almost non-existent.
Competitivc procurcmcint procedures are not lully established, and itic legal framework for public
procurement - as wcll at its cnforcemcnt - nccds to be more comprchcnsive.
Reforms suipported by thme SAC.  In order to achieve our objcctives, the Government ol' Scrbia has
implemented a range of critical structural reforms in public expenditure management. To improve budget
formulationi, wc have submittcd to the Serbian Parliament a new Law on the Budget Svstem  (LBS). wvhich is
a critical basis for esta.blisiling a more consolidated and comprchensivc mcdium-term framework for budget
preparation at the lcvcl of the Republic of Scrbia. We have also devclopcd a Budget Preparation Instruction
based on new Government Financial Statistics (GFS). We belicvc that this will establish stronger linkages
betwcen policy and resource allocation, raise the accountiability of the budget, and gradually introduce the
strategic budget framcwork. The Budgtc Preparatioll Instruction will bc uscd for preparation of the 20102
budget. Furthermorc, wc have also developed a consolidatcd liscal framework at the Icvel ol' the Republic of
Serbia, which will include thc central budget, social funds. and local governments. We believe that this
should further facilitate budget formulation and help to cnsure that budgets are based on a completc picture
of state finances.
In the area of budgct execution, the draft LBS envisions the crcation of a Treasury dcpartmcnt in the
Ministry otf Finance and Economy (MoFE) of the Republic of Serbia. As an initial stcp in its establishment.
and to better control spending, an outline plan of Treasury inrormation flows, including from second-line
uscrs, has bcen completcl. We have also undertaken  an analysis ol' commitment control deficiencies with a
locus on high risk areas. A timetable for the development of accounting proccsses has been agreed betwvecn
tile MoFE and the Mutual Services Unit. We also bclievc it is important to meet dlonor expectations of
transparent and erficient use of aid, ensuring a distinct procedure from the routine budget. Until thc Treasurv
is created. we havc takcn some immediate measures to strcngthen the control and efficicicy of use of don(or
funds. The Ministry of International Economic Relations (MIER) of the Republic of Scrbia has prohibited
the establishment of new accounts for donor funds without its prior approval. All aid agreements now\'
require double signing. including by the MoFE.
Wc havc madc important progress in the areas of budget inspection and audit. The most important near-term
measure was an MoFE-led of inspection of all major republican-level government agencies and social finds.
Wc have submittcd this report to the Serbian Parliament, and have already implemented a number of
corrcctive flollow-up measures. In parallel, we have begun the process of establishing an external audit
functioni by initiating a study of different external audit models beflore selecting thc model which is most
appr opriate for our circumstances. In the area of procurement, wc havc drafted a new Public Procurement
Law, whichi has been submitted to Parliament. We believe that this law is an important step in improving, the



transparcncy, accountability and cnforccmcint *r procurmncnt regulations. To improve public proctirculicnt
prior to thc adoption ol' this law, thc Goivcrnmcnt ol' the Republic of Scrbia has established an inicrim
requirement ror any rcqucsts for solc source procurement to hc approvcd by thc Government.
To begin the devclopment of institutions rcquircd to implcmcnt thc new Law on the Budgct System, the
functions and stafting of Budget and Macrocconomic and Fiscal Analysis departments in thc MoFE havc
been defined. We have also rcvised the organizational chiart of thc MoFE, and wc have defined thc general
functions, staffing and structure of the future Trcasury department of the MoFE. In the area of budget
inspection and audit, we have delineatcd the functions and structure of thc reformed Budgct Inspection
Department in the MoFE.
The Mediuim-Ternm Reform Agenda. Thc reform measurcs wc are currently undertaking are intended to lay
the basis for future strengthcning of public expenditure management. We rccognizc that some elemcnts of
the program, such as the development of effcclive institutions and proccsses, will require an ongoing
commitment in order to achieve significant and sustainable improvements.
In the area of budget preparation, we plan to adopt the Law on the Budget Systcm no later than the middle
of 2002. Our medium term agenda also includes the introduction of multi-ycar fiscal projcctions as a basis
for the budget process, in time for the 2003 budgct. This will require that kcy dcpartmcnts and units being
created in the Serbian MoFE arc fully established and starfed. In the area of budygc execution, wc are
committed to ensuring that the new LBS is already influencing the cxccution of the 21)02 budget. This w'ill
require establishmcnt and starfing of thc corc of the ncw Treasury Department. Wc also intcnd to establish
more effective systcms lor the control of public sector commitments. Monitoring or budget cxccution -will
also be upgradcd through the implementation of both intcrnal and cxternal audit procedures and institutions.
To this end, we will prepare a draft law on the ncw stlatc audit institution. In ilic area or public procurement,
we will enact a new Public Procuremcnt Law whicih is consistent with good inicrnaLtional practice, and will
establish appropriate institutions to cnforce efrective public procurement. Competition or public contracts
will increase, with at least 60 pcrcent of contracts by value awarded by competitive tendcr.
IV     Energy Sector Rcl;)rm
Context. The energy sector has bcen characterized by the chronic sctting by the statc of prices. particularlv
of electricity, at levels which are wcll bclow the cost of production. As a result, the 199l)s saw considerable
dc-capitalization of the sector due to lack of investmncit and deferrcd maintenance, which was compOuinded
by damage from the 1999 Kosovo conflict. In recent years, the disruption of o il and gas supplics necessary
for district heating, in conjunction with the under-pricing of electricity, has rcsultcd in the widcspreadl use of
incfficient clectric space heating, which now accounts for about 60 pcr cent of elcctricitv supplicd in the
yinhter. As demand has increased, the electricity scctor has bccome a major drain on fiscal resources due to
large quasi-fiscal deficits in the form of losses by thc Electric Power Industrv of Serbia (EPS).
Thc palst chronic under-pricing of energy has madc the scctor a substantial hiddenl drain on our fiscal
accounts. At the end of 2000, the annualized quasi-fiscal deficit in the electricity sub-sector alone ,vas
estimated at US$1.1 billion, or over 10 percent of Serbia's GDP. Despite international donor funding for
repair of equipment and the import of electricity, which was critical flur the system's operation through the
20)t0/0l wvinter, regular rolling blackouts became the norm. Due to the structural nature of the deficit. rapid
reform focused on cost containment in EPS is necessary to achieve fiscal balance in the medium term.
Reforms supported by the SAC. We have madc considerable progress in reducing the quasi-fiscal deficit
created by the energy sector. We increased average eicctricity prices by 60 percent in April 2001, a further
40) pcrcent in June 2001 and another 15 percent in October 2001. Thcse price incrcases have helped to
rclicve pressure on the state budget, as the electricity sector required direct and indirect financial support for
wages, dcht servicing, imports and investments at the beginning ol the year. Thcir cumulative effect has
bcci to rcduice the hiddcn liscal prcssures coming l'rom the powcr sector by aboul US$300 million this y ear



alone. Assuming that average coillcclions rcihcIl around 75 pcrcent o' new billings, the current pricc incrcasc
should cnabic the operating costs of EPS (ntc ol donor support) to be fully lunded from internally gcncratced
cash. To complcmcnt the incrcasc in rcvenucs, wc controlled the costs or EPS by tcmporarily frcezing the
wages of those working in the ciceiricity sector, which wcrc far abovc thc avcrage lcvcl in Scrbia. Wc have
now prepared and begun to implemcnting a near-term action plan to reducc operating costs. Thesc cost
containmcnt measurcs have included limiting the incrcase in the nominal wagc bill of EPS during 200I to
no more than 5 pcrccnt, which has workcd to reducc the rcal value of this wage bill by around 25 percent
during 2001.
To moderate consumption, we will complemcnt our supply-sidc program and the dcscribcd price increases
with an active energy efficiency program. To rcduce the cost of primary cnergy use, wc arc addrcssing the
incentives for inter-fucl substitution, with a focus on improved usc or natural gas and district hcating. Initial
steps towards improving energy efliciency have focused on a media campaign to induce a customer response
to price increases through low to no-cost measures. Wc have hegun a low-cost program to reduce
temperature losses in buildings. We are also committed to establishing an energy efficicncy capacity in the
MoME, and havc selected the responsible individuals.- In total, these mcasures are expected to reduce
electricity consumption by more than 1,000( GWh ovcr the next winter, which would rcducc our import bill
'by about $35 million.
The price reforms arc designcd to balance the nccds for rcvenue with the ability to pay, to avoid the
development of a culture o(f non-payment. In August of this year. we began to address non-paymenis wvilh
the announcement or an active disconnection prngram based on clearly cstablished pr(lcedures, including on
the time required lor alerting customcrs to enable an orderly transition. We have alrcady made some
progress in its impIlmcntation. We arc also committcd to. and have publicly announced, a policy of cash
based collcctions.  Wc have already considerably rcduccd the pratcticc of barter payments by largc
industries, eliminating all but dircet bartcr transactions betwccn supplicr and customcr. We will continuc to
build on this progrcss, with a goal of fully eliminating barter as a source of payment during 2002.
We have commenced the process of planning longer tcrm reforms in thc cnergy scclor. focusing on the
principles adopted by EU countries. To this cnd, the Govcrnmcnit of Serbia has engaged a lead advisor to
formulate an Energy Sector Strategy that will form the basis for preparation of thc Icgislative framework.
We are also committed to commence the drafting of a ncw energy law whlich includes provisions f'or an
independent regulator.
ThieMedikm TerinReforn Agenda. We wvill continue to returni our assets to productive usc. Given tlhc
prcsent state of these assets and the constraints on rcsources, it is expected to take around live years to bring
the system back to full normal operations. Our plans arc to reduce the neieds for donor support for
cicctricity imports from US$100 million last year, to around US$50 million this year and to eliminate the
nccd for financial support for power imports next winter. This goal will be accomplished by a combination
of donor-supported increases in the delivery capacity of our system and continucd price increases. To
accomplish this task, we have prepared a focused reconistruction program over the next year to enable
considerable supply improvements to the system.
The quasi-fiscal deficit from the energy sector will continually be addrcssed by a phased implementation of
further mcasures to increase the level of cost recovery. To this end. the Government of Serbia and EPS plan
to implement by no later than mid-2002, further increases of in average power prices totaling at least 50
pcrccnt, to sustain past progress in containing the real wage bill of EPS. and to have achieved initial
reductions in physical losses and theft. In addition, by the middle of 2002, we are committed to raising the
ratio of collections to billings to at least 75 percent and to fully eliminate barter as a means of payment for
clectricity. These measures are expected to first allow full debt servicing. and then to achieve at least a 30
percent self-financing ratio in 2003. Beyond 2003, we plan to move to a pricing regine which would attract
private scctor invesimcnis, based on return to equity prinicipics. As the situation in the clectricity scctor



stabilizcs, wc will atlso) act to reform gas and district hcaling pricing, to ensurc lull ccoionliic costs are hcinm
covcred in tihc mcdium tcrm.
To set the framework Cor our mcdium-tcrm cncrgy policies, the Government of Serbia will adopt an Encrgy
Sector Stralegy by mid-2002. This will allow  the Ministry of Mining and Encrgy to further dcvclop
legislation to providc the legal and regulatory framework to support the rcform  program. The primary
legislation will bc the Energy Law which is now bcing drafted by advisors with intcrnational expcrience.
Once key stal'f arc in placc, secondary legislation will be prepared to address pricing principlcs and
procedures. We plan to bcgin establishing an indepcndent regulatory body starting ncxt year, with a mandate
to address customer protcction from predatory practices by cntities with monopoly powers.
Over the longer term, wc will continue the developmcnt of our cncrgy scclor following EU principles. The
focus of our efforts will shift from meeting our urgent needs to bccoming compctitive in an open market.
This will require structural reforms which arc currently being addrcssed by advisors, followed by a
strengthening of our corporate entities to ensure that thcy can be competitivc in a libcral market.
V      Social Protection and Labor Rel;orm
Context. Social Protcction - The system of social protcctioni in Serbia consists of boLh social insurance (in
the form of pcnsions) and social assistancc. Currcnt cntitlemcnis t(o pcnsions in Serbia are high and pcnsion
spending as a share ol (GDP is well-above rcgional lcvcls. In addition to contributing to burdelnsomC labor
taxes, the sysleml is a significant source ol lfiscal pressurc. During 2(000(. budgct transfers to ilic pcnsion
system  alone Nverc over 2 percent of GDP. Reforming entitlemcnis is complicated by the tactl tiiat while
most pension rights arc rcgulate d by Fedcratl laws, obligaitions arc largely thc rcsponsibility of the
Ucoublican levCl. Both thc Federal and Serbian Govcrnmcnis are however committcd to reforms wihichi
would bring the pcnsion system more in line withi available rcsourccs and lower the overall burden of labor
taxation while protecting thc poor. As a l'irst stcp in this direction. wc cxpandcd the tax hasc during ilic first
haIci of 2001 by bringing a rangc of non-taxcd aliowances into the tax net. and contribution rates were
lowered. We cstimatc the net effect hias bccn a lowcring or the ovcrall rate olf payroll taxation by 8-1I)
percent. We now plan furthcr mcasures to limit the overall scope of pcnsion cntitlemcnits.
The system  of social assistance in Serbia has comne under sevcre prcssure owving to the groiving
impovcrishment of the population over lhe course ol' the last dccadc and the dcclining rcsources of the statc.
Nlany obligalions were simply postponed leading to a significant build-up of arrears by the end of 2000. We
have since made considicrable progress in reducing thcse arrears. Going forwvrd. \\'e intend to create an
adcqualtc and affordable final safety net for those wvho cannot providc for their minimum  needs. and make
eltcetivc use of the lirnited donor funding to assist withi mceting thc minimal rcquirements ol' thosc who
cannol work or fend for themse)ves.
Lahor Malrkcts - Labor law in the Republic of Serbia is amongst the most rigid and protective of' all
transition cconomies, and reprcscnts a serious obstacle to labor markct tlexibility. The legislationi which wec
inilcriicte  from  the past prescribed overly generous worker entiLlemcnis, such as severance pay of 24-36
months of salary, rigid preconditions for valid dismissals, and other impedimenis have hindered enterprisc
restructuring an d rcorm of our civil service. In addition, the high cost to cmploycrs inherent in the lawv
discouragcs official employment and pushes economic activity into the informal sector. thcreby impeding
our ciforts to raisc public revenues and reduce the gray economy. We recognize that the current labor
legislhttion is also a serious drain on fiscal resources, particularly in the contcxt of our planned privatization
p-rogram and ovcrall rc-alignment of the economy towards private sector driven growth.
WY aIrc cominitted to implementing reform of labor legislation as the central element of a range of policy
ilicasures thai aim to improve the capacity of the economy to adjust to changinig circumstances. This is a
prcrcljUisitc lor succcss oi' the privatization program, for attracting much nceded forcion direct ivesinent
ji~~~~~~~~~~~ neddfrig   ietinetet



and Ibr the dcvelopmcnt ol a dynamic small and ImdiulIl cintcrprise hasc. With the support o1 kcy donors.
including Ihc World Bank, we have dcvcloped a draft revised Labor Law that has bccin broadly dcbatcd
within govcrinmcnt and with civil socicty.
Reforms supported by tfie SAC. Social Protection - In ordcr to bring pension cntitlcmcnts in line wilhl
availablc rcsourccs, wc havc begun to implement a series of parametric rcLorms to thc existing systcm.
Thesc changes will bring demonstrabic fiscal savings over the ncar term, and wvill makc thc svstem morc
suslainabie and consistent with thosc in other parts or Europe. Thcy will also havc a positive impact on the
labor market by cxpanding the scope for furthcr reductions in labor taxes..
More specifically, the Fedcral Governmcnt has presentcd amcndments to the Federal Pensions Law that: (a)
change indexation of pensions from wage growth to the arithmetic mcan of wagce and cost of living growth;
(b) immediately raises the statutory retirement age from 60 years tor men and 55 years for women to 63
years for mcn and 58 years for women, and in parallel raises the minimum age at which pensions can be
drawn by 3 years; and (c) simplifies the structure of minimum pcnsions, setting this pcnsion at no more than
20 percent of the average gross wage.
In addition to preparing thesc parametric changes, we will pcrsist wilti our erforts to improve the cxisting
system. Wc are committcd to ensuring: that there is no dictrioration in the timcliness of pension payments,
and that pcnsioners' contributions to the Scrbian Hcalth Insurance Fund (HIF) will bc passed with no delays
from the main Pcnsion Fund for Employces.
We are also critically aware of the ncd to protcct thc standard of living ol thc most VUlnerable mcmbcrs of
society in a fiscally sustainable way. To tilis cnd, wc have mobilizcd donor assisltacc to pay an additional
child allowanice on a onc oflf basis (to poor familics with childrcn) and an additional pcnsion (to low income
pensioners) bctore the o nsct of winter. Thcsc mcasurcs will bring additional relict to the poorest familics
without creating the expectations associated witil new bcneit programs. Wc also iincnd to improvc our
main program of social assistance, the so-called material assistance to families (MOP). Currently. the lack
of a unitbrm criterion rcsults in incquitics in the trcatiment of the poor across thc Rcpublic ot Serbiai. To
bcgin remedying this siultion, wc are piloting the inlroduction or uniform. Rcpublic-widc thresholds alntcr
having made adcquate financing provisions for the incrcascd numbcr of beneficiairics.
Givcn the importance of donor funding to our programs of social assistance - and to the ovcrall financing
requirements of the budget - improved efficiency and transparency in their usc is csscntial. To this end, we
halvc also crcated a special team in MoSA to coordinate the use of donor funds. They have created a data
base on social welfare institutions, including an inventory of donations and priority necds. We have
devcloped improved procedures in social welfare program  implementation, including procurement by
tcndcr, , the use of designated sub-accounts for donor contributions. and periodic audits associated wvith
donor support. We have also created a Fund for OnC-Off Support as an effective channel for donor
assistancc.
.Labor - To reform the labor relations framework, we have submitted to parliament a new Labor La,v.
satisfying conditions agreed previously with the World Bank. including (i) a further rcduction in severance
pay to 1-2.5 months of wages; (ii) removing restrictions for concluding fixed-term, tcmporary and part-time
contraicts: (iii) eliminating automated mandatory covcragc of collective agrecments for parties not
participating in negotiations; (iv) a substantial reduction in special leave entitlements; (v) a reduction in the
minimum replacement rate on sick pay paid by cmployers to 65 per cent and a reduction in the payment
period covcrcd by the employer from 60 to 30 days; and (vi) an casing of the pre-conditions for valid
dismissal.
\We have also formed a working group for the reform  of the Employment Law. which will focus on
i improving the efcfctiveniess of active labor market programs, and reforming unemployment benefits to
ilmprovc work incentives and make the system morc affordable. The Employment Law, oncc adopted. w ill



complement the ncw  Labor Law  and will mitigatte the negative liscal impaict ol' privatization and
rcstructuring. Wu have also agreed to Tcrms or Rcfcrcncc lor work on labor rcdeployment programs.
The Medium Term Reform Agenda. Social Protection - Both the Federal and Serhian governments are
committed to the full implementation of thc legal changes to pcnsion cntitlemcnts being commcnccd under
the SAC by no latcr than the middle of 2002. Thcsc are thc rirst results of our overall aim to achievc
demonstrable reductions in the share of state pension payments in the Gross Domcstic Product of Scrbia
when properly mcasurcd on a commitmcnt basis. We realizc that thcse are but the lirst steps in multi-year
process involving further difficult measures which wvill bring us closer to our longer-term aim of achieving a
pension system which places significantly lcss pressure on our fiscal accounts, and which is morc consistcnt
with our other ovcrall objcctives of restoring growth and rcducing povcrty. By next year, we intend to take
initial steps towards more fundamcntal reforms of the pension system, including preparatory vork on its
possible divcrsification through inclusion of funded elements. Furthcr work will also focus on ways to
make the existing administrative arrangements more efricient, including measures to improve and tighten
the determination of disability and improve contribution compliancc.
in social assistance, we intend to evaluatc the pilot rcorms to MOP frrom the vicw point of take-up, costs.
targeting errors and crl'cctivcness, in ordcr to intriduce changes that would move MOP in the direction of a
more adequate, equitable, affordable and ctlicient social safety net. Improvements in MOP and other social
welfare bencits will bc guidcd by the implementation ofl an improved poN'crty and living standards survcy
which would strengthcn the basis for identilying the poor, withholding bencfits Irom  the non-poor. and
establishing cost-of-living relaited benclit eligibility thrcsholds.
Labor - During the next year, we wvill concentrate on reforming thc system on unermploymcnt insurancc to
improve work inccntives and make the system morc affordable. To this cnd, we plan to lowcr the income
replacement provided by unemploymcnt bcnefits and to reducc the maximum bcncfit period. We will also
work to improve the cffectivcncss of active labor markct programs, in part by rcoricnting the activitics of
the Labor Market Bureau towards more cost effectivc programs, moving away from wagc subsidics and
self-employment programs towards activitics such as job-search assistance. To the extent possible. groups
which face particular disadvantages in the labor market will he the targct of thcsc programs. The passage of
the new Employmcnt Law through the Rcpublican Parliament, which wc expcct to take place by mid-2002.
will be critical in reaching thesc objectivcs and thus moving towards a morc ticxible labor market.
The Govcrnment of Serbia will also be working xvith the Fcderal Government to introduce clianges to
current Federal labor legislation in ordcr to cnsure consistency. We will derinc a medium term Labor
Redeployment Strategy constructed to dovetail vithi our wider agenda in cnterprise and public sector reform.
An integral element of this stratcgy will bc the development of a labor redeployment program to mitigate tile
social impact of expectcd widespread redundancies. We will also sircngthen capacity of the key labor
markct institutions necessary to enforce the new legal framework for labor relations.
VI    Health Sector Rerorm
Coritext. The health sector has suffered a significant dIccline over the past tcn years that has resulted in a
lailure to provide an adequate level of service to the population, in particular to vulnerable groups. Funding
constraints have led to deterioration of health infrastructure and limited availability of essential drugs and
consumables through the public health system. Deteriorations in health stalus are now appearing. There is a
nced flor significant reform in the financing of health carc services and the structure of health care provision.
including replacemcnt or renewal of basic infrastructure.
Rcstoring fiscal balance to the public health financing system is a lIng term proposition that will require
structural changes in how our system is run and a close examination of what is affordable for our cconomN.
Our current payroll contribution-based hcalth insurance system  is administcrcd by the Serbian Health



Insurance Funtd (HIF). Contribulions have Fallen in tandem wilh thc collapse in output ovcr the last tcn
yvars. An increasing financing gap has rcsultcd as fcw adjustments verc mainde on (lhe cxpenditure side. in
part bccause of a poor incentivc structure.  Thc financing gap has been increasingly covered by thc
republican budget. In recent years, thc Govcrnment has even paid its own contributions through offsets, or
has not paid thcm at all. Thc HIF has also accumulated large arrears.
Our health system  is characterized by an exicnsive network of public facilitics and hcalth care providers.
Thc lcvcl of service inputs is almost identical to that of 1990, but the financial rcsources flowing into the
sector have significantly declined. With no capital investment, buildings arc deteriorating and some are
beyond repair. Repairing and equipping health care facilities is a high priority, bul will necd to be addressed
in the contcxt of an overall hcalth strategy, and after carcful considcration of the recurrent implications of
new capital invcstmcnts and likely resource availability.
Reforms supported by the SAC. We believe that the immediate retbrm priority, and a prerequisite for dceper
and morc structural reforms, is to continue taking steps to restore the fiscal sustainability of the health care
syslcm. We arc also very concerned with the growing burden out ol' pocket health expcnditures places on tIhe
population, particularly the poor. To this cnd, wc arc prcparing rctorms in threc areas: (i) stabilizing the
,fiscal situation Of the HIF; (ii) improving efticiency througyh rcform of the delivcry systcm; and (iii) laying
the basis for rcform of the policy and legal framcwork. Thcse mcasures will enhance equity by improvilng
acccss to basic hcalth care for the most needy.
l'etilIh Finia1nZcinlg. The conlainment of hlcalth expcndittires to suslainable levels is ol particular importance
[or stabilizing the fiscal situation of the HIF. We have implcmented a scries of measures to hlcip mcet this
objcclivc. On the expcnditure side, the initial main catcgory of spcndinc whcre can make the quickest
progress is on druggs. We have started by introducing several measures to cut pharmaccluical cxpcnditu1res.
To this cnd. we have reduced the 'essenlial drug list' cligible flor rcimbursement by tilc HIF from 40)6 to
301 drugs, and to includc mostly generic drugs, and have created an inter-agcncy tendcr commissioin for
pharmaccuticals and medical supplies. As an intcrim  measure pending full reform  of pharmaceuticals
procurcmcnt. the Ministry of Health (MoH) has issued a directivc requiring competitive tendering for drugs
and medical supplies above 10.()00 DM equivalent by MoH owned hcalth carc facilities. To increase thc
elficiency ofl HIF operations, we have undertaken a scrics o(f inspcctions to idcntify obvious cascs of misuse
of funds. A first inspcction of the HIF has been complctcd by the MoFE and follow-up mcasurcs havc becen
taken. The HIF has in turn inspected each ol' its local branchies.
The main rceorm measure that we have taken on the revenue side is the introduction of co-payments, with
exemptions for the poorest and other vulnerable groups. To analyze its cffectivcness. and to plan its more
comprehensive implementation, we have commissionedi an cvaluation of the co-payments scheme. Wc have
improved the revcnue situation of the HIF by ensuring that the Pension Fund for Employees and
EmploymenL Fund pay their contributions to the HIF in a timely manner. A longcr term solution for thesc
inter-fund transfers will be considered as part of the mcdium term hcalth financing strategy. The HIF has
also increased its monitoring of noncompliant enterprises as a basis for more effective enforcement o(f tax
payments.
Refirming the delieLry system. We understand that addressing the structural inefficiencics of the current
system will be the most important element of achicving eventual fiscal balance. Our lcvels of human and
physical capital in the hcalth sector exceed both our needs and our budget. We have introduced sevcral
measures to reduce the excess supply of labor in the health sector. This includes signing new contracts
between the HIF and health care providers which stop paying for staff hired without authorization after
1992. To address problems with inefficiencies in the size and distribution of our health carc flacilities. wc
have established a health technology commission that is charged with approving all capital investmcnts.
Given the importance of using scarcc donor resources wisely, all non-essential capital investments will be
irozen until the Health Institutions Master Plan (which have begun to prepare) is completed.



Laying the basis for r eform of the policy and legal framewoik. We have broadened the composition of our
Health Care Reform Commission (HCRC) to include key affected stakeholders. A new steering committee
comprising representatives of the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labor, Ministry of
Social Affairs, Health Insurance Fund, Institute of Public Health, and the Medical Faculty will oversee the
reform process and development of our national health policy.
The Medium Term Reform Agenda. In our vision for the health sector in the Republic of Serbia, the
priority reforms outlined above represent the initial steps in a longer term process that will be further
developed by the Health Care Reform Commission and continue to be implemented in the context of further
structural adjustment assistance once we have successfully stabilized the current system.
One of our priorities in the medium term will be to decide upon the means for rationing scarce health
resources, which will necessarily include a reduction in the scope of benefits offered. In our view, it is
essential that at all stages in its evolution, basic health service remain accessible to the poorest segments of
the population, and those that are adversely affected by transition.
We will, continue working to improve the efficiency and transparency of the procurement of
pharmaccuticals, medical supplies, and equipment.  In these areas, we are committed to move our
procurement practices in line with general public sector procuremcnt reforms which we describcd above,
and to achieve demonstrable irnprovements by the middle of 2002. Ovcr the same time horizon. we will
review the current package of health care benerits to identify thosc which are non-essential, and begin to
make concrete progress in rationalizing these benefits. These actions will be complemented by
improvements in the operational efficiency of the HIF and in the transparcncy of its financial management.
The health technology commission will be able to guide needed capital investments to priority hcalth
facilitics.  Wc are aware that rcductions in overall starfing levels will be requircd to achicvc a morc
appropriatcly sizcd, better paid, and better distributed work force.
In parallel, we will continue our efforts to mobilize additional rcvenues. After completing an evaluation of
our new system of co-payments, we will revise it in light of the results of this evaluation. We will begin
making use of the recently enhanced capacity for monitoring the hcalth insurance contributions of
cntcrpriscs to accelerate the use of bankruptcy proceedings against firms whichi arc in chronic arrears. Wc
arc committcd to sustain or deepen our recent progrcss in improving the timeliness of transfers from the
Employment Fund and Pension Fund for Employees to the HIF.
To address more systemic issues on health care financing, wc will present a new Health Insurance Law to
the Serhian Parliamcnt by the middle of next year. This draft law will be aimed at enhancing the incentives
to contribute, at eliminating the practice Or granting employers exemptions from paying HIF contributions.
and at defining the responsibility of the budget for covering the uninsured and the vulnerable.
Vtt   Conclusion
The last decade has left FRY and the Republic of Serbia facing considerable economic challenges. We
believc that the measurcs outlined above demonstrate our strong commitment to confronting the structural
obstaclcs to growth and poverty reduction. Although wc have already made important progress in managing
our rcsources more effectively, much more remains to be done and we cannot afford to slacken the pace of
reform. Given the burden that the areas of public expcnditure managemcnt. energy, social protection and
lahbor, and health currently place on our resources, wc expect that this package of reforms will bring us much
ncarer to our goal of' fiscal balance. Looking to the medium term, our reforms will be dirccted at the f'ull
elimination of quasi-fiscal deficits in ilic form of losses by EPS. In thc longer term, wc undcrstand that
significant reductions in overall cxpcnditure commitments as a sharc of GDP, inchiding in the areas of social
protcclioni and health, will bc critical lor liscal sustainability. especially in thc context (if increased (dcht
service paymenis and the bringing on hudget of past hiddcn fiscal liabilities.



Wc are also intcnt on taking the first steps towards the devclopment of the iostitutionis and systcms that will
allow us to manage public resources efficiently and transparcnitly, and to enable the privatc scclor reeovcry
we nccd to return to sustainable growth. At the same timc we need to ensure that the poorest segments of
the population are adequately protected form the short term hardships of transition. The continued support
of the World Bank and the international community will be essential to us if we are to achieve these
ambitious goals.
Miroijub Labus                                                          Bo i4a[jjelic
Deputy Prime Minster                                                    Minister of Finance
Federal Republic or Yugoslavia                                               Republic of Serbia



Annex 6
Page I of 7
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA - PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
POLICY ACTION MATRIX
AREA AND OBJECTIVES                REFORM BENCHMARKS BY BOARD PRESENTATION'                                OU'TCOME BENCHMARK FOR MID-2002
Macroeconomic Stability      The Government has maintained a macroeconomic framework satisfactory   Continue to maintain a sustainable macroeconomic
to the Bank.                                                            framework.
Public expenditure
management
Budget Formulation
Legal framework reflecting   Government of the Republic of Serbia to submit a Law on the Budget       The LBS has been adopted and is influencing the execution
intemational good practice.  System (LBS), satisfactory to the Bank, to the Serbian Parliament.       of the 2002 budget.
Adoption of transparent fiscal   Serbian Ministry of Finance and Economy (MoFE) to develop a Budget
policy and budget preparation   Preparation Instruction based on new Government Financial Statistics (GFS), to
practices.                   be used for the preparation of 2002 Republican Budget.
Budgets based on             MoFE to develop fiscal framework for the consolidated republican budget for  A Budget Memorandum for the 2003 budget is being
consolidated macroeconomic   2002, including the central budget, social funds and local governments.  prepared based on consolidated estimates and includes multi-
estimates                                                                                             year macro-fiscal projections.
Institutional reform         MoFE to outline the functions and staffing of the Budget and Macroeconomic  The Budget and Macroeconomic and Fiscal Analysis
and Fiscal Analysis Departments in the MoFE.                            Departments have been established and staffed.
Budget Execution
Begin development of         Rcvise the organizational chart of the MoFE, define general functions and  The core of the Treasury Department in the MoFE has been
institutions required to     structure of the Treasury Department.                                    established and staffed.
implement system outlined in
new OBL
Improve commitment control.   MoFE to prepare analysis of commitment control deficiencies with a focus on  Commitment control processes have been devised for key
high risk areas.                                                        high risk resource commitments, e.g. a system of control on
payroll new hires.
Develop systems of           To better control spending, MoFE to prepare an outline plan of Treasury
accounting.                  information flows, including from second-line users, while Treasury systems are
being planned and developed. .
Benchmarks in bold are measures included in the Credit Agreement of the proposed SAC. Unless noted otherwise, reforms are to be implemented at the level
of the Republic of Serbia.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 7
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA - PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
POLICY ACTION MATRIX
Produce a timetable agreed between MoFE and the Mutual Services Unit for  Monthly budget execution reports have been developed by
development of accounting processes.                                    the Treasury system for the MoFE and direct budget users.
Donor funds managed in an   Serbian Ministry of International Economic Relations (MIER) to prohibit the
efficient and fiscally   spcnding units to open new accounts for donor funds without prior MIER
responsible fashion       approval.
Establish requirement for all aid agreements to be double signed, including by the
MoFE.
Budget Inspection/Auditl   MoFE to complete the inspection of all major Republican-level government  Follow-up measures on recently completed inspections have
Public Procurement        agencies and social funds and submit the Inspection Report to Serbian    been implemented to address revealed deficiencies.
Parliament.
MoFE to define functions and structure of the reformed Budget Inspection  The internal audit function in the MoFE is being adequately
Department in the MoFE.                                                 staffed (predominantly on a permanent basis) and possesses a
sufficient mandate to inspect all govemment institutions.
Initiate a study on the suitability of different models for external audit for the  A draft law on the State Audit Institution has been prepared
current situation in Serbia.                                             based on the selected model of extemal audit.
Enhanced comprehensive    Govemment of the Republic of Serbia to submit a Law on Public Procurement,  New laws on public procurement consistent with good
legal framework for public   based on good intemational practice, to the Serbian Parliament.      intemational practice being implemented.
procurement
Increased competition for    To improve public procurement prior to adoption of the Law on Public  At least 60 percent of contracts by value are awarded by
public contracts.         Procurement, the Govemment of the Republic of Serbia to temporarily require  competitive tender.
Govemment approval of any requests for sole source procurement.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 7
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA - PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJ U STMEN T CREDI T
POLICY ACTION MATRIX
AREA AND OBJECTIVES                  REFORM BENCHMARKS BY BOARD PRESENTATION                         OUTCOME BENCHMARK FOR MID-2002
Energy
Reduce the quasi-fiscal deficit coming from  Based on the findings of working groups established to explore   To further increase the level of cost recovery, the
the energy sector through measures which  cost savings, EPS has prepared and begun to implement an      Government and EPS have implemented further increases
enable the Electric Power Industry of Serbia   action plan to reduce its operating costs. Cost containment  in average power prices totaling at least 50 percent,
(EPS) to cover operating costs as a first step    measures shall include limiting any increase in the nominal  sustained progress in containing the real wage bill, and
to full cost recovery.                    wage bill during 2001 to no more than 5 percent.             achieved initial reductions in physical losses and theft.
The Government of Serbia has increased average power prices
by 40% in June and a further 15% in October 2001.
Design and start implementation of a      EPS has announced a program of disconnecting non-payers, with    The ratio of collections to billings has increased to at least
satisfactory strategy for improving       some early progress in implementation. The program is based on  75%.
collections                               clearly established procedures, including on the time required for
alerting customers to enable an orderly transition.
Reduce the role of barter                 Government of Serbia has made a public announcement of its   Barter has been eliminated as a source of payment for
policy in which all collections will be cash based. EPS has begun    electricity supply.
implementing this policy, and has reduced the share of barter in
total collections to a maximum of 20 percent.
EPS has fully eliminated third party barter, with only direct barter
of goods and services needed by EPS remaining.
Adopt govemment program to improve        The Govemment of Serbia has established an energy efficiency  An action plan has been prepared to enable energy
energy efficiency                         capacity within the Ministry of Mining and Energy (MoME), and    consumption to start closing the gap with current EU
has selected the accountable person(s) within the MoME.      accession countries.
The Govemment of Serbia has taken urgent steps to raise energy
efficiency, focus on immediate building-level savings, and has
conducted a supporting media campaign.
Start developing a medium term sector     The Government of Serbia to engage the lead advisor to formulatc   An Energy Sector Strategy has been adopted by the
strategy and improve the institutional    an Energy Sector Strategy that will form the basis for preparation    Govemment.
capacity of the Ministry of Mining and    of the legislative framework.
Energy                                                                                                 The MoME has developed draft legislation to provide the
MoME to begin drafting an energy law including provision for an   legal and regulatory framework to support the reform
independent regulator.                                       program.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 7
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA - PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
POLICY ACTION MATRIX
AREA AND OBJECTIVES                  REFORM BENCHMARKS BY BOARD PRESENTATION                             OUTCOME BENCHMARK FOR MID-2002
Pensions
Inroads into limiting entitlements   The Federal Government to present to the Assembly amendments to the  The Federal Parliament has passed amendments to the
and making pension system more   Law on Pensions that would at a minimum:                               Law on Pensions along the proposed lines, with
sustainable.                                                                                            demonstrable reductions in pensions/GDP in the
(a) raise the statutory retirement age from 60 years for men and 55  Republic of Serbia as measured on a commitment basis.
years for women to 63 years for men and 58 years for women and,
in parallel, raise the minimum age at which can be drawn by 3
years;
(b) change indexation of pensions from wage growth to arithmetic
mean of wage growth and growth in the cost of living;
(c) set the minimum pension at a unified rate of no more than 20
percent of the average gross wage.
Initiation of preparation of more                                                                       A Working Group has been appointed and Terms of
fundamental pension reform.                                                                             Reference (TOR) agreed to make progress with the more
fundamental reforms of the pension system.
No deterioration in the timeliness   No increase in average payment lag in the Pension Fund for Employees since  The average payment lag in the main pension system has
of pension payments             December 2000.                                                          been maintained or further decreased.
Improved implementation of      Pensioners' contributions to the HIF to be passed with no delay from the  Further progress has been made with respect to
existing framework.             Pension Fund for Employees.                                             administrative arrangements, including tightening access
to disability pensions and improving contribution
compliance.



Annex 6
Page 5 of 7
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA - PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
POLICY ACTION MATRIX
Social welfare
Enhance the equity and coverage of   Govemment of Serbia to implement pilot reforms to MOP, including use   The pilot has been evaluated from the viewpoint of costs
social assistance, in particular Material    of a uniform Republican threshold, ensuring adequate financing to cover   and effectiveness, and lessons learnt have begun to be
Assistance to Families (MOP).        increases in the number of beneficiaries.                         implemented.
The results of new poverty and living standards surveys
are being used to improve criteria for identifying the
poor and revise entitlements of the less poor.
Progress has been made with de-linking to social benefit
eligibility thresholds from wage levels.
Improvements in the management of     Special team formed within the Ministry of Social Affairs for
donor funds                           coordinating the use of donor funds. Data base on social welfare
institutions created, including inventory of donations and priority needs.
Develop improved procedures in social welfare program implementation,
including: (a) procurement being done by tender, (b) the use of designated
sub-accounts; and (c) periodic audits.
Govemment of Serbia to create Fund for One-Off Support to channel
donor assistance.
Labor markets
Creation of a more flexible labor market  Government of Serbia to submit Labor Law, satisfying conditions  A Federal Law consistent with new Serbian Law has
which is conducive to employment      agreed with the Bank, to the Serbian Parliament                   been passcd. The new Labor Laws are being
creation in the official economy and the                                                                successfully implemented along with associated
facilitation of economic restructuring.                                                                 institutional changes.
Begin establishment of a more        Government of Serbia to form a Working Group for the reform of the  The Republican Parliament has passed a reformed
affordable and efficient system of    Employmcnt Law which will focus on: (a) greater cost-effectiveness in  Employment Law.
Unemployment Benefits (UB), and more  active labor market programs; and (b) reforming unemployment benefits
effective active labor market programs.   to improve work incentives and make the system more affordable.
Initiating work on a labor redeployment   Agreement on TORs for consultant(s) to support development of Labor    A Labor Redeployment Program has been approved and
program to address potential mass     Redeployment Program.                                             institutional framework defined to handle mass
redundancies following enterprise                                                                       redundancies.
restructuring and privatization.



Annex 6
Page 6 of 7
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA - PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
POLICY ACTION MATRIX
AREA AND OBJECTIVES             REFORM BENCHMARKS BY BOARD PRESENTATION                           OUTCOME BENCHMARK FOR MID-2002
Health
Health financing
Contain  costs  through  reforming  Government of Serbia to adopt new and more limited        Drug procurement from public finances is moving in line with
procurement  pharmaceuticals  and  Essential Drugs List for publicly financed drugs.          general public sector procurement reform, with demonstrable
restructuring  the  benefit  package                                                          improvements in the efficiency of procurement.
covered by health insurance.        Govemment of Serbia to create inter-agency tender conimission
for pharmaceuticals and medical supplies.
The current benefit package has been reviewed to identify
As an interim measure pending full reform of pharmaceuticals  reductions in non-essential benefits covered by public financing,
procurement, Ministry of Health (MoH) to issue directive  and some initial progress has been made in the reform of such
requiring competitive tendering for drugs and medical supplies  benefits.
above 10,000 DM equivalent by MoH owned health care
facilities.
Improve incentives to contain costs  Inspection of Health Insurance Fund (HIF) completed by MoFE    HIF financial management (statements and annual audited report)
through enhanced audit procedures.    team and corrective action taken in light of findings.  are in the public domain.
HIF to conduct audit of all of its branches and corrective action
taken in light of findings.
Strengthen the capacity of the HIF                                                            A needs assessment of the HIF and subsequent plan and timeline
for reform have been prepared. The reforms would include: (i)
revision in price setting; (ii) strengthening capacity of the HIF in
purchasing, contracting; and management; (iii) introduction of
new auditing and monitoring standards; and (iv) introduction of
new information systems.






Annex 6
Page 7 of 7
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA - PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
POLICY ACTION MATRIX
Revenue enhancement measures.       Government of Serbia to introduce co-payments for selected    The evaluation of the health co-payments system has been
health services, with some exemptions for the most needy.  completed and the co-payment structure has been revised based on
these findings.
HIF to prepare TORs for evaluation of the new co-payments
system, including: (i) the revenue collected, (ii) potential to
increase collections, (iii) impact on demand for services, and (iv)
impact on the poor.
HIF regularly monitoring and reporting to Government      The commencement of bankruptcy proceedings against enterprises
enterprises' contributions.                               which are in chronic arrears to HIF has been accelerated.
No increase in average payment lag from the Employment Fund    Average payment lags have been maintained or further decreased.
and Pension Fund for Employees to the HIF from December
2000.
Delivery system                     MoH to prepare Terms of Reference for the Master Plan of   Health Institutions and Human Resources Master Plan completed.
Health Institutions and Human Resources.
Introduce initial mneasures to reduce excess supply of health  Demonstrable initial progress has been made in achieving a more
sector labor by signing new contracts with health care providers   appropriately-sized health sector labor force through reductions in
which stop paying for staff hired without authorization after  staffing.
1992.
MoH to issue a decree to establish a health technology    The health technology commission is issuing certificates of need
commission to approve all capital investments (new and    prior to the making of major new investments.
replacements, public and private) above 20,000 DM equivalent.
The commission will freeze capital investment which is deemed
non-essential until the Health Institutions Master Plan is
completed.
Policy and Legal Framework          Form Health Care Reform steering commitee with             The National Health Policy and a health care financing strategy
representatives of the MoH, MoFE, MoSA, Ministry of Labor,    have been prepared.
Medical Academy, HIF and Deans of the Faculty of Medicine to
oversee preparation of the National Health Policy, and broaden  A Health Insurance Law has been presented to the Republican
membership of the working level Health Care Reform        parliament which enhances incentives to contribute, reduces
Commission (HCRC) to include representatives from other   exemptions and defines the responsibility of the budget to cover
agencies and stakeholders.                                the uninsured and vulnerable groups.






IBRD 31506
181 119                                                20    ,                    21'                         22'                         23'
H U N'p A R                              \                              ,!FEDERAL REPUBLIC
Pecs g'                    \A$; j+I S    dOF YUGOSLAVIA
Moha6Og    >S1k,@,anjpza ,>                                EOROPEAN HIGHWAYS           46
\ ,   >Baraol  \,  Sena,o      N                                         -    OTHER CLASS I HIGHWAYS
AIRPORTS
vSZ    O't            0C        +          jT  a~OWNS
@D    REPUBLIC OR PROVINCE CAP17ALS
    NATIONAL CAPITALS
C O ;  - - -  PROVINCE BOLUNDARIES
t   SX  >   Bach-a  5\\ .,->  Zrer,jaai    i"'^!jsl                    -    -  REPUBLIC BOUNDARY
Pal k                                                                  -   -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
45 ,
64.                                              Brckot_ Kovin < ROMANIA
3 - -~~~~~~~ MiaM'dtoapava                SraIadk   \ a                   Mahicjdapek i
t  BOSNIA AND                                                                           a V     Petrava    T.
?HERZEGOVINA  >o j               t           a                                                      -- abco  
Bo,~~~~~~~~4
\41 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iprni,:5    XVJ 9I
X~~~~~~~PvaIad                                                   S           "vti3r.     -          Alekaina
44'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R. r9a'Q                                                                            R
} RAJEVO,---''                                                            7> n  oprialck '-
Kr'         Kasasa 
Seo t            - N le t    . 't'~ea,e ,                                                    Bwl                                    I V r  ,J  C
X   orjtnn r,i ii *vu Brfgrd w{'                                                                                                      J rtr ra, ,        
4~~~~                       Rask.                          up~~~~~~~~~~~~-R~aavc e
A3'nEsbvAxbfbl                            Ktei Poliot                                  d                            2 ~        4 
PodgoYaroicEEBR D0
Thaaspanspc*aoky&    D   rL)aaf)M  BoR-
79ebaa&reaaM&ao/iaaadeayterM   L.kea  ,                   >          c         Y     M    C    DO I          
4,c.oyunacnIa tn  ay Mr r1                                              
~~~  's~~~~~~~~ ~20'                                             212
DECEMBER 2001



