Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3599 YF
Development Credit Agreement
Structural Adjustment Credit
between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 5 , 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3599 YF
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 5, 2002, between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia 
Page  2
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower and the Republic of 
Serbia a letter dated December 14, 2001, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies 
designed to achieve structural adjustment of the economies of the Borrower and the Republic of 
Serbia (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s and the Republic of Serbia’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof; 
(B)
the Borrower and the Republic of Serbia have carried out the measures and taken 
the actions described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and 
the Borrower has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; 
and
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower and the Republic of Serbia by making 
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.
The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 1999) 
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
Page  3
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”; and
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
Section 1.02.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Dinar” means the currency of the Borrower; and
(b)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01.
The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to fifty five million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights   (SDR 
55,500,000).
Section 2.02.
(a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit 
Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit 
account in Euro on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the 
Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount 
of said payment, or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the 
Credit Account for cancellation.
Page  4
Section 2.03.
The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2002 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04.
(a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05.
The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06.
Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07.
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing May 15, 2012 
and ending November 15, 2021. Each installment shall be five percent (5%) of such principal 
amount.
Section 2.08.
The currency of Euro is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01.
(a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Page  5
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02.
The Borrower shall make available to the Republic of Serbia in Dinar 
the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, such terms to include the provisions set forth in Sections 2.04, 2.05, and 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03.
Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
(4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01.
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01.
For purposes of Section 12.01 of the General Conditions, the following 
event is specified as a condition of effectiveness of this Agreement, namely, that the Borrower 
has enacted a law following the approval of the Government of the Republic of Serbia setting 
forth the arrangements referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement. 
Section 5.02.
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01.
The Deputy Prime Minister of the Borrower is designated as 
Page  6
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02.
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Federal Ministry of Finance of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Bulevar Mihajla Pupina 2
Belgrade 11000
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Facsimile:
(381 11) 311-2979
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Belgrade, 
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
By
/s/  Miroljub Labus
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/  Rory O’Sullivan
Page  7
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
-
Alcoholic beverages
121
-
Tobacco, unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
-
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
Page  8
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971
-
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower 
is a party); 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by 
a
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that corrupt 
or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of 
the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) 
of the Preamble to this Agreement
1. 
The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted a Law on the Budget System, 
satisfactory to the Association, to the Serbian Parliament.
2. 
The Ministry of Finance and Economy of the Republic of Serbia has completed the 
inspection of all major Republican-level government agencies and social funds and submitted the 
inspection report to the Serbian Parliament.
3. 
Based on the findings of working groups established to explore cost savings, the Electric 
Power Industry of Serbia has prepared and begun to implement an action plan to reduce its 
operating costs including cost containment measures limiting any increase in the nominal wage 
bill of EPS during 2001 to no more than 5 percent.
Page  9
4. 
The Government of Serbia has increased average electric power prices by 40% in June 
and a further 15% in October 2001.
5.
 
The Federal Government has presented to the Federal Parliament amendments to the 
Law on Pensions that would at a minimum: (a) raise the statutory retirement age from 60 years 
for men and 55 years for women to 63 years for men and 58 years for women and, in parallel, 
raise the minimum age at which pensions can be drawn by 3 years; (b) change indexation of 
pensions from wage growth to the arithmetic mean of wage growth and growth in the cost of 
living; and (c) set the minimum pension at a unified rate of no more than 20 percent of the 
average gross wage.
6. 
The Government of Serbia has submitted a new Labor Law, satisfying conditions agreed 
with the Bank, to the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia.
7. 
The Government of Serbia has adopted a new and more limited Essential Drugs List for 
publicly financed drugs.
8. 
The Government of Serbia has introduced co-payments for selected health services, with 
some exemptions for the most needy.
