Page  1
Document of
 
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 
25616
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(
IDA-35990; TF-50555
)
ON 
A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF 
SDR 55.5 MILLION
(US$70 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO 
THE 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR 
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
04/24/2003
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their 
official duties.  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
Page  2
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 
as of March 21, 2002
)
Currency Unit 
 =
New dinar
  
1 YUM
 =
US$  
0.01676
US$ 
1
 =
YUM 59.66
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    -
     
December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS
CEM
CHF   
DFID
EAR
EBRD
EPS
ESW
EU
FRY
GDP
HIF
ICR
IDA
IDF
ILO
IMF
LBS
LDP
MOFE
PFSAC
PPA
PSR
QAE
QFD
QAG
SAC
SBA
SIDA
SOSAC
TDO
TSS
UB
UNDP
  Country Assistance Strategy
  Country Economic Memorandum 
  Swiss Franc
  Department for International Development
  European Agency for Reconstruction
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Electric Power Industry of Serbia
Economic and Sector Work
European Union
Federal Republic of  Yugoslavia
Gross Domestic Product
Health Insurance Fund
Implementation Completion Report
International Development Association
Institutional  Development Fund
International Labor Organization
International Monetary Fund
Law on the Budget System
Letter of Development Policy
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Private and Financial Sector  Adjustment Credit
Public Procurement Agency
Project Status Report
Quality at Entry
Quasi-Fiscal Deficit
Quality Assurance Group
Structural Adjustment Credit
Stand-by Arrangement
Swedish International Development Agency
Social Sector Structural Adjustment Credit
Total Debt Outstanding and Disbursed 
Transitional Support Strategy
Unemployment Benefits
United Nations Development Programme
Vice President: 
Johannes F.Linn
Country Director:
Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Director:
Cheryl W. Gray
 
 
Page  3
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:
Ardo H. Hansson
 
Page  4
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Structural Adjustment Credit
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data
1
2. Principal Performance Ratings
1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
8
6. Sustainability
9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
10
8. Lessons Learned
12
9. Partner Comments
13
10. Additional Information
23
Annex 1.  Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
24
Annex 2.  Project Costs and Financing
27
Annex 3.  Economic Costs and Benefits
29
Annex 4.  Bank Inputs
30
Annex 5.  Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
31
Annex 6.  Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
32
Annex 7.  List of Supporting Documents
33
* 
On February 4, 2003, with federal parliamentary ratification of its consitutional charter and  implementing law, 
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) completed its transition to Serbia and Montenegro (SAM).  In this 
document, all reference to FRY which post-date the change of name should be understood to refer to SAM, and all 
references to the federal level should be understood to refer to the union.
 
Page  5
Project ID:
 
P074586
 
Project Name:
 
Structural Adjustment Credit
Team Leader:
 
Ardo H. Hansson
TL Unit:
 
ECSPE
ICR Type:
 
Core ICR
Report Date: 
April 24, 2003
1.  Project Data
Name:
Structural Adjustment Credit
L/C/TF Number:
IDA-35990; TF-50555
Country
/
Department
:
SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO
Region:
Europe and Central 
Asia Region
Sector/subsector
:
General public administration sector (50%); General 
energy sector (20%); General industry and trade 
sector (10%); Health (10%); Health insurance (10%)
KEY DATES
Original
Revised/Actual
PCD:
07/23/2001
Effective:
03/01/2002
03/18/2002
Appraisal:
10/23/2001
MTR:
Approval:
01/29/2002
Closing:
08/31/2002
08/31/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency
:
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE; 
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
Other Partners:
Government of Switzerland
STAFF
Current
At Appraisal
Vice President:
Johannes F. Linn
Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager
:
Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:
Cheryl W. Gray
Pradeep K. Mitra
Team Leader at ICR:
Ardo H. Hansson
Ardo H. Hansson
ICR Primary Author:
Michael R. Lav
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly 
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome:
S
Sustainability:
L
Institutional Development Impact:
M
Bank Performance:
S
Borrower Performance:
S
QAG (if available)
ICR
Quality at Entry:
S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
No
Page  6
3.  Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1
Original Objective:
The Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) supported the governments of the Federal Republic of
 
Yugoslavia (FRY) and its larger constituent republic, the Republic of Serbia, in defining and implementing 
the structural reform agenda with the main objective of enhancing medium-term fiscal sustainability as a
 
basis for sustained growth and poverty reduction. The reform program aimed to achieve this objectives
 
through implementing specific reforms in the areas of: (i) public expenditure management; (ii) the energy
 
sector; (iii) social protection and labor; and (iv) the health care sector. 
The project was launched in a challenging political and economic environment.  The FRY was
 
evolving rapidly, with power shifting to the constituent Republics of Serbia and Montenegro.  Within the
 
Republic of Serbia, there was an evolving political consensus on reforms, and the Government was just
 
beginning to establish its priorities.  The SAC's objectives were developed with the Government as a focus 
for reforms, to enable the new government to function on a more solid fiscal basis while addressing the
 
most pressing quasi-fiscal issues (which were in the energy sector), and to initiate key sectoral reforms
 
while laying the basis for broader reforms in the future.
The SAC's objective was entirely appropriate as it strengthened the new Government's core fiscal
 
activities, enhanced stabilization by reducing quasi-fiscal deficits, and supported early steps to formulate
 
sectoral reform programs.
3.2
Revised Objective:
The objective was not revised.
3.3
Original Components:
The SAC's components comprised a medium term macroeconomic framework appropriate to
 
achieving the credit's objectives, and sector initiatives including: (a) strengthening public expenditure
 
management (including institutional, legal, operational, and personnel reforms); (b) energy sector reforms 
(price increases and cost reduction as well as laying the groundwork for institutional, legal, and policy
 
reforms); (c) social sector and labor reforms focussed on pensions, labor laws, and social safety nets; and 
(d) health sector reforms to improve affordability and lay the groundwork of more substantial institutional 
and policy reforms. 
These components reflected the highest priority macroeconomic and sector issues as agreed
 
between the government and the Bank. These priorities were identified in the Economic Sector Work
 
(ESW) as presented  in both "Breaking with the Past: The Path to Stability and Growth" (which was the
 
first Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) for FRY after its readmission to active World Bank
 
membership), and the Transitional Support Strategy for Yugoslavia issued in July 2001 which in large
 
measure played the role of a Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in defining the support to be extended by 
International Development Association (IDA).   
3.4
Revised Components:
The SAC's components were not revised.
3.5
Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was very good and is rated satisfactory. (There was no QAG QAE rating.) The
 
SAC was the cornerstone the Bank's strategy as defined in the Transitional Support Strategy, which
 
reflected the new government's key priorities. The Bank's dialogue with the Government concerning the
 
formulation of the SAC reflected the Government's commitment to reforms, and assisted it in defining more 
- 2 -
Page  7
specifically its core program of reforms.  The SAC's design captured up front reforms to reduce the fiscal 
and quasi-fiscal deficit (QFD) by more than 4 percent of GDP in 2002, relative to the no reform scenario. 
The pension reforms already implemented are projected to achieve additional deficit reductions in future
 
years equivalent to more than 1 percent of GDP, while the energy pricing reforms have reduced the
 
quasi-fiscal deficit by the equivalent of 3 percent of GDP. These up-front fiscally important measures were 
complemented by institutional/legal/policy reforms to improve control over expenditures, lay the
 
groundwork for future reforms in energy, improve labor market flexibility, better target social protection, 
and improve health care finances, all of which will have an institutional impact over time.  
Risks were carefully elaborated.  However, the program was not impacted adversely. External
 
risks were identified primarily in the form of a possible slowdown in the economies of trading partners, and 
were taken into account with modest but realistic expectations on macroeconomic projections such as GDP 
and export growth rates. The possibility of shortfalls in donor financing (including debt reduction) was
 
mitigated by active donor coordination, both through the EC-World Bank Joint Office in Brussels, and
 
through informal coordination between key donors working at a sectoral level.  The main domestic risk
 
identified was the political risk evident in a new government and new political regime where the
 
relationships of the Serbian Government with the Federal Government and domestic constituencies were
 
evolving.  More specifically, while the Federal and Serbian Governments at entry did have strong
 
ownership of the program, the President's Report stated that negotiations to redefine the constitutional
 
structure of the Federation and relations between the constituent republics could prove a distraction from
 
the reform agenda.  (This did not adversely affect the completion of reforms agreed under the SAC, but did 
become a factor in the follow-up period.) In addition, it was noted that a public expecting rapid
 
improvements in living standards could tire of sacrifices, weakening support for the reform. These risks
 
were addressed in the design of the SAC by up front conditionality and by an outreach program supported 
by International Development Finance (IDF) and post-conflict grants to continue to build support for the
 
adjustment program.  Finally, the upfront conditionality also had the benefit of encouraging early action by 
the Government. 
4.  Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1  
Outcome/achievement of objective:
The SAC achieved its objectives.  Serbia's macroeconomic framework has been improved with the 
SAC's support for growth and stability. The sectoral reforms in the fiscal area created a new fiscal/treasury 
system which put government finances on a sounder footing, while key sectoral reforms reduced the
 
quasi-fiscal deficit, increased labor mobility, improved effectiveness and targeting of social welfare, and
 
began to address health sector reforms, all of which are discussed in more detail below. 
The macroeconomic program supported by the SAC has been successful and is broadly on track. 
The dramatic return to stability is evidenced by the reduction of inflation from 113.5 percent in 2000 to
 
14.2 percent in 2002, thereby bettering the SAC's target of 20 percent. Current projections are for inflation 
for 2003 and 2004 to continue to be lower than those incorporated in the President's Report.  The public
 
sector deficit for 2002 relative to GDP is now estimated to be slightly below that projected in the
 
President's Report.  The deficit is projected to decrease further in 2003 and 2004 to precisely the level
 
projected in the President's Report, indicating that fiscal consolidation remains on track.
The current account deficit for 2002 exceeded the projection in the President's Report (8.9 percent 
versus 7.3 percent of GDP), caused in part by the appreciation of the dinar and in part by strong domestic 
demand related to donor support a resurgence in public and private investment.  These caused a 33 percent 
increase in imports (compared to a projected 10 percent increase), which was only partly offset by the 18 
- 3 -
Page  8
percent growth in exports (compared to a projected 13 percent increase) and higher private transfers.  
Despite the larger than projected current account deficit, foreign exchange reserves increased as a result of 
large private transfers, growing foreign investment, and remonetization (the conversion of cash foreign
 
exchange held by residents into dinar cash and deposits).  Total indebtedness to GDP is now projected to
 
decrease more rapidly in 2003 and 2004 than foreseen in the President's Report, largely because of the
 
higher than expected real appreciation of dinar but also because of lower then projected interest rates.
 
Exchange rate management is expected to balance support for disinflation and with maintaining a
 
reasonable external balance in the context of the ongoing International Monetary Fund's (IMF's) Extended 
Arrangement.  
The risks posed by the slightly higher than projected current account deficit are not serious, in view 
of the decrease in the projected debt service ratio as a percentage of GDP and the increase in foreign
 
exchange reserves.  However, attention to competitiveness and demand management is warranted,
 
especially concerning the public sector, and will continue to be a focus of future Bank adjustment
 
operations and the IMF's Extended Arrangement.
The reforms supported by the SAC directly contributed to disinflation with the reduction in 2002 
of the quasi-fiscal deficit by 3 percent on account of energy sector reforms, as well as a lowering of the
 
budget deficit by 1-1.5 percent of GDP below what it would have been without the SAC-supported pension 
reforms. The fiscal situation also now reflects improved control over budgetary arrears, with the reduction 
in the average delay in pension payments from the main pension system for employees as one example.  
This is also a focus of the current IMF Extended Arrangement for FRY. 
In addition to these reforms and the sector specific reforms discussed below, the SAC represented, 
and was seen to represent, early support for the new government and its reform program.  It thus helped to 
give concrete focus to the Bank's assistance strategy for the new government, with the SAC dealing across 
sectors with fiscal and some institutional issues, complementing the parallel Private and Financial Sector
 
Adjustment Credit (PFSAC) which focussed on the private sector development and growth agenda.  The
 
SAC also set the stage for a range of Bank activities, including a set of investment and follow-up
 
adjustment operations to promote further reforms, as noted below in the sectoral discussion.
Key Macroeconomic Variables: Projected vs. Outcomes
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
Real GDP Growth
President's Report
5.0
5.5
4.0
4.0
4.0
Actual/Current Projection
5.0
5.5
4.0
5.0
4.0
Public Sector Deficit/GDP
President's Report
0.2
1.4
5.1
4.7
4.2
Actual/Current Projection
0.9
1.3
5.0
4.4
4.2
Current Account Balance /GDP
President's Report
-4.2
-5.0
-7.3
-6.3
-5.1
Actual/Current Projection
-3.9
-4.6
-8.9
-8.4
-7.9
External Indebtedness TDO/GDP
President's Report
141.3
110.4
69.8
68.9
68.3
Actual/Current Projection
132.6
101.4
74.6
53.2
56.7
Inflation (retail, end of period)
President's Report
113.5
40.0
20.0
12.0
8.0
Actual/Current Projection
113.5
39.0
14.2
9.0
7.0
Note: 
As in the SAC President's Report, data are for the economy of FRY, of which Serbia comprises 95%.  Separate data for 
the Republic of Serbia are not available for many components of GDP and other variables.
 
4.2  
Outputs by components:
In addition to measures noted above which directly supported the macroeconomic framework, the
 
SAC supported a number of sector reforms, both as conditions of Board presentation and during
 
- 4 -
Page  9
implementation. 
A. 
 Public Expenditure Management.
 As a condition of Board presentation, a Law on the Budget System 
(LBS) (Organic Budget Law) satisfactory to IDA was submitted to the Serbian Parliament. As committed 
to in the Letter of Development Policy (LDP), this law was subsequently approved. The LBS is the critical 
basis for a range of reforms and institutional changes to improve budget formulation, execution and control 
and is having a substantial impact across a broad range of budget management tasks.  These changes
 
include: (a) establishing (inter alia through undertaking the requisite reorganization of the Ministry of
 
Finance and Economy (MoFE)) a more comprehensive medium term framework for budget formulation;
 
(b) improving budget execution through the new organization of the MoFE and improved staffing,
 
especially the establishment and core staffing of the Treasury Department, together with new measures to
 
ensure tighter control over spending such as dual approvals required for new commitments; (c) greater
 
accountability based on budget inspection/audit/public procurement reforms; and (d) adopting a new law
 
on public procurement.  The Serbian Ministry of Finance and Economy completed an inspection of all
 
major Republican-level government agencies and social funds and submitted the report to the Serbian
 
Parliament. This inspection report also uncovered 91 cases involving possible criminal offenses. Thus,
 
concerning all of these measures, SAC conditionality has been fulfilled.  As the Ministry moves from
 
inspections to internal audits, it is also moving to begin external auditing, by meeting SAC conditionality to 
study the suitability of different models of external audit.  
While the implementation of follow-up measures has been satisfactory, it did proceed on a slightly 
slower timetable than envisaged in the President's Report. The Public Prosecutor has yet to move on most 
of the criminal cases noted above, and there have been concerns that this office, and the judiciary, have not 
yet placed adequate priority on addressing theses issues. However, the March 2003 assassination of Prime 
Minister Djindjic has resulted in a renewed and intensified crackdown on criminal activities. In addition, a 
new law on Public Procurement has been enacted, based on good international practice.
On the basis of these SAC reforms, the MoFE is now moving to the next stages of public
 
expenditure management reform, including establishment of an interim treasury system, strengthening
 
internal audit functions within the MoFE, and building up the Public Procurement Agency (PPA) created
 
under the Law on Public Procurement. These efforts are receiving significant support from donors; the
 
Bank is considering a proposed Public Expenditure Capacity Building project focused on establishing an
 
extended treasury system and strengthening debt management, public procurement and anti-corruption
 
functions. The proposed Social Sector Structural Adjustment Credit (SOSAC) would also support reforms 
to better integrate the extra-budgetary social funds into the overall public expenditure management reform. 
The sum of these measures (and additional aspects of the SAC enumerated in more detail in Annex 
1) is that Serbia now has a more coherent if not fully developed budget system, with budgets better
 
grounded in a macroeconomic framework and developed more carefully with improved institutional support 
and operational guidelines. This outcome of this component of the SAC is rated as fully satisfactory. 
B.  
Energy Sector.
   The Government of Serbia increased average power prices by 40% in June 2001, and 
an additional 15% in October 2001, thereby reducing the quasi-fiscal deficit by about 3 percentage points 
of GDP.  The state-owned electric utility, the Electric Power Industry of Serbia (EPS), has begun to
 
implement an action plan to reduce its operating costs, including measures which limited the increase in the 
(previously very high) nominal wage bill of EPS during 2001 to less than 5 percent (resulting in a real
 
decline of about 25 percent). In the LDP, the Government committed to further rate increases to help
 
reduce financial losses and further reduce the quasi-fiscal deficit. As envisaged, a 50 percent increase in the 
average tariff rate took place on June 1, 2002, and EPS has adopted the objective of eliminating financial 
- 5 -
Page  10
losses by 2004. The number of employees was reduced by 900, and the increase in total net salaries was 
limited to 21.7%, about the same as the rate of inflation (based on period averages rather than end of year 
inflation in the table above). EPS is also moving to improve technical efficiency. New policies were
 
introduced to reduce receivables, and the collection rate for distributed electric power increased from 72% 
in 2001 to 80% in 2002. The share of barter in total collections for electricity has been reduced to 14%, a 
shortfall relative to the target of completely eliminating barter.  After some delays, the Government is
 
placing high priority on adopting an Energy Sector Strategy, which is being developed with
 
donor-supported technical assistance, with the aim of presenting options to the Government by the Spring
 
of 2003. An energy efficiency capacity has been established at the Ministry of Mining and Energy and
 
projects are being funded by donors.  The energy efficiency program already resulted in a 5 percent
 
decrease in electricity consumption in the winter of 2001/2002 which together with plant reconstruction
 
helped reduce the number of days of electricity outages from 56 in 2000/01 to 4 in 2001/02 and appear to 
have eliminated them in 2002/03. The SAC has thus been a useful instrument to support development of a 
range of further reforms in the energy sector. 
These measures taken together comprise important first steps towards financial viability of the
 
EPS, and work has begun to establish a better understanding of Serbia's needs in the power sector and
 
ways of efficiently meeting those needs.
The energy sector reforms supported by the SAC follow initial reforms supported by the Electric
 
Power Emergency Reconstruction Grant funded from the Bank's Trust Fund for FRY, and are also
 
supported by the IMF's Extended Arrangement, for which the Bank has supplied technical inputs. This will 
be important to further reduce the quasi-fiscal deficit.
Because of the full and timely implementation of the SAC program in this sector, the outcome of
 
this component is rated as highly satisfactory.
 
C.  
Social Protection and Labor.
  The Law on Pensions was amended to (a) raise the statutory retirement 
age from 60 years for men and 55 years for women to 63 years for men and 58 years for women, and, in 
parallel, to raise the minimum age at which pensions can be drawn by 3 years; (b) change the indexation
 
from wage growth to the arithmetic mean of wage growth and growth in the cost of living; and (c) set the
 
minimum pension at a unified rate of no more than 20 percent of the average gross wage (equivalent to
 
about 40 percent of the average net wage).  These very significant changes will deliver observable fiscal
 
savings, even in the near-term. The change in indexation has already lowered budget expenditure on
 
pensions by more than 1 percent of GDP in 2002 relative to the no reform scenario.  Over time, savings 
from these reforms are projected equivalent to about 2 percentage points of GDP. The average payment lag 
in the main pension system declined from 2-2.5 months to 1.5- 2.0 months. A satisfactory new Labor Law 
approved by Parliament improves labor mobility by
 inter alia
 reducing lump sum payments to workers
 
who lose their jobs to levels observed in most other countries in the region. A pilot reform of the main
 
social assistance program was implemented to use a uniform threshold throughout the Republic and to
 
review numbers of beneficiaries under the new program. (A law to implement the new system is expected in 
March 2003. This will directly build on SAC reforms, but will be in addition to SAC conditionality.)  The 
SAC was thus a useful instrument to help develop reform programs in the social sectors, and subsequent 
reforms are being supported by the recently negotiated proposed Social Sector Structural Adjustment
 
Credit (SOSAC) for Serbia. 
Taken together, these results improve the viability of the pension system  (which, however, is still 
running large deficits), improve the mobility of the labor force through more realistic payments to
 
redundant workers, and should enable better targeting of welfare payments.
- 6 -
Page  11
The SAC builds on first reforms in the sector supported by the Social Protection Grant, while, in
 
turn, the SAC lays the foundation for further social sector reforms to be supported by the proposed
 
SOSAC.
On the basis of this record, implementation of reforms in this sector is rated as fully satisfactory
D.  
Health.
  
The SAC built on health sector reforms initiated with technical assistance provided by other 
donors, especially Department for International Development (DFID) and European Agency for
 
Reconstruction (EAR). The focus was primarily on improving health sector finances and accountability,
 
while also implementing a sector evaluation to guide future development.  Several up front core reforms
 
were implemented by the Government, including: (1) adoption of a new and more limited Essential Drug
 
list for publicly financed drugs; and (2) introduction of co-payments for selected health services, which,
 
however, needs further improvement to limit the extensive exemptions that are not well targeted on the most 
needy. Most other non-core tranche release benchmarks were also achieved, including (1) establishment of 
a health technology commission whose approval will be required for all capital investments above DM
 
20,000 equivalent; (2) reductions in financing for staffing, focussing on staff hired without authorization.  
A national health care policy was prepared. The Ministry of Health is drawing on this to develop a strategy 
to coordinate reform effort by the health authorities and donors.
This satisfactory initial progress was achieved in difficult circumstances, as the Minister of Health 
had resigned early during implementation. The absence of a minister also resulted in slow initial progress in 
implementing follow-up measures, including those specified as SAC medium-term outcome benchmarks.
 
Following the appointment of a new Minister of Health in June 2002, a broad health sector reform program 
building on measures initiated under the SAC is now being designed in cooperation with the Bank, most
 
notably through the approved SOSAC and health investment projects. For example, the Government has
 
recently agreed to a new pharmaceuticals law that will increase access to and potential competition in the
 
market. Important steps to improve fiscal transparency and accountability have included:  (1) Health
 
Insurance Fund's (HIF's) budget for 2003 was presented and approved by the Government of Serbia
 
simultaneously and in coordination with the government's budget process, and (2) the HIF was reorganized 
and a new section established in charge of internal control and audit with responsibility for ensuring
 
compliance with the new Law on Budget Systems.  In addition, the HIF is now subject to audit by the
 
internal audit arm of the Ministry of Finance and Economy.
Although the upfront core reforms needed for tranche release were implemented in a satisfactory
 
and timely fashion, follow-up reforms were implemented with delays, so that the outcome of this
 
component is rated marginally satisfactory. 
4.3  
Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N.A.
4.4  
Financial rate of return:
N.A.
4.5  
Institutional development impact:
Overall IDI is rated as modest. This partly reflects the conscious design of a single-tranche
 
adjustment operation at an early stage of reforms, when discrete policy reforms will in any case take
 
priority, and when the technical assistance needed to achieve deep institutional change has not yet been
 
secured. The program of institutional reforms initiated by the SAC, including many elements which will
 
- 7 -
Page  12
take time to bear fruit, are now being deepened with the support of follow-up adjustment and investment
 
operations and other donor-funded technical assistance. 
This modest overall rating conceals some variability by sector. The public expenditure
 
management reforms have brought a clear improvement in the use of fiscal resources, though better
 
planning and accountability measures. While the energy sector reforms have made a substantial
 
improvement in the macroeconomic context, many of the sectoral reforms (e.g., the sector strategy which
 
will be a basis for a future law on energy) are in very early stages of preparation.  Therefore, the IDI rating 
for the energy sector is "modest".  Pension reforms and labor reforms have made a substantial improvement 
in Serbia's capacity to use its human resources more efficiently.  In addition, the SAC promoted
 
institutional change in government will facilitate further institutional improvements.  For example, in the
 
Ministry of Labor, the working group which developed reforms in the Labor Law has also broadened the
 
policy horizons of the Ministry and is acting as a nucleus to promote further reforms.  Concerning health
 
sector reforms, with the new minister in place and progress being achieved though on a slower track, IDI is 
rated as modest for this sector.
Close cooperation with partners has played an important role in leveraging the Bank's work under 
the SAC.   The Bank has worked closely with technical assistance provided by the U.S. Treasury to the
 
Ministry of Finance.  The International Labor Organization (ILO) assisted the government in drafting the
 
new labor law, supported by the SAC. In the energy sector, USAID, European Agency for Reconstruction 
(EAR), European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), United Nations Development
 
Programme (UNDP), and Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) have all been active in
 
providing assistance, closely coordinated with the Bank's efforts.  In Health, EAR, UNDP, and the
 
Government of Japan have provided important assistance.  The Ministry of Social Protection and the
 
Pension Insurance Fund have benefited from assistance by UNDP, DFID, the EU, and the Government of 
Canada. 
Taking all of these aspects together, the SAC has increased to a certain extent the country's ability 
to effectively use human, financial, and natural resources, so that an overall IDI rating of modest is
 
appropriate.  
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1
Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no major factors outside the control of government, such as changes in world markets 
or prices, natural disasters, etc., which affected implementation of this project.
5.2
Factors generally subject to government control:
Government commitment to the overall program was strong, albeit with a few exceptions.  Public 
expenditure reforms, labor market, social welfare, and energy sector reforms were well implemented and in 
some cases went beyond the frontier outlined by SAC conditionality. Follow-up measures have been
 
sustained, although in some cases on a slower timeline than originally envisaged. One area where the
 
government could have enabled follow-up reforms to be implemented more expeditiously was the health
 
sector, following the resignation of the minister in office at the time of SAC approval (see Section 4.2.D). 
Progress has now resumed with the appointment of a new minister.
5.3
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Ministry of Finance and Economy (MoFE) was in charge of implementing the fiscal reforms, 
and also coordinated the reforms implemented by the other ministries (Mining and Energy, Labor and
 
Employment, Social Affairs, and Health), the Electric Power Industry of Serbia (EPS) and the HIF.
 
- 8 -
Page  13
Assidious implementation by the MoFE played a central role in the substantial progress achieved by the
 
SAC. 
One area where the MoFE has not yet succeeded in moving as quickly as desirable was in
 
implementing the results of the internal inspection, although this was not a core condition. The SAC
 
supported an internal inspection (since systems are not yet adequately developed to provide for a classical 
audit) of past operations, and dossiers on 91 government officials were assembled which appeared to merit 
prosecution.  However, the public prosecutor and/or judiciary have failed to act on most of these dossiers.  
These difficulties are related to the change in regime which occurred, but which may not have extended
 
fully to the judiciary nor the office of the public prosecutor.
Other agencies, especially the Electric Power Industry of Serbia (EPS), were full partners in terms 
of implementation and management effectiveness.  
5.4
Costs and financing:
In addition to the IDA Credit, the Government of Switzerland provided CHF 10 million, or
 
US$6.87 million, as cofinancing.  See paragraph 10 below (Additional Information) for further details of
 
this arrangement.  
Total costs were US$76.87 million equivalent, financed by the IDA credit for US$70 million and
 
Swiss cofinancing.  There were no cost changes or changes in financing in the course of project
 
implementation, and disbursements were handled promptly without delay.
6.  Sustainability
6.1
Rationale for sustainability rating:
The reforms implemented under the adjustment program are solid and are unlikely to be reversed.  
The positive track record of solidifying and building on these reforms since the January 2002 approval of 
the Credit indicates that they have substantial support and the government is committed to them. While the 
measures to improve macroeconomic stability, fiscal and other sectoral reforms, could be undone by a
 
future government,  it is much more probable that future governments would not find it popular to return
 
the country to high inflation and low standards of living.  Overall, sustainability is rated as likely.  
As the project was being prepared, there were concerns about sustainability in the energy sector,
 
since power tariff increases can in some cases be reversed and it was uncertain whether further price
 
increases would be accepted by the public. There were similar concerns about measures to contain the
 
wage bill at EPS. However, the additional 50 percent average price increase envisaged in the outcome
 
benchmarks was enacted as envisaged in mid-2002, staffing has been reduced, and wage increases limited 
to keeping pace with inflation, In addition, the Government also has committed to further tariff increases
 
under the IMF Extended Arrangement (targets developed in collaboration with the Bank). Recent measures 
providing relatively self-targeted reductions in the power bills of the neediest energy consumers further
 
increase the likelihood that remaining steps for moving towards full cost recovery will be achieved. Finally, 
an investment project, the proposed Community Heating and Energy Efficiency Project, is expected to
 
further reforms through a reduction in the costs of energy and improving financial management of district 
heating companies, thereby enhancing the sustainability of SAC reforms. 
  
Reforms in the area of public expenditure management are unlikely to be reversed, especially as
 
Government commitment remains strong and as several major donor-supported institutional strengthening
 
projects have been commenced or announced. These include the preparation of a possible World Bank
 
- 9 -
Page  14
Public Expenditure Capacity Building Project which would support creation of an extended treasury
 
system, as well as improvements in debt management, public procurement and select anti-corruption
 
activities.
The pension reforms, new labor laws, and progress towards social welfare reforms all have broad 
support and are unlikely to be reversed in the future. The foundations laid by the SAC led to follow-up
 
reforms in these areas which are being supported under the proposed SOSAC for the Republic of Serbia. 
However, there are concerns that extensive use by the Government of severance packages which are
 
significantly more generous than the minimum levels specified in the Law on Labor will not only divert
 
resources from other better targeted social assistance schemes. Through a precedent effect, they could also 
make it more difficult for other employers to offer the more affordable packages envisaged under the new
 
Law on Labor, thereby working to delay restructuring and to reduce the intended employment-creating
 
effect of this legislation. The recent acceleration and increased prioritization of reforms in the health sector 
(see Section 4.2.D), supported by the proposed SOSAC and a complementary investment project for the
 
Serbian health sector, raises the probability that they are sustainable.
6.2
Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The reforms outlined above are now part of the regular operation of government. Furthermore, the 
Government is committed to continuing the reform program, and is pursuing follow-on operations with the 
Bank on public sector expenditure management, energy, and social sector reforms (pensions, labor laws,
 
social welfare) to expand and build on reforms initiated in the SAC.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1
Lending:
The SAC was designed quickly in order to provide the intellectual underpinning to assist the newly 
installed government to start its operations. Concerning 
quality at entry
,
 
the SAC was fully consistent with, 
and a core component of, the Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) which governed Bank operations in the
 
absence of a CAS. Thus, it clearly reflected Bank priorities and was appropriate as of time the project was 
prepared (see note below). The SAC was also
 
consistent with country priorities as appropriately
 
identified by the Bank
.  Improving public expenditure management was critical to enable government to
 
transform a system with only rudimentary planning and implementation capacity into the basis for a more
 
acceptable fiscal system.  Energy sector reforms were needed to address the huge quasi-fiscal deficit
 
created in the power sub-sector and improve the reliability of power supply.  Pension reforms were
 
essential to improve the financial sustainability and effectiveness of the pension system (the latter had been 
eroded by significant arrears on pension payments, which impacted negatively on the well-being of those
 
dependent on timely payment of pensions).  These aspects were all
 
presented clearly in the Development 
Objectives statement for the SAC
.  
The SAC was well grounded in the TSS, and built on the major World 
Bank/European Commission economic report "Federal Republic of Yugoslavia - Breaking with the Past" 
which contained macroeconomic as well as sectoral analyses and recommendations. It also built on the
 
initial findings of the Public Expenditure and Institutional Review, which was being prepared in parallel
 
with the SAC, with strong overlap between the two teams. 
Government ownership was substantial
, with
 
the partial exception of the health sector reform, following the departure of the Minister in charge through 
project approval and until the appointment of a new minister. The Government used SAC preparation to
 
help focus its reform agenda, and was fully involved in the details of preparing the SAC which was, in turn, 
the core of the Government's structural reform program.
 
Institutional analysis underlying the program
 
was satisfactory
 although in the health sector, where the Bank sought to develop benchmarks where
 
ownership was limited for commencing major reforms, supported a number of minor reforms. In hindsight, 
a simpler program for the health sector, addressing one or two key issues, might have been more
 
- 10 -
Page  15
appropriate. The
 
President's report notes a range of risks, 
which did not adversely impact on completing 
the deep reforms supported by the SAC. However, some of the noted political risks did materialize in the
 
period after tranche release conditions had been successfully completed. For example, the need to agree on 
a new constitutional framework for Serbia and Montenegro, and a series of elections to elect a President for 
the Republic of Serbia, did divert the attention of key policy makers from economic issues during this
 
follow-up phase. The recent successful negotiation of two proposed adjustment operations for the Republic 
of Serbia - the SOSAC and Second Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (PFSAC II) - indicates 
that the reform program remains well on track, and that such risk factors have been generally well
 
managed. 
Each of the above factors (in italics) concerning lending is rated as substantially in agreement with 
the guideline definitions (that the project satisfied the factor in general). For this reason, the overall quality 
at entry for this project is rated as satisfactory.
7.2
Supervision:
As a one tranche operation which disbursed at effectiveness in March 2002, and closed in August, 
2002, the SAC did not entail a level of supervision which would be associated with a multi-tranche
 
operation, where additional financial support would be directly linked to performance on follow-up
 
measures, and where supervision could thus have a direct bearing on reform progress. In most areas
 
covered by the SAC, the primary vehicle for encouraging follow-up measures was preparation activities for 
the proposed SOSAC. Nonetheless, sectoral missions on all areas covered by the SAC did conduct regular 
reviews of progress in achieving medium-term outcome benchmarks described in the LDP. The final
 
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) mission took comprehensive stock of progress in achieving such 
benchmarks. Until late-2002, there was little that could be done about the lagging health sector component 
in the absence of a Minister of Health (see Section 4.2.D).  With the new minister of Health, progress in the 
reform agenda (supported by the recently negotiated SOSAC and Serbia Health project) is resuming and is 
satisfactory.
7.3
Overall Bank performance:
In view of the satisfactory rating for quality at entry, lending, and supervision, the overall Bank
 
performance is rated as Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4
Preparation:
(Note:  The Borrower of legal record is the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.  However, the
 
counterpart funds were onlent to the Republic of Serbia, which is also responsible for formulating and
 
implementing nearly all measures in the adjustment program supported by the SAC.  Therefore, for
 
purposes of this ICR write-up, the Borrower is taken to be the Republic of Serbia.)
The Government was actively involved in the identification and preparation of the SAC.
 
Government priorities were discussed in the context of ESW leading up to the SAC and during project
 
preparation, and the core of the Government's program was taken as key components of the SAC. The SAC 
in turn focused its efforts on important first-generation reforms which were consistent with the
 
Government's institutional and administrative capacity.
7.5
Government implementation performance:
The Government has implemented a broadly sound macroeconomic program (as evidenced by
 
successful reviews of the IMF Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) and Extended Arrangement) which underpins 
the entire reform effort. Follow-up sectoral policies have been consistent with the intent and specifics of the 
- 11 -
Page  16
SAC. Government commitment to implementation of the SAC has been serious and fully satisfactory.  The 
Ministry of Finance and Economy has worked diligently (albeit with some delays) to reform and staff the
 
Treasury, Macro-Fiscal Analysis and Internal Audit departments, recruiting staff with appropriate training 
to these positions.  The Government of Serbia has established the Public Procurement Agency and
 
implemented the new procurement law, though as of now data is lacking to confirm its use in at least 60 
percent of procurement as agreed. 
The Ministry of Mining and Energy, despite real capacity constraints, has implemented price
 
reforms and the institutional strengthening specified in the SAC. The Electric Power Industry of Serbia
 
(EPS) has implemented reforms as agreed, including measures to contain costs and increase revenues
 
(although the main pricing decisions are in the purview of the Ministry of Mining and Energy and the
 
Government as a whole). 
The Ministry of Labor implemented the pension reform program expeditiously and effectively.
 
Although progress in Health sector reforms lagged during implementation when the Minister who was in
 
office at the beginning of the project left office, it picked up again with the appointment of a new Minister 
and reforms were implemented within the original time frame.The Health Insurance Fund implemented the
 
agreed reform program, but with some lags partly because of the interregnum between Ministers.  Thus,
 
full implementation of the agreed program was achieved only after the project had closed.
The Government has met all legal covenants. The audit of the SAC and the Swiss cofinancing
 
component has been requested from the Government and will be implemented in accordance with the
 
timetables specified in the SAC and the Swiss cofinancing agreement. This accommodation on the part of 
the Bank to simultaneously process the two audits will minimize the administrative burden on the
 
government.  
Therefore, concerning both implementation and compliance, government performance merits a
 
rating of Satisfactory. 
7.6
Implementing Agency:
N.A.
7.7
Overall Borrower performance:
In view of the Borrower's satisfactory role in preparation, implementation, and compliance, the
 
overall Borrower performance merits a rating of Satisfactory. 
8. 
Lessons Learned
1.
Adjustment operations should be focussed on the level of government responsible for implementing 
reforms. During project formulation, there was a serious debate about the structure of the credit.  With the 
evolution of the political structure of the FRY (a process which continues), it was not clear what role the
 
Federal Government or the Republic of Serbia would play. Because nearly all of the reforms were to be
 
implemented by the Republic of Serbia, it was decided to target the Credit to the Republic of Serbia, with 
FRY primarily playing the role of a borrower which would pass through the counterpart funds to the
 
Republic of Serbia.  Thus, the role of the FRY was, owing to the institutional structure, minimal. In
 
general, the Bank should engage the level of government which will be in charge of formulating and
 
implementing reforms, and, if for legal reasons, another level of government needs to be involved in
 
borrowing, this role should be kept to the minimum necessary to convey funding to the operationally
 
relevant level of government. This, especially in cases where the "central" government is withdrawing from 
- 12 -
Page  17
managing the constituent republics. 
2.
Coherence and credibility are important for adjustment operations. While this is true for all
 
adjustment operations, it is especially true for operations such as this SAC which help initiate adjustment 
lending to a country where the political landscape itself is changing with evolving governmental
 
relationships and a new public attitude towards economic reform.  Combining a few important fiscal issues 
with a broader institutional reform program lends coherence and credibility to such an adjustment
 
operation.  The fiscal and quasi-fiscal impact of the SAC were essential for its adjustment focus, while, at 
the same time, the new Serbian Government benefitted from the detailed program for the sectors. 
  
While the SAC had the single unifying theme of improving public expenditure performance, other 
reforms were handled by different operations. Thus, there were a number of adjustment issues related to
 
growth and private sector development which were addressed by the PFSAC, which was prepared in
 
parallel and approved by the Board in May 2002. This allowed for better management of the reform
 
agenda, both in terms of Bank assistance as well as implementation by the Republic of Serbia. This
 
division of labor also lowered the probability of unforeseen problems and lags in implementation which
 
could have in turn led to delayed disbursements.  
3.
Reform implementation is heavily dependent on an effective champion.  In both the energy and
 
health sectors, SAC reforms were delayed because of ministerial changes, and only when the new ministers 
were appointed could the program proceed. While there can be no guarantees of tenure of political
 
appointments such as ministers, it is important to have as clear a picture as possible of any potential
 
problems. 
4.
Good ESW contributes importantly to successful adjustment operations.  The CEM "Breaking with 
the Past" helped government to focus on key reforms, and enabled government and the Bank to work
 
together on defining sectors to be included in the SAC, and the key issues which needed to be addressed in 
those sectors.
9. 
Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following is the Government's assessment of the SAC
In May 2001, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia fulfilled the conditions and succeeded to
 
membership in the World Bank. At the same time, the Bank's Executive Board approved eligibility of the
 
FR Yugoslavia to receive credits from the International Development Association (IDA). IDA credits are
 
highly concessional (twenty years repayment period, ten years grace period, no interest charged). The
 
Board approved three-year lending program to FR Yugoslavia, in the amount of US$ 540 million. The
 
program will provide financial support to the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, primarily 
in the form of adjustment credits aiming to support market reforms and relax the social burdens of
 
transition (eighty percent of the total).
The first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) for US$ 70 million equivalent was approved on 29th 
January 2002, following the completion of the process of the consolidation of the FR Yugoslavias debt
 
towards the World Bank. In order to overcome the consequences of the decades of economic decline, and
 
return to growth, a stable and strong macroeconomic framework is crucial. This credit aimed to support the 
Republic of Serbia in improving fiscal sustainability in the following sectors: public expenditure
 
management, social protection and labor, the health care sector and the energy sector. This lending was a 
one tranche operation, i.e. the total amount of SAC was disbursed immediately and transferred into the
 
- 13 -
Page  18
Republic Budget.
Focusing on structural and institutional reforms, the first Structural Adjustment Credit initiated the 
implementation of medium term sectoral policies in the above stated sectors. The  reports  of line ministries 
are showing the satisfactory performance in the implementation  of  the credit (SAC), which  proves  that  
the Government of the Republic of Serbia is capable of coordinating, realizing and monitoring the
 
implementation of cross-sectoral policies. The satisfactory outcome of implemented program shows
 
competence of the line ministries in implementing and monitoring such reforms and policies. The line
 
ministers have demonstrated high personal capabilities and commitment to break with the past, which has 
contributed to the achievement of the objectives.  At the same time, it is necessary to stress the fact that the 
package of health sector reforms was not completely implemented, i. e. it is implemented with delays, due
 
to the specific leadership challenges the line ministry was facing.
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) comprises the contributions from the line
 
ministries, which implemented the agreed structural adjustment programs, and which are continuing with
 
the implementation of reforms initiated by the Structural Adjustment Credit (the Ministries of Finance and 
Economy, Social Affairs, Labor and Employment, Health and Mining and Energy). The Report of the
 
Republic of Serbia will be submitted to the Board of Directors of the World Bank as an integral part of the 
report prepared by the World Bank staff. It is a unique opportunity to present to the Board of Directors of 
the World Bank the strong commitment of the Government of Serbia to market reforms and its capability to 
implement them, as well as to stress that the further reforms also need strong financial support of the World 
Bank and other international financial institutions. 
The Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Labor and 
Employment, the Ministry of Mining and Energy and the Ministry of Health implemented the structural
 
adjustment programs under Structural Adjustment Credit in the amount of US$ 70 million, withdrawn in a 
single tranche, with a final maturity of 20 years, a 10-year grace period and with 0.75% service charge.
 
The following reports prepared by the ministries provide an overview of the reforms executed in the sectors 
which implemented the loan. The line ministries strived, to the extent possible, to demonstrate the estimated 
effects of the Structural Adjustment Credit implementation.
1. The Ministry of Finance and Economy
1.1.
Treasury 
Budget Formulation
Law on  Budget System:
  The Law on the Budget System was adopted in February 2002. The
 
Law has significantly influenced the 2002 budget execution - international loans have been approved by the 
Serbian Parliament, and no guarantees have been issued independently from the Ministry of Finance and
 
Economy.
Budget Execution
The Treasury:
 The Treasury of the Republic of Serbia was established in compliance with the
 
Law on the Budget System, adopted in February 2002. The institution of the treasury has been established 
in the shortest possible period. The Treasurer was appointed at the end of April, while the head count has 
grown to current 18, with the intention for it to increase to 82, starting from January 1st, 2003, after the
 
takeover of the staff from the other departments of the Ministry of Finance and Economy and the Mutual
 
Services Administration.  
In December 2002, the amendments and addendums to the Law were adopted to allow for the
 
transition to a new payment system (without the ZOP), into the banking sector. Under the amendments to
 
the Law on the Budget System ("Official Gazette of the RS", No. 87/2002) the Agency for Public Payment 
has been established within the Ministry of Finance and Economy. With these additions, the ZOP has been 
divided into four parts:
1. The Agency for Public Payment (following the Slovenian and Macedonian models), a public payment 
- 14 -
Page  19
system agency; 
2. The Tax Administration takes over the control of the payroll deductible tax and contribution
 
collection;
3. The National Bank of Serbia utilizes a part of the infrastructure for its branches (cash, solvency
 
centre, etc.);
4. Commercial banks have taken over a number of branches and staff. Commitment controls have been 
addressed by the creation and implementation of an Interim Treasury Single Account, as of 1st
 
February 2003. This system, put in place with the help of the USAID, will allow for a normal
 
process of ex-ante control of commitments, quota and appropriation authorizations. Monthly budget 
execution reports have been developed for the last couple of months of 2002. 
1.2.  Macroeconomic and Fiscal Analysis Department
In order to provide for a multi-year perspective of the economic policies, the reform and the
 
modernization of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, in 2002, the Ministry of Finance and Economy
 
established a Macroeconomic and Fiscal Analysis Department. For the first time, a three-year
 
macroeconomic and fiscal framework was developed to enable improved planning and more reliable
 
implementation of the macroeconomic and fiscal policy. This has created a strategic framework, necessary 
for determining economic priorities, linking various sectoral policies and providing for a better use of the
 
limited budget resources.
As a result, in May 2002, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a three-year Budget 
Memorandum on Macroeconomic and Fiscal Policies for the period 2002-2005. This document, and the
 
revisions from October 2002, defines in more details the macroeconomic and fiscal framework, the policies 
and the structural reforms. Under the new Law on the Budget System, this Memorandum is an integral part 
of the procedure of the formulation of the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, the social insurance funds and 
the local authorities. The Macroeconomic and Fiscal Analysis Department has taken an active part in the
 
formulation of the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003, particularly in projecting the revenues and
 
the major expenditure items. One of the most important functions of this Department is monitoring of the
 
three-year IMF Extended Arrangement.
In cooperation and with the support of the international development agencies, such as the USAID 
and DFID, the following step would be the development of medium-term models to support the analyses
 
and the projections of the macroeconomic development. In addition to the above stated, the Macroeconomic 
and Fiscal Analysis Department will have an active part in the development of the fiscal sustainability
 
model for both the revenue and the expenditures, the fiscal consolidation model, in creating various sectoral 
scenarios, the simulation of the tax policy effects and tools, the restructuring of large public systems and
 
enterprises, as well as in identifying the effects of the fiscal balance on the macroeconomic framework.
1.3. The Budget Inspection and Audit Department
The adoption of the Law on the Budget System established legal grounds for the public expenditure 
control at the level of the Republic of Serbia, which includes three basic levels: (1) Internal Audit; (2)
 
Budget Inspection and Audit; and (3) External Audit. 
The consultants from international organizations have taken active part in the process of preparing 
a Draft Law, and with their suggestions and opinions they have contributed greatly to the final version of 
the Law in the section on budget control and audit.
In the further direct contacts with the authorized consultants of the European agencies EAR and
 
SIDA (hereinafter: the Agencies) in the course of August and September 2002, the consultations were held 
regarding the terms and conditions and the procedures for the organization, establishment and the future
 
functioning of the Internal Audit, based on the international standards, with respect to the actual state and 
the regulations at the level of the Republic of Serbia.
Based on these negotiations, agreement has been reached on the final version of the Internal Audit 
- 15 -
Page  20
Methodology. The Agencies have finalized the first version of the Internal Audit Procedures, which is to be 
harmonized in the course of the first quarter of 2003. Following that, the Draft Internal Audit Methodology 
and the Procedures would be submitted to the Ministry of Finance and Economy to be adopted in a form of 
a bylaw, based on the authorization under Article 69 of the Law on the Budget System, which would
 
provide the grounds for the functioning of the Internal Audit at the levels of the Republic of Serbia and all 
local inspection and audit services.
In the meantime, a procedure has been instigated to establish internal controls at the levels of the
 
budget beneficiaries and the local authorities.
In the course of November 2002, the Budget Inspection and Audit Department was constituted
 
within the Ministry of Finance and Economy. On that basis, new budget inspectors and auditors were hired 
and will undergo internal audit training during the second quarter of 2003, organized with the support of
 
the donors.      
In addition, the Ministry of Finance and Economy has submitted a proposal to the Government of 
the Republic of Serbia for a procedure of the appointment of an independent auditor to be instigated, for the 
purposes of ad hoc external audit of the Budget of the Republic of Serbia Final Annual Statement for 2001, 
as well as other budget beneficiaries, until such time a separate law is adopted, regulating public
 
expenditure external audit.
Taking into account the general conditions and the lack of highly qualified staff, it is estimated
 
that, at this point, the conditions have been ensured for the establishment of an efficient public expenditure 
supervision model, thereby fulfilling the objective set out at the time of the approval of the Structural
 
Adjustment Credit. 
In the course of the following activities, it is of the utmost importance that the World Bank and the 
international financial organizations, through their consultants, support the development, adoption and the
 
implementation of new methodologies.
1.4.
 Public Procurement
The primary objective of the Structural Adjustment Credit the public procurement area was to
 
establish the new public procurement regulation harmonized with the international practice. The Public
 
Procurement Law (PPL) was passed by the Serbian Parliament on July 4th, 2002, and it came into force on 
July 13th, 2002, as a part of the economic and legislative reforms on the path to the free-market economy, 
with low levels of corruption. The Law is largely based on the EU public procurement directives.
The Public Procurement Office (PPO), as an independent governmental agency with the mission to 
help the establishment of sound procurement procedures and practices was established as well. The PPO
 
will assist the purchasing entities in spending the public funds in an efficient, economic and transparent
 
manner, thus preventing corruption.
At the very beginning of the PPO operations, the major problem was prioritization. Huge number 
of requests for legal opinions overwhelmed the PPO, parallel with the process of the preparation of the
 
bylaws. The problem was resolved by focusing on the preparation of procurement documents, since the
 
proper instructions and guidelines would resolve many doubts and confusion that caused the requests for
 
legal opinions submitted from both the buyers and the sellers.
The second significant problem was a gap between a deep-rooted and widespread lack of
 
knowledge of the public procurement procedures among the buyers and the suppliers on one side, and the
 
limited capacity of the PPO to meet these needs in the initial stage on the other. A list of the most frequent 
questions and answers has been prepared and will be made available on the PPO web site, and in a
 
brochure which is being prepared.
The reporting system able to provide the information on the number (percent) of the contracts
 
awarded through tender procedures is still not in place. However, it is expected that the system will become 
operational in the first quarter of 2003. 
 
The assessment of the PPO, as well as other departments of the Ministry of Finance and Economy 
- 16 -
Page  21
shows that the cooperation with the representatives of the World Bank has been excellent. The World Bank 
team has had a very active and constructive part in the reforms implemented within the Ministry of Finance 
and Economy.
2. Ministry of Mining and Energy
In the Ministry of Mining and Energy, a high priority has been placed on the energy sector reforms, 
focusing on the acceptance of the principles integrated in the EU regulations in this area.  The Ministry has 
hired competent experts with the extensive knowledge of the internationally accepted reform agenda and
 
has engaged consultants to support the full-time staff in the Ministry, and enable them to lead the sectoral 
reform.    
A new Tariff System was introduced on July 1st, 2002, in order to restrict the power consumption. 
On the same day, power prices were increased by 50%, so that the current average power price is at the
 
level of 3,2 US cents/kWh. Thus increased power prices provide for the full operative cost return, but not 
for settling the arrears (arrears towards the suppliers, loan repayments and other liabilities towards the
 
Government). According to the Electric Power Industry of Serbias (EPS) Development Businesses Plan,
 
approved by the Government of the republic of Serbia in December 2002, it is expected that the EPS will 
operate with profit starting from 2004.  
In 2002, the number of employees in the EPS was reduced for 900, and a restrictive payroll policy 
was continued. In 2002, the net wage bill was increased for 21,7%, relative to 2001, the  inflation rate for 
the given period being 21,3%.
In order to improve the collection rates from all the consumer categories, the analysis of all
 
receivables and interests from different groups of consumers was conducted. Based on this analysis, a
 
collection improvement strategy has been formulated. For the households with arrears accumulated in the
 
previous years (12% of households) were approved a discount on the accrued interest at the rate of 70%
 
(1,5 billion dinars), under the condition of the continued regular payment of the newly incurred obligations. 
Thus, the debt in the total of approximately 4,5 billion dinars was restructured. Similar programs have
 
been offered to other consumer categories as well (the discount on the accrued interest in the total of 500 
million dinars has made possible the collection of the debt in the amount of approximately 2 billion). A
 
special Committee for the supervision of receivables and the collection rates in power distribution
 
enterprises was established. This has resulted in the increase of the collection rate from 72% in 2001 to
 
80% in 2002. The power transmission losses were reduced from 19% in 2001 to 17.6% in 2002. The share 
of the barters in total collections for electricity supply has been reduced to 14%.
The current Energy Law does not allow for the structural adjustments in the energy sector.
 
Therefore, the reforms in this sector cannot be implemented until such time a new energy law is adopted. 
The current organizational structure in the power, petrol and gas sector must undergo significant
 
adjustments in order for the internal efficiency to be improved and for the access to the regional and
 
European energy markets to be ensured. In order to achieve that, the Energy Law, as well as the other
 
regulations, need to be in line with the EU directives in this area. An international consulting firm,
 
"Pierce&Atwood", has prepared a draft energy law, which has, then, been harmonized with the Republic of 
Serbias legislation by a team of local experts (formed by the Ministry). The Law was presented to a public 
discussion in June 2002 and, as planned, will be submitted to the Serbian Parliament to be adopted at the
 
beginning of 2003. 
The supporting regulations referring to the mineral exploitation fees have been finalized. In
 
addition, the bylaws regulating the main criteria for the imports, refining, distribution and the sales of oil
 
products have been adopted and have been in force since March 7th, 2001.   
One of the key elements of the new energy law is the establishment of the Energy Agency to be
 
established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia (the Ministry of Mining and Energy). The main
 
function of this Agency will be the regulation of the activities in the energy sector, with a focus on the
 
- 17 -
Page  22
establishment of market-oriented legal regulations, as well as the regulatory infrastructure, with the aim to 
provide efficient energy supply in Serbia, and to assist the Government in creating a competition-based
 
domestic energy market. The funds for the operating of the Agency for the period for two years have been 
provided by the European Agency for Reconstruction (EAR).
The Energy Efficiency Agency was established by the Decision of the Government of the Republic 
of Serbia from May 30th, 2002, and it become operational on September 1st, 2002. The operating assets 
for the Agency, as well as the seed funding for the preparation of the strategic programs have been
 
provided by the EAR. Up to this point, the Agency has prepared a number of strategic programs waiting to 
be approved by the Supervisory Board. The Agency has taken a leading role in the preparation of the
 
World Banks Serbia Community Heating and Energy Efficiency Project, addressing the issue of energy
 
efficiency.
The World Bank has provided the financing for the preparation of the Energy Strategy. The
 
Ministry has formed a team comprised of three local and four international experts, guided by two
 
international advisors, to prepare the document "Foundations of Serbian Energy Policy." This document
 
should serve as a basis for the development of the Energy Development Strategy for Serbia, which should 
adjust the existing documents in the area of energy to reflect the changes in the strategic approach of the
 
Government in this area. The document should develop a short, medium and long term (2010) visions for 
the energy sector, and should serve as a basis for the development of the Energy Strategy, and the
 
Ministrys plans for the structural reforms and the improvement of all the activities and operations in the
 
energy sector as well, with the emphasis on the best international practice.
The World Banks assistance in the energy sector was invaluable and made possible raising all the 
strategic issues in the energy sector. However, the procedures for the commitment of both technical
 
assistance and financing are overtly complicated, and, therefore, in order for the future cooperation to be
 
improved, it is necessary for the commitment of the resident World Bank mission in Belgrade to be
 
stronger. 
3. Ministry of Social Affairs
In their approach to the social sector reforms, the Ministry of Social Affairs focused on three
 
important areas: poverty reduction, assistance to families and the protection of children, elderly and disable 
persons, and pension and disability insurance reform. In order to assess the current status and define the
 
focus of the reform and the necessary changes in the social policies, the Ministry of Social Affairs has put 
in place mechanisms for addressing the issues of poverty and pension and disability insurance, and the
 
provision of the social protection for the vulnerable groups. In cooperation with others (the World Bank,
 
the UN agencies, local institutions and others), the Ministry has adopted its approach to solving the
 
problems of the vulnerable groups and poverty issues  by ensuring benefit access.
Long-term objectives of these activities:
1. Assistance to families and individuals in providing minimum social welfare/safety in order to
 
develop poverty reduction mechanisms (in line with the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper).
2. The development of the main principles of the alternative forms of the social protection of the
 
general 
population. 
3. The development of a pension system reform strategy.
- 18 -
Page  23
Poverty reduction in the social sector
In 2001 and 2002, the arrears (cash) in the area of social welfare (towards the social welfare
 
beneficiaries  the poor families and child/maternity allowance beneficiaries, etc.) were eliminated. A
 
portion of arrears towards the pension beneficiaries was reduced to a smaller extent; however, the negative 
effects of the previous decade could not have been eliminated in the period of two years.   In order to define 
the poverty profile, the Ministry of Social Affairs conducted a Poverty Survey (with the support of the
 
World Bank) on a sample of 6.800 households, which should contribute to the change of the social policy 
and the poverty reduction strategy process. With respect to social welfare for the vulnerable families and
 
individuals, the following short-term mechanisms have been put in place:
a) Lump-sum Assistance Fund, established for channeling donors assistance for the repayment of arrears 
and additional lump-sum assistance for the vulnerable groups and poor families, accumulated during the 
previous decade.  This system includes also (i) the use of designated sub-accounts and (ii) periodical
 
audits.
b) The new Law on the Financial Support to Families with Children, adopted in March 2002, introduced
 
the following changes:
- The division of social and population policy measures 
- The population policy measures concentrated on a single measure
- Improved targeting of the poor families with children
- Indexation based on the cost of living
- Continuous benefit access 
- Changes in the payment system resulting in the budget savings
c) MOP Pilot Reforms (Material Assistance to Families  cash benefits for the poor families) reached
 
additional 13.000 poor families, by applying the criterion of the Republic-level average wage.
d) Future plans 
1.1. The amendments to the Law on Social Assistance and Social Protection will be adopted in two stages: 
the first stage in the first half of 2003 and the second at the beginning of 2004, and will represent the result 
of a comprehensive analysis of the data provided in the Poverty Survey (supported by the WB - Dutch
 
co-financing). The changes in this area should ensure:
- Changes in social welfare eligibility criteria
- Changes in social welfare indexation mechanisms
- The establishment of the mechanisms for improved access - targeting of the poor families 
1.2. Reform oriented projects in the area of social protection of the families with children contributing to
 
the policy and practice changes are as follows:
1) 
Policy and practice changes in the area of foster care and adoption, including the transformation of 
social protection institutions and agencies
2) 
Child protection through systematic changes in the targeting of disabled children, abused children
 
and juvenile delinquents; the development of a strategy for addressing the issue of domestic violence
3) 
The development of professional standards, performance/case management and the organization of
 
the case load in the centers for social work with the aim of  promoting  partnerships (with NGOs, 
private sector, etc.) at local level, and the development of poverty reduction mechanisms through
 
pilot projects of the Social Innovation Fund.
The preparation of the new Family Code, harmonized with the EU standards is in pipeline. 
- 19 -
Page  24
Changes in the Pension System
The reforms in the pension system in Serbia are regarded as the issue of the utmost importance,
 
due to both demographic and economic reasons. In demographic terms, Serbia is faced with population
 
aging due to low birth rates and the increased average life expectancy. The economic argumentation
 
includes (in the short term) a) high share of the pension expenditure in GDP, b) long term deficit in the
 
pension fund/system, c) low employment opportunities, d) high contributors/beneficiaries ratio, e) heavy
 
burdens of payroll taxes and contributions, f) liberal retirement criteria resulting in a large share of
 
disability beneficiaries (35%), and large share of "early" pension beneficiaries. Consequently, it led to the
 
following outcomes: low benefit levels, accumulated debts and arrears in the disbursement of benefits.
The changes introduced in the last year and a half are as follows
1) the retirement age was raised by 3 years (58 for women and 63 for men) 
2) instead of being based on the wage increase, the indexation is now based on the combination of  the
 
wage and the cost of living (50% - 50%) 
3) uniform minimum pension introduced
4) pension benefits disbursed regularly for the first time since the beginning of the 90s. 
5) a number of benefits abolished (disability risk, retraining, additional training, etc.)
6) contribution rate reduced from 32% to 19,6%
7) tax and contribution base extended
8) budget transfers paid directly, bank loans eliminated, resulting in 500 to 800 million dinar savings
9) the obligation for the death certificates to be submitted to the Pension Fund introduced 
10) anti-corruption efforts in the disability benefit system initiated (more than 30 criminal charges brought)
Future Pension System Reform Plans
1) Further  reform  of  the  first  pillar  within the current pension and disability insurance system
2) The introduction of a third pillar  voluntary pension insurance  the promotion of saving and financial 
market development.
The objective of the reform is to raise the transparency and equity in the new pension system, to streamline 
the system and improve the incentives.  
Cooperation with the World Bank
The process of the consultations, communication and cooperation with the World Bank team assigned for 
the social sector was extremely satisfactory. 
4. The Ministry of Labor and Employment
In their approach to the labor reforms, the Ministry of Labor and Employment focused on the most 
important issue  the adoption and the implementation of the Labor Law. The Labor Law adopted by the
 
Parliament of the Republic of Serbia came into force on December 21st, 2001 ("Official Gazette of the RS" 
73/2001). The labor legislation in Serbia includes:
1.  Labor Law, as a system law;
2.  Separate laws in the area of public services regulating specific areas of the Labor Law;
3.  Law on Employment and Realization of the Rights of the Unemployed;
4.  Law on the Workplace Protection;
5.  General, special and specific collective agreements;
6.  Decrees.
The existing Labor Law has introduced considerable innovations in the area of collective
 
agreements, in line with the European labor regulations, commensurate with market conditions for
 
- 20 -
Page  25
economic activities. These innovations include: 
- Conclusion of the collective agreement on a voluntary basis;
- The legal obligation of the parties to collective agreements to negotiate;
- The Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian Chamber of Commerce no longer
 
participate in the conclusion of the general collective agreement;
- The parties to collective agreements are the trade union representatives and (voluntary) employees
 
association representatives;     
- The general and specific collective agreements are legally binding only for the employers who are
 
members of the employers' associations, participating in the conclusion of such collective
 
agreements;
- The general and specific collective agreements are legally binding only for the employees of the
 
employers who are members of the employers' associations, participating in the conclusion of such
 
collective agreements. 
The Labor Law provides for the following:
1. The creation of the space for a larger scale employment;
2. Equal treatment and possibilities of the employees;
3. More consistent realization of the employers obligations towards the employees;
4. More efficient protection of the employees rights;
5. More efficient protection of the employees in case of unlawful dismissals.
The Law on Employment and Insurance in Case of Unemployment was prepared by the
 
Government of the Republic of Serbia and submitted to the Serbian Parliament to be adopted.  The Law on 
Workplace Safety and Protection in under preparation and its adoption is expected to follow in the first half 
of 2003.
During the lifetime of the Structural Adjustment Credit, the cooperation of the Ministry of Labor 
and Employment and the World Bank was satisfactory. The benefits of the project gained by the Ministry 
were multifold. In the future cooperation with the World Bank team, the Ministry of Labor and
 
Employment expects stronger and more comprehensive cooperation with the aim to achieve future mutual
 
goals to be determined.        
5. The Ministry of Health and the Health Insurance Fund
Appointing the actual Minister in June 2002 created the conditions for the negotiations and ended a 
nine months vacuum in the leadership in the Ministry during 2002. Following that, the World Bank Project 
Coordination Unit was established and the level of cooperation with the World Bank was notably increased. 
Within the Structural Adjustment Credit, the Ministry of Health focused on two main issues:
1. Health financing  procurement system reform, health services package restructuring, co-payment
 
mechanism and revenue increase
2. Health system, policy and health services framework reform.
Health Financing. 
On October 2nd, 2002, the Health Insurance Fund (HIF) established a new Drug 
list of pharmaceutical products covered by the health insurance funds, reducing the number and the type of 
the drugs listed. In June 2001, a monthly expenditure for the pro
curement of the prescribed drugs amounted 
to 1.050,00 million dinars, and the supply in the pharmacies was still quite poor. In the first couple of
 
months of 2002, approximately 660,00 million dinars was spent for these purposes, i.e. more than 37%
 
less, nd the supply in the pharmacies is satisfactory and the drugs are available  The Drug supplies in the 
pharmacies have been reduces for more than 50%, but the improved drug supply mix has been ensured. In 
addition, a new form of prescription has been introduced for prescribing the drugs covered by health
 
insurance. In all the pharmacies, pharmaceutical institutions and the branches of the HIF, within the
 
- 21 -
Page  26
framework of the information system, a subsystem for mon
itoring and control of prescriptions, and issuing 
and invoicing of the prescribed drugs was established. This has created the conditions for a more
 
comprehensive control of the prescriptions and the issuance of drugs. The effect of these measures is the
 
reduction in the consumption of drugs prescribed against the health insurance funds for over 20%.
These measures resulted in positive financial effects, increased the supply in pharmacies and the
 
availability of essential and cheap drugs. New model of drug prescription has also restrictively influenced a 
widely accepted practice of drug collection for "home supplies."
On September 6th, 2001, the Ministry of Health formed the Commission for Medical Supplies to
 
approve the procurement of pharmaceutical and medical supplies in the amount exceeding 10.000
 
DM(5.000 ). After the Public Procurement Law was adopted by the Serbian Parliament, the procurement 
for the health facilities has been organized through public tender procedures, in compliance with the legal
 
regulations. The Ministry of Health follows also the procedures set out in the Public Procurement Law
 
where it applies to the procurement financed from the budget funds. On December 6th, 2001, the Ministry 
of Health formed the Commission for Health Investments and Medical Technologies with the objective to
 
validate the procurement of civil works and equipment procurement in the amount exceeding 20.000 DM 
(10.000 ). The health care providers are obliged to  acquire approval from the Ministry for all
 
procurements and investments. In case the Ministry approves the request, the applicant proceeds with
 
procurement under PPL. On October 25th, 2002,the Ministry replaced the Commission for Health
 
Investments and Medical Technologies with the Health Technology Commission, with the additional
 
objective to validate health  and  medical  technologies  in  pharmaceuticals,  equipments and medical
 
procedures and  standards. Also, this Commission is issuing certificates for any capital investment
 
exceeding 10.000 .
The Ministry of Finance and Economy performed two financial audits of the HIF in 2001, and
 
proposed corrective actions. The new HIF management consolidated financial management and procedures 
during late 2001, and conducted measures for rational and optimized use and the cash flow control. In a
 
number of health facilities, in compliance with the health care service delivery contracts closed, the control 
of the restricted use of funds was carried out.  This has contributed to a more constricted and earmarked
 
use of resources. In the first couple of months of 2002, in the course of the control of the financing
 
requirements for the disbursement of the salaries for the employees in the health sector, the financing was 
reduced for over 150,00 million. This has contributed to the improved organization of the work.
In the course of 2002, the HIF restructured its organization and established a Control Department 
with a mandate to carry out 
internal control
, i. e. the control of the performance of specific services in the 
HIF to ensure the compliance in the delivery of the health insurance benefits and the lawful and restricted 
use of funds, as well as the 
control of the health facilities,
 with the aim of the improved quality and more 
regular provision of health insurance and use of the resources allocated for health facilities. The activities 
of the Control Department have resulted in the improved cash flow controls, the rationalization of the
 
budget expenditures in health facilities and the improved services in the HIF and health care providers.
The Ministry of Health has drafted new concept of co-payments that will be sent to the HIF.
 
Following its adoption, it will be submitted to the Government of Serbia to be adopted. The proposed
 
co-payment mechanism aims to conduct the improved co-payment control measures, to decrease the
 
Governments participation and to increase the levels of co-payments from the beneficiaries (the
 
co-payments, reimbursements and the interests currently amount to approximately 1.3%).
For the first stage (2003), a reduction of the number of beneficiaries exempted from the
 
co-payments is planned (from  ~70%  to  ~50%), and the increase of the levels of co-payments charged to 
the beneficiaries who are already contributing. The new mechanism will also result in a higher
 
reimbursement rate and rationalized HIF services. The co-payment revenue for ten month in 2002
 
amounted to 390.00 million dinars, and the figure planned in the Financial Plan for 2002 is 2 billion dinars. 
During the second stage in 2004, the Ministry of Health will implement new, even more restrictive 
- 22 -
Page  27
co-payment mechanisms with a basic health benefits package with universal coverage and elective
 
packages with a range of contributions depending on the services offered. In cooperation with the HIF, the 
Ministry will institutionalize working groups for co-payments, which will develop co-payment mechanisms. 
The delays in the payments from the Employment Fund and the Pension Fund have been reduced. 
The HIF is regularly, and on demand, reporting to the Government of Serbia on the collection of
 
contributions (from the Employment Fund, the Pension Fund and enterprises). From January 2003, and the 
launching of the new reformed Tax Law, the contributions will be monitored by the Tax Administration,
 
which will result in rationalized and improved contributions monitoring.
Health Delivery System, Policy and Framework.
 
On February 1st, 2002, the Government of
 
Serbia adopted the "Health Policy of the Republic of Serbia" paper prepared by the Ministry of Health, and 
defining the objectives and the direction for the development and restructuring of the health care system in 
Serbia. This document presents the prerequisite for the development of the Health Facilities and Human
 
Resources Master Plan to be finalized in March 2003.
In April 2002, new contracts were closed with all health facilities. The contracts define the
 
expenditures items by health facilities, namely for: salaries, fuels, drugs, patients sustenance, dialyses
 
supplies, etc. The number of staff was restricted as of December 31st, 2001 (restricting new hires until
 
such time the Master Plan and the Human Resources Strategy are developed), minus the number of
 
non-medical staff on temporary contracts. Thus, the HIF contracted the funding for the salaries of
 
approximately 4.800 non-medical staff employed. 
On December 6th, 2002, the Health Council was established with the following objectives:
- The development of health policy and strategy for the implementation of the reforms
- Support for the harmonization of national health legislation and regulations with the EU and the initiation 
of the preparation and adoption of new laws.
New measures, procedures and standards for the improvement of the health care system are being 
proposed (e.g. sustainability and efficiency, quality assurance, health information system development,
 
etc.). 
(b) Cofinanciers:
The draft ICR was shared with the Government of the Swiss Confederation, which had no
 
comments.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. 
Additional Information
The Swiss Secretary of State for Economy, David Syz, announced on November 21, 2001, that the 
Swiss Confederation intended to provide FRY an untied grant of CHF 10 million, to be channeled through 
the SAC. The Administration Agreement between the Government of the Swiss Confederation and the Bank 
was signed on March 22, 2002.  The Intergovernmental Agreement between the Swiss Confederation and
 
FRY was signed on May 28, 2002.  The Grant Agreement between FRY and the Bank was also signed on 
the same day. On June 26, 2002, the Government of FRY requested a one month extension of the closing 
date, as additional time was required to finalize the agreement on transferring the counterpart funds to the
 
Republic of Serbia. The grant was fully disbursed on July 19, 2002, and was closed on July 31, 2002. In 
December 2002, the Bank requested a standard audit of the grant. Mr. Gaudenz Ruf, Ambassador of the
 
Swiss Confederation to FRY, participated in the final supervision and ICR mission for the SAC.
- 23 -
Page  28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix
 
Projected in last PSR
1
Actual/Latest Estimate
 
Real GDP Growth
4% for 2002, 2003
4% for 2002, 5% 2003
Public Sector Deficit (as % of GDP)
5.1% for 2002, 4.7% for 2003
5.0% for 2002, 4.4% for 2003
Current Account Balance (as % of GDP)
-7.3% for 2002, -6.3% for 2003
-8.9% for 2002, -8.4% for 2003
Indebtedness (TDO/GDP)
69.8% for 2002, 68.9% for 2003
74.6% for 2002, 53.2% for 2003
Inflation
20% for 2002, 12% for 2003
14.2% for 2002, 9% for 2003
Reduction in Quasi-Fiscal Deficit due to the 
Electric Company, as percent of GDP
3% for 2002
3% for 2002
Reduction in Pensions as Percent of GDP 
relative to no reform scenario
1-1.5% of GDP
1-1.5% of GDP
As projected in President's Report rather than Project Status Report (PSR).
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix
 
Projected in last PSR
1
Actual/Latest Estimate
 
Macroeconomic Stability
Key indicators such as inflation on track.
Public Expenditure Management (PEM): 
Budget Formulation
The new Law on the Budget System (LBS) 
was adopted and used for the 2002 and 2003 
budgets.   A Budget Department and a 
Macroeconomic and Fiscal Analysis 
Department have been established and 
staffed, headed by a new assistant minister. 
A medium-term fiscal framework has been 
established to guide budget formulation.
PEM: Budget Execution
The core of the Treasury Department in the 
Ministry of Finance has been established and 
staffed. Commitment control has been 
improved with a new system of control on 
payroll new hires.  As further steps building 
on the SAC conditionality, monthly budget 
execution reports have been developed by the 
Treasury system of the MoFE and direct 
budget users and is expected to be 
implemented by March, 2003. 
PEM: Budget Inspection/Audit/Public 
Procurement
MoFE has completed inspection of all major 
government agencies and submitted a report 
to the Serbian Parliament, completing this 
portion of SAC conditionality.  As further 
steps, building on SAC conditionality, 
evidence of 91 criminal offenses sent to the 
Public Prosecutor, although to date, the 
Public Prosecutor has declined to proceed. 
As additional further steps, a new internal 
audit function is being developed with a 
mandate to inspect all government 
institutions. A new law on procurement was 
approved and is being implemented.  A 
Public Procurement Agency was established 
and a new public procurement law 
promulgated.
Energy: Reduce the Quasi-Fiscal Deficit
Power prices were increased by 40% in June 
and another 15% in October, 2001, with 
further increases agreed.  Wage increases 
kept to inflation levels (about 21.7%), and 
900 redundant employees let go.  
Energy: improve collections and reduce role 
of barter
Ratio of collections to billings has increased 
to at least 80%, exceeding the SAC target of 
75%.  However, barter has not yet been 
eliminated and still accounts for about 14% of 
settlements. 
- 24 -
Page  29
Energy: Adopt government program to 
improve energy efficiency
An energy efficiency agency has been 
established and key donors are providing 
funding for energy efficiency projects.
Energy: Start Developing a medium term 
sector strategy
This condition was met as a team of 
consultants is now preparing the medium 
term sector strategy.  The team is expected 
to have a draft by Spring, 2003.
Pensions: Limit Entitlements and start 
making pension system more sustainable
Parliament has adopted amendments to the 
Pension Law which raise the statutory 
retirement age by 3 years, change indexation 
of pensions from wage growth to arithmetic 
mean of wage growth and cost of living, and 
set the minimum pension at a unified rate of 
no more than 20 percent of the average gross 
wage (equivalent to 40 percent of the average 
net wage).
Pensions: No deterioration in timeliness of 
pension payments
The average lag was reduced to 2-2.5 
months by SAC Board presentation and to 
1.5-2.0 months as of 12/2002.
Pensions: Improve implementation of existing 
framework
Pensioners contribution to the HIF are being 
passed on with no delay to the Pension Fund 
for Employees, and new administrative 
arrangements are in place which are 
tightening access to disability pensions (a 
committee of doctors established by the 
Ministry of Health to evaluate claims) and 
improving contribution compliance. 
  Social Welfare: Enhance equity and 
coverage of social assistance, in particular 
Material Assistance to Families
A pilot program was implemented and is 
being evaluated based on a uniform 
threshold.
Social Welfare: Improve management of 
social funds
A special team in Ministry of Social Affairs 
now coordinates use of donor funds, and 
improved procedures were developed 
including procurement being done by tender, 
use of designated sub-accounts, and 
periodic audits. A new child allowance law 
delinked family and child benefits from 
average wage and linked them to the cost of 
living. 
Labor Markets: create more flexible labor 
market
A new labor law limiting termination benefits 
has been passed
Labor Markets: Begin establishment of a 
more affordable and efficient system of 
Unemployment Benefits (UB)
A working group has been established to 
design this program.
Labor Markets: Initiate work on a labor 
redeployment program to address potential 
mass redundancies
A labor redeployment program has been 
approved.  However lump sum payments for 
redundant workers are overly generous. 
Health: Improve Health Financing by 
containing costs by reforming procurement of 
pharmaceuticals and restructuring the benefit 
package, strengthen capacity of Health 
Insurance Fund, implement revenue 
enhancement measures
Drug procurement is now subject to the new 
procurement law.  Government has created a 
new inter-agency commission for 
pharmaceuticals and medical supplies. 
Health Insurance Fund statements and 
annual audited report are in the public 
domain.  A new internal audit function has 
been created in the HIF which itself is also 
subject to audits by the Ministry of Finance. 
An evaluation of the health co-payment 
system has been completed and the 
co-payment structure revised, but there are 
many exceptions not well targeted by income. 
Improved contracts between HIF and health 
care providers have been introduced. 
Health: Improve Delivery System and Policy
A Health Institutions and Human Resources 
- 25 -
Page  30
Master Plan is being formulated.  The health 
technology commission is issuing certificates 
of need prior to making major new 
investments. 
Health: Improve Legal Framework
A National Health Policy and a health care 
financing strategy have been prepared.
1
 
End of project
- 26 -
Page  31
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal
Estimate
Actual/Latest 
Estimate
Percentage of 
Appraisal
Component
US$ million
US$ million
Eligible Imports
76.87
76.87
100
Total Baseline Cost
76.87
76.87
Total Project Costs
76.87
76.87
Total Financing Required
76.87
      
76.87
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) 
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category
ICB
Procurement
 
NCB
 
Method
1
Other
2
N.B.F.
Total Cost
1.  Works
0.00
 
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
2.  Goods
76.87
0.00
0.00
0.00
76.87
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
3.  Services
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
4.  Miscellaneous
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
5.  Miscellaneous
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
6.  Miscellaneous
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
     Total 
76.87
0.00
0.00
0.00
76.87
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) 
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category
ICB
Procurement
 
NCB
 
Method
1
Other
2
N.B.F.
Total Cost
1.  Works
0.00
 
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
2.  Goods
76.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
76.00
(
70.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
70.00
)
3.  Services
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
4.  Miscellaneous
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
5.  Miscellaneous
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
6.  Miscellaneous
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
- 27 -
Page  32
     Total 
76.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
76.00
(
70.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
70.00
)
1/
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the 
IDA Credit
.  All costs include contingencies.
2/
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff 
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) 
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by 
Component
 (in US$ million equivalent)
Component
Appraisal Estimate
Actual/Latest Estimate
Percentage of Appraisal
Bank
Govt.
CoF.
Bank
Govt.
CoF.
IDA
Govt.
CoF.
Imports
70.00
6.87
70.00
6.87
100.0
100.0
- 28 -
Page  33
Annex 3.  Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 29 -
Page  34
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle
Performance Rating
 No. of Persons and Specialty
 (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)
Month/Year
  Count 
    Specialty
Implementation
Progress
Development
Objective
Identification/Preparation
4/2001-6/2002
12
1 senior economist; 1 general 
economist; 1 public expenditure 
economist; 1 country officer
5 social sector economists;
2 energy economists; 1 lawyer
S
S
7-10`/2002
11
1 senior Economist; 1 general 
economist; 7 social sector 
specialists; 2 energy economists
 1 lawyer
S
S
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/2001-1/2002
11
1 senior economist; 4 social 
sector specialists; 2 public 
expenditure economists; 
1 country officer; 1 general 
economist; 1 energy 
economist; 1 lawyer
S
S
Supervision
2/2002-9/2002
7
1 senior economist; 
2 energy economists; 
1  lawyer; 1 financial 
management specialist;
3 social sector specialists
S
S
ICR
12/2002-2/2003
2
1 lead economist; 
1 research analyst; 
1 consultant
S
S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle
Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks
US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
42
221
Appraisal/Negotiation
8
44
Supervision
12
66
ICR
5
33
Total 
67
364
- 30 -
Page  35
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
 Rating
Macro policies
H
SU
M
N
NA
Sector Policies
H
SU
M
N
NA
Physical
H
SU
M
N
NA
Financial
H
SU
M
N
NA
Institutional Development
H
SU
M
N
NA
Environmental
H
SU
M
N
NA
Social
Poverty Reduction
H
SU
M
N
NA
Gender
H
SU
M
N
NA
Other (Please specify)
H
SU
M
N
NA
Private sector development
H
SU
M
N
NA
Public sector management
H
SU
M
N
NA
Other (Please specify)
H
SU
M
N
NA
- 31 -
Page  36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(
HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance
Rating
Lending
HS
S
U
HU
Supervision
HS
S
U
HU
Overall
HS
S
U
HU
6.2  Borrower performance
Rating
Preparation
HS
S
U
HU
Government implementation performance
HS
S
U
HU
Implementation agency performance
HS
S
U
HU
Overall
HS
S
U
HU
- 32 -
Page  37
Annex 7. 
List of Supporting Documents
Yugoslavia: Transitional Support Stategy, July 25, 2001  Report No. R2001-0049/2.
Yugoslavia: Transitional Support Strategy Update, July 18, 2002, Report No. R2002-0142.
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia: Breaking with the Past, dated July 15, 2001, Report No. 22267-YU.
- 33 -
