Document od
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL  USE ONLY
Repen N.. 5990
PKOJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND: NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1198-TH)
December 27, 1985
Operations Evaluation Department
Thb  h_  t u a reidkS dibSto mud may be WS by recplkms emy In the pufnmanue of
tIr sUdS dsla Bs eSaub may ae ehwlwe be i bded withes Wol lea  ah.r1zmhe..



ABBREVIATIONS
ARD  -    Office of Accelerated Rural Development
DAE  -    Department of Agricultural Extension
DOA  -    Department of Agriculture
DPW  -    Department of Public Welfare
ERR  -    Economic Rate of Return
NERD -    Northeast Rural Development Project
OED  -    Operations Evaluation Department
PCR  -    Project Completion Report
PEA  -    Provincial Electricity Authority
PPAM -    Project Performance Audit Memorandum



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND: NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1198-TH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  .......e..e.....  ..........*.*....... ...   *....  ***.........                   i
Basic Data Sheet ......             ........ .*         .............................      ii
Evaluation Summary    ...................m..........                                       iv
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
Io   SUMMARY  o..ooo.....................................                             I
Background ...o .................    ........***.*...    mm....0                I
Project Design .e....                    .....mmms............                 1
Project Execution .......**.*.......**...*** *...........                      2
Project Impact   .msem 5mm...............m....m                                3
II.    MAIN FINDINGS .....................                                             5
Project Design ......... e ..0mm *..............                               5
Institutional Arrangements   me.............................                   6
The Water Supply Component    ..............................                   7
Procurement  .        ........................    m......... .... .mes.m       7
Institution Building ...           e................... ........ O..m          8
Participation of Population ..m...m...m............m.......                    9
Annex 1:  Government Comments ..............................., 11
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Io   Introduction  -............................... o...........            ...     15
II.   Formulation ......................... i.m.                                     15
III.    Implementation m...........             ............... -..& ...               17
IV.    Operating Performance and Impact ....m.....   .......e. e...                  23
V.    Institutional Performance and Development    ..............                   25
VI.    Economic Re-evaluation ...........................  n.......                  27
VII.    Bank Performance ............................... .me. ee.mm                    28
VIII.    Conclusions .......            .......      ........... go .                   29
Annexes
Map - IBRD No. 18444R
Thb docundti has n t  a  rasye dWbution and may be used by  ients onl in the puformance of
tbeir ofrilaal dutics Its contents may not othm be didsd without World Blankc authoriztion.



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND: NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1198-TH)
PREFACE
This is a performance audit of the Northeast Rural Development
Project in Thailand, for which Loan 1198-TH was approved on January 27, 1976,
for the sum of US$21.0 million, and closed on August 14, 1984, after cancel-
lation of US$971,695.
The audit report consists of an audit memorandum (PPAM) prepared by
the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and a Project Completion Report
(PCR) dated November 30, 1984.   The PCR was prepared by the East Asia and
Pacific Regional Office following a country visit in June 1984 and based upon
completion reports prepared by project executing agencies. The PPAM is based
on a review of the Appraisal Report (No. 721-TH) dated December 31, 1975, the
President's Report (No. P-1745-TH) dated January 15, 1976, the Loan Agreement
of February 27, 1976, and the PCR; correspondance with the Borrower and
internal Bank memoranda on project issues as contained in relevant Bank files
have been consulted, and Bank staff associated with the project have been
interviewed.
An OED mission visited Thailand in May 1985. Discussions were held
with officials of the Accelerated Rural Development Office (ARD), the Depart-
ment of Agriculture (DWA), the Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE),
and the Department of Public Welfare (DPW), the main executing agencies. A
field trip to visit the project area and the participating villagers was
undertaken and the information obtained during the mission was used to test
the validity of the conclusions of the PCR.
The audit finds that the PCR covers adequately the project's sal-
ient features, and the PPAM generally agrees with the conclusions. In addi-
tion to summarizing the project's objectives and results, the PPAM expands
upon the project's unusual design and institutional arrangements, the super-
vision problems encountered by the Bank and the issues of procurement, use of
consultants and participation of the population because of their importance
to this as well as to other rural development projects.
A copy of the draft report was sent to the Borrower on October 15,
1985 for comments. No comments were receivcd from the Borrower (see Annex 1).
The valuable assistance provided by the Government of Thailand and
the project staff met during the preparation of this report is gratefully
acknowledged.



- ii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND  - NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1198-TH)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal         Actual or         Actual as Z of
Estimate       Estimated Actual Appraisal Estimate
Project cost (USS million)                          45.0              51.65                115
Loan Amount (USS million)                           21.00             20.02                 95
Date Board Approval                                   -              01/27/76               -
Date Effectiveness                                 05/28/76          06/28/76
Date Physical Components Completed                 06/30/80          09/31/83/a             -
Proportion Then Completed (Z)                      100            100 (approx)           100
Closing Date                                       06/30/81          08/14/84              163
ERR-roads (Z)                                         20              10                    -
ERR-electrif'-catioc (Z)                              12              26
Number of Direct Beneficiaries (roads)             800,000           750,000                -
Number of Direct Beneficiaries
(electrification)                              250,000           420,000               168
Number of Direct Beneficiaries (water)
(supplies)                                   1,000,000         1,000,000                _
MISSION DATA
Date    No. of   Mandays      Specializations  Performance              Types of
Mission /b     (mo./yr.) Persons  in Field    Represented /c   Rating /d    Trend/e   Problems/f
Preparation         06/74       6         90       2En, 2Ec, L, P
Appraisal            12174      6         70       4En, 1Ec, IL
Subtotal                    12        160
Initial           (Form 590    -           -            -
Supervision       only)
Supervision  1      08/76       2         10       2En                  2            2          M
Supervision  2      03/77       1         10        En                  2            2          H
Supervision  3       10/77      3         14        En                  2            2          H
Supervision  4      04/78       1          6        En                  2            1          T
Supervision  5      09/78       2         12        Er, Ec.             2            1          T
Supervision  6       11/79      2         15       3En                  2            2          H
Supervision  7       04/80      1         11        Er.                  I           I          K
Supervision  8       11/80      4         40       3Er., Ec              1           2          M
Supervision  9       09/81      4         40       lEn, 3Ec             2            2          M
Supervision 10      05/82       2          6        Er., Ec             2            1          M
Supervision 11      02/83       1          6        Ec                  2            1          M
Subtotal                    23        170
Total                       35        330
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY76   FY77   FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81   FYS2   FY83   FY84
Appraisal Estimate (USS million)           0.1    0.9    8.5   16.0   20.0   2'.0       -      -       -
Actual (USS million)                       0.0    0.8    3.3    8.5   12.5   16.r)  18.3   18.6   20.0
Actual as Z of Appraisal Estimate          0.0   89.0   39.0   53.0   62.0   76.0   87.0   89.0   95.0
Date of Final Disbursement                 August 3, 1984
continued on next page



- lil -
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower:                          Royal Thai Government (RTG)
Executing Agencies:                Office of Accelerated Rural Development (ARD)
Provincial Electricity Auth-rity (PEA)
Public Welfare Development (PWD)
Department of Agriculture (DOA)
Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE)
Fiscal Year:                       October 1-September 30
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)   Baht (B)
Currency Exchange Rate:
Appraisal Year Average           1976            US$1.00 - B 19.P
Intervening Years Average        1977-83         US$1.00 - B 21.3
Completion Year Average          1984            US$1.00 - B 22.9
Follow-on Projects
National Agricultural           National Agricultural
Name                            Extension Project                Research Project
Loan Number                   1393-TH                          1922-TH
Loan Amount (USS million)    28.0                              30.0 million
Date of Board Approval        March 12, 1977                   November 25, 1980
la   ARD roads component; other components finished much earlier.
7;   These missions were concerned principally with the three major components.  The minor
agricultural components were supervised independently by agricultural staff from the Regional
Mission, Bangkok, on six occasions between April 1977 and April 1980.
/c   En - engineer; Ec - economist; L - loan officer; P - public administration specialist.
/d   1   problem-free or minor problems; 2   moderate problems.
'e   1 = improving; 2 - stationary.
/f   M   managerial; T - technical.



- iv -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND: NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1198-TH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The project was part of the Government's efforts to raise the
incomes of the rural population of the country and decrease regional
disparities. The project was the Bank Group's seventh loan to Thailand for
the agricultural sector and the first for rural development.
Objectives
The project's objectives were to provide rural infrastructure,
including village access roads, water supply, and electrification to about
400,000 families in the Northeast, one of the poorest regions of the country,
and to improve the regional agricultural research and extension services
through three small pilot projects. The seven project components were to be
implemented by five separate government agencies. As project activities were
complementary but not interdependent, no special arrangement for coordination
was planned.
Implementation baxperience
While the rural electrification component was auickly and success-
fully completed, the road and water supply components were delayed by pro-
curement difficulties and disputes between ARD, the main executing agency and
its consultants and contractors, resulting in three years implementation
delay.   Two of the three pilot agricultural subprojects led to two large-
scale Bank-supported projects:  the agricultural extension and agricultural
research projects, approved in 1977 and 1980 respectively. When the project
was closed, thirty-eight months behind schedule, the total project cost was
US$51.65 million, a 15% cost overrun.
Results
The project contributed to improving the living conditions of the
rural population of the Northeast. The economic rate of return. (ERR) of the
electrification component is estimated at 26% (12% at appraisal) mostly
because power transmission lines, financed from other sources, are considered
as a sunk cost.  The ERR of roads is estimated at 10%, significantly lower
than estimated at appraisal (20%) as a result of cost overrun and lower agri-
cultural production than anticipated.   The water supply component was less
successful than expected due to high salt and iron content of the water.



v 
Sustainability
While the sustainability of project benefits does not pose a prob-
lem for the electrification component, that of roads and wells is partly
dependent on the contribution of beneficiaries for maintaining the project
investments. Although this contribution was planned at appraisal, it has not
materialized so far.
Findings and Lessons
The main feature of this project is that, contrary to many Bank-
supported projects of this nature, it was designed mostly as a rural infra-
structure project and not as an integrated rural development project (PPAM,
paras. 20-24).   Agricultural components were small in size (12% of actual
project costs) and of a pilot nature. No coordination mechanism was estab-
lished and each project agency worked independently. Despite initial diffi-
culties, the project achieved its targets, mostly because of strong govern-
ment support and the fact that the project was mainly the continuation of
existing programs (PPAM, paras. 25-26). The project experience shows, how-
ever, that Bank supervision of this kind of project is essential and more
difficult than for standard agricultural projects (PPAM, paras. 27-29).
Difficulties experienced with procurement and consultant matters
showed that Bank flexibility and assistance to project executing agencies
unfamiliar with these problems is essential and part of its institution-
building effort (PPAM, paras. 30-36). The project also demonstrated that the
participation of the population in project construction and maintenance is
difficult to obtain unless the beneficiaries are involved in the decision-
making process at the earliest stage of implementation (PPAM, paras. 37-39).



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
THAILAND: NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1198-TH)
I. SUMMARY
Background
1.        One of the objectives of the Third National Economic Development
Plan (1972-76) was to raise the incomes and living standards of the rural
population in Thailand and to decrease regional income disparities.   The
Northeast, containing 16 of Thailand's 70 provinces, has one third of the
country's population but only 16Z of the gross national product, and has his-
torically lagged behind other regions in terms of economic development and
rural standard of living. The regional economy of the Northeast is dominated
by agriculture: rice is the main crop, but the production of kenaf, cassava
and maize is not negligible.
2.        In 1974, the great majority of villages in the Northeast had yet to
be reached by modern public infrastructure.   A large number of rural roads
were impassable in the wet season, resulting in relative isolation of the
rural population. Most villages still obtained water for drinking and domes-
tic purposes from ponds and open wells, many of which were unsafe and dried
up completely during the dry season. Only 6% of the villages were electri-
fied and the others were dependent on kerosene for lighting and diesel
engines for rice milling and cassava processing.
3.        Since  1966,  the office of Accelerated Rural  Development  (ARD),
responsible for rural works, had constructed a network of 6,000 km of dirt
feeder roads and implemented village water supply programs in the Northeast.
In addition to ARD, several agencies had been active in the field of village
water supply and the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) had started a
long-term national program of rural electrification.
Project Design
4.        The project was the Bank Group's seventh loan to Thailand for the
agricultural sector and the first for rural development.  The primary objec-
tive of the project, to be implemented over five years, was to provide
improved rural infrastructure, including village access roads, water supply
and electrification to about 400,000 families in the Northeast. The second-
ary objective, to be attained through three pilot subprojects, was to improve
some agricultural services in the region by expanding agricultural extension,
strengthening upland crops research and undertaking a development program in
land settlement schemes.
5.        As approved by the Board in January 1976, the project consisted of:
(a) the construction of 1,300 km of village access roads;



- 2 -
(b)  the provision of equipment for maintenance of roads;
(c) the construction of about 4,000 tubewells;
(d) the electrification of 346 villages;
(e) research and development of improved techniques for cultivation of
upland crops, mainly kenaf and cassava;
(f) an expanded program of agricultural extension; and
(g) studies to identify a land settlement project and implementation of
pilot projects in two settlement areas.l/
6.        Two Ministries (Interior and Agriculture) and five Departments or
existing public agencies were responsible for project execution.  The roads
and water supply components were to be implemented by ARD, while PEA was
responsible for electrification, the Department of Agriculture (DOA) for the
research component, the Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE) for the
extension program, and the Department of Public Welfare (DPW) for the settle-
ment  component.    No  special  arrangement  for  overall  coordination  was
planned. Each implementing agency was expected to appoint a Project Director
who would have overall responsibility for supervising and directing the
implementation of his respective project components.   The villages to be
served by the project were to be selected on the criterion of need and no
integration of project activities was expected.  The villagers were to par-
ticipate voluntarily in the drilling, operation and maintenance of wells as
well as in road maintenance. Consultants were to be hired for the engineer-
ing and supervision of road construction, as well as for the preparation of
further rural development projects.
7.        Total project costs were estimated at US$45.0 million, of which
about 75X was for the rural infrastructure (roads, water supply and electri-
fication) component and 25Z for the agricultural (research, extension and
settlement) activities.   The appraisal economic rate of return (ERR) for
roads and electrification, the two components for which economic benefits
could be evaluated, were estimated at 20% and 12% respectively.
Project Execution
8.        The rural electrification component was implemented according to
schedule. The final achievement was the electrification of 478 villages, 38Z
above original targets, as a result of the efficiency of PEA and the early
construction of the main distribution system financed from other sources.
1/  The self-help land settlement program is one of the national welfare
programs aiming at settling rural poor families in uncultivated areas,
and providing them with land and social infrastructure.



- 3 -
9.        Road construction experienced delays in the first three years of
project implementation, due to procurement problems, disputes within ARD and
between ARD and its consultants and contractors. The contract with the local
consulting firm hired for road design and construction supervision was can-
celled in 1979 due to alleged irregularities on the part of some ARD staff
and consultants. Charges of inadequate work performance also led to several
court actions against contractors. These problems were finally resolved when
the Bank agreed that the outstanding road construction program would be split
into smaller contracts and the supervision of contractors would be carried
out directly by ARD.   At project completion, three years behind schedule,
1,270 km of roads (98% of the original program) were constructed.
10.       After some delay due  to procurement  difficulties and  the late
delivery of equipment, the road maintenance program was satisfactorily imple-
mented with 16 mainteniance units operating in the four provinces with the
longest length of roads and the oldest equipment.
11.       The water supply component was adversely affected in the early
years by procurement difficulties for rigs because of disagreement over tech-
nical specifications and acceptability of the lowest bidders on the part of
the ARD evaluation committee. When these initial difficulties were overcome,
the water supply program was fully implemented and the appraisal projection
of 4,000 wells was met, and even slightly exceeded, with a delay of about two
years.
12.       The agricultural extension component started well, but was quickly
taken over by the Bank-supported National Agricultural Extension Project
Phase I (Loan 1393-TH, approved in March 1977).   The upland crop research
component was successfully implemented and was used as a pilot program for
the follow-on National Agricultural Research Project (Loan 1922-TH, approved
in November 1980).
13.       The study on land settlement in the Northeast resulted in several
pilot activities (fish ponds, rubber, small irrigation and fruit trees) to be
developed in two representative settlement areas, near the border with Kampu-
chea.   In 1978, a major attack by Kampuchean-backed forces at one of the
settlements resulted in the deaths of 25 people and considerable destruction
of private and public property.
14.       When thte project was closed in August 1984, thirty-eight months
behind schedule, the total project cost was US$51.65 million, a 15% cost
overrun. The higher cost of ARD components, mostly roads, was partly offset
by the lower costs of the extension and research component.
Project Impact
15.       The project undoubtedly contributed to improving the living condi-
tions of the Northeast rural population by providing better access and water
to villages. On the basis of available data, some of the project's economic
benefits have been calculated.  The rural electrification component was the



- 4 -
most successful, with an ERR estimated at 26%, compared with an appraisal
estimate of 12%, largely because power transmission lines, financed from
other sources, are considered as a sunk cost. On the basis of a survey car-
ried out by ARD, the ERR of access roads has been estimated by the PCR at
10%, compared with the appraisal estimate of 20%, as a result of cost and
time overruns of the road component and a lower cassava production than
anticipated.2/
16.       The water supply component only partly solved the critical water
shortage during the dry season in some 2,000 villages. Water from deep wells
proved to have a high chemical content of salts and iron, and is reluctantly
accepted by villagers for drinking purposes. The annual cost of maintenance
of locally manufactured handpumps installed by ARD appears higher than expec-
ted. While the villagers have generally contributed labor for the construc-
tion of wells, there is now little evidence of village participation in the
well and pump maintenance.
17.       Investments  in  agricultural  research  and  extension  have  been
smaller than anticipated and their benefits are difficult to measure until
the follow-on projects they have generated are completed.3/ The benefits of
the land settlement component are also difficult to quantify; some activi-
ties, like fishponds and rubber, appear successful and well accepted by
settlers, while a costly pilot irrigation system proved ill-designed and
unprofitable.  No dank-upported project was generated by this pilot settle-
ment  component.    In  retrospect,  the  Bank  involvement  in  this  component
appears questionable, as the land development program in Thailand has been
consistently supported by many donors with different and confusing develop-
mernt approaches.
18.       In conclusion,  the  project  has  been  successful  in  its  social
objective of providing improved rural infrastructure to a large number of
poor families in the Northeast. The overall project economic benefits remain
difficult to quantify and are essentially due to electrification of, and
better access roads to, villages while the water supply component partly
failed to provide drinking water to the rural population.
19.       The sustainability of benefits due to electrification does not pose
any particular problem; that of roads and water supply is highly dependent on
adequate maintenance of roads and wells. It was originally foreseen at proj-
ect appraisal that the villagers would contribute labor for maintenance of
roads as well as wells and handpumps.  This contribution, however, has not
2/   At the time of appraisal, Northeast Thailand was experiencing a cassava
boom and it was expected that the expansion would continue.  Marketing
difficuties for cassava started in 1978 and resulted in a smaller
increase of area under cassava than projected.
3/   The audit of the National Agricultural Extension Project (Ln. 1393-TH),
is scheduled for 1986.



materialized so far, and maintenance remains entirely the responsibility of
ARD, whose budget has been restricted by the Government's financial difficul-
ties.   The population's  freewill  participation in maintenance of project
investments is also undermined by some government-sponsored programs, like
the "Rural Job Creation" that provides remuneration for maintenance works of
this nature.  Therefore, the question as to whether the project investments
will be adequately maintained in the future remains unanswered.
II. MAIN FINDINGS
20.       h multiple component project of this nature is not an exception in
the long list of rural development projects supported by the Bank.   Three
main features, however, make this project a special case:  its design, its
institutional arrangements and the wifficulties in Bank supervision of the
project as illustrated by the problems encountered with the water supply
component.  In contrast, other issues related to Bank requirements on pro-
curement and consultants and the issue of population participation in
construction and maintenance of works are common to many projects of this
kind.
Project Design
21.       The  project  was  originally  designed  as a rural  infrastructure
project, including essentially rural roads, water supply and rural electrifi-
cation.   In this respect, the project was quite different from other Bank-
supported  rural  development  projects  in  which  productive  agricultural
components normally constitute the most important part of the project and the
rural infrastructure is only considered as production support components.
This particularity can be partly explained by the fact that the project was
one of a series of Bank-supported projects (Improvement of Irrigation,
Livestock, Roads) prepared and appraised at about the same time and aiming at
improving  incomes  and  living  standards  in  the Northeast.   However,  Lhe
question as to whether agricultural components were to be added to the social
infrastructure component of the project was debated and finally decided upon
during project preparation and appraisal.
22.       The rationale for including a small agricultural component in the
project description was that benefits would not arise spontaneously from the
rural infrastructure unless some investments in agricultural research and
extension would also be included in the project.  In fact, the agricultural
component (originally 25% of the total project cost) turned out to be even
smaller than anticipated (less than 12% of the actual cost). Moreover, its
economic justificati3n and its impact on the project outcome appear quite
limited at first view.
23.       Nevertheless, it is the opinion of this audit that reducing the
agricultural components to small pilot subp-ojects was the right decision.
The project was the first rural development project in Thailand and the Bank
had limited or no experience in either rainfed agricultural or the Northeast



region.  It is one of OQD's main findings that a large number of first Bank-
assisted rural development projects in many countries have been too large and
too complex, in terms of area size and number of components-4/   It is also
the Bank's experience that some ambitious rural development projects were not
able to achieve signJficant progress in agricultural development until rural
roads were constructed5/, thus permitting access of agricultural inputs and
agricultural extension services to villages as welL as marketing of outputs.
Finally, many PPARs pointed out that rural development programs should start
with small-scale pilot projects.
24.       This project was definitely less appealing than large integrated
rural development programs aimed at improving production and incomes of a
large number of rural poor.  However, it had the merits of being relatively
simple, of providing the rural population with necessary infrastructure for
further agricultural development, and of paving the way for two follow-on
agricultural research and extension projects. In this respect, the project's
achievements, although modest, have not been negligible.
Institutional Arrangements
25.       Cotitrary to many rural development projects of  -is  nature, no
attempt was made to set up an organization responsible either for executing
the project or for coordinating its seven different activities and five exe-
cuting agencies. The project included a series of activities, not related to
each other and spread over the Northeast according to selection criteria set
by each executing agency. Although similar situations have of t:en led to dis-
appointment in some Bank-supported projects, this project does not seem to
have suffered from the absence of coordination, mainly because of two posi-
tive factors:   first, a strong Government commitment and support toward
improving the living standards of the rural population in the Northeast in
-iew of the region's strategic and political importance.  Second, the fact
that mcst of the project components were the continuation--on a large
scale--of existing programs, thus requiring minimal disruption for each exe-
cuting agency.
26.       While this state of affairs had the advantage of minimizing the
inter-agency coordinatioa pyoblem common to many rural development projects,
it had, however, some adverse effects on project implementation (paras.
27-29) and made Bank supervision particularly difficult.  The nature of the
project required that Bank supervision be carried out by Bank staff of dif-
ferent disciplines (transportation, water supply and agriculture), which
4/   See particularly the following PPARs:  Mexico--Integrated Rural Develop-
ment Project, Papaloapan Basin (OED Report No. 5760) and Haiti--Rural
Development in the North (OED Report No. 5775) dated June 28, 1985. See
also Tenth and Eleventh OED Annual Reviews.
5/   Burkina Faso--Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project (OED Report
No. 4547, dated June 15, 1983).



- 7 -
would have been a difficult task had the Bank representation in Bangkok not
been partly responsible for project supervision. Despite the assistance pro-
vided by the Bangkok office, supervision was sparse in the project's early
years, during which many of the procurement, consultant and contractor prob-
lems occurred.
The Water Supply Component
27.       The need for close supervision on the part of the Bank can be
illustrated by the water supply component which, in some respects, was not as
successful as claimed by the PCR.  While it is true that the critical water
shortage during the six-month dry season is partly solved in some 2,000 vil-
lages of the Northeast, it is also a fact that the quality of the water of
the deep wells is sufficient only for domestic purposes, and not for drink-
ing, because of its high content in salts and iron.  The project objective
was to provide reliable sources of good quality water for human consumption.
As deep wells constituted 86% of the drilling program, it can be said the
drinking water problem has not been solved in most of the villages.   As a
result, villagers are now digging additional shallow wells by themselves and
are reluctant to maintain the project's deep wells.   In addition, the vil-
lagers' shallow wells remain open, are not equipped with handpumps and can
easily be polluted.
28.       While the saline condition of deep water was well known at project
appraisal, and largely confirmed during project implementation, it is sur-
prising that the water supply program mostly consisted of deep wells when
shallow wells, dug with bucket augers, are less expensive and more likely to
produce water of reasonable potability. Had the problem been recognized dur-
ing project supervision, consideration could have been given to alternative
solutions, for example, wider use of shallow wells or supplying villagers
with tanks to collect rainwater, a solution that is now, but belatedly,
recommended for villages with drinking water problems.6/
29.       A lesson from the project is that a multicomponent project consist-
ing of an expansion of existing programs does not necessarily require coordi-
nation of executing agencies, provided (i) the government strongly supports
the project and (ii) the Bank adequately responds to higher supervision
requirements related to this kind of project.
Procurement
30.       The PCR points out that difficulty was experienced in the early
years with equipment procurement by all agencies except PEA. OED has found
6/   The Region points out that the supply of non-potable water, which could
be used for other domestic purposes, usefully complemented the potable
sources and thereby extended the flow period of the latter sources
further into the dry season than would otherwise have been possible.



- 8 -
that procurement problems are common to all-or almost all--projects which
are the first in a particular sector or subsector.
31.       Unfamiliarity of executing agencies with Bank procurement proced-
ures  has  been  mentioned  in  many  PPARs.    Problems  in adjusting  to Bank
requirements for international competitive bidding (ICB), for translation of
bidding documents into English and for adapting local procedures to Bank
guidelines are common to many projects in many countries. These difficulties
raise the question of whether Bank requirements are realistic and adequately
explained to and discussed with the Borrower.
32.       It is OED's experience that the construction of simple dirt roads
similar to those constructed under this project and scattered all over a
large region does not attract foreign contractors who are not interested in
this type of work or unable to compete with local firms.  On the basis of
this experience, two c-xestions arise.  First, is it really necessary for the
Bank to impose cumbersome ICB procedures to Borrowers unfamiliar with such
procedures when it is well known that only local contractors are interested
in project works? Second, if the ICB principle is decided upon and accepted
by both the Bank and the Borrower, what remains to be done to help the proj-
ect authority prepare bidding documents and awarding contracts according to
Bank standards?  As already noted in other PPARs,7/ many breakdowns of com-
munication and misunderstandings would have been avoided in a number of proj-
ects if the Bank had given the Borrower better information on its procurement
rules and procedures.   Similarly,  many project implementation delays-and
subsequent cost overruns-have been due to unfamiliarity of project authori-
ties with Bank regulations on procurement. In this respect, the role of the
Legal and Disbursements Departments of the Bank, as well as of Bank Resident
Missions, appears essential at the early stage of the project and could
greatly  contribute  to  a  better  undorstanding  between  the  Bank  and  the
Borrower.   By providing  information  and training to government  officials
responsible for procurement and disbursement matters, the Bank could
facilitate project implementation, particularly when project execution is
shared by several agencies, which was the case of this project.
Institution Building
33.       One of the project objectives was to strengthen ARD's capacity for
constructing and maintaining rural roads and water supply facilities.   To
achieve this objective, the Bank required that ARD would use contractors for
road construction instead of force account, and hire consultants for the
design  and  supervision  of  civil  works.    Employment  of  contractors  was
expected to avoid the high capital cost of replacing construction equipment
while the use of consultants aimed at having ARD staff released from con-
struction activities and devoting more time to maintenance.
7/   See particularly Madagascar First Village Livestock and Rural Develop-
ment Project (OED Report No. 5403 of December 28, 1984).



- 9 -
34.       Problems related to consultants and contractors have been the main
source of difficulties during the early project years.   While ARD's reluct-
ance and delays in recruiting consultants, followed by intractable disputes
on consultant performance, were partly due to personal and political rival-
ries within ARD, the main problems were ARD's lack of familiarity in dealing
with consultants and the feeling of many ARD staff that the assistance of the
consultants was not necessary.  Poor relationships between ARD and road con-
tractors during the first two years also reflected ARD's resistance to the
Bank's requirements regarding the new construction approach as an alternative
to the traditional force account system.
35.       The fact that the crisis was resolved and the pace of implementa-
tion improved markedly when the consultant contract was terminated after two
years suggests that the use of consultants was not necessary and that ARD was
able to do the design and supervision work in the first place. On the other
hand, the use of contractors for road construction undoubtedly proved bene-
ficial as it permitted ARD to increase its maintenance effort and reduce its
investments in equipment.
36.       The project illustrates:  (i) the need for the Bank to be flexible
when a decision on the use of consultants proves ill-founded and (ii) the
risk of implementation delays and problems when the Bank requires that
traditional construction systems be changed.   The project also shows that
assurances obtained at negotiations and explicit loan agreements are not
sufficient to ensure that conditions on employment of consultants and
contractors are fulfilled. As for procurement matters, there is a need for
the Bank to help project authorities unfamiliar with consultant and con-
tractor problems, which shows again the importance of Bank supervision for
first projects in a sector or subsector.
Participation of Population
37.       Voluntary participation of villagers in well drilling, as well as
training of villagers in operation, maintenance and repair of village water
supply works were two covenants spelled out in the Loan Agreement. Villagers
were also expected to participate in road maintenance.  In fact, some degree
of contribution in work was reported during well development, but villagers'
participation in maintenance of wells and roads has not materialized and
training programs in pump maintenance have started only recently.
38.       The project is not an exceptioa in respect of poor population par-
ticipation in project work maintenance. The main reasons often noted in some
PPARs are that (i) the population is seldom involved in the decision-making
process and has little say on the type and location of project investments,
and (ii) the beneficiaries do not easily accept maintenance of works executed
by the Government as their responsibility.  In the case of this project, the
population, if consulted, would probably have favored a larger number of
shallow wells and disagreed'with ARD's decision to construct so many deep
wells with salt and iron problems.



- 10 -
39.       Some PPARs have noted, however, good participation of the popula-
tion in constructing and maintaining project works.  The common feature of
these successes was the involvement of the population in the decision-making,
the contribution in work or in kind to investment construction, and the set-
ting up at an early stage of village committees for operation and maintenance
of project works.8/
8/   In a rural development project in Haiti, before pumps were installed at
well heads, the beneficiaries were required to pay a lump sum which was
allocated for maintenance purposes (see PPAR on Haiti Rural Development
in the North, OED Report No. 5775).  See also on the subject of popula-
tion participation:   Burkina Faso Second Rural Development Fund, OED
Report No. 4541 and Thailand Population, report under preparation.



- 11 -                   AX I
TXH7749 TUR668 RDY159 BKRD]10590
USNX Cr THBK 049
RA4.UHADAMNOFN 49/46 29 1730
YUKINORI WJATANABE
VIRFCTOR OPERATIONS EVALUATION DEPARTMENT
INTBAP-AD
WASh t&TuN DC.20433 USA
REYRI.ET OF 15OCT REQUESTING COMMENTS ON PROJECT PERFORMANCE
AUDIT REPORT ON THAILAND LOANli9S-rH sroP REPORT ON TWO PROJECTS
OF MIAC THOUGH RATHFR SHORT IS A8REEAPLE TO US AND NO
ADDITTilNAL COMMENrS NEEDED STOP REGARDS
THAI.FRNG THAMRONG-NAWASAWAT
CO. WASHINGTON DC.20433 15OCT LOAN1198-TH
- 1 1 2'90815
ALT RT r FFROM:OEDM
rlNNN



I <
LA



- 13 -
THAILAND
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1198T-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
November 1984
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



_   ,o ,' --
?-G  Ff;       ,</w-t-8es I



- 15 -
THAILAND
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1198 -TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Northeast Rural Development Project (NERD) was the Bank Group's
first rural development project in Thailand and also the first non-irrigation
project for the agricultural sector. Financed by Loan 1198 -TH (US$21.0
million), the project was designed to assist in accelerating development in
the economically less advanced Northeast Region through construction and
improved maintenance of viLlage access roads, vilLage water supplies, and
rural electrification in priority locations. It also incLuded three, smaller,
agricultural components in support of upland crops research, extension, and
pilot projects for land and water development in two settlement areas.
1.02      The project was appraised in December 1974.  Negotiations were
carried out in October 1975 and the loan was approved by the Board in January
1976. The Loan Agreement was signed in February 1976, and declared effective
in June 1976.  The loan was closed on August 14, 1984, leaving an undisburs.d
balance of US$971,694.79 which was cancelled.
1.03      This report is based on findings of Bank supervision missions and a
review of Bank files.
II. FORMULATION
Origin
2.01      The possibility of a rural development project in the Northeast
region was first raised within the context of Bank-Royal Thai Government (RTG)
dialogue during economic missions to Thailand in 1970-71. Initial proposals
from the Ministry of Interior, in June 1973, centered on rural infrastructure
including village roads, water supplies and minor irrigation, to be undertaken
by several agencies of that Ministry including the Office of Accelerated Rural
Development (ARD), the Department of Local Administration, the Public Works
Department and the Department of Labor, using force account and their own
equipment. An additional component, for rural electrification, was proposed
by the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) in March 1974.
Preparation, Appraisal, Negotiations and Approval
2.02      Bank-financed local and foreign engineering consultants carried out
preliminary preparations of the roads and water supplies components through
the latter part of 1973. A Bank preparation mission in June 1974 identified
the following components: (a) an ARD village access roads component for 2,000
km of laterite roads to be undertaken partly through force account and partly



- 16 -
by contractors; (b) a village water supply component to be carried out jointly
by ARD and the Rural Health Division of the Ministry of Health, designed to
provide potable water to 2,148 villages containing nearly 1.3 million persons;
and (c) a village electrification component for 27,000 rural households in 330
villages to be undertaken by PEA. In the remaining half of 1974 Bank-financed
consultants continued project preparation of the roads and water supplies
component, working closely with ARD staff, while PEA staff revised their
earlier proposal. Appraisal took place in December 1974. There were no
issues requiring resolution at the decisions meeting held in January 1975.
Target and Coals
2.03      The project was targeted towards some 400,000 farm families, or
about 2.5 million people in the Northeast, Thailand's poorest region. The
primary goals were to increase the incomes and amenities of these people
through infrastructure improvements incLuding village access roads con-
struction, road maintenance in four provinces, potable water from welLs or
ponds and small dams, and rural electrification. Secondary goals, to be
attained through the three smaller, agricultural components, included
expanding agricultural extension as a pilot activity in four provinces,
strengthening upland crops research, and undertaking pilot scale improvements
in two Department of Public Welfare (DPW) settlement schemes.
Sectoral Context
2.04      The Northeast has historicaLLy Lagged behind other regions in terms
of economic development and rural living standards. Prior to 1960 subsistence
rice-based agriculture was dominant. but with the extension of regional
highways and feeder roads followed by the introduction of export crops to the
region. especially kenaf, cassava and maize, the farm economy has become semi-
commercial, at least in thcse areas with reasonable access to markets.
Village access roads were Lntended to promote further this favorable trend,
while better domestic water supplies and an extension of the electricity
distribution network into the rural areas were expected to have major economic
and social benefits.
Project Description
2.05      The project as finally appraised consisted of:
(a) construction of about 1,300 km of village access roads by ARD;
(b)  strengthening of maintenance programs by ARD for existing rural
roads in four provinces through provision of equipment;
(c) construction of about 4,000 tubewells for village water supply, and
the construction and rehabilitation of small dams and ponds by ARD
in areas where groundwater is unusable;
(d) rural electrification of 346 villages by PEA;
(e) research and development of improved techniques for cultivation of



- 17 -
upland crops by the Department of Agriculture (DOA);
(f) an expanded program of agricultural extension in four provinces by
the Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE);
(g) studies required to identify and formulate a land settlement
project, and implementation of pilot projects for land and water
development and infrastructure improvements (roads and water supply)
in selected DPW settlement areas.
2.06      A table of key indicators (Table 1) below, provides a comparison of
achievements with original targets.
Table 1: KEY INDICATORS
Activity                          Appraisal estimate              Actual
Village access roads (km)                     1,300                1,222
Settlement roads (km)                           100                   63
Wells                                         4,000                4,379/a
Village electrification                         346                  478
Households                                 50,000               64,600
Population                               300,000               420,000
/a   Included 3,439 deep (drilled) and 940 shallow (augered).
III. IMPLEMENTATION
Start-up
3.01      The project was declared effective on June 28, 1976, four months
after loan signing, when all documentary and legal conditions had been
satisfied. Several project activities, including selection of consultants for
design and construction supervision of the roads, were underway several 1onths
ahead of effectiveness.  The chosen consultant was TEC/SMEC consortium,l   and
included one of the local companies previously engaged (in May, 1973) for the
preliminary preparation of the ARD access roads and village water supply
components. During contract negotiations with these consultants the Bank
expressed concern at what were judged to be excessively high cost estimates
submitted by TEC/SMEC, and urged that ARD negotiate cost reductions, or enter
into negotiation with the second ranked firm if a satisfactory arrangement
could not be reached.
3.02      The first supervision, carried out two months after effectiveness,
1/   Thai Engineering Consultants Co. Ltd of Thailand and Snowy Mountains
Engineering Corporation of Australia.



- 18 -
, .
commented favorably on initial implementation progress, particularly in regard
to preparation of tender documents and bid invitations for the PEA rural
electrification and ARD well drilling components. On the other hand, concern
was expressed at the delay being experienced in finalizing negotiation with
the road consultants, owing to disagreement over man-month inputs and costs.
L!visions and Design Changes
3.03      At appraisal the engagement of design and construction supervision
consultants and construction contractors, a standard practice successfully
applied by other RTG agencies including the Department of Highways and the
Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand, had been introduced for the
roads component for reasons of efficiency and economy. However, in the course
of their engagement working relationships between the consultants and ARD
became strained because of factional differences within ARD between staff
responsible for the project and others. The arrest of two senior ARD staff in
March 1979, on charges of malfeasance in office, brought about a further
deterioration in working relationships between ARD and consultants which
culminated in a termination of contract after 23 months of operations in
November 1979 (para. 3.19). Thereafter, the Bank agreed to direct supervision
of contractors by ARD staff, who were then judged to be competent for the
task, a judgment which was substantiated in the final implementation phase.
3.04      A significant change in the organizational concept for the extension
component took pLace between appraisaL and effectiveness. At appraisal it was
intended that progressive farmers, serving as farmer foremen, would be the
link between the professional staff of the extension service and farmers. In
their place a large cadre of vocational school graduates were recruited as
fulltime extension agents and stationed in villages, at a distribution ratio
of one extension agent to 1,000 farmers. This change was a consequence of
strong efforts being made by the Bank at that time to introduce the training
and visit (T and V) system of agricultural extension in many borrower
countries, and led to this component becoming a pilot project for two
subsequent agricultural extension loans to Thailand, the first of which
became effective a little over one year after Loan 1198T-TH became effective.
Implementation Schedules
3.05      There was considerable variation between agencies in regard to their
ability to keep to appraisal implementation schedules.  All the ARD components
(roads construction, road maintenance and village water supplies) experienced
start-up delay, largely due to procurement problems (paras. 3.14-3.17) which
persisted for about three years and which were compounded by legal problems in
the case of several road construction contracts (paras. 3.22-3.23). Selection
of the first three road construction contractors took more than one year.
These problems ultimately delayed completion of all three components by two to
three years.
3.06      The PEA rural electrification component was implemented according to
schedule, without serious procurement problems. Progress with the DOA upland
crop improvement component was slow in the first two years pending the
appointment of a research program advisor and a change in project management.



- 19 -
3.07      The DAE extension component started off well and was quickly
succeeded by the first National Agricultural Extension Project, which provided
additional personnel and finance to meet the T and V system requirements of
DAE in the four project provinces.
3.08      A study of the DPW settlements in the Northeast had been carried out
by consultants between appraisal and effectiveness, and this report spelled
out several pilot improvement activities to be carried out at two
representative settlements. In spite of the specific development
recommendations provided by this report, implementation of the settLements
component experienced a delay of about one year, pending the arrival of two
advisors.
Reporting
3.09      Adherence to Bank's reporting requirements showed considerable
variation between agencies. PEA regularly submitted comprehensive quarterly
reports filled with statistical tables and work progress summaries. ARD pro-
vided copies of their design and construction supervision consultants reports
on a regular monthly basis throughout the approximately two year consultancy
period and similar quarterly reports on an irregular basis thereafter. DAE
also supplied copies of their civil works design and construction supervision
consultants monthly and quarterly reports to the flank, supplemented by short
general summaries of agricultural conditions and extension progress within the
project area on a monthly oasis. DOA provided anr;ual suummaries on research
activities which showed a considerable improvement in quality through the four
year life of that component, while DPW submitted very informative quarterly
reports to which their consultants made substantial contributions.
3.10      In general, reports compiled by, or with the assistance of consul-
tants, were of higher quality and more candid than those producted solely by
agency staff, in part because of unfamiliarity with the English language.
3.11      Project completion reports were submitted by ARD and PEA covering
rural roads, road maintenance, village water supply and rural electrifica-
tion. These reports were useful, but all of them especially those prepared by
ARD, could have been much more valuable as ex post project evaluation docu-
ments had the agencies been provided with more detailed guidelines by the
Bank. More useful, relevant and readily comparable data could then have been
generated with the same amount of effort.
Costs
3.12      Project cost was US$51.70 million as compared with an appraisal
estimate of US$45.06 million. An aggregate cost overrun of US$10.6 million
for the ARD components, mainly on accuunt of the delays in road construction
(para 3.18), was offset by aggregate savings of US$6.7 million in the research
and extension components (paras. 4.10 and 4.11). The electrification
component performed close to appraisal estimate, while the settlements
component exceeded projections by US$1.7 million.



- 20 -
3.13      In the event, the RTG provided US$31.7 million, some US$7.6 million
more than planned at appraisal.  The Bank loan totalled US$20.03 after
US$0.97 million of the US$21 million loan was cancelled.
Table 2: ACTUAL PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(US$'000)
Appraisal               Actual
Agency         Component/ILem            estimate        RTG     Bank    Total
.4RD        Civil works
(a)  Access roads                      12,060    7,849   19,549
(b)  Water supplies                     8,258         -    8,258
Vehicles, equip. and materials           420      5,113    5,533
Consultants                               248    1,584    1,832
Administration                          2,394         -    2,394
Subtotal              27,000        23,380   14,186   37,566
PEA         Civil Works                                ;01      201       502
Vehicles, equip. & materials            2,282    3,399    5,681
Admin. including force account          1,848         -    1,848
Subtotal              7,000       4,431    3,600    8,031 /a
DOA         Civil works                                171      133       304
Vehicles & equipment                       87       532      619
TechnicaL assistance                        -       278      278
Operating costs                           568         -      568
Subtotal              5,900         826      943    1,769
DAE         Civil works                                722      188       910
Vehicles & equipment                       78       420      498
Consultants & training                     17        97      114
Operating costs                           229         -      229
Subtotal                4,300       1,046      705    1,751
PWD         (Inclusive cost)               860       1,990      594    2,584
Total                 45,060      31,673   20,028   51,701
/a $6,967,000 is cost net of interest during construction.



- 21 -
Procurement
3.14          Difficulty was experienced in the early years with equipment
procurement by all agencies except PEA. Engagement of consultants and
appointment of civil works construction contractors also gave rise to many
problems, due to unfamiliarity with Bank procedures and lack of experience in
dealing with consultants on the part of most agency staff.
3.15          All agencies encountered problems in adjusting to Bank
requirements for international competitive bidding (ICB). Language diffi-
culties contributed to this problem, but RTG insistence on local procurement
regulations being followed in the case of ICB, although they were contrary to
Bank guidelines, were in part responsible for initial delays. These problems
were common to several Bank projects in Thailand under implementation in the
mid-1970s. They have since been larguly overcome by the issuance of revised
RTG instructions for ICB. Translation of the Bank procurement guidelines into
Thai also benefited procurement processing in the final years.
3.16           Procurement of well drilling equipment by ARD encountered long
delays, amounting to almost three years, first because of disagreement over
technical specifications on the part of the ARD evaluation committee which led
to a retender, and second, because of disagreement in acceptability of the
lowest bidders offer which was subsequently withdrawn, and finally, because of
the need for modifications to the equipment by the contracted supplier before
acceptance.
3.17          Disagreement between borrower and Bank over specification for
motorgraders led to a compromise with an equal number of 80 and 125 horsepower
models finally being procured.
Disbursement
3.18          SeveraL procurement problems in the early years, particularly
concerning well drilling and road maintenance equipment by ARD caused dis-
bursements to fall behind appraisal estimates. Termination of the road design
and construction supervision consultants by ARD halfway through the third year
of the project further delayed disnursement for the roads components.



- 22 -
Table 3: SCHEDULE OF LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative (US$ million)             Actual as Z of
IBRD FY                 Appraisal estimate   Actual              appraisal
FY76 /a                        0.1              0.0                  0
FY77                           0.9              0.8                 89
FY78                           8.5              3.3                 39
FY79                          16.0              8.5                 53
FY80                          20.0             12.5                 62
FY81                          21.0             16.0                 76
FY82                                           18.3                 87
FY83                                           1.6                 89
FY84 /b                                        20.0 /c              95
/a Loan was declared effective 06/28/76
7T Project completed 09/30/83
7i Final disbursements 08/03/84
Performance of Consultants, Contractors and Suppliers
3.19          Consultants.  A local firm of road design and construction
supervision consultants engaged by ARD performed well until their contract was
terminated by ARD in November 1979. Termination was based on alleged
irregularities on the part of certain ARD staff and the consuLtant over
construction contracts supervised by the consultants. A Criminal Court in
December 1981 acquitted the defendants of all charges.
3.20          Road maintenance and well drilling consultancy services, pro-
vided by a foreign firm in consortium with the road consultants (para. 3.19),
were of a high standard.
3.21          Individual consultant advisors for upland crops research (DOA)
and Settlement Planning and Development (DPW) gave excellent service in their
respective fields.
3.22          Contractors.  Relationships between ARD and the first three road
construction contractors became very strained in the months preceding the
termination of the road consultants contract (para. 3.19). Charges of
inadequate work performance and counter charges of delayed payments led to
several court actions which in some cases took years to resolve. ARDs
unwillingness to accept several completed roads under dispute led to their
deterioration due to lack of maintenance. The situation was being rectified
at the time of completion review. In restropect it appears that many of ARDs
problems in the early years arose through unfamiliarity in dealing with con-
sultants and contractors and reluctance on the part of some senior ARD staff
to accept the Bank's conditions regarding contractual arrangements for design
and construction as an alternative to the traditional force account approach.



- 23 -
3.23           The crisis was resolved at the end of 1979 when the Bank agreed
to direct supervision of contractors by ARD and to splitting of the
outstanding road construction tasks into smaller contracts, which had the
effect of opening up the bidding to a larger number of competent local firms.
3.24           Suppliers.  The only serious problem attributable to suppliers
arose in the case of percussion drill rigs, which initially did not perform to
specifications. Modifications carried out by the manufacturer after delivery
led to final acceptance within a few months.
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND IMPACT
4.01           Village Access Roads.  Once the procurement and consultant
relationship problems (paras. 3.14-3.17 and 3.19) were overcome in the fourth
year of implementation, ARD performance in road construction supervision was
good, as evidenced by the good construction standard of completed roads and by
the timely completion of several roads often earlier than was foreseen in the
contract. Annex 1 provides further details concerning engineering aspects.
4.02           Road Maintenance.  The road maintenance component successfully
demonstrated ARDs ability to upkeep their inventory of roads in the four
target provinces according to a flexible program which took accounc of traffic
volume and prevailing road conditions. Experience with this component has
demonstrated that the present combination of annual and periodic budget
allocations for road maintenance may be insufficient and could be leading to a
steady deterioration of the road network which causes funds and equipr'ent time
to be diverted from routine maintenance to emergency repairs to the laterite
surfacing. Each maintenance unit is thus presently maintaining only about
150 km annually instead of the 250-300 km that could normally be maintained by
such equipment.
4.03           Operating experience has shown that the 80 HP motorgraders
(para. 3.17) have not proven fully satisfactory, being able only to handle
light grading work.
4.04           Village Water Supply.  The medium sized percussion rigs
performed satisfactorily and much superior to the older, larger drill rigs
previously used, while the two bucket augers proved to be exceptionally well
suited to the conditions and were found to have a capacity at least double the
appraisal expectations.
4.05           Maintenance of wells is a problem.  ARD has only recently
announced the start of a training program in handpump maintenance for its
field social workers, who would also be provided with basic tools and
spares. Also, there is little evidence of village participation in the well
and handpump maintenance system, as per covenant 3.06 (b) in the project loan
agreement. Instead, ARD provincial offices are responsible for preventative
maintenance and repair, operating through mobile maintenance units in charge
of about 50 wells each. Budget restrictions delay the deployment of these



- 24 -
units, which are able therefore only to carry out repairs after breakdowns
have occurred.
4.06           Present annual cost of maintenance of the locally manufactured
handpumps installed by ARD is B 2,500 per pump, and should be considered very
high if compared to the cost of B 3,800 for a new pump. Fifty percent of the
above cost is represented by spare parts, some of which, like the piston cups,
have a maximum life of six months. ARD should consider using higher quality
parts, imported if not available locally, to reduce maintenance cost and
prolong the repair-free life of the pumps.
4.07           In spite of the maintenance problem, the component was
definitely successful in helping to solve the critical water shortage during
the six month long dry season in some 2,000 villages of the Northeast.
4.08           Experience has shown that acceptance by villagers of water from
deep wells for drinking purposes is generally limited, due to its high
chemical content in salts and iron. This water is however used for bathing
and laundry and allows a reduction in the draw of water from shallow wells
that are preferred for drinking purposes. Arising from this experience,
consideration is being given to wider use of shallow wells, dug with the aid
of bucket augers, which in most areas provide an adequate supply of water at
considerably lower cost.
4.09           Rural Electrification.  PEA electrified 338 (98Z) of their
target villages by the estimated appraisal date of 1978, and thereafter
electrified an additional i40 villages in 1980, for a final achievement of 478
villages, 38% above original target. The increased target in part resulted
from early construction of the main distribution system financed from other
sources, but nevertheless represents a commendable achievement. PEA was able
to adapt readily to international competitive bidding procedures, and
expressed considerable satisfaction with that approach because of the
increased competition from reputable international suppliers and the keen
pricing of quality products which resulted.
4.10           Upland Crop Improvement.  The investment in research under this
component can be described as modest when compared with the probLems of
agriculture in Northeast Thailand. Nevertheless, and in large part thanks to
an unusually talented consultant, this component succeeded in laying the
groundwork for a cropping systems research program which is being further
developed under the bank-assisted National Agricultural Research Project.
Local costs for this component were over-estimated at appraisal.
4.11           Agricultural Extension.  This component underwent a radical
reformulation shortly after effectiveness (para. 3.04), when DAE and the Bank
agreed to adopt the Training and Visit System of Extension. This approach
required a greatly increased cadre of full-time extension agents in place of
the part-time farmer foremen originally envisioned. The increased staffing,
equipment, accommodation and training costs in the four target provinces were
met from the National Agricultural Extension I project, which became effective
in September 1977, only 15 months after NERD became effective. This change



- 25 -
resulted in savings of approximately US$2.5 million, mainly represented by
unexpended salary costs of farm foremen.
4.12          Land Settlements.  Several innovative pilot projects aimed at
increasing settler productivity were introduced through this component. The
most succesful with settlers on the two target settlements were fish ponds,
cooperative marketing and fruit trees, while observational plots of rubber
planted on a trial basis have established well and hold considerable promise
as a possible new crop in the Northeast, provided latex yields in the next few
years are comparable with the initial satisfactory tree growth. An attempt to
introduce improved pasture as a basis for livestock development was
unsuccessful, while a costly pilot pump and pipe irrigation system, designed
by a local consultant, encountered many problems due in part to overestimation
of the supply source and installation of an underpowered pump. The economics
of this investment, as currently operated, appear extremely unfavorable.
V. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
General
5.01          An interesting feature of this project was that, contrary to
many rural development projects in recent years, it consisted of seven
components each implemented independently by the agencies without the need for
any high level coordinatitig committee or secretariat responsible for
integration of the separate activities. The project does not appear to have
suffered in any way because of the absence of such an inter-agency
organizational structure.
5.02          A basic organizational objective of the roads construction and
maintenance components was to assist ARD in moving away from its previous
policy of constructing roads through force account towards that of making
greater use of local consultants and contractors for such works. Staff
released from construction activities would then be able to devote more
attention to road maintenance works.
5.03          The decision to engage road design and construction supervision
consultants, which was favored by ARD management at appraisal, was not
welcomed by many ARD staff during implementation, who felt that such
assistance was unnecessary. The termination by ARD of the consultants
contract gave ARD staff an opportunity to prove their construction supervision
ability. ARD now claims to have an annual design capacity for about 2,000 km
of standard roads, which is well in excess of their current construction
program. The successful implementation of the road construction program in
the final three years of the project is evidence of ARD's potential ability to
handle a substantial program of access road construction through local
contractors in the future without the assistance of consultants.
5.04          Similarly, the road maintenance component has shown that ARD is
fully capable of adequately maintaining existing access roads using force
account, provided it has the right equipment and an adequate operating budget.



- 26 -
5.05           The satisfactory results of these components should encourage
ARD to extend the use of contractors for construction over its whole system
and to shift an increasing responsibility for maintenance to force account.
5.06           The water supply component has been successful in solving the
critical dry season water shortage in some 2,000 villages in the Northeast,
although the potability of the water from the majority of the deep wells has
been a disappointment. Any repeater project in this area should give greater
emphasis to shallow wells dug with bucket augers, which are considerably less
expensive and more likely to produce water of reasonable potability.
5.07           ARD has failed to set up an efficient wells and handpumps
maintenance system. A critical review of spare parts quality and greater
efforts to involve beneficiaries in the maintenance tasks is recommended.
5.08           The rural electrification component was implemented on time and
without any serious problems. The experience provided both PEA and the Bank
with the confidence to proceed with repeater rural electrification loans in
1978 and 1980.
5.09           Similarly, the upland crops improvement and the extension
components were instrumental in preparing the way for Bank assistance to DOA
and DAE in follow on projects for national agricultural research (1981) and
extension (1977 and 1980).
5.10           The land settlement component encountered several unpredictable
setbacks, including a major incursion in 1978 by Kampuchean-backed forces at
one of the settlements which resulted in the loss of lives, destruction of
public and private property and a serious decline in staff and settler
morale. This was followed a year later by the accidental death of one of the
advisory consultants. A final assessment of the benefits from this component
would be premature at this time and wiLl depend on the extent to which the
more promising outcomes can be replicated either in other PWD settlements or
more generally through the Northeast.
Accounting Reporting
5.11          All payments relative to the project were accounted for by the
different departments in their respective books of account which were
subjected to the same audit checks by the Office of the Auditor General (OAG)
that are applied to all Government transactions. Audit reports as called for
under the finacial covenants in the Loan Agreement (Article IV, Section 4.02
(b)) and the PEA Project Agreement (Article IV, Section 4.02), were provided
by OAG to the Bank for ARD components up to end of September 30, 1982; for DPW
up to end of September 30, 1981; and for DAE up to end of September 30,
1979. No certified statement or report were produced for PEA or DOA.
5.12           OAG staff explained that their limited compliance with this
covenant was due to the serious shortage of qualified auditors who can carry
out audits in accordance with Bank requirements.



- 27 -
Monitoring and Reporting
5.13          No provision for input-output monitoring or completion reporting
was made in the appraisal report or loan agreement but records of physical
progress, with minor exceptions, proved reliable and all agencies prepared
completion reports of varying length and complexity. These reports provided
useful summaries of progress and the statistical data presented were helpful
in preparing this report.
Covenants
5.14          Except for the auditing covenant (paras. 5.11-5.12), and the
maintenance and repair of wells covenant (para. 4.05) the 3orrower compLied
satisfactorily with loan and project agreement covenants.
VI. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
6.01          Village Access Roads.  This component has an estimated rate of
return of 10%, compared with the original appraisal estimate of 20%. The
lower than anticipated rate of return is largely a result of higher cost,
delayed implementation, reduced passenger and commodity transport cost savings
and lower agricultural development benefits.
6.02          The recalculated user benefits were derived from road surveys
conducted by ARD covering a total of 33 villages located within the influence
zones of 15 roads. Agricultural development benefits were reestimated using
recent agricultural area and production figures and actual commodity prices
paid in the region.
6.03          The appraisal estimates of generated traffic seem to have been
fulfilled. Time savings were considerable, and seem to average about one hour
per trip.
6.04          In summary, at full project development economic benefits from
the roads component were about 60% of the appraisal estimate, largely because
the return from cassava development was less than anticipated at appraisal.
6.05          The estimated cost of this component was US$19.5 million
compared with an appraisal estimate of US$17.5 million, including physical and
price contingencies.
6.06          Given the lack of detailed ex post data on comparative passenger
and freight transport costs and an accurate estimate of incremental cassava
production generated by the project, a sensitivity analysis was made using
different values for these variables. Depending on assumed values, the rate
of return varies between 8 and 15%.
6.07          Rural Electrification.  The ex post rate of return is 26% as
compared with an appraisal estimate of 12% largely because of the inclusion of
power transmission lines as sunk costs. Sensitivity analyses were done taking
into account a lower value of sunk costs (21%) and lower gross revenues (17).



- 28 -
6.08          PEA was able to extend electrification to 478 villages, rather
than the 346 originally escimated. The level of benefits attained several
years after electrification of a given village were slightly lower than
anticipated because the conversion from diesel-powered rice mills, water pumps
and other equipment and machinery was slower than expected. The consumption
of power by residential households was greater than expected, but overall, up
to 1980, total electrical energy used in project villages was about 70X of the
forecast due to the need for pre-existing diesel plant to be fully depreciated
before conversion. Nevertheless overall consumption continues to grow rapidly
and conversions from diesel powered equipment to eLectric motors are
accelerating.
6.09          Details of the ex post economic reevaluation are given in
Annex 2.
VII. BANK PERFORMANCE
Project Justification and Objectives.
7.01          Prepared originally as a rural infrastructure project, the core
activities - road construction and maintenance, water supply and rural
electrification - were conceptually straightforward and sound, and the passage
of time has in no way detracted from the appropriateness of project
objectives, which were to improve economic and social conditions in selected
villages in the economically backward Northeast. The criteria developed to
identify priority villages were practical and continue to be relevant.
7.02          The three smaller, agriculturally oriented components were added
at a late stage in the appraisal process, apparently in response to growing
concern at that time with the need to find solutions to the intractable
problem of raising agricultural productivity in the region. Ail three
components could probably have benefited from more exhaustive preparation and
appraisal, but nevertheless produced some useful results, especially in the
extension and research components.
Project Content and Scheduling
7.03          The variety of separate components and large number of agencies
involved, none of which had any previous experience of Bank projects, made the
task of supervision particularly difficult. In overall numerical terms, Bank
staff inputs in field supervision on an individual agency basis were quite
sparse, particularly in the early years. A gap of 14 months in formal super-
vision between September 1978 and November 1979, during which time ARD was in
serious disagreement with its consultants and contractors, is particularly
noteworthy. It reflects in part the Bank's concern at getting drawn into what
was judged to be a politically sensitive internal dispute.



- 29 -
Project Implementation and Operating Outcomes
7.04          Delays in procurement and consultant and contractor appointment,
which could not have been foreseen at appraisal, seriously affected implemen-
tation in the early years and were responsible for cost overruns and a two
year postponement of project completion. In other respects the project
progressed more or less as anticipated at appraisal.
7.05          Except for a change in division responsibility in early 1981,
there was good continuity of Bank staff during supervision. The project could
probably have benefited from more frequent or concentrated supervision,
especially during the earlier years when progress was very slow on the part of
most agencies (PEA was an outstanding exception) and Bank staff advice on
procurement and contractual issues could have led to earlier acceleration.
Again, in the concluding stage, more intensive efforts by Bank staff to
outline evaluation and completion reporting procedures could have led to a
more valuable final output. The quality of working relationships beLween Bank
staff and implementing agencies was generally good.
7.06          Higher manpower allocations for supervision of multiagency,
multicomponent projects appears justified on the basis of this project
experience.
rmplications of Project Outcomes
7.07          The Bank contribution was particularly important for offering
the orospects (through identification and preparation) and later providing the
means (through the loan) for ARD to demonstrate the advantages of engaging
contractors for road construction and concentrating its own force account
works on road maintenance. The introduction of bucket augers for shallow well
digging was a further worthwhile innovation attributable to the project.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS
8.01          The project has been successful in its main objectives of
improving economic and social conditions among a cross section of the more
remote rural population in Northeast Thailand, including a high proportion of
poor farmers. These benefits should continue to accrue indefinitely, provided
there is adequate maintenance.
8.02           The low ex post rate of return of 10% for the village access
roads component as compared with an appraisal estimate of 202 is due to higher
economic costs, delayed implementation and reduced transport and agricultural
benefits, whereas the higher ex post rate of return of 26% for rural
electrification as compared with an appraisal estimate of 12% is due mainly to
the current and projected rapid increase in power consumption.



ANNEX 1
- 30 -
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1198 -TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARD Village Access Roads, Road Maintenance
and Village Water Supply
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  VILLAGE ACCESS ROADS  .........        ..................   31
Introduction  ..............              .............   31
Design and Supervision  ..................................   31
Construction  .............              .............   32
Maintenance   ..........................   33
Project Impact           ..........................    33
Land Settlement Roads  ...........................   34
II.  ROAD MAINTENANCE   ..........................   35
Introduction  ..........................    35
Implementation          ..........................    35
Project Impact  ..........................   36
III. VILLAGE WATER SUPPLY .....................................  36
Introduction    .... 36
Procurement   ..36
Implementation    ..37
Maintenance   ..37
Project Impact   ..38
TABLES:   1.  Roads Construction Program
2. Roads Maintenance Program
3. Village Water Supply Planned and Actual
Schedule of Implementation



- 31 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1198 -TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARD Village Access Roads, Road Maintenance and Village Water Supply
I. Village Access Roads
Introduction
1.01      This component of the project consisted of the construction of 1,300
km of village access roads under the responsibility of ARD in 13 provinces.
One of the aims of the project was to assist ARD in moving away from force
account construction of rural roads, a practice it has followed since it was
formed in the mid-1960s. The intention, therefore, was to employ consultants
for design and construction supervision and to use contractors to build the
roads. Delays in the implementation of the component, as detailed hereafter,
were the main reasons for two extensions of the loan closing date to September
1982 and September 1983.
Design and Supervision
1.02      Negotiations of consultants fees,l-  considered excessively high by
the Bank as originally submitted, lasted about nine months and represented the
first cause of delay in implementation.
Once at work the consultants proceeded expeditiously and the design
of all the roads was practically completed at the end of 1978.
The performance of the consultants in design and construction
supervision was excellent, as noted by several supervision missions, and as
proven by the good standard of construction of finished roads.
1.03      The unfortunate occurrence of a corruption case in the road
component that involved certain ARD officials connected with the project and
the consultants led to the termination of TEC/SMEC contract in November 1979.
1/   Thai Engineering Consultants (TEC) mainly responsible for design and
construction supervision of the village access roads and Snowy Mountain
Engineering Corporation (SMEC) responsible for the road maintenance
component. TEC/SMEC contract was later extended to include technical
assistance for village water supplies.



ANNEX 1
-32 -                            Page 2
Although all the defendants were acquitted later in court cases the
events seriously affected the implementation of the village roads component,
work on which virtually stopped for more than six months.
In September 1979, ARD notified its decision to carry out construc-
tion supervision on force account through its Acceptance Committee; the Bank
agreed without major objections, notwithstanding its previous attitude towards
ARD capability to carry out such task. During the remaining project
implementation period ARD performance in construction supervision was
remarkably good as proven by the good construction standard of finished roads
and by the timely compLetion of several roads, often earlier than was foreseen
in the contract. The termination of the consultants contract had a negative
consequence, however, resulting from a reLuctance of ARD staff to accept work
approved by the consultants; the resulting delays in payments to the
contractors (namely for contracts 1, 2 and 3) led to prolonged legal disputes
that were settled only at the beginning of 1984.
Construction
1.04      The actual length of roads contracted for construction was 1,270 km
as against an appraisal estimate of 1,300 km; at closing date the construction
of 1,222 km had been achieved, the uncompleted balance resulting from some
design modifications during construction and some sections not considered
completed by ARD because of defective works.
1.05      The delay of two years in the completion of the component was caused
by early difficulties related to procurement problems. As recommended by the
Bank the first 5 contracts tendered were large (about 150 km each) in the hope
of attracting international bids, which however were not forthcoming. It took
ARD one full year to award contracts 2 and 3; a few months later the outbreak
of the corruption case caused the cancellation of bids for contracts 4 and 5
and brought construction operations to a standstill for more than six months.
1.06      When activity was resumed, and with ARD directly responsible for
construction supervision, a shift was made from ICB to LCB for the new
contracts. The remaining original 6 contracts were split into 21 smaller ones
(40-50 km each) that proved attractive to a number of medium size national
contractors.
1.07      The outcome of the new arrangement was very positive and major
progresses were achieved in 1981 (Table 1) with about 670 km of roads
completed in one year. Timing of award of contracts between August and
September 1980, was also particularly helpful as contractors were able thereby
to make best use of the major road construction season of December to July.
This advantage is shown by the fact that most of the contractors completed
their works ahead of schedule. Quality of construction was also very good and
gave good evidence of ARD capability of successfully supervising small and
medium contractors for road construction.



- 33 -                  ~~~~~ANNEX I
- 33 -                      Page 3
Maintenance
1.08      The prolonged legal disputes on Contracts 1, 2 and 3 have caused
maintenance of these roads to be neglected for several years. On the one hand
ARD could not include them in its maintenance budget until officially accepted
and on the other hand the contractors refused to extend their maintenance
beyond the 12 months ccntractual period. The disputes have recern.ly been
settled and the roads, as reported by ARD officials, will be included in FY85
maintenance budget.
1.09      It was originally foreseen at appraisal that the villagers would
contribute labour for maintenance of village access roads. This hes not
occurred for a number of reasons:
(a) Social and economic conditions have changed since appraisal;
(b) Villagers actually maintain only lower standard access roads that
only give access to their village and for which no government funds
are allocated; and
Cc) Competition of other government sponsored programs, like the "Rural
Jobs Creation", that provide a renumeration for works of similar
nature, including road maintenance.
Project Impact
1.10      The available data do not allow a complete quantification of all the
benefits, as discussed in more detail in the economic reevaluation section of
the PCR.  The scanty information provided by a sample survey carried out by
AbD in the areas of influence of eight project roads shows, however, a
positive impact in terms of reduction of travelling time, use of large, more
efficient transport vehicles, increase in marketed agricultural production and
in general better access to social services, namely health and education.
1.11      The project was only partially successful in promoting a substantial
shift in ARD from rural roads design, construction and supervision to the use
of consultants and contractors.
1.12      Although the project has provided sufficient evidence that local
roads can be efficiently and economically constructed by local contractors, it
will still take ARD some time to change its way of operating. ARD management
seems in fact reluctant to abandon a system that, even in the present time of
limited financial resources, still allows ARD to maintain its role of being
the major infrastructure constructor at local level and to make maximum use of
its numerous staff and large fleet of equipment. The relative Low priority
assigned to road maintenance, moreover, represents one more constraint to a
major shift of staff and equipment from construction to maintenance
operations, as fore:_en at appraisal.
1.13      ARD is presently building three types of roads, according to the
design standards established in 1976:



ANNEX 1
-34-                           Page 4
(a)  ARD Standard Roads, 6 m. wide, with a laterite pavement layer of 20
cm. minimum thickness;
(b)  Type 1 Village Access Roa )9 5 m. wide, with a laterite pavement of
15 cm. minimum thickness;- and
(c)  Type 2 Village Access Roads, 3 to 5 m. wide, with Laterite pavement
of 10 cm. minimum thickness.
1.14      ARD Standard Roads are considered as the primary local network,
while Type I and Type 2 are more strictly village access roads. The present
length of Type 1 roads in the Northeast is only about 2,500 km., half of which
were constructed under the project, as against a total network of more than
11,000 kL.. of Standard roads (65 m/sq. km.).  At the present time, ARD is
placing major emphasis on the construction of Standard Roads, claiming it has
not attained yet the target density corresponding to a maximum distance of 10
km. between ARD Standard Roads.
1.15      During the last eight years (1975 to 1983) ARD has designed and
built on force account some 5,000 km. of Standard Roads in the Northeast. At
present 38 ARD provincial offices, out of the 57 existing in the whole
country, are staffed with road design and survey units that can each design
about 50 km per year; the headquarters office in Bangkok has an additional
capacity of 200 km of road design and survey per year.
Land Settlement Roads
1.16      The project also provided for about 100 km of access roads to be
constructed or rehabilitated by ARD in  lected PWD land settlement areas.
Only 63 kn were eventually constructed - , but they can be considered
sufficient, being complemented by an asphalt road between the southern end of
Prasart and the eastern side of Ban Kruat, constructed by the Highway
Department for security reasons.
1.17      A total lack of maintenance of these roads since their construction,
mainly due to PWD budget constraints is a cause for concern. One possible
solution would be to hand over the main arterial roads to the Highway
Department and promote some form of settlers participation in the maintenance
of the lateral feeder roads.
2/   NERD Project Roads were all constructed with a 20 cm. compacted laterite
pavement, as specified at appraisal, without provision for different
subgrade soil conditions or expected levels of traffic.
3/   41 kn in Prasart and 22 km in Ban Kruat.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
- 35 -
II. Road Maintenance
Introduction
2.01      The purpose of this component was to strengthen ARD's capability to
maintain its existing road network in the Northeast. The project provided
equipment for 16 maintenance units in the four provinces with the longest
length of roads and oldest equipment. The four provinces selected by ARD for
the project were Udorn Thani, Sakon Nakorn, Nong Kai and Buriram, with a total
road network of about 2,000 km. Consultant services were also included to
assist ARD in strengthening its maintenance program.
Implementation
2.02      EarLy difficulties in compiling the procurement list of maintenance
equipment caused delays in the start-up of the component. In addition the
specifications for the motorgraders, as originally drafted by ARD, restricted
the choice to only one 80 HP model and caused objections from several
bidders. Upon Bank insistence ARD agreed to modify the specifications and
eventually contracted 8 motorgraders of 125 HP, as recommended at appraisal,
and 8 motorgraders of 80 HP. Delivery of the equipment to the four provinces
was completed only in 1979 and distributed as follows:
Sakon Nakorn : 5 units
Buriram      : 4 units
Udon Thani   : 4 units
Nong Khai    : 3 units
2.03      After some initial difficulties due to misallocation of the
equipment (some items were assigned to the general pool and some other items
diverted to construction works) maintenance operations progressed regularly.
Frequency of routine maintenance on each road was planned according to traffic
volume and road condition. For each unit an annual maintenance program ;as
established well ahead and actual performance was monitored and compared to
the original plans. Quality of maintenance was generally very good and
progress was also very satisfactory as shown in Table 2.
2.04      Production of each unit was on average 175 km. Per year, including
periodic maintenance (regravelling), with some provinces even attaining 300
km/year of routine maintenance with an average of two gradings. In some
instances the limiting factor to higher production was not equipment capacity
but rather limited operating budget resou-_es.
2.05      The equipment utilization was also very good, with down time for
repairs kept to a minimum, which is evidence of timely and competent pre-
ventive maintenance. As reported by ARD, only the smaller 80 HP motorgraders
have not proven fully satisfactory, being able only to handle light grading,
but having to make a significant number of passes to spread loads of laterite
dumped for resurfacing, approximately doubling the amount of time required to
spread a given amount of material.



- 36 -                           ANNEX 1
- 36 -                  ~~~~Page 6
Project Impact
2.06      The satisfactory results of the component should encourage ARD to
extend the same system to its whole network, by gradually shifting from road
construction activity to increasing responsibility for maintenance on force
account.
2.07      In addition to the constraints mentioned in the previous chapter,
ARD is handicapped in its road maintenance efforts by financial constraints.
The annual alLocation, as allowed at present by the Budget Bureau, for routine
maintenance of Type I roads is only B 8,000 per kilometer (US$347/km). This
is clearly insufficient in real terms, if compared to the B 7,000/km
considered adequate at appraisal in 1975. The problem is further compounded
by the negligeable allocation of funds for periodic maintenance, which does
not allow regravelling to be carried out regularly every five years as
recommended by the maintenance plans. The resulting steady deterioration of
the network is causing funds and equipment time to be diverted from routine
maintenance to emergency repairs to the laterite surfacing; each maintenance
unit is thus presently maintaining only about 150 km annually, instead of the
250-300 km that could normally be maintained in comparable conditions.
III. Village Water Supply
Introduction
3.01      This component provided for the construction of about 4,000
tubewells for village water supply, and for the construction and rehabilita-
tion of small dams and ponds in areas where groundwater is unusable. It aLso
provided equipment and technical assistance for ARD's Water Resources Center
(WRC) in Khon Kaen to expand its capacity for constructing village water
supplies throughout the region.
Procurement
3.02      A modification was introduced at an early stage (before project
effectiveness) in the list of equipment required. A review of geological
conditions in the area had indicated that the small size percussion rigs
suggested at appraisal were not suitable for the local conditions. It was
therefore decided, with Bank's approval, to replace the 50 small rigs with 16
medium size percussion rigs, in addition to the 10 units already foreseen.
3.03      Specifications and tender documents for the rigs and two bucket
augers were prepared by the consultants; procurement of the equipment was
performed by ARD on the basis of ICB. ARD lack of experience in procurement
procedures, either for ICB or LCB, represented again a major reason for delays
in implementation. While procurement of the two bucket augers did not present
major difficulties, the drilling rigs needed to be tendered twice since ARD
insisted on conforming to RTC rather than Bank procurement rules. All the
rigs were eventually delivered to the Khon Kaen Centre between December 1978
and May 1979.



ANNEX 1
-37 -                            Page 7
Implementation
3.04      When the first rigs were delivered ARD found that there were several
points which did not meet specifications. The necessary corrections and
testing took several months and it was only in November 1979 that the 26 rigs
were all operational.
3.05      In the meanwhile the existing 8 large ARD rigs were drilling about
160 wells per year as estimated at appraisal. The bucket augers started to
operate in 1978 and the first percussion rigs at the and of 1979; full produc-
tion was attained from 1980 to 1983, as detailed in Table 3. After the
initial difficulties had been overcome all the rigs operated in the field
satisfactory and only minor adjustments were required. Some trouble was
experienced with the trailers on which the rigs were mounted when towed on
some of the very rough access roads to villages, and the suggested solution
was to mount them on trucks. Due to budget restrictions this was possible
only for the two bucket augers, which resulted in increased efficiency and
reliability.
3.06      The appraisal target of 4,000 wells was met, and even slightly
exceeded, with a delay of about two years in 1983; in total 3,439 deep wells
and 565 shallow wells were dug. In the last four years deep wells were being
drilled at an average rate of 26 wells per rig per year but their actual
production could have been 50Z higher if works had not been frequently delayed
by lack of materials and fuel. Also the capacity of bucket augers in digging
shallow wells had been estimated too conservatively at appraisal at 50 wells
per equipment/year.  The actual capaciS  was at least double this rate and in
fact they were used by ARD to dig 375 - additional wells during the project
period with funds from different sources.
3.07      The surface water development works had been dropped from the
component at an early stage upon ARD request. Apparently they had been
originally included only under pressure from the previous ARD management but
had never been fully approved by the appraisal mission because of the poor
performance of the many small reservoirs already built in the Northeast.
Maintenance
3.08      It was recommended at appraisal, and included in Section 3.06 of the
Loan Agreement, that ARD would have made arrangements for the voluntary
participation of the villagers in drilling operations and in maintenance of
the wells and handpumps thereafter. Village water committees should have been
set up with responsibility for the protection and maintenance of the well and
handpump ard should have recieved tools, spare parts and instructions on
repair and maintenance operations.
4/ 144 under irrigation development program.
121 under drought relief program.
104 under rural job creation program.
106 under border security program.



38 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 8
A satisfactory degree of participation was reportedly achieved
during well development with the villagers contributing with labour and food
for ARD drilling teams. However, ARD has failed until now to set up an
efficient wells and handpumps maintenance system that would involve villagers
participation. The main reasons can be summarized as follows:
(a)  there is no much evidence of any sort of training given to villagers
on simple routine m'intenance operations; only recently ARD has
announced the start of a training programme in handpumps maintenance
for its field social workers, who wilL be also provided with basic
tools;
(b)  preventive maintenance and repairs are the responsibility of ARD
provincial offices that should ope-ate through mobile maintenance
units in charge of about 50 wells bach. Budget restrictions delay
the deployment of these units, which are able threfore only to carry
out repairs after breakdowns have occurred. Delays in carrying out
repairs, caused by work overload during the critical dry season, are
misinterpreted by the villagers as typical government disinterest.
3.09      Present annual cost of maintenance of the locally manufactured hand-
pumps installed by ARD is B 2,500 per pump, and should be considered very high
if compared to the cost of B 3,800 f'r a new pump.  Fifty per cent of the
above cost is represented by spare parts, some of which, like the piston cups,
have a maximum life of 6 months. Consideration should be given to using
higher quality parts, imported if not available locally, to reduce maintenance
cost and prolong the repair-free life of the pumps.
Project Impact
3.10      The component was definitely successful in solving the critical
water shortage during the six month long dry season in some 2,000 villages of
the Northeast.
3.11      The most important aspect resulting from the implementation of this
component is that acceptance by villagers of deep wells water for drinking
purposes is generally Limited, due to its high chemical content in salts and
iron; this water is however accepted for household uses and allows a reduction
in the draw of water from shallow wells that are by far preferred for drinking
purposes.
3.12      Consideration is being given to wider use of shallow wells, which in
most areaa provide an adequate supply of water at considerably lower cost,
i.e. B 8-10,000 for a 6-8 m. shallow weLl dug by bucket auger, compared to B
70,000 for a tubewell of about 40-50 meters depth.
There is in fact still considerable uncertainty regarding the extent
and possible changes ir. salinity of ground water in the Northeast. In
conditions where shallower sources can provide an adequate supply this may be
preferable, ensuring supplies of satisfactory quality.



THAILAND
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1198 -TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Roads Construction Program
(kilometer)
1976     1977      1978     1979      1980      1981     19R2      1983  Total
18t        2nd
Project Implementation             - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -Extension - Extension
Village Access Roads (km)                                                                                            0
Appraisal schedule              100      400       400      400         -                               1,300
Under construction                -        -       300      295       654       216      193       130/a
Actually completed                -        -         -       114       14    1,014    1,097    1,222  1,270
/a Estimated.
I X
I-al-



-40 -                              ANNEX I
Table 2
TRAILAND
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1198 -TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Roads Maintenance ProRram
(kilometer)
Fiscal Years               ARD standard roads           Village
(October 1st to                               Rehabi-       Access
September 30th)         Routine   Periodic  litation    (Type 1)       Total
1979   Target             2,610          -         -            -        2,610
Actual            2,196          -          -           -         2,196
z                     84         -          -           -            84
1980   Target             2,164       214          -           92        2,470
Actual             1,683        20          -          30         1,733
%                     78         9          -          33            70
1981   Target             2,515        155        15          150        2,835
Actual            2,568        139         15         142         2,864
%                    102        90        100          95           101
1982   Target             2,335       328         16          381        3,060
Actual            2,299        342         16         193         2,820
Z                     98        95        100          51            92
1983   Target             2,505       240         20          404        3,166
Actual            2,477        209          2         401         3,089
z                     99        87         10         100            98



ANNEX 1
Table 3
-41 -
THAILAND
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1198 -TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Village Water Supply Planned and Actual Schedule of Implementation
Fiscal Years
(October 1st to           Deep wells           Shallow wells              Total
September 30th)        Plan       Actual      Plan     Actual       Plan      Actual
1976                    189        162           -         -         189        162
1977                    160        143           -         -         160        143
1978                    160        172          50        50         210        222
1979                    310        274         115       115         425        389
1980                    650        667         100       100         740        767
1981                    654        621         100       100         754        721
1982                    700        700         100       100         800        800
1983                    700        700         100       100         800        800
Total            3,523     3,439         565        565       4,078      4,004
Additional shallow
wells /a                -          -           -       375           -        375
Grand Total      3,523     3,439         565        940       4,078      4,379
/a Financed from other sources, using project equipment.



ANNEX 2
-42 -
THAILAND
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1198 -TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Analysis
Table of Contents
Page No.
VILLAGE ACCESS ROADS AND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION .....................  43
Overview        .      ................................................  4
RURAL ROADS .. ...............................................  43
Benefits ..................................................    43
Costs .................................................        45
ImpLementation ..............................................  45
Recalculation of ERR ........................................  45
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION ........................................ .......  46
Benefits .................................................     46
Costs              . . . ........ ............ 47
Implementation         .     .     ..... ........ ..............  47
Economic Analysis          ......... . ..               ..   48
TABLES: 1. Selected Price Indices
2. Cassava Prices
3. Cassava Crop Budget
4. Re-calculation of Agricultural Benefits
5. Re-calculation of Passenger Cost Savirgs
6.  Economic Analysis
7. Economic Analysis - Net Benefit Streams
8. Rate of Return
9.  Sutmmary of ARD Road Building Program



-43 -                             ANNEX 2
Page i
THAILAXD
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1198 -TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Analysis -Village Access Roads and Rural Electrification
1.        Overview.  Although the project consisted of seven discrete
components, economic rates of return were calculated at appraisal for only two
components - Rural Roads and Rural Electrification. In terms of cost these
were the two largest and the ones for which economic benefits could be most
feasibly quantified. In this re-evaluation ex post rates of return were
calculated for the same two components whereas the evaluation of the others is
done largely in qualitative terms.
2.        At appraisal the rate of return for the rural roads was 20% and for
rural electrification 12%. The ex post rates of return were 10% for rural
roads and 26Z for rural electrification. Several additional sensitivity
analyses of the rural electrification component were done taking into account
sunk costs and lower gross revenues.
3.        The lower-than-anticipated rate of return on the roads component is
largely a result of higher economic costs, delayed implementation, reduced
passenger and commodity transport cost savings and lower agricultural develop-
ment benefits, whereas the higher ex post rate of return on rural electrifica-
tion was due mainly to projected rapid increases in power consumption.
Rural Roads
4.        Benefits.  Benefits are derived from passenger cost savings for
normal and induced traffic, transport cost savings for agricultural commodi-
ties, and induced agricultural development. All benefits are incremental and
are phased according to the realized progress in road construction. Current
values were deflated to 1977 constant vaLues using the CPI for northeastern
Thailand.
5.        The re-calculated user benefits were derived from "before and afte'r"
sample road surveys conducted by ARD in 1980 and 1982, covering a total of
33 villages located within influence zones of 15 roads. Agricultural develop-
ment benefits were re-estimated using recent agricultural area and production
figures and actual commodity prices paid in the region.
6.        The build-up of btnefits was delayed and stretched out due to delays
in implementation.
7.        Benefits derived from user-cost savings appear to be significantly
less than anticipated at appraisal. It was originally estimated that passen-
ger cost savings would be B 0.17/passenger-km but ex post survey data indi-
cates that savings were approximately B 0.07/pass-km. The reasons for reduced



44                              ANNEX 2
Page 2
benefits are not fully understood but are believed to be due primarily to a
somewhat optimistic original savings estimate and the unanticipated develop-
ment of monopoly services on a number of roads whereby more of the user cost
savings are retained by vehicle operators. Also, no attempt has been made to
quantify either time savings or the improved quality of service in general
which has occurred as a result of improved roads. rhus, although passenger
cost savings seem to be less than originally estimated, additional unquanti-
fied benefits are being generated.
8.        The appraisal estimates of generated traffic seem to have been ful-
filled. Traffic counts on a sample of roads in four provinces show that on a
"before and after" basis, ADT of motorized vehicles increased by about 170%.
No passenger counts were made but the survey data shows that more people are
travelling more frequently and for a greater variety of reasons than
previously.
9.        Time savings were considerable, and seem to average about one hour
per trip. Unfortunately there is no recent data on frequency of travel which
would enable the quantification of time saving benefits.
10.       The savings in transport costs for cassava (wet root) were
originally estimated to be B 2.0/ton-km. Survey results indicate that the
transport cost reduction was B 1.0/ton-km or 50% of the appraisal estimate.
The reasons for the reduced margin between "without and with" improved roads
are partially due to monopoly transport conditions on a number of align-
ments. It is also likely that high investment costs for new equipment
operating on new roads has also affected the cost spread for the short run at
least. The sample of transport costs on unimproved roads is small and thus
the current estimate of cost savings is only indicative. Also, the recent
cost estimates for transport services do not reflect the improved quality of
service, mainly with respect to reliability and frequency of trips. On many
unimproved roads motorized cargo transport services were strictly seasonal.
The user cost benefits as quantified do not capture benefits arising from
year-around access.
ii.       Agricultural development benefits were derived from induced
expansion of the area planted to cassava within the road influence zones.
Because cassava is a high-volume, low unit value commodity, all nf which is
marketed, cultivation is not financially feasible unless the crop can be moved
to processing centers at low cost. As production from one hectare is in the
range of 10-15 tons, large trucks are needed to move the product from farm to
factory. Improved roads enabled the trucks to enter areas suitable for
production but where the crop had not been previously grown due to transporta-
tion restrictions.
12.       At the time of appraisal northeast Thailand was experiencing a
cassava boom, with the planted area increasing annually by more than 100,000
ha over a four-year period. It was assumed, apparently, that the expansion
would continue unabated and consequently the planted area within the road
influence zones was projected to increase from 15,750 ha to 50,000 ha.
However, the cassava area in northeast Thailand peaked in 1978 by which time
less than 10% of the improved road system had been constructed. In the re-



-45 -                             ANu  2
Page 3
calculation, the cassava area is estimated to have increased from 15,750 ha to
35,000 ha rather than to 50,000 ha. Without the roads it is estimated that
the area would have increased from 15,750 ha to 23,000 ha.
13.       Actual cassava prices (1977 constant value) were about 40% higher
than the appraisal estimate, thus additional benefits were realized from the
incremental area of project-induced cassava.
14.       In summary, at full project development economic benefits from the
rural roads component were about 602 of the appraisal estimate.
15.       Costs.  Economic costs were derived from financial costs net of
taxes and subsidies (border prices). The analysis was made in terms of 1977
constant prices and includes physical contingencies.
16.       The price escalation factors used for civil works were adequate to
cover the sharp escalation in costs resuLting largely from the second global
oil crisis.
17.       Implementation.  Delays in implementation had an adverse effect on
the ex post rate of return.
Rural Roads Implementation
% of Network Constructed
1      2      3       4      5       6      7       8      9
Year      1376   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Original estimate      8     28      32     32       -      -
Actual                 -      1       7      7      20     41      19      4       1
18.       In the original economic analysis it was estimated that by the end
of project year five a substantial portion of the road benefits would be
realized, but the reality was that only 35Z of the road network had been com-
pleted by that time. From the standpoint of generating benefits, the imple-
mentation delay was about three years.
19.       Recalculation of ERR.  The assumptions used in the revised analysis
are listed below.
(a) Construction Costs. Actual costs were used, including consultant
costs but not administration costs. Current costs were deflated to
1977 constant values. A total of 1,222 km of road was constructed
at an average constant 1977 economic cost of B 226,400/km.



-46 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 4
(b)  Maintenance.  Routine maintenance was costed at B 7,00I/km beginning
the year after construction.  Regravelling was carried out every
fifth year at a cost of B 30,000/km.
(c) Passenger Traffic.
-    average passenger journey length:  2/3 length of access road
-    present volume over all roads:  88,000 pass-km
-    natural growth:  4X p.a.
-    induced growth:  25X in year following construction;
thereafter, 4% u.a.
-    passenger cost sawings:  B 0.1/pass-km.  The calculation of
passenger cost saving is shown in Table 5.
(d) Upland Cropped Area
-    Area cropped in Year One:  100,000 ha of which 15,750 ha is
under cassava.
-    Cassava area increases to 35,000 ha with project and 23,000 ha
without project.
(e) Cassava Crop Budget
-    Clearing costs of B 1,000/ha for cassava land brought into
cultivation
-    Average distance to market:  7 km along existing track and 9 km
on provincial road.
-    Freight-cost saving of B 1.0/ton-km (reduction from B 4.4 to
B 3.4) after construction of access road. All savings accrue
to farmer.
20.       The ERR is estimated at 10% given the lack of detailed ex post data
on comparative passenger and freight transport costs and an accurate estimate
of incremental cassava production generated by the project, a sensitivity
analysis was made using different values for these variables. Depending or,
assumed values, the rate of return carries between 8X and 15%.
Rural electrification.
21.       Benefits.  Direct benefits were derived from revenues from electri-
city sales and indirect benefits were calculated for households, shops, rice-
mills, power tools and water pumps based mainly on fuel savings, lower operat-
ing costs and longer life. The appraisal rate of return was 12%; an ex post
evaluation by PEA showed a rate of return of 262 and sensitivity tests done
under this study gave rates of return of 202, 21% and 17%.
22.       The levels of benefits attained several years after electrification
of a given village were slightly lower than anticipated because the conversion
from diesel-powered rice-mills, water pumps and other equipment and machinery



- 47 _                            ANNEX 2
Page 5
was slower than expected. The consumption of power by residential households
was greater than expected but overall, up to 1980, total electrical energy use
in project villages was about 702 of the forecast. N vertheless overall
consumption continues to grow rapidly and conversions from diesel-powered
equipment to electric motors are accelerating.
23.       In the PEA recalculation of the economic rate of return it was
assumed that 95% of the project village residences will be electrified by
1988, conpared to around 61X of households initially connected. It was also
assumed that by 1995 about 95Z of rice mills would be electrified, compared to
only 15Z which had converted within two years after service had become
available. It is largely on the basis of these projections that a rate of
return of 26Z was obtained.
24.       While the rapid increase in residential connections may occur as
projected by PEA, as may the residential services demand, the projection of
non-residential demand growth may be optimistic, based on past experience.
25.       PEA was able to extend electrification to 478 villages, rather than
the 346 originally estimated, because 138 km of 22KV 3-phase primary trans-
mission to be financed under the project were already constructed under
another project, and the cost savings, about $1 million, was used for village
connections. This is discussed further in the cost section.
2b.       Costs.  The actual project cost $6.97 million (net of interest
during construction) which is reasonably close to the original estimate at
appraisal of $7.2 million.
27.       Of the 283 km of 3-phase 22 KV primary transmission line to be
financed under the project, 138 km was financed from a different source. The
savings thus realized (about $966,000) was used to extend electrification to
an additional 132 villages over the appraisal estimate of 346 villages. The
ex post economic analysis undertaken by PEA does not cost the "free" 138 km of
primary transmission line. To obtain a more accurate representation of the
rate of return on the entire investment required to electrify 478 villages, a
rate of return was calculated incorporating the cost of the omitted transmis-
sion system. The recalculated rate of return was about 21Z compared to the
ERR of 26% obtained by omitting partial transmission costs.
28.       Implementation.  Project start-up was delayed for a year and another
delay occurred in 1979.



- 48 -                            ANNEX 2
Page 6
Implementation
X of Villages Electrified
2         3         4          5          6
Year       1976       1977      1978       1979       1980      1981
Original estimate        42         33        25          -         -
Realized                  -         30        41          -        29
29.       The 1979 delay was mainly due to slow progress in selecLing the
additional villages to be electrified as a result of savings of transmission
line costs. Using 1977 as the base year, project implementation was delayed
for one year. Construction was largely completed in three years, as origi-
nally estimated.
30.       Economic Analysis.  PEA undertook detailed financial and economic ex
post anaLyses of the rural electrification component. The financial rate of
return was negative and the economic rate of return was 26Z. The very low
finacial rate of return was largely the result of subsidized rates for small
residential consumers, who proportionally consumed more project power than was
estimated at appraisal. Customers who paid nonsubsidized rates numbered
considerably less than anticipated at appraisal.
31.       The economic rate of return - 26% - does reflect the actual cost and
revenue experience for a 5-year period. The high rate of return seems to be a
result of optimistic projections of demand growth in the electrified villages
- especially demand by commercial customers who would pay unsubsidized rates.
32.       Several sensitivity analyses were run, using the PEA ex post
analysis as the base case. These are briefly described below and the net
benefit streams are given in Table 7.
(i) Base Case: reflects actual cost and benefit experience, but future
demand projections may be optimistic
(ii) Gross revenues of base case reduced by 10%; costs not changed.
(iii) Cost of 138 km primary transmission line, omitted from base case,
is included.
(iv) Transmission line costed, as in (iii) and gross revenues reduced by
lox.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
33.       The results of the analysis are summarized below:
ERR (2)
(i)  Base Case (PEA)                          26
(ii)  Gross revenues from (i) reduced 102   20
(iii)  Full transmission cost included          21
(iv)  Gross revenue of (iii) reduced  OZ    17
(v)  Appraisal estimate                       12
34.       The electrifkcation component rate of return is sensitive to
reductions in gross revenues. A cursory analysis shows that a reduction in
gross revenues of 20Z would reduce the rate of return to around 1OZ.



ANNEX 2
- 50 -                             Table 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1198 -TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Selected Price Indices
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
CPI  Northeast Thailand           100    108    117    142    160    168    178
PI   Construction materials       100    110    135    153    164    170    170
PI   Machinery and equipment    100    109    111    121    130    139    143
PI   Transportation equipment   100    116    126    133    139    145    145
PI   Diesel fuel                  100    102    153    250    285    285    273
PI   Agricultural products        100    102    109    135    148    140    153
PI   World cereals                100    103      97    107    120      89      99
PI   Road construction            100    110    130    147    149    149    159



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
THAILAND
NORTHEAST R1URAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1198 -TR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Cassava Prices (Baht)
Calendar year                      1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982 1983   1984
Cassava current price (B/ton)       470    370    770    750    460    510  600    770
beflator /a                         100    108    117    142    160    168  178    188
Cassava 1977 constant price         470    343    658    528    288    304  337    409
(B/ton)
/a cPI N.E. Thailand.



- 52 -                            ANNEX 2
Table 3
THAILAND
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1198 -TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Cassava Crop Budget
Without           With
Price; factory (B/ton) /a                                   420              420
Unit trausport cost (Bt on-km):
proposed road                                          4.4              3.4
provincial road                                         2.4             2.4
Total transport cost (B/ton):
proposed road: 7 km                                      31              24
provincial road; 9 km                                   22               22
Total                                                  53              46
Average farmgate price (B/ton)                              367              374
Yield (ton/ha)                                             13.4             13.4
Gross value of production (B/ha)                          4,918            5,012
Production costs:
Land prep (tractor)                                     713             644
Planting materials                                     550              550
Labor (65 in-d e B 20)                                1,300           1,300
Total                                              2.563            2,494
Net value of production (B/ha)                            2,355            2,518
/a Average price over development period; 1977 constant value.



THAILAND
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1198 -TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Re-calculation of Agricultural Benefits
Without project                                With project
Net        Land                             Net         Land
Cassava   production   clearing    Net    Cassava   production    clearing    Net         Agricultural
area      value /a       costs    return   area      value /b       costs/c    return   benefits /d
Year    (ha)      --         B million --------    (ha)       ------------------ B million
1     15,750      37.1          -         37.1    15,750        37.1          -        37.1          -
2     16,065       37.8        0.3        37.5    16,200        40.8         0.45      40.4         2.9
3     16,400       38.6        0.34       38.3    '7,250        43.4          1.05     42.4         4.1
4     16,700       39.3        0.3        39.0    18,600        46.8          1.35     45.5          6.5
5     17,000      40.0         0.3        39.7    22,500        56.7         3.9       52.8         13.1
6     17,400      41.0         0.4        40.6    23,600        59.4          1.1      58.3         17.7
7     17,700      41.7         0.3        41.4    27,800        70.0         4.2       65.8        24.4
8     18,100      42.6         0.4        42.2    32.100        80.8         4.3       76.5        34.1
9     18,500      43.6         0.4        43.2    33,700        84.9          1.6      83.3        39.9
10     18,800      44.3         0.3        44.0    35,000        88.1          1.3      86.8        42.8
11     19,200      45.2         0.4        44.8    35,000        88.1         1.3       88.1        43.3
12     19,600      46.2         0.4        45,8    35,000        88.1          1.3      88.1        42.3
13     20,000      47.1         0.4        46.7    35,000        88.1         1.3       88.1        41.4
14     20,400      48.0         0.4        47.6    35,000        88.1          1.3      88.1        40.5
15     20,800      49.0         0.4        48.6    35,000        88.1         1.3       88.1        39.5
16     21,200      49.9         0.4        49.5    35,000        88.1         1.3       88.1        38.6
17     21,i600     50.9         0.4        50.5    35,000        88.1          1.3      88.1        37.6
18     22,100      52.0         0.5        51.5    35,000        88.1         1.3       88.1        36.6
19     22,500      53.0         0.4        52.6    35,000        88.1         1.3       88.1        35.5
20     23,000       54.0        0.5        53.5    35,000        88.1          1.3      88.1         34.4
/a   Area x B 2,355
7b-  Area x B 2,518.  Benefits phased in one year after road construction.
77   Clearing cost B 1,000/ha
T7   Benefits arising from reduced transport costs and earlier and expanded production of cassava.



54 -                             ANNEX 2
Table 5
TRAILAND
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1198 -TR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Re-calculation of Passenger Cost Savings
Normal traffic       Normal cost   Traffic with project  Induced cost
('000 pass-kIm)      savings /a       ('000 pass-km) /b    savings tc
Year   Total   Benefitting    ('000 BTF        Total    Generated       ('000 BT
1     91,500           -             -      91,500            -              -
2     95,200         760            54       95,400         190              7
3     99,000       7,600           540      100,100      1,110              39
4    103,000      15,150         1,080      106,000      2,950             105
5    107,100      37,700         2,680      115,560      8,460             300
6    111,300      84,800         6,020      131,510     20,210             720
7    115,800    110,300          7,830      142,290     26,490             940
8    120,400    120,000          8,520      149,350     28,950           1,030
9    125,300    125,300          8,900      155,400     30,100           1,070
10    130,300    130,300          9,250      161,610     31,310           1,110
11    135,500    135,500          9,620      168,060     32,560           1,160
12    140,900    140,900         10,040     174,760      33,860           1,200
13    146,500    146,500         10,400     181,700      35,200          1,250
14    152,400    152,400         10,800     189,020      36,620           1,300
15    158,500    158,500         11,250      196,600     38,100          1,350
16    164,800    164,800         11,700     204,400      39,600           1,410
17    171,500    171,500         12,180     212,700      41,200          1,460
18    178,300    178,300         12,660     221,150      42,850           1,520
19    185,500    185,500         13,170     230,060      44,560           1,580
20    192,900    192,800         13,700      239,250     46,360           1,650
/a   Normal traffic benefitting at B 0.071/pass-km
/b   Growth of 25% p.a. in year following construction; otherwise 4% p.a.
Ic Generated traffic at B 0.0355/pass-km.



- 55 -                        ANNEX 2
Table 6
THAILAND
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1198 -TR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Analzsis
(B millions)
Passenger cost-savings     Agricultural      Total economic      Total
Year     Normal         Induced        Benefits           Benefits        costs
1        -             -                  -                -             11.4
2       0.054         0.007              2.9              3.0            32.1
3       0.54          0.04               4.1              4.7            21.7
4       1.1           0.11               6.5               7.7           53.9
5       2.7           0.3               13.1             16.1           106.9
6       6.0           0.7               17.7             24.4            58.0
7       7.8           0.9               24.4             33.1            19.9
8       8.5           1.0               34.1             43.6            10.2
9       8.9           1.1               39.9             49.9            10.1
10       9.3           1.1               42.8             53.2            18.2
11       9.6           1.2               43.3             54.1            12.8
12      10.0           1.2               42.3             53.5            10.6
13      10.4           1.3               41.4             53.1             9.6
14      10.8           1.3               40.5             52.6            13.0
15      11.3           1.4               39.5             52.2            18.2
16      11.7           1.4               38.6             51.7            12.8
17      12.2           1.5               37.6             51.3            10.6
18      12.7           1.5               36.6             50.8             9.6
19      13.2           1.6               35.5             50.3            13.0
20      13.7           1.7               34.4             49.8            18.2
Economic Rate of Return:  10Z



ANNEX 2
- 56 -                             Table 7
TRAILAND
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1198 -TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Analysis: Net Benefit Streams
(Baht '000)
Transmission costed
Gross revenue        Transmission         and gross revenue
PEA ex-post         reduced 10         fully costed             reduced 10Z
(1)                 (2)                 (3)                      (4)
(1,406)             (1,442)            (9,960)                  (10,000)
(30,382)            (31,520)           (32,890)                  (34,030)
(32,175)            (34,730)           (38,350)                  (40,900)
14,654              11,480             12,030                     9,460
(16,330)            (19,400)           (17,980)                  (21,050)
16,457              12,280             15,980                    11,800
14,475              10,270             14,080                     9,870
18,760              13,342             18,250                    12,830
26,533              19,690             26,070                    19,220
31,424              23,030             30,920                    22,520
37,193              27,350             36,740                    26,900
42,215              30,840             41,790                    30,410
45,831              33,550             45,460                    33,180
46,679              33,470             46,410                    33,000
39,034              24,400             38,100                    23,470
50,412              34,540             49,790                    33,920
59,220              41,970             58,780                    41,530
60,611              49,380             60,120                    41,890
64,208              44,700             63,710                    44,400
69,120              48,700             68,680                    48,260
70,219              48,58G             69,670                    48,030
74,484              51,540             73,820                    50,880
81,142              56,820             80,660                    56,340
85,688              59,920             85,210                    59,440
89,146              62,050             88,650                    61,550
92,236              64,260             92,230                    63,750
96,371              66,440             95,860                    65,920
97,754              66,270             97,120                    65,630
103,147              64,460            102,540                    69,350
108,888              74,000            108,350                    73,450
ERR: 26%                  20%                 21%                      17%



-57 -                              ANNEX 2
Table 8
THAILAND
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1198 -TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Rate of Return: Base Case (PEA) Including Transmission Line Cost
Gross                                             Total          Net
Year     revenues   Investment        OMA       Energy       costs        revenues
1             0           0             0          0             0
2            360     10,020             0        300        10,320        (9,960)
3        11,370      42,530           440      1,290        44,260       (32,890)
4        25,510      58,790         1,730      3,340        63,860       (38,350)
5        25,710       6,920         2,890      3,870        13,680        12,030
6        30,740      39,600         3,570      5,550        48,720       (17,980)
7        41,730       7,970         4,390    13,390         25,750        15,980
8        42,060       5,380         4,870    17,730         27,980        14,080
9        54,180       8,150         5,210    22,570         35,930        18,250
10        68,450       6,470         5,520    30,390         42,380        26,070
11        83,970       7,210         5,920    39,920         53,050        30,920
12        98,420       5,240         6,300    50,140         61,680       36,740
13       113,780       4,450         6,670    60,870         71,990       41,790
14       122,830       2,830         6,790    67,750         77,370       45,460
15       134,070       5,300         6,990    73,370         87,660       46,410
16       146,260      17,160         7,160    83,840        108,160       38,100
17       158,730       8,360         7,74C    92,840        108,940       49,790
18       172,500       3,330         7,800   102,590        113,720       58,780
19       182,300       4,910         7,950   109,320        122,180       60,120
20       193,060       4,910         7,980   116,460        129,350        63,710
21       204,250       3,170         8,410   123,990        135,570        68,680
22       216,400       5,940         8,730   132,060        146,230        69,670
23       229,400       5,890         8,960   140,730        155,580        73,820
24       243,180       3,320         9,150   150,050        162,520       80,660
25       257,700       3,360         9,300   159,830        172,490       85,210
26       271,010       3,380         9,486   169,500        182,360        88,650
27       284,810       3,420         9,640   179,520        192,580       92,230
28       299,350       3,450         9,810   190,230        203,490        95,860
29       314,870       6,160        10,020   201,570        217,750        97,120
30       331,880       5,410        10,260   213,670        229,340       102,540
31       348,910       3,550        10,460   226,550        240,560       108,350
Economic Rate of Return: 21%.



ANM=I 2
- 58-                            TWble9
TBAILAND
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1198 -TR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Suma ry of ARD Road Buildiag Program /a
Standard roads            Type I Roads
Trans-               Trans-       Total
Proposed /b        Built         ferred kc  Built    ferred   Ikintained
Region          (Roads)   (km)   (Roads)   (km)       (km)      (km)       (km)       (km)
Northeast          934   20,869      398   10,266    1,701      2,030       109      10,486
North              556   12,371      171    3,789    1,131         341        8        2,991
Central & East     366    5,680      104    1,360        44       425         6       1,735
South              389    5,722       90    1,270         -       339         9       1,600
Total         2,245   44,642      763   16,685    2,876      3,135       132      16,812
/a   Current through May 1984
lb   Includes ARD standard and Type I roads.
/c   To Highways Department.



-59 -                            ANNEX 1
Govt. Comments
AC l422/ 'Itg:J                                        O1fice of Accelerated
Rural Development
Sunandha Palace
Ratchasima Road
Bangkok 10300, Thailand
December 13  , 1985
Mr.Yukinori Watanabe
Director, Oporations Evaluation Department
East AsiLu and Pacific Regional Office
1.818 -H Strect, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Rc: Project Performunce Audit Report un Thailand
Northeast Rural Development Project
(Loan 1198 T-TH)
Dear  Mr. Watnabe,
be are plcasod to reciove your letter dated October 15,1985
.nd the PLo*ject Performance AWit Report of Thailand Northeast Rural
Developmeot Project (Loan 1198 T-TH). We have reviewed the report and
would like Lo inform you ',f our opinios as followB:
J .lRoad Construction
WVe agreed with the MiBSion's Report in the case of EIcR of the
project ro_ds. The reasonk why the ERR of the ruads in less than anticipated
was quite clear to *tho Bank and we want to add that it was mainly due to
the policy of our government to dinimize the cultivated areas of cassava
for more appropriate crops during the project implement.tion. Then, this
indiwdtor can not represent the real benefit. Furthermore the failure of
product selling in foreign market discourages farmers from cultivating.
On the other hand, the construction costs as estimated in the appraisal
repcrt arc lower thanu the actual construction cosLs since the costs cf R.C
bridgeS &ntd ecs culverts were underestimated.
2.VillFae Water Supply
We w04ld liko to clarify that the original concept of this
component isi to solve proolems of village water shortaGe in the dry
fseaon wliure ponds or natural water resources dried out. Deep wells
are still crucial iu many areas, and serve the purpose. However, The
villagers are still accust%med to the habit of drirnking water from their
own dug wells and their reluctance with the salinity and/or rusty taste
deep well water. These problems are boing solved by the installation uf
aerators aL the discovered sites togethcr with oducation to the rural
People.
/3- hStmaaci ....



-60 -                         ANNEX 1
Govt. Comments
3.Maiutenanoe of Wells
We agreed with the aUdsion'a report that the participation
of villagers in deep well maintenance may be lower than expectation.
Such a situation in widely found in rural areas and is also encountered
by other agencies. We are now trying to insplre them to become Involved
In this activity. Besides, after installation, the deep wells were
handed over to the villages and post-cards were distributed to village
headmen in order that the damages would be reported to ADD Provincial
Office accordingly.
4. Engagement of Consultant
Wo agreed that the delay of selection of the consultants
was mainly caused by the unfamillar process of selection which we
try to proceed in accordance with the guideline procedure of the
Bank. Wo can not accept the idea of personal and political rivalries
wiLthin ARD as stated in the Report without enough support evidence
since rules and regulations have to be strictly observed, and ARD
has to proceed any necessary disciplinary measures on apparent deviations.
5 .Consultant Services
We agreed with the Misaion that the Bank's flexibility on
cunsultant services and also close coordination of the Bank on any
first project are necessary.
For your final conclusion, we would like to ask for your
kind consideration on the facts as explained. We trust that the
comments are independant and would be helpful to our future project
implementation.
Sincerely yours,
ML Davee Chaogmi
Secretary General



| j                                                                          5   ,^_, >,> LAO  PEOPLE'S
a ~~~~~~~~''                               U'K~DEMOCRATIC
/               ,Pah ChaT~~~~~~~~S Chan PisaN :~ H-  r
(*  P_ 2 SiCisionwMei2> KongpK~~~~~11h9O                                  *                            /NogiNt a'  REPUBLIC
|   i      (N    =n;.0.- !       Dan Phu,                                                                                                  I
' -.9----W  r Udon                                                         Pn9 lo
ow,     U           ho~~~UCkp  honi   Nog.cnf
I ~         ~~~~ t0t E-'t--''aU4_ I           0
,V   O     fHEV ,  / 1 e H ...Wang S-phunNo Km Hai
NORTNERN~~~~I                                                  Ko" I       Logi                            Pica.Pak
_   S ang E                                      AX
[}  9 srj~~~~~~~~~~~NAH



.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ %A   %;:.
r~~~~~Y                           Ran Ras PTn6Sh t8,                                                Rusmotnn   opoet
N.                            N J. B Kht  k       _. _NAPCE                                           _ Stte tcmoet
r:C;'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R        HAILAa   t                                                             ^nggntnl qw
!1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ui IA                               - M     .      RAPCE i  iRivr N
t t  j42<.r i~N ho RachsiaDrJryeA.                                                                    .poica(nnwrbu8r
.  : .k(_ tiirell    5)   ,   rwawrsev*s0822s                                   *-*    Intrraticnl boudurie
.;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SA   J   N 
C1 ! f s EE ?0<  \  X; *; ,-  *  CV . rMF                                               KILOMETERS 0    20    40    60    80    100in 
n  ~ '  :   '#  z ",   '4L   '    '  <>*w#,  :  VllM nVDX X8-s*. V  ~                                 |    | |    .    . .    .    .    .    . 
m LC;{SiS % >; @ AzX' 4KeA :v- SleVP                                                   MILES 0    io  40                                    SS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
9~~~~~~~~~                SuONSI                          Ki t;tA51                                                 I    ce o  O
,'"'~~~~o5at0



