RETURN TO
Report No. 721-TH                           REPORTS  1ED             :,
Thailand                                            WITHIN D    FILE COPY
ONE WE.K
Appraisal of the
Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project
December 31, 1975
East Asia & Pacific Projects Department
Irrigation & Area Development Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



GLOSSAR
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        -    Baht (B) 20.0
B 1.00         -    US$0.05
US$1 million   a    B 20 million
B 1 million    -    US$50,000
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (a)         -    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)    -    0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)      -    2.47 acres (ac)
6.25 rai
1 liter (1)         -    0.26 US gallons (gal)
ABBREVIATIONS
ARD       -    Office of Accelerated Rural Development
DPW       -    Department of Public Welfare
WRC       -    ARD's Water Resource Center
NEAR      -    Northeast Agricultural Research Center



THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF THE
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .................           ....       ...     i - iii
1. INTRODUCTION ..............*                                                   1
II.    BACKGROUND ..........................................                       1
General  ........................................                    1
The Agricultural Sector ........................                     2
XII.    THE NORTHEAST REGION  ...............................                        2
General       ..................................                     2
Climate  ........................................                    3
Soils and Land Use  ............................                     3
Land Tenure and Farm Size  ..... ...........                         3
Agriculture ......................                                   4
Rural Infrastructure  ..... ..............                           5
IV.    THE PROJECT  .........................................                      7
Project Formulation ....................,.                           7
Village Access Roads  ................. .                            8
ARD Road Maintenance ..................                              9
Village Water Supply ..................                              9
Rural Electrification  ........... ..... ............               10
Upland Crop Improvement  .......... ..            .............     10
Agricultural Extension  ......           ....................       10
Land Settlement  ........          .........................        11
Implementation Schedule  ......            ...................      11
Cost Estimates  ................. .................                 12
Financing              ......................  13
Procurement        .................. ...................           14
Disbursements          ...................................          14
Accounts and Audits  ..............             ...............     15



-2-
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..........................   15
General        .........................................  15
Agency Responsibilities ............ ..............  16
Consulting Services and Technical Assistance ....   19
Annual Work Programs ............................   19
VI1.  JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS ...........................   19
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS..   21
ANNEXES
1.  Village Access Roads
2.  Road Maintenance Pilot Project
3.  Village Water Supply
4.  Rural Electrification
5.  Upland Crop Improvement
6.  Agricultural Extension
7.  Land Settlement Studies
8.  Cost Summary
9.  Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
10.  Implementation Schedule
11.  Economic Evaluation - Village Access Roads
12.  Financial and Economic Evaluation - Rural Electrification
CHARTS AND MAPS
Northeast Thailand                                Map 11487
Provincial Boundaries                             Map 11514
Typical Changwat Road System - Khon Kaen          May 11513



THAILAID
APPRAISAL OF THE
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of Thailand has requested Bank assistance in
financing the Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project. The project
involves the construction of village access roads, village water supplies,
rural electrification facilities, and strengtheninag of maintenance programs
for existing rural roads including provision of equipment.  In addition to
infrastructure, the project has two agricultural components: research and
development of improved techniques for upland crop cultivation, and an
agricultural extension program involving the recruitment and training of
progressive farmers as extension workers. The project also includes studies
of existing land settlement projects in the Northeast Region and the imple-
mentation of pilot projects for land and water development in several
settlement areas.
ii.       The project is in line with the Government's policy of accelera-
ting the development of the economically less advanced regions of the
country. The Northeast has historically lagged behind other regions in
terms of economic development and rural standards of living. It has
one third of the country's population but only 16% of the gross national
product. Per capita income is 25% of the Central region (which includes
Bangkok), 40% of the Southern region and 55% of the Northern region.
Large investments in the highway network over the past decade have sub-
stantially reduced the isolation of the region from the rest of Thailand
and has led to increased diversification in the region's agriculture. A
major feature of this project would be improvements in access of villages
to the main highways, especially larger villages with an exportable
surplus of agricultural produce. The project also would strengthen main-
tenance programs for existing rural roads (linking district and provincial
towns) in four provinces and provide additional maintenance equipment.
The village water supply component of the project would aim primarily at
relieving a critical seasonal shortage of water in the smaller and more
remote villages. The rural electrification component would supply 346
villages with electricity. These infrastructure improvements are in accord
not only with government priorities for rural development but also with the
villagers own assessment of priorities. The agricultural features of the
project aim at developing and promoting solutions to the problem of main-
taining fertility of uplands being exploited on a large scale for kenaf and
cassava production. The cultivation of these crops is an important source
of cash income for many of the region's farmers.
iii.      Total project cost is estimated at US$45 million ($ 900 million)
of which the foreign exchange component would be US$21.0 million, or 47%
of the total cost. The proposed Bank loan of US$21 million would finance
the foreign exchange component. Contracts for the construction of 1200 km



- ii -
of village access roads (US$9.0 million), equipment, vehicles and materials
(US$7.9 million) would be awarded after international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Construction of 100 km of village
access roads (US$0.8 million), and buildings and other minor civil works
(US$1.8 million) would be carried out under contracts awarded after competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with government procedures satis-
factory to the Bank. Consultants would be employed for engineering and
supervision of the village access roads and to assist in well-drilling
operations, rural road maintenance, upland crop research and settlement
studies. Contingencies amount to US$12.6 million including US$9.3 million
for expected price increases.
iv.       The project would be implemented over a period of five years,
by established government agencies. The Office of Accelerated Rural De-
velopment (ARD) would be responsible for the road and water supply compo-
nents, and also infrastructure in selected settlement areas. The land settle-
ment studies and pilot projects for land and water development would be handled
by the Department of Public Welfare (DPW). ARD and DPW are b,;rh departments
of the Ministry of the Interior and therefore no special coordinating arrange-
ments would be necessary. The Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA), a
state enterprise, would implement the rural electrification component. The
agricultural components of the project would be the responsibility of
departments of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives; upland crop
improvement would be handled by the Department of Agriculture and agri-
cultural extension by the Department of Agricultural Extension. Implement-
ation of these components would strengthen the links between field personnel
engaged in research and extension.
v.        The components, although complementary, are not interdependent,
and therefore special arrangements for overall coordination are not required.
The villages included were selected on criteria of need, and there is little
overlap of villages served by the roads, water supply and rural electrifica-
tion components. Similarly, the extension program will be limited to only
four of the region's 16 provinces.
vi.       The village access roads, village water supplies, and rural elec-
trification provided by the proposed project would benefit directly some
400,000 farm families, or about 2.5 million people, whose incomes and
living standards are among the lowest in Thailand. The upland crop improve-
ment program would aim at solving the most pressing agricultural problem of
the region; namely the loss of soil structure and fertility and decline in
yields caused by continuous cultivation of kenaf and cassava, the main cash
crops in the Northeast. Solutions to these problems would lead to increased
farm incomes throughout the region. Finally, the establishment of a more
effective extension system in four provinces involving the recruitment and
training of progressive farmers would serve as a model for extending the
system to other provinces. In addition to its economic and social benefits,
the project would also help to develop the capacity of government agencies
to plan and implement programs for rural development.



- iii -
vii.      The estimated economic rate of return on investments in village
roads, taking into account agricultural benefits and passenger cost
savings, would be 20%. Benefits due to the investment in equipment to
support ARD's maintenance program for 2,000 km of existing feeder and link
roads have not been quantified, but maintenance is clearly justified to
preserve a large investment in a rural road system which is generating
significant social and economic benefits. Improvements in village water
supplies would reduce water-borne diseases and eliminate considerable un-
productive time and effort devoted to hauling water over long distances.
These benefits have not been quantified but are judged to justify the
small per capita investment (about US$3) in village wells. The estimated
economic rate of return on investment in village electrification would be
about 12%. The agricultural components of the project could generate very
large returns even if they are only partially successful, and are justified
by the considerable impact they could have on the productivity and incomes
of the rural population.
viii.     The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$21.0 mil-
lion, with a term of 25 years including a seven-year grace period. The
Borrower would be the Kingdom of Thailand.






THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF THE NORTHEAST THAILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Thailand has requested Bank assistance in
financing the Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project. The project
involves the construction of village access roads, village water supplies,
rural electrification facilities, and strengthening of maintenance programs
for existing rural roads including provision of equipment. In addition to
infrastructure, the project has two agricultural components: research and
development of improved techniques for upland crop cultivation, and an
agricultural extension program involving the recruitment and training of
progressive farmers as extension workers. The project would also include
studies of existing land settlements and the implementation of pilot projects
for land and water development in several of these settlement areas.
1.02      The project was prepared by government agencies with the assistance
of a Bank preappraisal mission which visited Thailand in June 1974. This
report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Thailand
in November 1974 composed of Messrs. W. T. Smith, E. A. Minnig, and J. Brown
(IBRD), R. C. Y. Ng, W. H. Cooke, and C.D. Spangler (Consultants). Mr. J.
Goldberg participated in the preappraisal mission, and Mr. J. Edgerton
assisted in the preparation of this report.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Thailand's territory extends over 514,000 km , almost one-
fourth being cropland, and one-half forest and grazing land. The popu-
lation was estimated at 40.8 million in mid-1974, with a growth rate
declining from 3.0% in 1970 to 2.8% in 1973 and 1974. The Government's
population policy is to bring this growth rate down to about 2.5% before
the end of the 1970's. Real GDP, which had dropped from the 9% growth
rate of the late sixties to 4% in 1972--the lowest in over a decade--grew
by 10% in 1973. However, unfavorable weather which restricted agricultural
production and a weakening demand in the second half of the year that held
down the manufacturing sector, limited the growth in 1974 to 4%. The
recent Economic mission 1/ estimates the growth of GDP in 1975 will increase
slightly to about 5%. Per capita GNP in 1974 was around US$330.
1/   THAILAND:  Current Economic Prospects and Selected Development Issues,
October 9, 1975 (yellow cover), IBRD..



2.02      Since the start of its Third National Economic and Social Devel-
opment Plan (1972-76), Thailand has seen some significant political,
economic and social changes. Recent events have outdated the Plan's macro-
economic balance of payments and public finance framework, although the
objectives of the Third Plan are still reasonable. One of these objectives
is to "raise the income and living standard of the rural people in various
regions." To help achieve this goal, in the last five years considerable
effort and resources have been invested in regional planning for the
Northeast, the North, and the South, resulting in various programs and
projects aimed at decreasing the regional income disparities.
The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Agriculture accounts for about one third of the gross domestic
product, 80% of the total labor force, and almost 60% of total exports.
Rice is the country's staple food crop (per capita consumption is around
170 kg) and one of the main agricultural exports (1.6 million tons in
1974). Agricultural production did not grow as rapidly in 1974 (3%) as in
1973 (10%), when it was rebounding from the drought depressed level of
1972. In 1973 and 1974 total area planted continued to increase in response
to high agricultural prices, and there was further switching of land from
crops with relatively lower returns per ha to higher value crops. Although
lack of rainfall and a fertilizer shortage reduced the 1974 paddy crop by
11%, the output of maize, rubber and sugarcane surpassed the 1973 records.
With favorable weather in 1975, high crop prices at planting time encouraging
further expansion of the area planted, and improved fertilizer availability,
another record crop is expected in 1975-76. Agricultural production is
likely to advance by around 5%.
2.04      A large part of the 5.5% average growth of value added in agri-
culture in the last decade was due to the diversification of agricultural
production. Crops such as maize, cassava, kenaf and sugarcane not only
increase export earnings, but also improve the level and stability of farm
incomes in areas not especially suited for rice. On the whole, world
market prospects for these export commodities are promising.
III. THE NORTHEAST REGION
General
2
3.01      Northeast Thailand covers an area of some 170,000 km , bounded
by low mountain ranges in the south and west, and by the Mekong River to
the north and east. Apart from the higher ground along the borders, most
of the region is a gently undulating plateau, lying between 100 and 200 m
above sea level. The two largest rivers, the Nam Mun and the Nam Chi,
together drain about two-thirds of the area, with the remainder to the
north and east of the Mun-Chi Basin being drained by a number of direct
tributaries of the Mekong.



3.02      About 85% of the 13.6 million people in the Northeast live in
over 20,000 villages. The average village consists of about 100 households
or 600 individuals. The Northeast contains 16 of Thailand's 70 provinces.
These are organized in an administrative hierarchy consisting of mubans
(hamlets or villages), tambons (commune seats), amphur (districts), and
changwats (provinces).
3.04      The Northeast has historically lagged behind other regions
in terms of economic development and rural standards of living. It has
one third of the country's population but only 16% of the gross national
product. Per capita income is 25% of the Central region (which includes
Bangkok), 40% of the Southern region and 55% of the Northern region.
Over the past decade, however, the extension of regional highways, feeder
roads, and electric power transmission networks to reach all the pro-
vincial capitals and major towns has substantially reduced the isolation
of the region from the rest of the country, and of the provinces and major
districts from each other.
Climate
3.05      The region is located in the warm, tropical zone characteristic
of most of Southeast Asia. About 80% of the annual rainfall occurs in
the period May through October, when the southwest monsoon flows in from
the Gulf of Thailand, with the heaviest rains in September and early
October. Annual rainfall averages 1,200-1,300 mm over the southern
and eastern parts of the region, rising to 1,700-1,800 mm in the north-
western provinces. The northeast monsoon brings dry weather to the region
from November through April; during these periods crops cannot be planted
without irrigation and many villages suffer from a severe shortage of
water. Average temperatures range from 20°C in January to 3000 in April.
Soils and Land Use
3.06      About one-fifth of the region's 17 million ha has been developed
for paddy cultivation in the flood plains and lower terraces, where
conditions favor accumulation of natural runoff and rainfall. Except
for small areas of alluvial soils, most of the paddy production takes
place on low-humic gley soils of low natural fertility.  Upland crops (a
term used in Thailand to denote field crops other than rice) are grown on
higher ground unsuited to paddy cultivation, and occupy about 6% of the
*    total area of the region.  The soils used for upland crop cultivation,
chiefly kenaf and cassava, are predominantly podzolic soils of low in-
herent fertility. Over one-third of the region is occupied by forest
(6.6 million ha) and another third by unclassified areas including open
scrub land, swamps, villages, towns, etc.
Land Tenure and Farm Size
3.07      With a rural population of about 11.6 million, the Northeast
is not overpopulated. Most of the land is farmed in owner-operated



- 4 -
units of about 3 ha; about 2 ha of paddy land and the remainder higher
land used for upland crops. Average net farm income (including the imputed
value of produce consumed on the farm) is approximately US$300 per year.
Average net cash income is approximately US$160, being earned from crops
(US$85), livestock production (mainly pigs and poultry, US$45) and off-farm
income (US$30).
Agriculture
3.08      The regional economy is dominated by agriculture, which generates
nearly half the gross regional product. The agricultural sector grew in
the 1960's at an annual rate of 4.3%, largely due to the rapid expansion
in production of such cash crops as kenaf, cassava and maize. This has
caused a transition from a predominantly subsistence rice farming economy
to a semi-commercial farm economy.
3.09      Rice is the main crop and about 3.5 million ha of the total
land area of 17 million ha have been developed for paddy cultivation.
Since virtually all rice cultivation is dependent upon rainfall (the area
receiving a supply of irrigation water is negligible), production is
subject to wide year-to-year fluctuations. Annual paddy production in
the Northeast averaged 4.8 million tons in the period 1970-73. The
average planted area was 3.1 million ha, and the average yield was about
1.5 ton/ha, with provincial averages ranging from 0.8 to 2.6 ton/ha.
3.10      The most significant expansion of upland cropping in the
Northeast has been in the cultivation of kenaf, a fiber crop similar to
jute but of a lower grade.  The cropped area expanded rapidly during the
1960's and varies from year to year in response to markets and prices.
Peak production was reached in 1973, with a total area of 535,000 ha. Kenaf
production, which is virtually confined to the Northeast, has thus become
an important source of cash income to the region's economy. Thailand's
export earnings from kenaf were US$50 million in 1973. Problems facing
the kenaf farmers are fluctuating prices, labor shortages for harvesting
(which coincides with rice harvesting), and shortage of water for retting
(soaking of the harvested cane so the bark can be stripped from the fiber).
3.11      Thailand's export earnings from cassava products were about
US$150 million in 1974. Until recently most of the cassava was grown in
the central and eastern regions, but in the past five years, the
cultivation of cassava in the Northeast region has expanded rapidly. The
exact current acreage and production of cassava in the Northeast have not
been established, and are likely to be much higher than the 1973 figures
of 130,000 ha and 1.1 million tons. Cassava's advantages are that it is
easy to plant, requires little cultivation, may be planted throughout the year
and harvested anywhere from 12 to 18 months after planting, and can withstand
long periods of drought. However, prolonged cultivation on the podzolic
soils leads to loss of soil structure and fertility. The major constraint
on expansion of cassava output at present is the cost of transport from fields



- 5 -
and villages to the chipping and processing plants. The processing of the
roots for export is a rapidly expanding industry in many areas of the North-
east.
3.12      Maize is grown in an area of fertile soils in the southwest of
the region bordering on Thailand's "corn belt". Other crops grown on a
smaller scale in the region are mungbeans, cotton, peanuts, and tobacco.
Fruits and vegetables are also grown in villages near the larger towns,
and mulberry leaves are produced in great quantities in thousands of
Northeast villages to feed silkworms.
3.13      Increased production of rice in the Northeast will have to be
achieved by raising yields since virtually all of the suitable land for
rice has been developed. Climatic risks generally preclude the use of
high-yielding varieties which require large fertilizer inputs, but there
is considerable scope for raising yields by improved cultural practices,
the use of better quality seeds, and a wider spread of improved native
rice varieties. A project to develop and promote techniques for increased
rice yields is included as a part of the IDA-financed Northeast Thailand
Irrigation Improvement Project (Credit 461-TH).
3.14      Availability of land is not presently a constraint on increased
production of upland crops such as kenaf and cassava, and continued
expansion is likely if prices of these two conmodities remain attractive.
There is, however, the problem of maintaining reasonable yields on the low
fertility upland soils, particularly in the case of cassava.
3.15      Any significant advance in standards of farm management and
farm incomes in the Northeast will require a more effective system of agri-
cultural extension. At present, the ratio of extension agents to farmers
is about 1 to 4,000. A new approach involving the recruitment and training
of progressive farmers as extension workers has been adopted with encouraging
results in the IDA-financed Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project (Credit
379-IH) and the Government intends to adopt this approach on a larger scale.
Rural Infrastructure
3.16      The great majority of villages in the Northeast have yet to be
reached by modern public infrastructure. Until recently, the government
agencies responsible for public infrastructure investment programs in
the Northeast have concentrated on satisfying the transport, water sup-
ply, and electric power needs of the provincial capitals, and the district
towns. With these regional needs largely met, the opportunity exists
to extend these basic infrastructure programs to a larger number of
villages.
3.17      The greatest infrastructure need in the rural areas, particularly
in the areas heavily dependent on cash crops, is for improved access from
the villages to the existing system of paved highways and laterite



- 6 -
feeder roads. Demand for such access is evidenced by the large number
of freight and passenger vehicles on the existing cart-tracks, despite
extremely high transport costs. These earth tracks are impassable in the
wet season and their poor condition restricts motorized traffic to speeds
from 10 to 15 km/h during the dry season. This translates into high trans-
port charges for both goods and passengers and the relative isolation of
the rural population from both economic opportunities and social services.
3.18      Most villages in the Northeast still obtain water for drinking
and domestic purposes from ponds and open wells dug by the villagers them-
selves. Aside from the fact that many of these sources are unsafe in terms
of public health, a large number dry up completely during the dry season,
forcing villagers to haul water over distances of several kilometers. While
several Government agencies have village water supply programs, many villages
still suffer from water shortages, particularly in the dry season.
3.19      Only about 6% of the region's villages are electrified, and thous-
ands of villages situated within a few kilometers of transmission lines are
still entirely dependent on kerosene for lighting and on diesel engines for
rice milling, water pumping, and cassava processing. Comparatively small
investments in distribution facilities would permit thousands of villagers
to enjoy cheap power, and would also encourage increased efficiency in
the milling of subsistence rice through a gradual switchover of the village
rice mills to electric motors.
3.20      The Government created the Office of Accelerated Rural Develop-
ment (ARD) in 1966 to meet the need for an agency specializing in rural
works. This agency has constructed a network of over 6,000 km of laterite
feeder roads in the region, some of which has been transferred to the
Highway Department and upgraded to serve as provincial highways. ARD has
also implemented some village access road construction and village water
supply programs in the Northeast.
3.21      Several agencies in addition to ARD have been active in the
field of village water supply development in the region. The Department
of Mineral Resources of the Ministry of Industries has drilled some
wells for the larger villages and towns, while the Rural Health Division
(RHD) of the Ministry of Health has provided hundreds of smaller villages
with wells. The Environmental Health Division of the Ministry of Health
installs village systems drawing their supplies from wells developed by
other agencies or from streams and ponds.
3.22      The Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA), a state enterprise,
is responsible for electricity distribution throughout the country, outside
the Bangkok-Thonburi Metropolitan area. PEA has plans to accelerate the
pace of rural electrification in selected provinces in the Northeast in
the period 1975-79 as the first stage in its long-term national program.



- 7 -
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The proposed project would improve economic and social conditions
in selected villages of the Northeast Region and at the same time develop
the planning and implementation capacity of government agencies in rural
development. The project has the following components:
(a)  construction of about 1,300 km of village access
roads;
(b)  strengthening of maintenance programs for existing
rural roads including provision of equipment;
(c)  construction of about 4,000 tubewells for village
water supply, and the construction and rehabilita-
tion of small dams and ponds in areas where ground-
water is unusable;
(d)  rural electrification of 346 villages;
(e)  research and development of improved techniques
for cultivation of upland crops;
(f)  an expanded program of agricultural extension
in four provinces;
(g)  studies required to identify and formulate a land
settlement project, and implementation of pilot
projects for land and water development and infra-
structure improvements (road and water supply
improvements) in selected settlement areas.
The components of the project are described below and further details are
given in Annexes 1 through 7.
Project Formulation
4.02      There are about 20,000 villages in Northeast Thailand with a
marked diversity in population, land use, and infrastructure. Conse-
quently, the villages differ considerably in their infrastructure needs
and the benefits to be realized from infrastructure investments.  For
example, large villages with significant cash crop production have a
higher priority for village access roads than smaller villages chiefly
engaged in subsistence rice production. Therefore, in formulating the
village access road component ARD has employed selection procedures
taking into account village population, agricultural potential, and other
socio-economic factors.



- 8 -
4.03      The application of such selection procedures to the Northeast
region as a whole would, however, lead to a concentration of village access
roads in several of the larger and more economically advanced provinces.
Therefore, to provide a more equitable distribution of benefits, the selec-
tion procedures were used to identify priorities for road construction within
each province. Each province was assigned a quota of 80-100 km of roads and
about 1,250 km have been selected. About 50 km of village access roads
have also been identified in two irrigated areas. 1/
4.04      The objective of the village water supply component is to relieve
a critical shortage of water experienced by many of the region's villages
in the six-month long dry season. The major question to be resolved in
formulating this component concerned the technique to be employed, rather
than the selection of villages; it was decided to expand the capacity for
construction of hand-pump operated tubewells which are the lowest cost
means of providing an acceptable water supply. Of the 3,000 existing wells
in the region, ARD has drilled about 600 in the past four years. With
careful drilling and sampling, about 80% of the holes drilled by ARD pro-
duced good quality water at depths of about 30 m (the deep groundwater is
highly saline).
4.05      The configuration of the existing transmission system as well as
the village levels of economic activity dictated the selection of 346 vil-
lages in ten provinces for the rural electrification component.
Village Access Roads
4.06      The total length of access roads to be constructed would be about
1,300 km, and they would be evenly distributed among the Northeast's 16
provinces (Annex 1). Generally the roads follow existing tracks which can
be traversed only with difficulty by buses and trucks during the dry season,
and often become impassable in the wet season. The roads would be constructed
to a width of 5 m with a 20 cm compacted laterite surface, and with culverts
and single-lane concrete bridges provided where necessary. A typical road
would be about 10 km in length linking an average of four villages to either
a paved highway or a laterite feeder road. The population served by the
roads would be about 800,000. About 100 km of roads in land settlement areas
(para 4.12) would also be improved under the project. The project also pro-
vides consulting services for engineering and supervision of road construction,
as well as for the preparation of further rural development projects.
ARD Road Maintenance
4.07      The purpose of this component (Annex 2) is to strengthen ARD's
capability for maintaining existing rural roads. The roads to be maintained,
1/   The service areas of the Lam Pao and Nam Pong projects, which are
being developed under the IDA-financed Northeast Thailand Irrigation
Improvement project (Credit 461-TH).



most of them constructed over the past 10 years, have become important ele-
ments in the regional transportation system and serve the district towns
and larger villages. The project would provide road maintenance equipment
for four provinces where most of the available equipment is nearina the end
of its useful life. Four units would be set up in each of the four provinces,
each unit capable of providing annual maintenance for about 125 km of existing
rural roads, or a total of 2,000 km or about one third of the roads for which
ARD is responsible. This component would also provide for the services of
specialists in road maintenance to assist ARD in the planning and scheduling
of maintenance, in improving quality control and field supervision, and in
budgeting and cost controls.
Village Water Supply
4.08      This component provides for the construction of about 4,000 tube-
wells for village water supply, and for the construction and rehabilitation
of small dams and ponds in areas where groundwater is unusable. Equipment
and technical assistance would be provided for ARD's Water Resource Center
(WRC) to expand its capacity for constructing village water supplies through-
out the region (Annex 3). At present ARD has eight large truck-mounted drill-
ing rigs operating out of the center. These rigs are costly to operate and
can only be used where access roads are in good condition. The project would
provide 50 smaller rigs which would be simpler and less costly to operate, and
could be more readily transported to remote villages. In addition, the proj-
ect would include procurement of ten medium-sized percussion rigs with trucks,
well casings, screens and hand pumps, two bucket augers, and also a mobile
dredge for surface water improvement. Drilling crews to operate the new
rigs would be trained at the Center and then transferred to the provinces
under the supervision of ARD's provincial engineering units. The number of
wells drilled by ARD each year should increase from about 160 at present to
some 1,400. Well-drilling would primarily be carried out in villages which
ARD surveys have shown to be suffering from a critical water shortage (Annex
3 para 2). Wells would also be provided where necessary in villages served
by the proposed access roads (para 4.06) and in the land settlement areas
(para 4.12). For villages where groundwater is not found or is too saline
for human consumption, the project would provide for construction and rehab-
ilitation of ponds and small dams, including low-cost infiltration systems.
During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government that:
(a) the selection of villages for well-drilling would
generally follow the criteria established by the
ARD "ISONAAM" survey (Annex 3, para 2);
(b) before drilling in each village, ARD would make
arrangements for the villagers to participate
voluntarily in the drilling operations, and in
the maintenance of the hand pumps;
(c)  ARD would take steps to ensure proper maintenance
of the water supply facilities, by training of the
villagers in the operation, maintenance and repair,
and by provision of spare parts; and



- 10 -
(d) proposals for construction of surface storages and
infiltration systems would be submitted to the Bank
for review prior to implementation.
Rural Electrification
4.09      The rural electrification component will accelerate PEA's pro-
posed 25-year Rural Electrification Program by implementing the electrifi-
cation of 346 villages in 10 Northeast provinces (Annex 4). The project
covers engineering, supervision, and installation of distribution lines
including 222 km of 22 kv primary lines, 315 km of 22 kv primary line taps,
468 km of secondary line (460/230 v), transformers and auxiliary equipment,
and connection and metering of an estimated 27,000 initial consumers in
the project villages. Vehicles, warehouses, field offices, and test
equipment would also be provided.
Upland Crop Improvement
4.10      This component of the project 1/ would strengthen and coordinate
the Department of Agriculture's research and development programs for upland
crops in the Northeast. In the past, research has tended to focus on specific
crops. While these efforts would be continued, more emphasis would be placed
on developing and testing farming systems, involving crop rotations, to over-
come the declines in fertility caused by continuous single cropping. The
project component (Annex 5) would include:
(a)  a new research program at the Northeast Agri-
cultural Research Center (NEAR) at Tha Phra to
evolve viable and permanent farming systems for
the upland soils of the Northeast;
(b)  upgrading of six field crop stations for testing
farming systems, for research on specific crops,
and for seed multiplication.
Agricultural Extension
4.11      To improve the effectiveness of the extension service, the Min-
istry of Agriculture has recently decided to adopt a new approach which
involves the recruitment and training of progressive farmers to serve as
extension workers or "farmers' foremen". This approach was first intro-
duced in the IDA-financed Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project (Credit
1/   This is Part B of the Northeast Thailand Rainfed Crop Improvement
Project prepared as a Mekong Pioneer Project under UNDP Regional
Project 253. Part A, Rainfed Rice Improvement is being financed
under Credit 461-TH.



- 11 -
379-TH), and the results have been encouraging; the better farmers have
been willing to devote considerable time to their duties as farmers' fore-
men and there has been an excellent response from other farmers. This
component of the proposed project (Annex 6) would establish the same
system of extension services in four provinces of the Northeast in order
to demonstrate the feasibility of this new approach to agricultural exten-
sion on a larger scale than in the Chao Phya project, and in an area with
a less favorable soil and water regime. The selected provinces are Ubon
Ratchatani, Yasothon, Sisaket and Roi-Et where about 380,000 farm families
cultivate some 1,100,000 ha. The extension efforts will be directed towards
both rice cultivation and upland cropping, with recommendations based on
existing technology. The project would also provide equipment and facilities
for strengthening of the Northeast Regional Extension Training Center at
Khon Kaen.
Land Settlement
4.12      The project provides for studies of land settlements in the
Northeast and the preparation and implementation of pilot projects for land
development and small-scale irrigation in selected settlements (Annex 7).
The purpose of the studies would be to review the status of the 17 existing
land settlements in the region and the plans of the Department of Public
Welfare (DPW) for further settlements, to formulate proposals for strength-
ening DPW's settlement program, to prepare pilot projects, and to prepare
feasibility studies for a future settlement project. The project provides
for the implementation of the pilot projects prepared by the studies. The
project also provides for urgently needed road and water supply improvements
in the settlement areas to be identified by DPW, and implemented by ARD
(paras 4.06 and 4.08). During negotiations the Government agreed that
proposals for pilot projects and infrastructure improvements would be sent
to the Bank for approval prior to implementation.
Implementation Schedule
4.13      The project would be implemented over a period of about five years
(Annex 10). Construction of the village access roads would begin in late
1976 with a contract for 100 km, to serve as a trial of contracting pro-
cedures and to determine engineering and supervision requirements, and about
400 km of road would be built in each of the following three years.  The
equipment for maintaining existing ARD roads would be in full operation in
the 1977/78 dry season. The first year of the well-drilling program would
be largely devoted to further development of well drilling techniques and
the establishment of training programs. Drilling activities would be in
full operation by the end of 1978. Electrification of villages would begin
in 1976, and be completed in 1978. The agricultural components of the
project would be carried out over a period of about five years but the
research and demonstration facilities, and the extension services should be
fully developed by mid-1978. Infrastructure improvements in the land
settlements would be carried out by ARD by mid-1977. The land settlement
studies would be carried out during 1976, and the pilot projects would be
implemented in 1977 and 1978.



- 12 -
Cost Estimates
4.14      Total project costs are estimated at US$45 million, of which the
foreign exchange component would be US$21.0 million, or 47% of the total
cost. Costs for the village roads are based on estimates of earthwork
quantities, and the numbers of culverts and bridges needed for each road,
and unit prices for road construction based on recent contracts.  Recent
suppliers quotations are the basis for estimated costs of vehicles, road
maintenance equipment, and well drilling equipment. The estimate for the
village water supply component includes costs of operating and maintaining
the drilling equipment and vehicles. A physical contingency of 20% was
included in estimates for village roads, and 15% for village water sup-
plies. Cost estimates for rural electrification are based on detailed
quantity estimates and current cost experience for materials, labor and
equipment. A physical contingency of 5% was included in estimates for
buildings, vehicles, equipment and materials for electrification. For
the agricultural components, the operating costs for a period of four
years have been included, and a physical contingency of 15% applied to
buildings, land improvement, vehicles, equipment and materials. All
base cost estimates are in end-1975 prices. Expected price increases
were derived by applying to all project costs the following rates of
annual price escalation:
Calendar Year                  1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
Civil Works (%)                 14      12     12      12     10
Equipment and Services (%)      10       8      8       8      7
4.15      Details of the cost estimates are given in the annexes describing
the project components.  Annex 8 gives a detailed breakdown of costs, and
the phasing of expenditures is given in Annex 9.  Project costs are sum-
marized below:



- 13 -
Foreign
Local Foreign Total   Local  Foreign  Total  ExchanEe
----Baht million ---US$'000…----
Village Roads               133    87    220   6,650   4,350   11,000        40
Road Maintenance
Equipment                   3    51      54      150   2,550    2,700      94
Village Water Supply          32    46     78   1,600   2,320    3,920        59
Rural Electrification        49    59    108   2,470   2,930    5,400         54
Upland Crop Improvement       61    26      87   3,050   1,300    4,350       30
Agricultural Extension        44    17      61   2,210     840    3,050       28
Land Settlements               6     8      14     300     400       700      57
Management and
Administration             21      5     26   1,020      260    1,280       20
Base Cost Estimate          349   299    648  17,450  14,950   32,400         46
Physical Contingencies        34    32     66   1,700   1,600    3,300       48
Expected Price Increases    97    39    186   4,850   4,450    9,300         48
TOTAL PROJECT COST           480   420    900  24,000  21,000   45,000        47
Financing
4.16      The proposed Bank Loan of US$21 million would finance 47% of the
project cost which would provide the foreign exchange requirement.  Except
for the rural electrification components, the balance of the local currency
requirements of US$24 million ($ 480 million) would be financed by the
Government through annual budgetary appropriations to the implementing
agencies.
4.17      The financial arrangements for the rural electrification component
would be as follows:
(a) the Government would relend US$3.6 million of the proceeds
of the Loan to PEA, at an interest rate of 4-1/2%, under
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement approved by the Bank;
(b) the Government would lend, or cause a bank in Thailand to
lend, the balance of $ 72,000,000 to PEA at an interest
rate of 4%, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank; and
(c)  the Government would make arrangements to provide PEA with
funds to meet operating expenditures for the rural electri-
fication component in the event that PEA's funds are inade-
quate to meet such expenditures (para 6.05).
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.



- 14 -
Procurement
4.18      Because of the wide geographical dispersion of the roads to be
constructed, and the advisability of an annual tendering of contracts, the
construction of 1200 km of village access roads (US$9.0 million 1/) would
be divided into not more than three contracts per year over a three year
period, and awarded following international competitive bidding in accord-
ance w1th Bank Group Guidelines. Bidders would have the option of bidding
on combined contracts in any one year. Contracts for buildings and land
improvement (US$1.1 million), small dams and ponds for village water supply
(US$0.4 million), pilot projects in land settlements (US$0.5 million), 100
km of roads to be constructed in the 1976/77 dry season (US$0.8 million),
and concrete distribution poles (US$1.3 million) would be awarded after
competitive bidding advertised locally following normal government procure-
ment procedures, satisfactory to the Bank. Well drilling operations, im-
provement of existing roads in settlement areas, and rural electrification
would be carried out by force account.
4.19      All vehicles, equipment and materials (US$8.7 million) would be
procured under international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines. A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing customs duty
if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers and suppliers of equipment
and materials in the evaluation of bids. Off-the-shelf items, each costing
less than US$10,000, would be purchased through normal government procure-
ment procedures. The total of such items would not exceed US$500,000.
Disbursements
4.20      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% of the cif cost
of directly imported equipment and materials, or the ex-factory price net
of taxes for equipment and materials manufactured locally, and at the rate
of 65% of total expenditures for imported equipment and materials procured
locally. For the consulting services, disbursements would equal 85% of
total costs or 100% of foreign expenditures. Disbursements for overseas
training would equal 100% of the foreign exchange costs. Disbursements
for civil works executed by contract and procurement of power distribution
poles would equal 40% of total costs. Disbursements for improvement of
roads in the settlement areas by force account would equal 40% of total
costs, and would be made against a certificate of expenditures, the docu-
mentation for which would not be submitted for review, but would be retained
by the borrower, and available for inspection by the Bank during the course
of project supervision. An estimated schedule of expenditures, a proposed
allocation of the proceeds of the Loan, and a semiannual disbursements
schedule are presented in Annex 9. It is expected that disbursements
would be completed by the end of fiscal year 1981. Any funds remaining
in the loan account upon completion of the project would be used to finance
additional works and/or equipment after agreement between the Government and
the Bank.
1/   Cost figures in this paragraph exclude contingencies.



- 15 -
Accounts and Audits
4.21      Each implementing agency would be responsible for procurement
and disbursement application for its respective project component(s). All
of these agencies are subject to normal government control and auditing
procedures. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a)  each of the implementing agencies would maintain a
separate account for the project component for which
it is responsible;
(b)  auditors satisfactory to the Bank would be employed
to audit the above project accounts annually; and
(c)  the audited project accounts, together with the
auditors' comments, would be sent to the Bank
within four months of the close of each financial
year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
5.01      The project would be implemented by existing government agencies.
ARD would be responsible for village roads and village water supply and PEA
would be responsible for rural electrification. Both agencies are within
the Ministry of the Interior. The agricultural components of the project
would be the responsibility of departments of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Cooperatives; upland crop improvement would be handled by the Department
of Agriculture and agricultural extension by the Department of Agricultural
Extension. The Department of Public Welfare would be responsible for direct-
ing the land settlement studies and the pilot projects in selected land
settlements.
5.02      The components, although complementary, are not interdependent,
and therefore special arrangements for overall coordination are not required.
The villages to be served by the project were selected on criteria of need,
and there is little overlap of villages served by the roads, water supply
and rural electrification components. Similarly, the extension program will
be limited to only four of the region's 16 provinces.
5.03      Each implementing agency would appoint a Project Director who
would have overall responsibility for supervising and directing the imple-
mentation of their respective project components. The Project Directors
would have the responsibility and authority to appoint and assign personnel,
secure the services of consultants and advisors, award contracts, prepare



- 16 -
budget requests and allocate funds, and review and approve annual work pro-
grams and progess reports. The officials appointed as Project Directors
would be those who have already the necessary authority by virtue of their
official position (paras. 5.09-5.12).
Agency Responsibilities
5.04      Office of Accelerated Rural Development.  ARD has been active
in the provinces of the Northeast since it was established in 1966. It
now operates in 35 provinces, including all 16 in the Northeast, and is
scheduled to be active in 40 of Thailand's 73 provinces by 1976. Until
1973, ARD was under the Office of the Prime Minister but is now a depart-
ment of the Ministry of Interior. The agency, headed by a Secretary-
General, is organized into three main departments: Administration and
Planning, Engineering, and Common Services. In comparison with other
central government agencies, ARD integrates its activities more closely
with the provincial administrations. ARD teams, including qualified and
experienced engineers, have been established in each province where ARD
operates. These teams, working closely with provincial and district
officials, have planned, designed and constructed over 6,000 km of rural
roads and constructed numerous small dams and village ponds.
5.05      Virtually all of the road construction has been carried out by
ARD equipment. Although well maintained, most of the construction equip-
ment is nearing the end of its useful life. ARD has a central workshop
at Korat, fully staffed and equipped to carry out major overhauls and
component rebuilding. At the provincial level, ARD's workshops are
equipped to carry out component exchanges, minor repairs and preventive
maintenance.
5.06      For road construction ARD intends to make greater use of local
consultants and contractors than it has in the past in order to develop
the capacity of private firms to play a role in rural development. This
would also allow ARD's experienced staff to be released for expansion of
ARD's road maintenance activities in other provinces. Employment of con-
tractors would avoid the high capital cost of replacing construction equipment
and allow existing equipment to concentrate on maintenance. Procurement of
consulting services and construction contracts for the village access roads
constructed under the project would be handled by ARD's headquarters staff
in Bangkok. Local procurement by the provincial authorities was considered
impracticable at present because it would entail many small contracts,
and also because contracting procedures need to be further developed
before procurement and contract administration could be assigned to the
local authorities.
5.07      Maintenance of village access roads would be a joint effort of
the villagers, local government authorities and ARD's provincial main-
tenance units. Villagers are willing to contribute labor to maintenance
efforts, organized by the district officers, provided the roads they work
on directly serve their own village. This tradition would be maintained



- 17 -
for the proposed roads and ARD would provide materials and equipment. In
provinces where there is a shortage of equipment, ARD would employ con-
tractors. The costs of maintenance would be met from the annual budgets
of ARD's provincial maintenance units. The equipment procured for mainte-
nance of existing ARD roads would be deployed in four provinces, Udorn,
Nong Khai, Sakon Nakorn, and Buriram, under the control of ARD's provin-
cial maintenance engineer. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that sufficient funds would be allocated each year to maintain village access
roads constructed under the project, and the existing ARD roads in the four
provinces.
5.08      ARD's well-drilling program is presently carried out by its Water
Resource Center (WRC) located in Khon Kaen. The provinces are consulted
in preparing each year's drilling program, but because of the specialized
nature of the work the well-drilling crews are controlled and supervised
by the WRC. The WRC is well equipped with workshops and stores. Drilling
crews required for the expanded well-drilling program would be trained at
the WRC. After training they would be supervised by WRC and then trans-
ferred to work under ARD engineering units in the provinces (para 5.04).
At full development each province would have four to six crews depending
on the area to be covered.
5.09      The Secretary-General of ARD would serve as Project Director and
be responsible for overall supervision and direction of the components of
the project to be implemented by ARD. Senior officers would be appointed
as Project Managers for the road and village water supply components.
Assurances in respect of the above appointments were obtained during
negotiations.
5.10      Provincial Electricity Authority.  PEA is a well managed state
enterprise responsible for distribution and sales of electricity throughout
Thailand, except for the Bangkok metropolitan area. Since it was estab-
lished in 1960 PEA has developed into an efficient and well managed insti-
tution with 7,400 employees, of which 490 are university graduates, 810
graduates of technical institutes, and 2,200 are graduates of vocational
schools. Its financial position is sound with a return on net fixed assets
in 1973 of 13% and a debt-equity ratio of 1:3. PEA's forecasts (to 1982)
indicate its financial situation will continue to be satisfactory, although
not as favorable as at present, with a return on net fixed assets of over
7.5% and a debt-equity ratio below 1:2, assuming maintenance of tariffs at
current levels. PEA's present tariffs were reviewed by a Bank mission as
part of a study of electricity rates in Thailand. The Bank's report is
presently being reviewed by the Government. Also, a second study is pre-
sently underway of the financial flows among the three entities responsible
for electricity generation, transmission and distribution. That study is
expected to help determine (a) the appropriate allocation of income among
the three entities, (b) equitable tariff rates and tariff schedules, and
(c) what subsidies, if any, would be necessary in the long term to support
an expanded rural electrification program. It would therefore be premature
at this stage to make recommendations concerning the modification of PEA's



- 18 -
tariff structure. In any event, the effect of the relatively small rural
electrification component proposed in connection with this project would not
have a significant impact on PEA's overall performance.
5.11      PEA's service area encompasses a population of about 33 million,
of which less than 10% have access to electricity, compared to nearly 70%
in the Bangkok Metropolitan area. In 1974, PEA served about 692,000 customers
with a peak demand of 433 MW and sales of 1970 GWh. About 95% of the energy
rw-.irements were purchased from the Electricity Generating Authority of
Thailand (EGAT) and the remainder generated in diesel plants in areas which
cannot as yet be economically connected to the grid.
5.12      PEA is headed by a General Manager who has three deputies respon-
sible for administration, operations, and technical services.  The Office
of Rural Electrification (ORE), which would be responsible for planning,
design and construction, comes under the Deputy General Manager (Technical).
The ORE has already prepared detailed plans for the project but some further
engineering is required as well as the preparation of specifications and bid
documents. Construction would be carried out by three construction crews
under the supervision of the Regional Engineers in the provinces, who would
in turn report to ORE's construction supervisor. Equipment and materials
required for the project would be procured by the Procurement Sections
under the Deputy General Manager (Administration). Operation and mainte-
nance of the completed facilities and customer billing would be the respon-
sibility of the Regional offices. The Manager, Office of Rural Electrifi-
cation, would be appointed as Project Director, and an assurance in respect
of this appointment was obtained during negotiations.
5.13      Department of Agriculture.  The upland crop improvement component
would be implemented by the Department of Agriculture. The Director-General
would serve as Project Director and be responsible for overall supervision
and direction of the project. A senior officer of the Department of Agri-
culture would be appointed as Project Coordinator. He would be resident
at Khon Kaen and be responsible for project management and coordination.
Additional experienced staff would be assigned to Tha Phra and the research
stations. Assurances in respect of the above appointments were obtained
during negotiations.
5.14      Department of Agricultural Extension.  The Department of Agri-
cultural Extension would be responsible for the agricultural extension
component of the project. The Director-General of the department would
serve as Project Director and be responsible for overall supervision and
direction of this project component. A senior extension officer of the
Department would be appointed as Project Officer responsible for implement-
ing the proposed extension program in the four provinces (Ubon Ratchatani,
Roi-Et, Sisaket, and Yasothon). The Director of the Northeast Regional
Extension Center would be appointed as the Project Officer responsible
for implementing the program for upgrading the Center. Assurances in
respect of the above appointments were obtained during negotiations.



- 19 -
5.15      Department of Public Welfare.  The Department of Public Welfare
(DPW) through its Self-Help Land Settlement Division administers 55 land
settlements in Thailand, of which 17 are located in the Northeast region.
The Director-General of DPW would be appointed as Project Director, res-
ponsible for directing the land settlement studies and the pilot projects in
selected land settlements (para 4.12), and a senior officer of the Self-Help
Land Settlement Division of DPW would be appointed as Project Officer.
An assurance in respect of this appointment was obtained during negotiations.
Consulting Services and Technical Assistance
5.16      ARD would employ a consulting firm for engineering and supervision
of the village access roads and small dams, and to assist in strengthening
road maintenance programs. The services of an engineering advisor would be
retained for the Water Resource Center, and consultants would be employed to
assist ARD in the preparation of further rural development projects. The
design and construction of the rural electrification component would be
carried out by PEA's own staff and the services of consultants will not be
required. The Director-General, Department of Agriculture would retain the
services of a Research Program Advisor. The advisor would assist in pre-
paring the annual work programs, review progress in project implementation,
and provide technical assistance and advice to the Project Coordinator and
his staff. The Department of Public Welfare would employ consultants to
carry out the proposed Land Settlement studies, and to prepare pilot proj-
ects and assist in their implementation. Assurances were obtained at nego-
tiations that the employment of consultants and advisors by the implement-
ing agencies would be on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Annual Work Programs
5.17      Each of the implementing agencies would prepare annual work
programs which would set out in detail their plan of work for the year
ahead, including the recruitment and training of required personnel.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that each agency would prepare a
program for the first year of operations within three months of loan signing,
and thereafter by September 30 of each year, and submit such programs to
the Bank for review and comments.
VI. JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS
6.01      The village access roads, village water supplies, and rural elec-
trification included in the proposed project would benefit directly some
400,000 farm families, or about 2.5 million people, whose incomes and
living standards are among the lowest in Thailand. The upland crop improve-
ment program would aim at solving the most pressing agricultural problems
of the region; namely the loss of soil fertility and decline in yields
caused by continuous cultivation of kenaf and cassava, the main cash crops
in the Northeast. Solutions to these problems would lead to increased farm



- 20 -
incomes throughout the region. Finally, the establishment of a more effec-
tive extension system in four provinces, involving the recruitment and
training of progressive farmers, would serve as a model for extending the
system to other provinces. In addition to its economic and social benefits,
the project is further justified by the support it would provide to govern-
ment agencies in developing their capacity for the planning and implementa-
tion of rural development programs.
6.n1      Villages with a total population of about 800,000 would benefit
from the construction of all-weather roads to replace existing earth tracks.
Village surveys have shown that the following economic and social benefits
have been obtained where improved access roads have been provided:
(a) competition between bus and truck operators
reduces fares and haulage rates by some 40% and
increases the frequency of service;
(b) higher prices are received for farm products through
lower transportation costs and more competition
between merchants visiting the villagers;
(c) higher prices, more frequent contact with merchants,
and easier access for tractors provide added incentives
for bringing new land into cultivation and for the
cultivation of more profitable crops;
(d) enrollment of children in upper primary and secondary
schools increases when a daily bus service is available;
(e) easier access to pharmacies and health centers allow
prompter and more effective medical care;
(f) contacts with other government services are more
frequent, especially those provided by extension,
health, and veterinary officers; and
(g) the value of agricultural land is increased.
6.03      The estimated economic rate of return on investments in village
roads, taking into account agricultural benefits and passenger cost savings,
would be 20% (Annex 11). Agricultural benefits are expressed as the incre-
mental net farm incomes due to the more rapid expansion of cultivated areas
and lower transportation costs brought about by better roads.  The new land
developed is limited to areas for which the villagers already have titles;
this is conservative because a much larger area of presently untitled land
is available for development. Benefits due to the investment in equipment
to support ARD's maintenance of 2,000 km of existing feeder and link roads
have not been quantified. Maintenance is, however, clearly justified to
preserve a large investment in a rural road system which is generating
significant social and economic benefits.



- 21 -
6.04      The project would provide about 4,000 village wells and thereby
improve considerably the availability and quality of water for over one
million villagers. The benefits from a safe and reliable water supply
would arise primarily from a reduction in water-borne diseases and the
elimination of a considerable amount of unproductive time and effort
devoted to hauling water over long distances. These benefits have not
been quantified but are judged to justify the small per capita investment
(about US$3) in village wells.
6.05      The rural electrification component would benefit about 250,000
people living in the 346 villages to he electrified. The estimated economic
rate of return is 12% (Annex 12). Economic benefits arising from the con-
version of presently installed diesel engines to electricity were taken into
account.
6.06      The agricultural components of the project require relatively
small investments but could generate very large returns even if they are
only partially successful. The total cost of the extension component is
less than US$0.5 per ha cropped, compared to an average net value of pro-
duction of over US$100 per ha per year. Thus, even a marginal increase
in productivity resulting from the extension service would cover its
costs. Both the research into upland crop cultivation and stronger
extension services are accorded high priority by the Government because
of the considerable impact they could have on the productivity and in-
comes of the rural population.
VIII. AGREEMENTS T'EACIIED AND RECOMMtFNDATIOMS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) the Government would relend US$3.6 million of the proceeds
of the Loan to PEA, at an interest rate of 4-1/2%, under
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement approved by the Bank;
(b) the Government would lend, or cause a bank in Thailand to
lend, the balance of $ 72 million to PEA at an interest
rate of 4% under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank; and
(c) the Government would make arrangements to provide PEA with
funds to meet operational expenditures for the rural electri-
fication component in the event that PEA's funds are inade-
quate to meet such expenditures (para 4.17).
7.02      Assurances were also obtained from the Government in regard to:
(a) criteria for selection of villages for well drilling
(para 4.08);



- 22 -
(b) voluntary participation of villagers in well drilling
(para 4.08);
(c) training of villagers in operation, maintenance and
repair of village water supply works constructed
under the project (para 4.08);
(d) submittal of (i) plans for surface water storage
and (ii) pilot projects in settlement areas for
Bank review prior to implementation (paras 4.08
and 4.12);
(e) appointment of Project Directors and Project Officers
(paras 5.09-5.16); and
(f) appointment of consultants (para 5.16).
7.03      With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$21 million with a term of 25 years including a seven-
year grace period. The Borrower would be the Kingdom of Thailand.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
Village Access Roads
General
1.        The existing highway system in the Northeast comprises about
6,000 km of national and provincial highways for which the Department of
Highways (DOH) is responsible and some 5,500 km constructed and maintained
by the Office of Accelerated Rural Development (ARD). The DOH roads,
of which some 3,500 km are paved and the remainder laterite, connect the
provincial capitals and the larger district towns. The ARD system, which
has been constructed over the past eight years, includes links between
the smaller district towns and penetration roads in the more remote areas
of the region. About 700 km of roads constructed by ARD have in recent
years been transferred and are now part of the DOH system.
2.        Although there has been a considerable expansion and upgrading
of the region's highway systems over the past 15 years, most of the vil-
lages in the region, containing a majority of the rural population, are
served by dirt roads and cart tracks. The existing village roads usually
become impassable in the wet season and can only be traversed with dif-
ficulty in the dry season. The poor condition of the tracks restricts
motorized traffic to speeds from 10 to 15 km/h during the dry season, and
results in heavy vehicle wear and tear. This translates into high
transport charges for both goods and passengers and the relative isolation
of the rural population from both economic opportunities and social
services, To overcome these problems of access the district authorities
allocate a large part of their limited operating budgets to access road
itaprovement and maintenance, but this usually leads only to a temporary
improvement of the worst sections of the village road. Therefore, ARD is
now planning to place more emphasis on village road construction than it
has in the past.
3.        Given the large number of villages without adequate access to the
region's highway system, and the considerable diversity in the size and
transportation needs of the villages, a systematic procedure for village
road selection has been developed (para 6).
Proposed Project Component
4.        About 1,300 km of village access roads would be constructed under
the project. The majority of these roads, about 1,250 km, would serve



ANNEX 1
Page 2
selected large villages where the savings in transport costs for the present
and future production of upland crops, particularly cassava, are likely to
be significant. About 50 km of village access roads would also be constructed
in the service areas of an IDA-financed irrigation project. 1/ ARD would
also improve about 100 km of selected roads in several of the land settlements
in the Northeast by force account.
5.        The proposed design standards for the roads are roughly equivalent
to the Department of Highways F3 standard (Provincial feeder roads, Class 3),
for equivalent daily traffic of up to 200 v.p.d. 2/ The roads would have a
5 m wide, 20 cm thick, compacted laterite carriageway placed on a compacted
earth sub-base. Concrete culverts and single lane concrete bridges would
be provided where necessary. Traffic is estimated at about 30-50 v.p.d. 2/,
rising to about 100 v.p.d. in 20 years. A typical road to be constructed
under the project would be about 10 km in length, linking an average of four
villages to either a paved highway or a high-standard laterite feeder road.
The roads will generally fall within the traditional public right-of-way of
the existing tracks, and would adhere to the present right-of-way through
the villages. Some infringement on farmer's land will occur in places.
ARD's experience is that farmers are willing to surrender small strips of
land for construction without claiming compensation. For roads to be con-
structed by contractors, ARD will clear the right-of-way before the contractor
arrives on site.
Road Selection Procedure
6.        The procedure for selecting the road alignments was developed
by ARD staff following suggestions of a Bank preappraisal mission. About
30 alignments were identified by ARD in each province in consultation with
local authorities. ARD's field staff then surveyed each alignment,
collecting data on population (directly served, and within an "influence
area" of 3 km radius), cropped areas and production, marketed surplus,
potential agricultural land, present volume of traffic, and the con-
dition of the existing tracks. Cost estimates for each road were
prepared as described in para 8. The priority rating system shown below
was then devised to weight these factors according to their importance
in generating economic and social benefits. The roads in each province
were scored and ranked to select the highest priority roads in each pro-
vince, with a limit for each province of a total of about 100 km of roads.
1/   The "Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project" - Credit
461-TH, Improved access roads are needed in two of the three service
areas, Lam Pao and Nam Pong.
2/   Vehicles per day, calculated in equivalent passenger car units.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Priority Rating System for Selection of Roads
Criterion                Weighting
Population directly served             20
Agricultural tonnage                   20
Potential agricultural land            15
Passenger traffic                      15
Construction cost                      25
Population in influence area            5
100
7.        Passenger vehicles carry about 300 persons per day over the existing
rough tracks. The average volume of agricultural produce transported in
trucks at present ranges from less than one ton per day to over 100 tons
per day, the mean being about 16 tons. Present vehicular traffic per day
thus averages about 10 buses and 5 trucks per day on each road.
Cost Estimates
8.        The number of bridges and culverts required, and the length of
sections where the road would have to be raised above surrounding paddy
fields, were determined by field inspections. The routes were plotted on
1:50,000 scale maps. The terrain is generally flat, and the roads would
in most cases follow existing tracks which avoid flooded areas, swamps
and other natural obstacles. Therefore, significant errors in earthwork
quantities are unlikely. The other major items--laterite surfacing, bridges
and culverts--can be estimated fairly accurately from field inspections.
9.        The data for 93 roads, totalling 930 km (or about 74% of the total
project roads) were used to determine the average cost of the roads per
kilometer. ARD has now selected the remaining roads. ARD's cost estimates,
based on late-1974 contract prices, were revised to end-1975 levels (assuming
16% price inflation in 1975). The average costs per kilometer (exclusive of
physical contingencies) shown below are considered to be a reasonable basis
for estimating the cost of the 1,300 km of village roads to be constructed.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Average Cost
Item                                  per km
(% 000)
Land clearing                            5.8
Embankment                              59.3
Laterite                                61.1
Culverts                                 6.1
Bridges                                  17.7
150.0 (US$7,500)
10.       Improvements of the roads in villages in the settlement areas
would chiefly involve renewing the laterite surface, and some embankment
and structure repairs. Average costs per km would be approximately as
follows:
Average Cost
Item                                  Per km
Embankment repairs                        10
Resurfacing                              60
Repair of structures                     10
80 (US$4,000)
11.       ARD would employ consultants to assist in the preparation of detailed
quantity estimates and contract documents, and to supervise construction of
the 1,300 km of new roads to be constructed. Costs of consulting services
are estimated at 9% of the construction costs.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Item                                 Unit Cost       Amount
(        (g Million)
(1)  Road construction 1,300 km                        150,000        195.0
(2)  Road improvement    100 km                         80,000          8.0
(3)  Consultants - 9% of (1)                                           17.0
Sub-total /1                                               220.0
(4)  Management and Administration                                      6.0
Base Cost Estimate                                         226.0
(5)  Physical contingencies - 20% of (1) and (2)                       40.0
266.0
/1   Corresponds to figure in cost summary, para. 4.13.
Maintenance of Village Access Roads
12.       Maintenance of village access roads would be a joint effort of
the villagers, local government authorities and ARD's provincial main-
tenance units. Villagers are willing to contribute labor to maintenance
efforts, organized by the district officers, provided the roads they work
on directly serve their own village. This tradition would be maintained
for the proposed roads and ARD would provide materials and equipment. In
provinces where there is a shortage of equipment, ARD would employ contractors
for maintenance operations. An ARD/USAID maintenance study in 1973 estimated
the annual cost of maintaining the standard ARD roads (6 m carriageway) as
US$400/km. This appears to be more than adequate since a contract for road
maintenance in Udom province, awarded for about the same cost/km, included
some resurfacing and embankment repair. For the economic analysis in Annex 10,
maintenance costs have been taken as % 7,000 (US$350) per kilometer.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ARD Road Maintenance
1.        The purpose of this component is to strengthen ARD's capability
to maintain its existing road network in the Northeast. Most of the
maintenance equipment in the provinces is nearing the end of its useful
life, and it is becoming increasingly difficult to maintain the more than
6,000 km of ARD roads in good conditions.  To cope with this problem ARD
is diverting equipment from its construction units for routine maintenance
and has employed contractors on sections of road where embankment repair and
laterite resurfacing is needed. The shortage of serviceable equipment is
particularly acute in the provinces where ARD units were first established
since they have the oldest equipment and the longest length of roads.
The four provinces selected by ARD for the project are Udorn, Sakon Nakorn,
Nong Khai and Buriram.
2.        The project would provide equipment for 16 maintenance units
(Table 1). A detailed study of maintenance requirements for ARD roads
by a USAID (United States Agency for International Development) advisor
indicates that a single unit, or maintenance set, would be capable of
maintaining about 125 km of road annually. Laterite for surfacing would,
in line with ARD's normal practice, be loaded and transported by local
contractors. The equipment provided would thereforebe able to maintain
about 2,000 km of existing rural roads, or about one-third of the roads
for which ARD is responsible.
3.        Maintenance would be carried out primarily in the period of
November to May. Prior to each working season the roads to be maintained
by each unit would be inspected and a detailed work program would be
prepared. Accurate records would be kept of machine time, operating costs,
length of road maintained, operations carried out, laterite purchases,
and costs incurred in maintenance and repair of bridges and culverts.
A detailed report on the performance of the maintenance units would be
included in annual progress reports submitted to the Bank for review and
comment .
4.        Consultants would be employed by ARD to assist in strengthening
maintenance programs. This will include assistance to ARD in procurement
of equipment through international competitive bidding; review of the condition
of the existing equipment and recommendations on rehabilitation or disposal
of such equipment, including cost estimates; assistance in establishing a
maintenance program, including an inventory of existing roads and their con-
dition, and recommendations on maintenance operations and frequencies. The



ANNEX 2
Page 2
consultant would also advise ARD on quality control and field inspections,
and the preparation of budgets and annual work programs. In addition the
consultants will assist ARD and local government bodies in formulating
maintenance programs for the village access roads, constructed under the
project, with particular reference to villager participation.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ARD Road Maintenance
Equipment List
Unit
Item                                         No.          Price           Amount
-------- Us ---------
Motor grader 125 HP with
ripper/scarifier                           16          50,000           800,000
Dump truck, 5 cu. yd.                        16          16,000           256,000
Flatbed truck                                16          12,000           192,000
Water truck, 1000 gal.                       16           12,000          192,000
Pick-up truck, 4-wheel drive                 16           6,000            96,000
Field vehicle, h-wheel drive                 16           7,000           112,000
Roller (Self-propelled,75 HP)                16          25,000           400,000
Lubricating unit                             16           7,000           112,000
Vehicles for Consultants -                   10            7,000           70,000
Sub-total                                                        2,230,000
Spare parts                                                               320,000
Sub-total                                                        2,550,000
Technical Assistance                                                      150,000
2,700,000
1/  Consultants employed for engineering of village access roads and for
the maintenance program.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
THAILAUND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Village Water Supply
1.        Many of the villages of Northeast Thailand suffer from a severe
shortage of water during the six-month long dry season. Except for some
of the larger rivers and lakes, the sources of surface water dry up or
become stagnant and polluted. Most villagers collect rainfall from the
roofs of their houses in the rainy season, but this only relieves the
shortage for the first one or two months of the dry season. Shallow wells
are unsatisfactory because of low yields and contamination. As groundwater
levels fall in the dry season the yields are so low that either the villagers
have to wait for the wells to recharge each time they are used, or the wells
go dry. Tubewells have proved successful in the Northeast, but careful
drilling and sampling is necessary because of considerable variations in
groundwater quality. The aim of the project would be to provide reliable
sources of good quality water by installing hand-pump operated tubewells
wherever the groundwater quality in acceptable. For those villages where
the groundwater is too saline for human consumption, the project would
provide for construction and rehabilitation of ponds and small dams.
2.        Over 2,000 villages with a severe water shortage have been identi-
fied by an extensive survey ("ISONAAM"), which developed a point rating based
upon quality of present supply, population using present supply, distance to
supply, time spent waiting for water, and water available for livestock.
The most severe shortage of water was found in the smaller and more remote
villages with populations averaging about 600, and less than 1,500. This is
probably because higher priority has understandably been given to well drill-
ing in the larger villages, and also because the heavy drilling rigs pres-
ently in use are difficult to move into remote areas. Because of the small
size of the villages to be served, the provision of hand pumps is more
appropriate than distribution systems.
3.        A number of agencies are presently engaged in well drilling in the
Northeast, mostly notably ARD, the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR)
and the Rural Water Supply Division (RWSD) of the Ministry of Health. The
latter agency also provides technical assistance to larger villages in the
design and construction of water distribution systems. The results
achieved by these agencies lead to the conclusion that an expanded well
drilling program is the most effective way to solve the water supply pro-
blem in the rural areas of the Northeast. The deep groundwater over most of
the Northeast is highly saline, but aquifers with good quality water and



ANNEX 3
Page 2
yields of 40 to 150 liters per minute are found at depths of 20 - 50 m.
There are about 3,000 wells currently in operation of which about 600 have
been drilled by ARD over the past four years. About 80% of the wells drilled
by ARD are successful. Since the ARD wells are widely distributed over the
region, and have been located more with regard to water supply needs than
the prospects of finding good quality water. the success rate is a reasonable
indication of what might be expected in a larger program. The number of
villages in which suitable groundwater cannot be located is likely to be
fewer than 5%.                                                                            *
4.        The proposed project would strengthen ARD's capacity for well drill-
ing.  ARD's Water Resource Center (WRC) in Khon Kaen has achieved good
results with its existing drilling rigs, has competent and experienced person-
nel, and is well equipped with offices, workshops and stores. All ARD's
drilling activities are now under the direct control of the WRC. As more
rigs and crews are mobilized, drilling units under the control of ARD's
provincial engineers would be established in the provinces. Four to six rigs
could be assigned to a province depending on its size and water supply needs.
WRC would monitor the program and provide technical assistance to the pro-
vincial engineers. A log would be kept of each well drilled, and the amount
and quality of water obtained. Provision would also be made in the project
for the WRC to assist the provinces to construct and rehabilitate ponds and
small dams and provide low-cost infiltration systems in areas with unsuitable
groundwater. Details of equipment and services to be provided by the project
are described below.
5.        Drilling Equipment.  At present WRC operates eight large
truck-mounted rigs. They are designed for drilling, either by percussion
or rotary methods, to greater depths and with larger diameters than are
normally required for village wells. They are also costly to operate,
require experienced drillers, and are difficult to move into remote areas.
Lighter rigs could be used successfully in the Northeast because most of
the drilling is in relatively soft materials such as silts, clays, shales
and sandstones. The advantage of lighter rigs are that they are easier
and less costly to operate, and can be readily dismantled for transportation
to remote villages.
6.        The project would provide 50 drilling rigs of a type which is used
throughout the world for well drilling and foundation exploration in soils
and soft rock formations. A typical rig consists of a tripod and diesel or
gasoline-powered winch which operates the cable from which is suspended the
drilling tools. In soils and lightly cemented rock, pumps are linked to
the drilling tool to direct a jet a water into the drill hole and hence remove
the material. In rock formations the drilling tool is in the form of a chisel
which by repeated blows advances the drill hole. Attachments are also pro-
vided to drive the well casings. In addition, the project would provide
10 medium-sized truck-mounted percussion rigs, and two bucket-augers.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
7.        Well Materials.  About 140,000 m of 75 mm diameter PVC (polyvinyl
chloride) pipe would be procured for well casing and screens. Such pipe
would not normally be strong enough to serve as casing during drilling, and
therefore a 10 cm steel casing would be used to form the hole, and then with-
drawn while placing the permanent casings and screens.
8.        The completed wells would be fitted with hand pumps.  Some problems
have been experienced in maintaining the types of pumps now being used.
The parts subject to wear cannot easily be fabricated and the villagers do
not have access to replacements. Several new, simple, and more durable
types of pumps are now being developed and tested w'hich would be more easily
maintained and repaired by the villagers.
9.        Local Participation.  Before each well is begun, ARD's drilling
crews would arrange with the village leaders for the supply of laborers
to assist the driller at the times requested. Arrangements would also be
made for a small village water committee to be set up, to be responsible for
the protection and maintenance of the well and handpump, which will belong
to the village. Spare parts and instructions on repair and maintenance
would be given to the committee, with instructions on how to contact ARD per-
sonnel for assistance.
10.       Vehicles. New trucks would be provided for the 10 medium-sized
percussion rigs and the eight large rigs being used by ARD. At present the
large rigs are mounted on surplus military trucks which are now at the end
of their useful life. The rigs will be used by ARD in the larger and more
accessible villages, where large capacity wells are needed. About 40 pickup
trucks would be provided for work with the small drilling rigs.
11.       Training.  The training program for drilling crews would be estab-
lished at the WRC. Candidates for the training programs would be recruited
from nearby technical schools. After the crews have been trained and equipped
they would work initially under the supervision of WRC; but when their pro-
ficiency has been established they would be assigned to the provinces to
work under the supervision of ARD's provincial engineers.
12.       Surface Water Development.  ARD has constructed many village ponds
in the Northeast and some small dams. These works would be rehabilitated
where necessary and new facilities, including low-cost infiltration systems,
constructed in areas where groundwater cannot be developed. Natural ponds,
which are filled by overflow from rivers, would also be deepened to conserve
a larger volume of water for livestock use; a mobile dredge would be procured
for the purpose.
13.       Technical Assistance.  ARD would employ an engineering advisor
for WRC, to assist in further development of well drilling techniques
and equipment, maintenance of wells including hand pump design, and the
training of drilling crews.






ANNEX 4
Page 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Electrification
Introduction
1.        Three state enterprises are engaged in providing electric power
and energy in Thailand. The Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
(EGAT) is responsible for power generation and transmission. Distribution
and sales are handled by the Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA) in
the Bangkok Thonburi area, and by the Provincial Electricity Authority
(PEA) in the rest of the country. Thailand obtains about 60% of its
electrical energy from oil-fired steam plants, and the remainder, except
for a small amount of energy from lignite fueled plants, comes from hydro-
electric plants. EGAT's transmission system covers most of the country
except for parts of the Southern Region. The 115 kv system serving the
Northeast was linked to the main grid in 1972.
2.        Since it was established in 1960 PEA has developed into an effi-
cient and well managed institution with 7,400 employees, of which 490 are
university graduates, 810 graduates of technical institutes, and 2,200 are
graduates of vocational schools. Its past financial position has been
sound with a return on net fixed assets increasing from 9% in 1968 to about
13% in 1973, and with a debt-equity ratio of about 1:3 at present. PEA's
forecasts (up to 1982) indicate its financial situation will continue to be
satisfactory, although not as favorable as at present, with a return on net
fixed assets of over 7.5% and a debt-equity ratio well below 1:1. The effect
of alternative tariff levels on PEA's financial position and on the elec-
trification component's returns is discussed in Annex 12.
3.        PEA's service area encompases a population of about 33 million
of which less than 3 million have access to electricity, compared to nearly
70% in the Bangkok Metropolitan area. In 1974, PEA served about 692,000
customers with a peak demand of 433 MW and sales of 1970 GWh. About 95%
of the energy requirements were purchased from EGAT and the remainder
generated in diesel plants in areas which cannot as yet be economically
connected to the grid.
4.        In 1972, the sales of energy in the 10 project provinces totalled
195 GWH.  Residential consumption accounted for about 49% of total sales;
commercial and small business consumption for about 28%; large business and
industrial consumption for about 19%; and other (principally municipal,
agricultural, and water pumping) for the balance of 4%.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        PEA's sales grew at an annual rate of 27% prior to 1973, but a
slowing in economic activity coupled with restraints on nonessential use
in late 1973 and early 1974 have reduced the annual growth rate to 15%.
In line with a government policy of energy conservation, PEA forecasts a
growth rate averaging 14.5% annually for sales and 20% for peak demand for
the period 1974/1980. PEA's current tariff structure applicable to this
component is shown in Table 1.
6.        Most of PEA's consumers are in the provincial and district towns
and only recently has PEA begun to extend its service to the larger villages.
In the Northeast Region only about 1,200 of the 20,000 villages have elec-
tricity at present.
Village Selection
7.        PEA has developed good data and has a weighting system to assess
the relative priority of every village in the country for rural electrifi-
cation, on the basis of population, economic activity and proximity to
existing power lines. This system was applied to ten provinces of the
Northeast where conditions are relatively more favorable for rural elec-
trification. With an investment ceiling of about % 100 million (1974
prices excluding physical and price contingencies) and average costs per
village of about % 300,000, 346 villages were selected from the top 3% of
the priority list of each province.
Load Forecast
8.        The load forecast prepared by PEA is summarized in Table 2.
Sales are forecast to increase from 16 GWh in Year 3 of the project (the
first full year of operation) to 60 GWh in Year 20. Corresponding coin-
cident peak demands are 5 MW to 16 MW. The annual load factor is expected
to increase over the same period from 42% to 51%. An outline of the meth-
odology used by PEA is given below, for each of the categories of consump-
tion considered.
9.        The residential load includes demand for household lighting and
appliances. The initial demand in the project villages was determined by
an extensive survey in each village. Subsequent growth in demand was
estimated by reference to USAID and PEA studies of comparable villages
electrified up to eight years previously.  These studies showed that
growth rates of consumption and of consumer numbers are not uniform, but
reflect the economic status of the district. The consumption of energy
grows faster than the number of consumers, and demand for electricity
moves from lighting to appliances, especially after the fifth year fol-
lowing electrification.
'O.       The load forecast for rice mills is based on an actual survey
of the number of rice mills at present in operation. These rice mills are
powered by oversized diesel engines averaging about 10 KW equivalent, which
could be replaced using electrical motors of about 5 KW equivalent. These
small mills serve only the white rice consumption of the villages, and thus



ANNEX 4
Page 3
the growth of rice throughput and load follow population growth. Load
increases would also occur when present milling capacity is fully utilized,
and new mills are installed.
11.       The water pumping load forecast was also based on a survey of
the total diesel pumping capacity presently installed in the project vil-
lages. The pumps are used to pump either surface or groundwater to guarantee
the main rice crop and to permit a limited second cropping. They are also
used to meet domestic requirements.
12.       Other power loads forecast are basically non-lighting loads
associated with shops (commercial refrigerators and freezers) and cottage
industries. The level of likely demand was estimated by reference to the
load build-up in villages already provided with electricity.
13.       Details of the basic data and assumptions used by PEA in preparing
the load forecasts are shown below:
(i) Residential load.
Number of consumers in first full year of operation (Year 3); 29,500.
Saturation level in Year 3: 57% (varying 44%-75% according
to province).
Energy consumption per consumer in Year 3: 190 Kwh per year.
Energy sales in Year 3: 5.7 GWh.
Average annual growth of energy consumption: 10% (derived
from average population growth of 2.5% per year, average
growth in service saturation 1/ of 2% per year, and
average growth of consumption per customer of about 5% per year).
Growth in number of consumers after base saturation is
limited to the population growth rate.
Demand per customer in Year 3: 167 watts.
Connected load in Year 3: 4,950 KW.
Annual growth of demand: 7.5% per year.
Losses assumed at 15% of purchases.
(ii)  Rice Mills
Presently 617 rice mills in operation village, equipped with
diesel motors totalling about 7,800 HP.
Required electrical motor capacity for equivalent throughput
using electric motors is about 3,100 KW or about 5 KW per
mill.
Assuming 70% conversion from diesel to electric motors
by Year 3, total energy requirements in Year 3: 5.6 GWH.
Total demand in Year 3: 2100 KW.
Losses assumed at 15% of purchases.
1/   No of consumers connected at present X 100
Total potential number of consumers



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(iii) Waterpumping
Presently installed capacity: 5,900 HP (about 17 HP
per village, diesel motors).
Equivalent electrical capacity for each village: about
10 KW.
Assuming 80% conversion from diesel to electric motors
by Year 3, total energy consumption in Year 3:  5.4 GWXh
Total demand in Year 3:   2700 KW.
Pumping load will increase at 10% per year until Year 12,
and remain constant thereafter.
(iv)  Other Power Loads
No consumption until 4th year of initial electrification.
In the fourth year, demand per village would average 650 W.
Rapid growth from a small base initially, dropping to 15%
per year in Year 10 and to 10% per year in Year 20.
14.       The Economic analyses based on the above data and load forecast
are given in Annex 12.
Physical Works and Cost Estimates
15.       The following works would be required to implement the project:
Primary 22 kv line                  222 km
Primary 22 kv line taps              315 km
Secondary 460/230 v lines           468 km
Distribution transformers           312 (9110 KVA)
Meters                               27,500
Feeder Reclosures, 22 kv            26
In addition the project would provide vehicles, construction equipment,
tools, radios, and buildings. Cost estimates, based on end-1975 unit
prices, are shown in Table 3.
16.       The proposed loan to PEA of US$3.6 million would be applied
against the costs of buildings, poles and accessories, and the pro-
curement of vehicles, equipment and materials by contracts awarded
following international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines (Annex 9, Table 3). This amount represents 50% of the total
cost of the rural electrification component of US$7.2 million, including
price contingencies (Table 3).



ANNEX 4
Page 5
17.       Three construction crews consisting of 31 men under the control
of PEA's Regional Engineers would be mobilized from PEA's own work force.
Each crew would have the capability of electrifying 2 provinces per year,
thus completing the construction in under two years. PEA has the necessary
design and construction supervision capacity, and no outside consulting
services would be required.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Electrification
Sumnary of Tariffs Applicable to Rural Electrification
Schedule                     Application                      Energy Charge (/Kwh)y
General Regular Service       Household lighting and appliances            1.19
Sma2l Business                Business or industry with lighting           1.00
and power installation not less than
6 KW
Water Pumping                 Agricultural pumping (above 25HP)
or public water pumping.                    o.5o
JI    Figures shown are for areas where PEA purchases power from EGAT; charges
for areas served by PEA diesel plants are about 25% higher,



ANNEX 4
Table 2
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMET PROJECT
Rural Electrification
Load Forecast
3rd Year       1/        2.0th Year              20th Year
Sales  Generation  MD    Sales  Generation  MD  Sales  Generation  MD
GWh       GWh      MW      GWh      GWh      MW   GWh       GWh      MW
Residential           5.7       6.5      4.9    13.3      15.3     824  30.5      35.1   15.5
Rice Mill 4.9                  5.6      2.1     5.8       6.7     3.3   7e4       8.6    3.3
Other Power Loads     -         -        -       2.6       2.9     1.0   8.h       9.6     2.7
Water Pumping          5-4      6.2      2.7    lO.5      12.1     4.)  14.0      16.0     5.4
TOTAL         16.0     18.3       9.7    32.2     37.0    16.8  60.3      69.3    26.9
Peak System Demand
Coincident 2/                          4.9                       8.h                    15.5
Not coincident                          4.8                      8.4                    11.4
Average Annual System                    42.4                     50.4                    51.0
L>oad Factor (%)
1/   Maximum demand.
2/- Power loads coincident with residential load.
3/   Power loads not coincident with residential load.



ANNEX 4
Table 3
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Electrification
Cost Estimatesl/
Foreign
Item                                                                Amount          E'xcha7nge
Poles and Accessories                                        26,000        1,300       30
Conductors                                                   36,400        1,820       65
Transformers and Accessories                                 10,000          500       70
Reclosers and Accessories                                     4,000          200       70
Meters and Service Connections                                8,400          420       90
Buildings                                                     3,200          160       20
Tools and Communication Equipment                             2,200          110       70
Vehicles                                                      9,200          460       70
Engineering and Supervision                                   8,60D          430       20
Sub-total                              108,000        5,400
Management and Administration                                 6,000          300       20
Base Cost Estimate                                   114,000        5,700       53
Physical Contingencies                                 6,000           300
Sub-total                              120,000         6,000
Price Contingencies                                   24,000         1,200
Total Cost                             144,000         7,200       53
1/  InlC K Vng (Gosts of installation-.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAIIAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Upland Crop Improvement
Kpland Crop Production in the Northeast
1.        Cultivation of the upland soils of the Northeast has expanded
rapidly since the early 1960's. Before that time, farming was confined
to the low-lying rice lands, with only about 50,000 ha devoted to crops
other than rice. Kenaf, the first upland crop to be grown on a large
scale, now occupies over 500,000 ha. Cassava was grown only on a small
scale until 1970, but since then the cropped area has grown rapidly and
now probably exceeds 200,000 ha. The land used for kenaf and cassava
was formerly under low, open forest or scrub. Soils are mostly red and
yellow podzolics of low natural fertility.
2.        Continuous cropping of kenaf or cassava, which depletes soil
fertility and causes a decline in yields, is replacing the practice of
shifting cultivation. None of the crops which might be considered as
alternatives to kenaf and cassava command at present such a large and
ready market, but there is increasing interest in peanut cultivation which
holds promise for the Northeast because Thailand is presently an importer
of vegetable oils. Maize and sugar cane, which are both major exports
from Thailand, are not generally successful on the podzolic soils. The
problem of maintaining soil fertility is compounded by an erratic rainfall
pattern, characterized by prolonged droughts and heavy storms, which is
a detarrent to the use of chemical fertilizers. Possibilities for
irrigation are limited; full development of the on-going and proposed
irrigation schemes would serve less than 10% of the land.
3.        In recognition of both the potential and problems of upland
cropping and the low productivity of rainfed rice cultivation in the
Northeast, a Rainfed Crop Improvement project has been prepared under
UNDP Regional Project 253, a "Program for Detailed Preparation of
Pioneer Agricultural Projects in the Lower Mekong Basin". The program
is sponsored by the Mekong Committee 1/ and the IBRD is Executing Agency
in association with the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Food and
Agriculture Organization. Part A of the project, the Rainfed Rice
1/   "Committee for the Coordination of Investigations of the Lower Mekong
Basin", composed of representatives of the Governments of Laos, Khmer
Republic, Thailand, and the Republic of Vietnam.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Pioneer Project, is being financed under an ongoing IDA Credit 1/. Part B,
the Upland Crop Improvement Project, has been prepared by consultants 2/
and was reviewed by an IBRD appraisal team which visited Thailand in
November 1974. The findings of the Bank Mission are summarized in this
Annex.
Facilities for Upland Crop Research
4.        Most of the upland crop research in the Northeast is conducted
by the Northeast Region Agricultural Research Center (NEAR), the Depart-
ment of Agriculture's field crop experiment stations, and the research
facilities at Khon Kaen University.
5.        NEAR, located at Tha Phra near Khon Kaen, carries out research
on upland crops, livestock, and to a lesser extent fisheries and forestry.
The center has about 160 ha of land and is well equipped with laboratories
and research facilities. Crop research is carried out on kenaf, mung-
beans, soybeans, peanuts, maize and sorghum.
6.        The Department of Agriculture's field crop experiment stations
are as follows:
-- Korat Silk Station (Nakhon Ratchasima) with four
substations and seven propagation stations;
--   Suwan National Maize and Sorghum Station (Nakhon
Ratchasima)
-- Nong Sung Kenaf and Jute Station (Nakhon Ratchasima);
=   Yang Talad Oil Crop Station (Kalasin)
--   Cotton Station (Loei);
--   Seven other stations mainly concerned with cultural
practices and seed multiplication.
7.        The main emphasis of the Faculty of Agriculture of Khon Kaen
is on livestock, but the Plant Science Division conducts research on
soybean, sorghum, and soil fertility depletion by cassava, and the
Animal Science Division conducts research on grass-legume pastures.
1/   IDA Credit 461-TH.
2/   ILACO, Arnhem, the Netherlands.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Priorities for Research and Development
8.        Although some excellent work has been done on specific crops,
little progress has been made in finding practical solutions to the
problem of improving and maintaining the fertility of upland soils.
At current prices for kenaf and cassava, the use of chemical fertilizers
to arrest declining yields under annual cropping, is financially un-
attractive to the farmers. More effort is required to seek solutions
to the fertility problem by developing farming systems other than
monocultures. An appropriate research and development program would
include:
crop rotation and intercropping with and without
fertilizer;
the use of leguminous crops as green manure or
cash crops;
fertility effects of different crop rotations and
individual crops in a rotation;
the use of pasture leys in combination with livestock.
9.        The project provides for a research program to be carried out at
NEAR, as well as for a program of trials for testing of promising systems,
At NEAR, an interdisciplinary team would be formed to investigate the
technical, economic and financial feasibility of different farming systems.
The objective would be to evolve farming systems, which would raise, or
at least stabilize, incomes from upland crops and be within the technical
capability of the average farmer. Systems devised on the basis of known
technology would be immediately tested by trials on the field crop experiment
stations and on selected farms, as would further systems developed at NEAR.
Principal Features of the Upland Crop Improvement Project
10.       The Director-General of the Department of Agriculture would assume
overall responsibility for program execution as Project Director 1/. A senior
officer of the Department of Agriculture would be appointed as Project Co-
ordinator, to be resident at Khon Kaen. A Program Review Committee for
Upland Crop Research would be established with the Director-General of the
Department of Agriculture as Chairman. The Project Coordinator would act
as Secretary, and members of the committee would include the Director, North-
east Upland Crop Research (alternate chairman), the Alternate Coordinator,
the Regional Livestock Project Coordinator (when appointed), the Program
Advisor, Director of the Regional Extension Training Center, Dean of the
Faculty of Agriculture of Khon Kaen University, and the Director of the NEAR.
The Committee would meet to review and approve an Annual 1Tork Program pro-
posed by the Project Coordinator, which would then be submitted to the Under-
Secretary of State for his comment and approval. Thereafter, the Committee



ANNEX 5
Page 4
would meet once a year to review progress in the proceeding year and review
and approve the next year's work program. A Research Program Advisor,
would be employed to assist and advise the Project Coordinator in the
preparation and coordination of upland crop research programs for the North-
east.
11.       Basic research on farming systems would be conducted at NEAR
by an interdisciplinary team. In addition, a 3.5 ha demonstration farm,
farm studies, and market research would be conducted by the research staff.
Additional personnel would be assigned to such research activities. The
project would also provide some additional transport and equipment.
12.       Three field crop experiment stations at Khon Kaen, Maha Sarakham,
and Ubon Ratchathani, would be upgraded to conduct both on-station and
on-farm trials of promising farming systems. The on-farm trials would be
conducted with the assistance of personnel from the Regional Extension Train-
ing Center at Khon Kaen. Some 20-25 farmers whose holdings are readily
accessible and typical of the locality would be selected to participate in
the trials. Funds would be provided to compensate farmers for any loss of
income due to on-farm trials. The project would provide necessary buildings
and housing, equipment and vehicles.
13.       Non Sung is the main experimental station for kenaf and jute;
and the facilities would be upgraded for an expanded seed multiplication
program. In addition, provision is made for upgrading kenaf research
facilities at Khon Kaen, Maha Sarakham and Ubon Ratchathani Experiment
Stations, to function as kenaf research sub-stations.
14.       Upgrading of the main oil crop research station at Yang Talad
requires land improvement, buildings, equipment and vehicles. Research
results on peanut obtained at NEAR would be tested at Yang Talad, together
with a program for seed multiplication. Soybean seed multiplication for
use in the Northern Region would be expanded. Upgrading of the research
facilities at the Cotton Experiment Station at Loei would include the
appointment of a team of research workers to concentrate on plant protection,
maintenance of soil fertility and improvement of fibre quality. Buildings,
laboratory equipment, and vehicles would also be provided.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Upland Crop Improvement
Cost Estimates
Amount
Item                                                milli-n Baht
Upgrading of Facilities at NEAR
Equipment                                                 0.3
Vehicles                                                  0.2
Production inputs                                         0.1
2;.! ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ;
Upgrading of Facilities at F,C.E.S. Khon Kaen
Ubon Ratchathani, Maha Sarakham and Non Sung
Buildings and Housing                                     2.2
Equipment                                                 3.7
Vehicles                                                  2.0
On-farm trials                                            0.3
Land Improvement                                          005
Study Tours                                               0.4
9.1
1/
Upgrading of F.C.E.S. Yang Talad and Loei
Building and housing                                      193
Equipment                                                 1.2
Vehicles                                                 o06
Land Improvement                                          0.2
303
Operating Costs for 7 Stations               Annual
Research personnel                       5.5
Supporting perscmel                     6.5
Vehicles and Equip., O&M                 2.5
Materials                                1.5
Building Maint.                          1.5
1775
Total for four years                                     70.0
Technical Assistance
Program Advisor, 4 years                                  4.0
Management & Adm.                                              3.0
Base Cost Estimate                                       90.0
Physical Contingencies                                    2.0
___________________________________________ _        w92.0
1/ Field Crop Experiment Station



ANNEX 6
Page 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Extension
1.        The Department of Agricultural Extension, within the Ministry
of Agriculture and Cooperatives, is the agency primarily responsible for
providing agricultural advice to farmers throughout Thailand. Technical
personnel, mainly graduates of universities and agricultural vocational
schools, are stationed in each province and district. There are usually
six extension officers in each province and two agents in each district.
Each agent serves approximately 4,000 farmers.
2.        To improve the effectiveness of the extension service the
Ministry has recently decided to adopt a new approach which involves the
recruitment and training of progressive farmers to serve as extension
workers or "farmers' foremen". This approach was first introduced in the
Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project (Credit 379-TH), and the results
have been encouraging; the better farmers have been willing to devote
considerable time to their duties as farmers' foremen and there has been
an excellent response from other farmers. The Department of Extension
has, therefore, proposed that as a component of the Northeast Rural Develop-
ment Project the same system of extension services would be developed in
four provinces of the Northeast, as a first step of a program to strengthen
the extension effort throughout the region. The selected provinces are
Ubon Ratchatani, Yasothon, Sisaket and Roi-Et where about 380,000 farm
families cultivate some 1,100,000 ha.
3.        The project will aim at demonstrating the feasibility of the
new approach to agricultural extension on a larger scale than in the
Chao Phya project, and in an area with a less favorable soils and water
regime. It will be implemented within the existing administrative and
organizational structure of the Department to ensure that the system can
gradually be introduced in other provinces in the Northeast and else-
where in Thailand. However, because of the project's innovative nature
the staff will be drawn from the more experienced extension officers and
subject matter specialists of the Department. The experience gained by
these personnel will, however, enable them to take the lead in other
provinces as the system is expanded.
4.        The project would be implemented in close coordination with the
two crop improvement projects, both of them designed to strengthen the
Government's existing research programs. The Upland Crop Improvement
Project is a component of the project appraised in this report and is
described in Annex 5. The Rainfed Rice Improvement Project forms a



ANNEX 6
Page 2
part of the Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project financed
under Credit 461-TH. Both of these crop improvement projects were
prepared as a part of the Mekong Committee's program of pioneer projects
(UNDP Regional Project 253) for which the Bank was executing agency in
association with FAO and the Asian Development Bank. The crop improve-
ment projects are designed to evaluate existing techniques, and develop
new techniques for rainfed agriculture in the Northeast.
5.        The Department of Extension proposes to appoint a senior
extension officer as Project Officer to supervise and coordinate the
implementation of the project. He would report directly to the management
of the Department. The Provincial Extension Officers in each of the three
provinces would report to the Project Officer, and be responsible for
the extension effort in their respective provinces. There is presently
a shortage of subject-matter specialists, but initially some of the more
experienced ones will be placed on short-term assignment to assist the
provinces in training extension agents and farmers' foremen. As more
subject-matter specialists are trained they will be assigned permanently
to the provinces. The number of extension agents will be increased as
required to ensure that each district has at least two agents who can be
relieved from administrative duties to devote all of their time to ex-
tension activities. An important first step will be to conduct training
courses at the provincial headquarters to explain the concepts of the
project to the agents, to review the problems of rainfed agriculture,
and to bring the agents up-to-date on proven farming techniques which are
economically attractive to the farmers. Farmers' foremen will be re-
cruited and trained in sufficient numbers so that each one serves 400 to
500 farmers, and they will attend training courses of three to four weeks
a year and not less than two "study days" per month. The training courses
will be designed to convey information on cultural practices and crop
varieties which have proved to be successful in the region. The study
days will emphasize the actual activities the farmers in the area will be
carrying out in the following weeks, and review any problems being en-
countered by the farmers. Implementation would be over a four-year period,
starting with all villages in a few districts of each province in the first
year and eventually expanding to cover all 32 districts of the three pro-
vinces. The Department of Extension is currently preparing a detailed plan
of operation for the program's implementation in line with the general
principles outlined above.
6.        This component also provides for development of the existing
Northeast Regional Extension Training Center to fulfil its role as a
center for the training of extension agents. A link between research and
extension would be provided by three senior extension officers. They would
divide their time between the field crop stations (Annex 4) assisting in
on-farm trials, their training duties at the Center, and in visits to observe
the progress of agents and farmers' foremen in the field. In this way they
would be able to convey new approaches to the extension personnel and bring



ANNEX 6
Page 3
to the attention of the field crop stations the problems and experiences of
the extension agents and farmers.
7.        Capital expenditures amounting to $ 22 million (US$1.1 mil-
lion) would be incurred primarily in procuring the vehicles needed to
give the project personnel the required mobility, and in the construction
of offices and housing. Provision is also made in the cost estimates
for technical assistance and overseas training tours for selected per-
sonnel. The operating costs of the project through FY 1980 is estimated
to be $ 39 million (US$1.95 million). Cost estimates are given in Table 1.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPWFNT PROJECT
Agricultural Extension
Capital Costs
Item                                 Unit       Unit Price          Amount
(Baht)         (Baht million)
Extension Program in Four Provinces
Pickup trucks (4 wheel drive)        22        120,000              2.6
Motorcycles                          80         15,000              1.2
Offices and housing                              L.S.l/            13.0
Misc. equipment                                  L.S.               1.0
Overseas training                                L.S.               1.2
Sub-total                                                       19.0
Northeast Regional Extension Training Center
Buildings and housing                            L.S.               2.4
Training equipment                               L.S.               0.3
Vehicles                                         L.S.               0.3
Sub-total                                                       3.0
Operating Costs (Table ?)                                                39.0
Management and Administration                                             3.0
Base Cost Estimate                                                 64.o
Physical Contingencies                                              2.0
TOTAL                                                              66.0
l/ Lump Sum



ANNEX)6
Table 2
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Extension
Operating Costs
Extension Program
Item                                   No.                 Amount (Baht)
Project Manager                            1                    70,000
Fr.ovincial Extension Officers             3                   180,000
Subject Matter Specialists                18                   900,000
Extension Agents                          80                 2,880,000
Farmers' Foremen                         600                 4,320,000
Others                                   150                 3,000,000
Vehicle Operation                                              700,000
Misc.                                                          450 1000
Annual Costat full        12,500,000
operation
Cost for 4 yearsi/        36,000,000
Extension Training Center
Item                                   No.                 Amount (Baht)
Director                                   1                    70,000
Sr. Extension Officers                     3                   180,000
Subject Matter Specialists                 4                   200,000
Training Officer                           1                    50,000
Support Personnel                         10                   200,000
Building Maintenance                                           100,000
Misc.                                                          100,000
Annual Costat full           900,000
operation   1
Cost for 4 years-/         3,000,000
1/ Allows for build up in personnel strength over the first three years for the
extension program and two years for the training center.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Settlements
1.        The Self-Help Settlement Division in the Department of Public
Welfare (DPW) was established in 1941 to resettle farmers displaced by the
construction of reservoirs and to make land available to families who have
either no land or holdings too small to provide a livelihood. Displaced
families are allocated about 4 ha, while the other groups are allocated about
2.5 ha.
2.        DPW is responsible for establishing, administering, and developing
the settlements on lands transferred from the public domain. When the com-
munity is fully established and its development has reached a stage where
it can be considered self-sufficient, DPW's responsibilities end, and the
settlement is incorporated into the country's regular administrative structure.
"Self-sufficiency" is defined in terms of an average annual family income
of $ 15,000 (US$750).
3.        DPW has contributed significantly in opening up new land for culti-
vation and its activities affect a large number of people who are among the
poorest in the country. To date, DPW has set up 55 settlements, covering
an area of nearly one million ha, in 37 provinces. Thus far, only about
one-third of this land has been allocated to about 83,000 settler families,
with a total population of about half a million. However, both the total
areas cultivated and the population of the settlements may differ from
official records because some squatters already occupied land prior to its
transfer to DPW, more "unofficial" settlers came later, and not all families
allocated land remained in the settlement. DPW has brought four settlements
to the stage where they were considered self-sufficient and were transferred
to the regular administration. The income target stipulated for such
transfers is above the average rural income, and in the majority of settle-
ments, incomes have remained considerably below those of surrounding areas.
The average settler has a family income of about $ 4,000 (US$200), which is
well below the national average rural family income.
4.        The Government's policy to keep public outlays for settlement to
a minimum and the tendency to select land of poor quality for transfer to
DPW have hampered DPW in its settlement activities. Government policy has
been to stress self-help as the essential element in the development of
DPW's settlements. As a result, the anmunt of public resources available
to provide infrastructure and public services (including in particular



ANNEX 7
Page 2
agricultural services) has not been sufficient to make the self-help approach
as successful as it could be.
5.        It is becoming increasingly important that the Government evolve
a land use policy and develop effective institutions for its administration.
The total amount of land officially allocated by DPW accounts for less than
one-tenth of the expansion in cultivated areas since 1960. In other words,
private efforts, drawing on large reserves of cultivable land, have been the
main factor in the increase and diversification of agricultural output since
1960. Thailand has been able, even with a rapidly growing population, to
avoid a sharp reduction in the amount of cultivated land available per
rural family. However, spontaneous, unorganized extension of the cultivated
area has, in some areas, brought with it the problems of indiscriminate
destruction of forests and over-exploitation of soils. These problems are
likely to intensify as cultivation approaches the limits of the land supply,
and more difficult areas, in terms of soil characteristics and topography,
are opened up. While there is still ample land in some other parts of the
country, in the North the pressure of population on the available land is
already intense.
6.        In response to these problems, DPW has begun to look for ways to
strengthen its capabilities and improve its performance. DPW approached the
Bank for help, essentially in the form of expert services, to supplement the
bilateral aid it has recently been receiving.
7.        The project provides 9 4,000,000 (US$200,000) for studies to be
carried out with the assistance of consultants to (a) review the overall
policies, programs and existing schemes of the DPW and other Government
agencies concerning with land settlement; (b) survey DPW land settlement
schemes in the Northeast to determine their present conditions, the feasible
level of their development, and the additional investment in infrastructure
and government services required to meet these levels; and (c) formulate a
phased program for settlement. In addition, the studies would estimate over-
all requirements for further land settlement in the Northeast and the policies,
programs and financing needed to meet such requirements. Depending on the
results, feasibility studies for one or more future land settlement projects
in the Northeast would be carried out.
8.        The project also includes 9 6,000,000 (US$300,000) to assist in
financing the implementation of pilot projects. On the basis of the pre-
viously outlined studies, DPW and their consultants would select two or three
settlements broadly representative of the probleiws and potential of the settle-
ment program in the Northeast. Present information suggests Ban Kruad, in
Buriram province, and Chieng Pin, in Udorn Thani province, but more com-
prehensive analysis is needed before the final choice is made. The initial
programs would be directed at increasing agricultural productivity and pro-
vide scope for innovation and experiments, including such elements as dif-
ferent approaches to land clearing; alternative methods of developing small



ANNEX 7
Page 3
schemes for the exploitation of surface or groundwater resources; reorienta-
tion of cropping patterns; strengthening extension services in settlement
areas; and ways to bring about closer integration, or at least cooperation,
between DPW and other government departments and agencies concerned with
agricultural development, particularly with respect to Bank-supported programs
for the improvement of rainfed rice and upland crops.
9.        The present project provides for urgently needed road and water
supply improvements in the settlement schemes located in the Northeast. ARD
has included in the village access road component, the improvement of about
100 km of roads, which would chiefly involve renewing their laterite surfaces
and repairing some embankments and structures. ARD has also made provision
for additional wells or ponds needed in the settlement areas to be included
in the first year's work program of the village water supply component
(Annex 3). DPW would collaborate with ARD in the selection of the specific
roads and villages to receive improvements.



ANNEX 8
THAILAND                              Table 1
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Summary
Foreign
Local   Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign    Total    Exehange
Baht million-US$ 000 ----------    %
Village Roads
Construction and Impvt.        121.8      81.2      203.0   6,090    4,D60    10,150          40
Consultants                     11.2       5.8       17.0      560      290        850        35
Management & Adm.                4.8       1.2        6.o      240       60        300        20
Sub-total                      137.8      88.2      226.0   6,890    4,410    11,300          39
ARD Road Maintenance
BSquipment                       2.6      48.4       51.0     130    2,420       2,550        95
Technical Assistance             0.4       2.6        3.0       20      130        150        85
Sub-total                        3.0      51.0       54.0     150    2,550       2,700        95
Village Water supply
Vehicles and Equipment           1.3      23.2       24.5       65    1,160      1,225        95
Materials                        3.0      12.0       15.0      150       600       750        80
Drilling Operations             20.9       7.0       27.9   1,045       350      1,395        25
Dams and Ponds                   6.4       1.6        8.0      320       80        400        20
Technical Assietance             0.4       2.6        3.0       20      130        150        85
Management & Adm.                6.0       1.6        7.6      300        80       380        20
Sub-total                       38.0      48.0       86.0   1,900    2,400       4,300        57
Rural Electrification
Poles & Accessories             18.2       7.8       26.0     910       390      1,300        30
Conductors                      13.2      23.2       36.4      660    1,160      1,820        65
Transformers                     3.0       7.0       10.0      150      350        500        70
Reclosers & Meters               2.0      10.4       12.4      100      520        620        8
Tools & Equipment                0.6       1.6        2.2       30        80       110        7°
Buildings                        2.6        .6        3.2     130        30        160        20
Vehicles                         2.8       6.4        9.2     140       320        460        70
Engineering & Supervision        7.0       1.6        8.6      350        80       430        20
Management & Adm.                4.8       1.2        6.o      240       60        300        20
Sub-total                       54.2      59.8      114.0   2,710    2,990       5,700        53
;Jpand Crop Iaprvement
dingiI LadImpr.                  3.4       0.8        4.2      170       40        210        20
Vehicles & Equipment             o.8       7.2        8.0       40       360       400         90
Miscellaneous                    0.2       o.6        0.8       10        30         40       80
Technical Assistance             0.6       3.4        4.0       30      170         200       85
Dperating Costs                 56.0      14.0       70.0   2,800        700     3,500        20
Management & Adm.                2.4       0.6        3.0      120        30       150        20
Sub-total                       63.4      26.6       90.0   3,170    1,330       4,500        30
Agricultural Extension
Buildings                       12.4       3.0       15.4      620      150         770        20
Vehicles and Equipment           0.6       4.8        5.4       30       240        270        90
Operating Costs                 31.2       7.8       39.0   1,560        390     1,950        20
Overseas Training                 -        1.2        1.2       -         60         60      100
Management & Adm.                2.4       0.6        3.0      120        30        150        20
Sub-total                       46.6      17.4       64.0   2,330        870     3,200         27
Land Settlement
Studies                          1.0       3.0        4.0       50       150        200        75
Pilot Projects                   5.0       5.0       10.0      250       250        500        50
Sub-total                         6.0      8.0       14,0      300       400        700
Base Cost Estimate               349       299        648   17,450   14,950   32,400           46
Physical Contingencies               34        32        66    1,700    1,600    3,300
Expected Price Increases             97        89       186    4,850    4,450    9,300
TOTAL PROJECT COST                480      420        900   24?000   21,000   45,000           47



ANNEX 9
Table 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
Total                     Calendar Years
Item                                  Cost 1/    1976      1977        1978      1979     1980
tUS  '000)-----------
Village Access Roads                  13,300      l,000    4,000      4,300    4,000      --
Road Maintenance T'quipment            2,700         -      2,000       700       __      __
Village Water Supply                   5,O@0        300    1,900      1,000    1,000       800
Rural Flectrification                  6,ooo      2,500    2,000      1,500       --
Upland Crop Improvement                4,600        300    1,100      1,200    1,000    1,000
Agricultural Extension                 3,400        200    1,000        800       700      700
Land Settlement                           700        -        300       300       100      __
Sub-total                          3 5,700     4, 300   12,300     9,800    6,800    2,500
Expected Price Increases 2/             9,300       200    2,050      2,900    3,050    1,100
TOTAL PROJECT COST                 45,000
1/ Includes physical contingencies.
2/ Annual rates of price escalation used were (para. 4.14):
Civil Works:                        1976      1977       1978     1979      1980
Calendar Years,                       14        12        12        12       10
Price escalation factor used        .075       .22       .38       .54      .72
Equipment & Services:
Calendar Years, %                     10        8          8         9        7
Price escalation factor used        .055       .16       .26       .36      .46



ANNEX 9
Table 2
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RUTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                        Accumulated Disbursements
and Semester                                           US$ Thousand Equivalent
1976
ist
2nd                                                         100
1977
lst                                                         500
2nd                                                         900
1978
1st                                                       4,700
2nd                                                       8,500
1979
1st                                                      12,500
2nd                                                      16,000
1980
1st                                                      18,000
2nd                                                      20,600
1981
1st                                                      20,900
2nd                                                      21,000



ANNEX 9
Table 3
THAILAND
NORTHEAST TRAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount of       % of
Base        Cost Incl.       Loan      Expenditures
Cost I1  Price Increases  Allocated    Financed
---------------Us$  -000…------______________
Parts A, B and C
(1)  Road Construction, Dams and Ponds  10,150           15,000          6,000    40% of total
(2)  Road Improvement                        400            450            180    40% of total
(3)  Vehicles, Equipment & Materials       4,180          4,710          4,710
(a) Directly Imported                                                       100% of foreign
(b) Manufactured Locally                                                    100% of total
(ex-factory)
(c) Imported but procured locally                                            65% of total
(4)  Technical Assistance                  1,150          1,700          1,500   100% of foreign
or 85% of total
Part D: Upland Crop Improvement
(5)  Buildings and Land Improvement          210            250            100    40% of total
(6)  Vehicles, Equipment and Materials       360            460            460    See Category 3
(7)  Technical Assistance, & Study Tours   220              275            230    See Category 4
Part E_. Agricultural Extension
(8)  Buildings                               770            925            370    40% of total
(9)  Vehicles and Equipment                  240            300            300    See Category 3
(10)  Overseas Training                        60             70             70   100% of foreign
Part F: Land Settlements
(11)  Pilot Projects                          440            500            200    40% of total
(12)  Vehicles, Equipment and Materials        60             80             80    See Category 3
(13)  Technical Assistance                    200            230            200    See Category 4
-Part G: Rural Electrification
(14) Civil Works, including distributor
poles                                 1,460          1,740            700    40% of total
(15)  Vehicles, Equipment & Materials       2,430          2,900          2,900    See Category 3
(16)  Unallocated                                                         3,000
Total               21,000
I/ For notes on each item refer to next 2 pages (Annex 9, Table 3 continuation).
21 Including physical contingencies.



ANNEX 9
Table 3
(continuation)
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Notes on Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Derivation of
Item No.             Base Cost                    US$'000       Source         Remarks
(1)     Road construction 1,300 km              9,750    Annax 1, Page 5   I.C.B(11200km),L.C.B.
Dams and Ponds                           400    Annex 8, Table 1  L.C.B.        /(100km)
Total                            10,150
(2)     Road Improvement, 100 km                   400   Annex 1, Page 5   Force Account
(3)     Road Maintenance Eqpt.                  2,420    Annex 8, Table 1) I.C.B; Base cost of
Village Water Supply;                                            ) vehicles, equipment
Vehicles & Eqpt.             1,160    Annex 8, Table 1) and materials are
Materials                     _00    Annex 8, Table 1) based on c.i.f costs.
Total                              4,180
(4)     Village Roads; consultants                850    Annex 8, Table 1) Technical assistance
Road Maintenance; Technical              150                     ) would be derived froni
Assistance                                              ) local and foreign
Village Water Supply;                                            ) sources  in an in-
Technical Assistance           150) determinate
Total                              1,150                     ) proportion. A
) notional figure of
) US$1.5 million,
) representing the
) probable amount of
) loan to be allocated
) for this item has
) been used.
(5)    Buildings and Land Imprr.                 210    Annex 8, Table 1    L.C.B.
(6)    Vehicles and Equipment                    360    Annex 8, Table 1  See remarks for
Item 3
(7)    Technical Assistance                      200    Annex 8, Table 1) See remarks for
) Item 4.
Study Tours                               20                     ) A notional figure of
Total                                220                      US$.23 million has
been used.
(8 )     Buildings                            770      Annex 8, Table 1         L.C.B.
(9 )    Vehicles and Equipment               240       Annex 8, Table 1   See remarks for Item 3.
(10)     Overseas Training                     60      Annex 8, Table 1



ANNEX 9
Table 3
(continuation)
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Notes on Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Derivation of
Itema No.       Base Cost                     US$1000            Source            Remark
ILl)&    Pilot Projects                       500       Annex 8, Table 1         L.C.B.
(12)
(13)     Technical Assistance                 200       Annex 8, Table 1   See remarks for Item 4
(14)    Buildings and Poles                     1,460    Annex 8, Table 1    L.C.B.
(15)     Conductors                             1,160    Anr.ex 8, Table 1) See remprks for
T'ransformers                            350    Annex 8, Table 1) Item 3.
Reclosers and Meters                     520    Annex 8, Table 1)
Tools and Equipment                       80    Annex 8, Table 1)
Vehicles                                 320    Annex 8, Table 1)
Total                              2,430



ANNEX 10
Table 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Construction Schedule
Calendar Years
1976    1977    1976    1979    1980    Total
Village Roads
Roads Constructed (km)            100      400      400      400       -     1,300
Village Wells
Drilling equipment in operation:
Large rigs                      8         8        8        8        8
Medium rigs                     0         5       10       10        10
Small rigs                      5        15       30      30        50
Bucket augers                    1        2        2        2        2
Wells drilled:
Large                         160       160      160      160      160      800
Medium                         -        100      200      250      250      800
Small                         100       300     400      600       800   2,200
Open                           -         50       50      50        50      200
4,000
Rural Electrification
Villages electrified              100      150       96       -        -       346



Annex 10
Table 2
page   1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Critical Events
A. Consultants and Advisors
Activity                                             Dntes
A          B                    D
Prepare short list &
terms of reference                   11/15/75   2/25/76    2/25/76      -
Invite proposals                     11/25/75   3/ 1/76    3/ 1/76      _
Negotiate contract                    1/15/76   h/15/76    4/15/76   3/15/76
Sign contract                         1/25/76   4/2$5/76    4/h5/76   3/:5/76
Consultants mobilized                 2/ 1/75   51 1/76    5/ 1/76   4/25/76
A   Village roads and road maintenance (ARD)
B   Surface water storage for village water supply (ARD)
C = Land settlements and pilot projects (DPW)
D = Program Advisor, Upland Crops (contract with individual specialist)
(Department of Agriculture)
Note: 1) Well Drilling Advisor has already been appointed and services
through early 1976 financed under Credit 461-TH.
2) Schedule includes allowances for Bank review and approval0



Annex 1 0
Table 2
page   2
B. Contracts for Civil Works and Equipment
Activity                                       Dates
A            B          C
Prepare contract documents        5/30/76      4/30/76    4/15/76
Clearance within govt.            6/25/76      5/30/76    5/15/76
Invite bids                       6/30/76      6/10/76    5/20/76
Award contract                    8/30/76      9/10/76    8/';0/76
A = First construction contract for village access roads (about 100 km).
B = Contracts for procurement of road maintenance equipment and vehicles.
C = Contracts for procurement of well drilling equipment and vehicles.
Note: 1) Schedule allows for Bank review and approval.
2) All contracts are responsibility of ARD.
C. Appointments
Activity                                         Dates
Appointment of Project Directors           Within three months of loan signing.
Appointment of Project officers
Note:   Confirmation is required that officials already acting in these
capacities have been formally appointed.



ANNEX 11
Page 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation - Village Access Roads
1.        The major assured benefits of the road component will be
estimated reductions of 45% in the cost of passenger travel and of 40%
in the cost of transporting the large volumes of cash crops, which are
at present moved from the village to paved highways over unimproved
cart-tracks by trucks and buses. The reduction in transport costs is
expected to stimulate the growth of agricultural production, particularly
that of cassava, since transport costs have an important influence on
farmgate prices of this product.
2.        In the economic analysis, the passenger cost savings have been
estimated for both the assumed normal traffic, and for the assumed
increased traffic generated by the decrease in fares. Assumptions made
in estimating both the normal and induced growth rates of passenger
traffic volume are listed below.
3.        Agricultural development benefits have been estimated by pro-
jecting the likely production of cassava in the presence and absence of
the project. Total agricultural benefits, arising from reduced transport
costs and increased production with the project, were then derived as the
difference between the net value of production with the project and the
{let value of production without the project, for each year of the analysis.
Only cassava production is considered, since it is currently the "boom crop"
tnroughout the Northeast, and would be an increasingly important marketed
product and source of cash income for the farmers. Cost savings on exist-
ing transport volume for commodities other than cassava are not considered
in the analysis.
4.        In projecting the likely areas to be planted to cassava, both
with and without the project, it has been assumed that only that land
which has already been titled, but not yet cultivated, will be cleared
and brought into production over the twenty year period of the analysis.
The fact that the farmer has undertaken the considerable effort to obtain
title to a given area is strong evidence of his intention to cultivate
that area as soon as favorable economic conditions prevail. It is likely
that further land would be titled and cultivated over the period under
consideration, but this has not been assumed in the analysis.
5.        Most of the benefits arising from the decreased vehicle
opeiating costs on the improved roads are likely to be passed on to the



ANNEX 11
Page 2
villagers, whether passengers or producers, since many of the vehicles are
owned by village residents, and the town-based transport entrepreneurs are
numerous and competitive. The cost reduction estimates are derived from
studies of the effects of the improvement of similar roads in other
areas. 1/
6.        The assumptions and basic data used in the analysis are listed
below:
(a) Construction Costs. 1,250 km of roads, built at a unit cost of
g 170,000/km (including 15% physical contingencies and 9% for
consultants), with 8% completed in Year 1, 28% in Year 2, 32%
in Year 3, and the remaining 32% in Year 4.
(b) Maintenance costs estimated at $ 7,000/km annually beginning
in the year following construction, and $ 30,000/km for
exchanging the laterite surface in every fifth year.
(c) Passenger Traffic
Average passenger journey length; 2/3 length of access road.
Present volume over all roads: 88,000 pass-km (total pass-km
x 2/3).
Natural growth of 4% per year.
Induced growth of 25% in year following construction, 4% per
year thereafter.
Passenger cost savings of % .17/pass-km (reduction in fare
from $0.37 to $0.20 1/.
The calculation of passenger cost-savings is shown in Table 1.
(d) Upland cropping area
Area presently cropped: 100,000 ha, of which 15,000 ha is under
cassava.
Annual growth in cassava area cropped: without project, 5%;
with project, 20% beginning in year following construction
of road.
(e) Farm budget for cassava
Clearing costs of $ 1,000/ha for each new ha of land brought
into cultivation.
Average distance to market:  16 km; 7 km along existing track
and a further 9 km along provincial road.
Good-cost savings of $ 2/ton-km (reduction from % 4.4 to $ 2.4)
after construction of access road 1/. All savings have been
assumed to accrue to the farmer.
1/   Source:  Report on Socio-Economic Studies of Village Access Roads in
Northeast Thailand, by R. Sandler, IBRD Consultant, November
1974.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
Without Project      With Project
Av. ex-Factory Price (V/ton)                 300                  300
Unit cost of transport ($ ton-km),
on proposed road                       4.4                   2.4
on provincial road                     2.4                   2.4
Transport costs (Wton)
7 km, proposed road                     31                    17
9 km, provincial road                   22                    22
Total                         53                   39
Av. Farmgate Price ($/ton)                   248                  262
Yield (ton/ha)                              12.5                 12.5
Gross value of production ($/ha)           3,095                3,270
Production costs ($/ha)                    1,000                1,000
Net value of production (V/ha)             2,095                2,270
(excluding clearing costs)
The calculation of total agricultural benefits is shown in Table 2.
7.        An economic analysis was made, using the total agricultural bene-
fits and passenger cost savings (Table 3). The economic rate of return was
calculated to be 20%.
8.        In an attempt to estimate the likely social benefits arising from
the provision of village access roads, data relevant to the costs and bene-
fits of health and educational services in Northeast Thailand was assembled
(Table 4). The data on health suggests that for the rural population in
the Northeast of working age, at least 5 days per year per person are lost
from work due to illness. However, data on the difference between villages
with and without access roads is not available; presumably the average
number of days lost in isolated villages with poor access to health facil-
ities would be greater than the surveyed sample. The educational data in-
dicates the provision of access roads removes an important constraint on
pupil attendance at the upper primary level. Blaug's estimate of the
social rate of return for Thailand as a whole suggests that if the Gov-
ernment invested in upper primary facilities following the provision of
access roads, a 14% rate of return would be obtained. The incremental
return to education investment in the project areas might be expected to
be much higher, due to lower salaries and infrastructural costs, and the
already low level of investment in education in the rural areas.



ANNEX 11
Table 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Access Roads
Calculation of Passenger Cost Savings
Normal Traffic            Normal         Traffic with Pro'act       Induced
('000 pass-km) 1/          Cost 2/        ('0°° pass-km) 3           Cost
Year      Total   Benefiting          Savings-      Total      Generated        Savings -
(-000 T  }7)                            (       0)
1       91,500         0                 0          96,500          0             0
2       95,200     7,600             1,300         96,700       1,500          100
3       99,000    46,500             7,900        106,200       7,200          600
4      103,000    95,700            16,300        117,100      14,000        1,200
5      107,100   107,100            18,200        128,700      21,600        1,800
6      111,300   111,300            18,900        133,800      22,500        1,900
7      115,800   115,802            19,700        139,200      23,400        2,000
8      120,400   120,400            20,500        144,800      24,300        2,100
9      125,300   125,300            21,300        150,600      25,300        2,200
10      130,300   130,300            22,100        156,600      26,300         2,200
11      135,500   135,500            23,000        162,800      27,400         2,300
12      140,900   140,900            24,000        169,300      28,500         2,h00
13      146,500   146,500            24,900        176,100      29,600        2,500
14      152,400   152,400            25,900        183,200      30,800        2,600
15      158,500   158,500            26,900        190,500      32,000         2,700
16      164,800   164,800            28,000        198,100      33,300         2,800
17      171,500   171,500            29,000         206,000     34,500         2,900
18      178,300   178,300            30,300        214,300      35,900        3,000
19      185,500   185,500            31,500        222,800      37,400        3,200
20      192,900   192,900            32,800        231,800      38,900        3,300
1/   On all project roads.
2/   Normal traffic benefiting x X 0.17/pass-km.
3/   Growth of 25% in year following construction; otherwise 4% p. a.
/   Generated traffic x X 0.085/pass-km.



THAILAND
ANNEX 11
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT                     Table  2
Village Access Roads
Calculation of Agricultural Benefits
Without Project                                    With Pro ject
Cassava      Net          Land                   Cassava       Net         Land
Year      Area    Productipr   Clearing2   Net              Aiea    Production   Clearing      Net    Agricultura
Total      Value -       Costs-    Retur--       Total       Value 2/     Costs      Return    Benefits
(ha)    ----- --($ Million) ------ll-ion)                                           -
15,150       33.0          .8        32.2        15,750         33.0        .8          32.2       0
2      16,540       34.7          .8         33.9       16,730         35.3        1.0         34.3      0.4
3      17,360       36.14         .8         35.6       18,480         40.o        1.8         38.2      2.6
4      18,230       38.2          .9         37.3       21,350         47.4        2.9         144.5    7.2
5      19,140       40.1          .9         39.2       25,610         58.1        4.3         53.8    14.6
6      20,100       42.1         1.0        141.1       30,740         69.8        5.1         64.7    23.6
7      21,110       144. 2       1.0         43.2       36,880         83.7        6.1         77.6   314.4
8      22,160       46.4         1.1         45.3       44,260        100.5        7.4         93.1    47.8
9      23,270       148.8        1.1        47.7        50,000        113.5        5.7        107.8    60.1
10      24,430       51.2         1.2         50.0       50,000        113.5          0        113.5    63.5
11      25,660       53.8         1.2         52.6       50,000        113.5          0        113.5    60.9
12      26,940       56.4         1.3        55.1        50,000        113.5          0        113.5    58.4
13      28,290       59.3          1.4       57.9        50,000        113.5          0        113.5    51i.2
14      29,700       62.2         1.4        60.8        50,000        113.5          0        113.5    51.3
15      31,180       65.3         1.5        63.8        50,o00        113.5          0        113.5    48.2
16      32,740       68.6         1.6        6760         50,000       113.5          0        113.5    44.9
17      34,380       72.0         1.6        70.4        50,000        113.5          0        113.5    41.5
18      36,100       75.6         1.7        73.9        5c,ooo        113.5          0        113.5    37.9
19      37,900       79.4         1.8        77.6        50,000        113.5          0        113.5    34.1
20      39,800       83.4         1.9        81.5        50,000        113.5          0        113.5    30.1
1/  Total Area x p2095
2/  Clearing costs   0$1,000/ha x new area
3/ Total area x V2270  except for earlier years, where benefits due to reduced transport costs are phased
in 1 year after road construction.
4/ Benefits arising from lower transport costs and earlier production of cassava.



ANNEX 11
Table 3
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Access Roads
Economic Analysis
Passenger                                Total
Cost- Savings          Agricultural       Economic       Total
Year              Normal  Induced          Benefits          Benefits       Costs
1                 0        0                 0                0            17.0
2                 1.3     0.1                0.h              1.8          60.2
3                 7.9      0.6               2.6             11.1          71.2
4                16.3      1.2               7.2             24.7          74.o
5                18.2      1.8              14.6             34.6           8.8
6                18.9      1.9              23.6             44.4          11.1
7                19.7      2.0              34.4             56.1          16.8
8                20.5      2.1              47.8             70.4          18.0
9                21.3      2.2              60.1             83.6          18.0
10                22.1      2.2              63.5             87.8           8.8
II                23.0      2.3              61.9             87.2          11.1
12                2h.0      2.4              58.h             84.8          16.8
13                24.9      2.5              54.2             81.6          18.0
14                25.9      2.6              51.3             79.8          18.0
15                26.9      2.7              48.2             77.8           8.8
16                28.0      2.8              44.9             75.7          11.1
17                29.1      2.9              41.5             73.5          16.8
18                30.3      3.0              37.9             71.2          18.0
19                31.5      3.2              34.1             68.8          18.0
20                32.8      3.3              30.1             66.2           8.8
Economic Rate of Return: 20%



ANNEX 11
Data and Sources for Estimation of 9chool Benefits Arising
From Provision of Village Access Roads
Category                                    Data                           Source
A. Health Benefits
1. Av. no. of illnesses per              1.36                         Health Manpower Study,
person per year                                                   Ministry of Public Health,
1970. Data refers to N. E.
rural population in age
group 15 - 44 years.
2. Av. no. of days lost per illness       3.8                         do.
3. Utilization and cost of medical          _       Av. Cost          do; data refers to total
services:                           Utiliz.        visit          N. E. population
Pharmacies                            55A 6   27
Health Centers and government         16, 0          77
hospitals
Private Clinics and hospitals         19%          118
Traditional Sources                    9%       A   47
4. Leading causes of illness:              % of patients               Rural Health Care in Thailand;
Diseases due to labour, abnormal                                   Tebhanom Muangman, 1973
and normal pregnancy                          b1                   Mahidon University, Bangkok
infectious diseases                           26
accident, poisonous, violence                 12
other                                         21
B. Educational Benefits
1. % of student population and total    % of         % of total        Report on Socio-Economic
population able to continue from    Students  Population           Studies of Village Access
lower primary through upper                                       Roads in Northeast Thailand,
primary -                                                          R. Sandler, Consultant,
Before access roads                 6         0.3            November 1974
After access roads                 32         1.5
2. Monetary value of benefit
("increase in income-earning        Not less than $500            do.
ability less the costs of            per pupil annually
three yrs. of Education")
3. National average costs for                                         "Problems of financing the
upper primary schools (grade                                        Thai Educational Systerll
5-7) (per pupil)                                                   Educational Planning
Total recurring public expend-           ,50                       Division, Bangkok 1972
iture
Total building cost per occupied       3,000
place
4. Rate of Return to Investment in                                     Blaug, M. (1971), quoted in
Thailand, Upper Primary -                                           Psacharopolous, "Return to
Private                                16                         Education", 1973
Social                                 14



ANNEX 12
Page 1
THAILAN D
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Financial and Economic Evaluation -- Rural Electrification
Financial Analysis
1.        A financial analysis of the PEA progranm in the 346 villages was not
made because of the pending study (para 5.10 of text). Its main objectives
will be the determination of (a) the appropriate allocation of income among
the three power entities; (b) equitable tariff rates and tariff schedules,
and (c) what subsidies, if any, would be necessary in the long term to
support an expanded rural electrification program. At the request of the
Thai Government, a Bank Mission will visit Thailand in November 1975 to
review this study and to assist in the formulation of a rural electrification
program. In any event, the effect of the small rural electrification
component proposed in connection with this project would have an insignifi-
cant impact on PEA's overall performance.
Economic Analysis
2.        The economic analysis uses the tariff level current at the time
of appraisal (Annex 4, Table 1). Benefits are understated since tariff
levels applicable to the EGAT supplied areas were utilized even though
tariffs in the diesel supply areas are about 25% higher. Because there is
no evidence that the higher diesel tariffs restrict consumption or growth,
their use in determining economic benefits would have been justified. Eco-
nomic benefits accruing from the project include revenues from residential
use calculated on the above basis plus the additional benefits due to the
conversion of rice mills and waterpumps from diesel power to electricity.
3.        The data and basic assumptions used in the estimation of the
additional economic benefits are summarized below:
(i) Rice Mills
At present there are 617 rice mills equipped with
diesel motors operating in the 346 villages. Benefits
from the conversion of a diesel-operated mill to
electricity are calculated as follows:



ANNEX 12
Page 2
"Average mill" budgets:
Equivalent
Diesel engine      Electric motor
Power                12 HP, or 10 KW           5 KW
Consumption          2.92 liters/hr        7,000 KWh/year
Annual energy bill  g 10,800              E 7,000
Investment           g 20,000             g 9,000
Annual fixed
charge (10 years
life, 10% int)       g  2,600             % 1,500
Annual main-
tenance costs        g  1,600             g   400
Total annual
mill costs           g 15,000              E 8,900
To obtain the benefits for each year, the average conversion saving of
9 6,100 per year was reduced by 20% to avoid the risk of overstatement,
and applied to each mill assumed to be electrified in the load forecast
for that year (Annex 4).
(ii)  Waterpumping
Conversion of presently installed diesel engines to
electricity would result in identical savings to those
estimated for rice mills. Benefits for each year have
been calculated in the same way as for rice mills, above.
4.        The economic rate of return was calculated to be 12% (Table 1).
The effect of increasing tariffs on the economic rate of return is shown
below:
Base Cost                 Economic Rate of Return (%)
Current tariffs                            12.0
Tariffs increased by 10%                   14.2
"    "  15%                  15.2
"    "  20%                  16.2
"   "    "  25%              17.3



ANNEX 12
Table 1
THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Electrification
Economic analysisv, using current tariff levels (mA)
Additional       Total           Total
Revenues       Economic       Economic          Costs
Year             (less tax)      Benefits       Benefits        (less tax)
1                 0.0             0.0            0.0              3.23
2                 1.26            0.0            1.26            50.30
3                  7.34           4.21          11.55            46.18
4                13.24            4.48          17.72            13.51
5                15.19            4.80          19.99            14.70
6                16.96            5.14          22.10            15.70
7                18.76            5.51          24.27            16.75
8                20.74            5.93          26.67            18.07
9                22.81            6.37          29.18            19.34
10                24.92            6.86          31.80            21.30
11                26.82            7.83          34.65            22.59
12                29.83            7.71          37.54            24.13
13                32.58            8.61          41.19            26.04
14                35.53            9.31          44-84            28.06
15                37.76            9.36          47.12            29.17
16                40.10            9.41          49.51            40.43
17                42.57            9.48          52.05            37.79
18                45.68            9.54          55.22            35.89
19                48.35            9.59          57.94            39.67
20                51.25            9.66          60.91            40.99
21                54.56            9.72          64.20            40.58
22                57.37            9.79          67.16            44.10
23                60.18            9.86          70.04            47.86
24                62.95            9.93          72.88            45-54
25                65.66           10.00          75.66            49.76
26                68.27           10.08          78-35            50.87
27                71.01           10.15          81.16            50.23
28                73.88           10.23          84.11            54.53
29                76.88           10.25          87.13            55.88
30                80.03           10.39          90.42            55.48
31                83.32           10.48          93.80            57.40
Economic Rate of Return:  12%
1/ See Annex 4, Table 1



IBRD  11487
,_.t fS<(  L A o S          1020                      1030                      1040                     105°             MARCH 1975
e       17 J  g  ' X a t -  OF 'i  ''                                    THAILAND
NORTHEAST THAILAND
.~f >   4 g  ' . S  45.     ,Highways
As>2\WT .'-   .           79-  !                                        |  I |  Single Track Railways
4 1s 9   '---.<-J. ^    N                                  Reservoirs
i ( ; Itt AFR                                            . -- - --  Rivers
\REPUBLIC                                               --  -   Changwat (Provincial) Boundaries                      190-
Gulf                                                              ---    International Boundaries
r- Thaiflond
0   20  40  60  80  100
X i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
MALAYSIA        ; '        %      >             J         .4    >            X                                           188-
iSariS 7 aaP                   )an
k         ( chabunfKUdon Thonilasi,
Nakn I'r )et =N,_Siako  Nakho
140                                                     A                                                                L A !   S      1470
|7)phetchabu r       B'n
1                                                                                    1040         imply e e en o                   16a-
hiyphurnao                                                               Wor B   a ,   a
-j   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RthtaniM                                                         15
akh4                                                                    KHMER  REPUBLIC                                           10
) : ,(~~Prochin Buri)
.. < .. g \ . r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~he boundaries shown on this map do not
{ .. ,. , ....... < \ | ~~~~~~~~~~~~imply endorsement or aceptane, by the
/   ....... ok          /                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank and its affifiate,%
(10         °        ... 102°~ 103°                                             104°                     105°






IBRD-1 1514
. S -3   E   101°         1020                     1030                      104               FEBRlJARY 1975
LAOS                                                                        NORTHEAST THAILAND
- |_._  CHANGWAT (PROVINCIAL)BOUNDARIES    190
0    CHANGWAT CAPITALS
KHMERI-  -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
EPUBLIC
GULF O
THAILAND                                                                        0   20  40  60   80  100
KILOMETERS
0~~~~~
( ~~~Loei       
Udon Thani                    Sakon Nakhon
O  )   ~ .   Khon KaenO S /?  Kalasin       N h          P
C)                        0/  
PHETCHABUNfj, !   
rS            ~~~MahaO o                   ./>-                       +1°
16°        (                                        2Sarakham             Roi Et                                                       1
Chaiyaphum                                                       Yasothon (
0__
4. ^---   S          f    -_7                    f        X       ~~~~~~~~~~Ubon Ratchathani; 
'-~~.                                -.OC'W
0
LOP 8URI                                                                                  0
L.5°                                                                                       Sisaket                                      15
0                         o'~Brrm0ui           -
Nakhon Ratchasima              luiaoui
(Korat)                            K
SARA IIURII)t                                      
K    NAKHON  I                                             - 
140  NAYOK,  )OPRACHIN BURI
- -                                                                       K H M E R  R E P U B LI C
0CH,AC:-OEFlGSAO     1
.   r;                                          r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hl blound-ric  ha,+  tn rilz ,ulp d,  -
'  '%                                                          in-mphy m',indor.memn-t mrms'.m t r -ar be th.
CHON BURI                                                                               Wo,ld Bank an-d its .ffilmmt'o
-10       .0 ____  )                     \         1027                       1030                      1040






cn)                        0 :     KALASIN                                                                                 /
LO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
z) 
nE )                         <-/                                                                             ,-
r,IJ                          z: ,        Z ;
0
czr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Z                                                                                                    o~~~0-
z                 /                                                  EI     
i U O0                       ..                                        .'-'
Z zLLi)                                                                                                 Z w C t a - sk \ <  j o Pe
<~~~~~~~~~ > >        e i      -tX/uo_gS\   
0_ O                             0                         ' 
o~~~~~~~g  _  ', :                                              o=u                             .
U    LU   0s .1                                                                         .
U40                                                                            0 E
a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                                      cc) 
aL.      <    cc  .     c >I-OI                                                                        LA US
< 0- ~I 
C,
0 
,-Nfl8VH3t3HdN



