Document of
FILE COPY                          The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CIRCULATtNG COPY
TO BE RETURNEP TO REPORTS DESK                      ReportNo. P-1745-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 15, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their officisi duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Baht
US$1.00              =            B 20.0 1/
B 1.00               =            US$0.05
US$ 1 million                     B 20 million
B 1 million          =            US$ 50.00
Fiscal Year
October 1 - September 30
1/   Prevailing rate at time of preparation of Appraisal
Report.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPKENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommeniation on a proposed
loan to the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $21.0 million to
help finance the Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project. The loan
would be made on standard Third Window terms of 25 years, including seven
years of grace, with interest at 4-1/2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Thailand Current Economic Prospects and
Selected Development Issues" (924-TH) was distributed on November 20, 1975
(M75-799), to the Executive Directors and the members of the Consultative
Group for Thailand. Basic data are given in Annex I.
Political Situation
3.        In the period following the overthrow of the military government
of field Marshalls Thanom and Prapass in October 1973, pent-up social pres-
sures were released, new ideas aired, and previously unrepresented social
groups - farmers, students, laborers and the small business community -
staged various forms of protest in support of their interests. The new
Government under Prime Minister Sanya Dhamasakdi maintained the free enter-
prise orientation of the past but was more responsive to the claims of lower
income groups than the previous government.  It ran the day-to-day affairs
of the country efficiently and passed a number of significant new laws tack-
ling major problems in the areas of land tenure, agricultural marketing, and
agricultural credit. Through this legislation, steps have been taken to
create a Farmer's Aid Fund and Marketing Organization; to increase agricul-
tural credit; and to lay the legal basis for land consolidation, land reform
and rent control.
4.        A new constitution was adopted in October 1974 and elections were
held in January 1975. In March, a coalition led by Kukrit Pramoj formed a
government and won a vote of confidence by a narrow margin on a platform
which called for the correction of social injustices and inequities that
exist between rural and urban areas and between different income classes,
and for improving relations with neighboring countries. In August, the
coalition passed its second major political hurdle by securing parliamen-
tary approval for its FY76 budget. However, in vieu of apparent difficul-
ties in forming a stable majority in a Parliament where 22 parties were
represented, Kukrit's Government resigned recently and new elections have
been called for April 1976.
5.        The Kukrit Government has taken a number of significant measures
directed towards raising rural incomes and improving the lot of the urban
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



poor. Two major steps to improve the position of rural areas are (i) the
Tambon program, which transfers significant tax revenue and expenditure
power to local village councils, and (ii) the recently announced policy of
guaranteeing a minimum paddy price, which will help to maintain the recent
relative improvement in rural incomes and provide a price incentive for
orderly intensification of production. In addition, in order to reduce
past inequities in the treatment of different income classes, the Govern-
ment is increasing social expenditures aimed at low income groups and is
attempting to raise the share of the more progressive direct taxes in total
tax revenue.
6.        The international environment altered dramatically soon after es-
tablishment of the Kukrit Government with changes in the political control
of Cambodia, Laos and South Vietnam. In adjusting to these changes the
Government has secured the agreement of the United States to withdraw its
remaining forces in Thailand within one year, has established and shown
its intention to consolidate diplomatic and trade relations with China and
Cambodia, has received diplomatic delegations from South Vietnam and North
Vietnam and has exercised restraint in responding to diplomatic incidents
while pursuing a normalization of its relations with Laos.
Current Economic Situation
7.        Thailand's real GDP expanded at an average rate of 8 percent
during the 1960s with agriculture growing by 5-1/2 percent per year;
prices were virtually stable; open unemployment was minimal; and the
balance of payments wals in surplus. Recent years have been more diffi-
cult, however. The growth rate between 1970-74 slowed to just under 6
percent as a result of rapid shifts in export demand, stagnation of pub-
lic investment, and adverse weather and supply constraints in agriculture.
8.        Largely as a result of the worldwide boom in commodity prices,
Thailand's export earnings increased by an average of 36 percent per year
from 1972 to 1974. This increase in export earnings caused a rapid expan-
sion of demand, which pulled the economy out of the 1971-72 recession; pri-
vate investment grew strongly in both 1973 and 1974, reaching 18 percent of
GNP in the latter year. Although the Government adopted an appropriately
deflationary fiscal policy in FY73 and FY74, there was rapid inflation as
domestic commodity prices rose with those on the international market. Since
mid-1974, however, the strong stimulus from the export sector has faded as
a result of falling commodity prices and weakened demand overseas. Also,
cost-push inflation from the very large increase in import prices for some
manufactured products drew purchasing power out of the economy and the slower
growth of demand, coupled with economic and political uncertainty, retarded
private investment. To revive the growth of the economy, the Government
adopted an expansionary budget in FY75. Under all these influences the
economy has probably grown by 5 percent in real terms in 1975. With more
slowly rising import prices and declining export prices, the rate of infla-
tion has declined from 20 percent in 1974 to 5 percent in 1975.



-3-
Public Expenditures
9.        As a result of the deflationary policy of 1973-74, public expen-
ditures declined in real terms; public capital expenditures were severely
restrained. The share of national resources going into public investment
declined steadily from the peak of 7.8 percent of GDP reached in 1971 to
5.1 percent in 1974, a level lower than at any time since the early 1960s.
10.       This declining trend has been reversed by the stimulative budgets
of FY75 and FY76, and government expenditures as a percentage of GDP are
expected to rise by 60 percent over these two years. Real capital expendi-
tures are expected to almost double from $650 million in FY74 to $1300
million in FY76. These increases reflect a strong upward trend in public
enterprises' investments, the higher investment by local authorities result-
ing from the Tambon revenue sharing program, and increased expenditures in
provinces outside the Central Plain, notably in the Northeast Region to
which the Government is giving particular emphasis. There will be a con-
tinuing effort to reduce income inequalities.
11.       Faced with growing demands on its budget, the Government in the
summer of 1975 announced new policy guidelines for the financing of state
enterprises. The new policy seeks to reduce the public enterprises' re-
liance on the Government budget, both for current arid capital transfers,
by encouraging them to generate more internal funds and to borrow directly
from the market. This policy will only achieve its objective, however,
if the Government allows public enterprises sufficient flexibility in deter-
mining their prices. The increasing investments expected of state enter-
prises and the diversification of their sources of financing underline the
need for a financial plan that covers the entire public sector rather than
just the central government.
Balance of Payments Prospects
12.       Thailand's balance of payments performance in recent years
has been far better than expected. Although the terms of trade worsened
throughout 1974, increasing export volume, lower import volume and inflows
of foreign capital combined to produce a strong balance of payments perform-
ance. At the end of the year, after a record $482 million increase, re-
serves reached $1,564 million and equalled six months of imports. The
performance in 1975 has not been as impressive as further deterioration in
the terms of trade, weak overseas demand for manufacturing products, and
declining service receipts have sharply increased the current account
deficit. With private capital inflows falling from 1974 levels because of
the uncertain investment climate, reserves are likely to have declined by
$100-200 million in 1975 but still exceeded four mor,ths' imports.
13.       The turn-around in the balance of payments from 1974 to 1975
reflects a transition from a period of rapid growth in export earnings led
by unusually high commodity prices to a period of less spectacular increases
in export earnings generated by volume growth, and cecLining terms of trade



caused by continually rising import prices. These trends are likely
to continue through the balance of this decade. In the short term (1976-77)
greater public borrowing and some recovery in private investment is expected
to improve the capital account, but is not likely to offset the resource
gap fully. In the future there could be a tendency for import requirements
to grow faster than export earnings as the terms of trade stabilize below
the 1973-74 level. Consequently, continued efforts will be necessary to
promote non-traditional exports and expand the inflow of external capital.
Structural Problems
14.       To achieve its development objectives in the years ahead,
Thailand must aim at a higher rate of growth than the 5 percent growth
likely in 1974-76. Given the rapid expansion of the labor force that is
expected for at least the next 15 years and the progressive exhaustion of
the supply of free land suitable for agriculture, employment creation is
becoming a major problem. Without the rapid intensification of agricultural
production and expansion of employment in manufacturing through policies
specifically directed to job creation, rural underemployment will become
much more serious than it is now, and substantial unemployment may emerge
in urban areas. On the basis of past performance and present potential,
the Thai economy appears capable of achieving a 5 percent growth rate in
agriculture and a 10-12 percent growth rate in industry; together these
rates would generate overall GDP growth of 8-10 percent per year in 1977-81.
Achieving such growth will, however, require the mobilization of large
amounts of domestic and foreign investment funds.
15.       A preliminary assessment of internal and external financing pos-
sibilities suggests that over the period 1977-81 a public sector investment
progran of about $7,500 million (1974 prices), or eighty percent above
that attained in the preceding five years, could be feasible provided both
domestic and foreign resources are tapped fully and institutional constraints
to preparing and implementing such a large program are overcome. Domestic
resources to finance such an investment program should be 50 percent
greater in real terms than in the 1972-76 period. In terms of commitments,
public external borrowing of about $4,000 million would be required in
1977-81 as compared to $1,300 million in the previous five-year period.
Even with the level of external borrowing envisioned, external capital will
finance only about one-quarter of public investment.
16.       The Government's priorities are shifting towards increased
investment in the agricultural and social sectors, which have a comparatively
low foreign exchange component and, if the Bank is to provide an appropriate
volume of support to Thailand's development program, it will find it neces-
sary to finance a portion of local expenditures on some prjects. The
Government will need to find other sources of finance (if constraints
in project preparation are overcome) to help meet the economy's foreign
exchange requirements and carry out the public investment program.



17.       Thailand's creditworthiness and borrowing capacity have improved
substantially in recent years. As a result of rapid increases in export
earnings, the total debt service ratio dropped by one-third from about 18
percent in 1971 to less than 11 percent in 1974. Although, the debt
service ratio is expected to increase over the next five years, it is
likely to remain below 15 percent.
Fourth Development Plan
18.       Recent events have complicated long-term planning.    Managing
the immediate economic problems caused by inflation and then recession, and
changes in the political situation and in the leadership of key agencies
have of necessity diverted energy and attention from longer-term concerns.
The situation has now clarified enough so that serious work should begin
as a matter of urgency on longer-term economic plans. Although preliminary
work on the Fourth Plan has begun, determined effort would be required
to prepare a detailed plan ready for implementation on October 1, 1976,
when the Plan period is scheduled to begin.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
19.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank in 1950 and has received
31 loans amounting to $708.1 million, net of cancellations. Most of these
have been for transportation ($186.1 million), irrigation ($164.1 million)
and power ($166.0 million) with, in addition, one for a dual-purpose
power and irrigation project ($65.8 million). The remaining loans have
been for water supply ($55 million), education ($21.3 million), industry
($13 million) and telecommunications ($37 million). In addition, Thailand
has received IDA credits of $19.5 million for education and $12.5 million
for irrigation improvement. In general, Bank-financed projects have been
carried out in accordance with expectations; however, Credit 369-TH (Third
Education Project) is behind schedule because of administrative problems
and lengthy bidding procedures; under Loan 898-TH (Fourth Railway Project),
the borrower is facing major financial difficulties. Under Loan 870-TH
(Fifth Highway Project) some contracts had been terminated due to escalation
provisions, which proved inadequate in the face of unprecedented inflation,
and new bidding is now in progress. Loan 1021-TH (Bangkok Water Supply
Project) is experiencing delays in bidding and award of tunnel contracts.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of November 30, 1975, as well as notes on the execution of
on-going projects.
20.       The Bank is diversifying its lending program in Thailand.    In the
next few years a smaller proportion of lending is planned for transportation
and power projects, while projects to support a broac! range of agriculture
development, rural works and infrastructure, family planning, education
and small and medium-scale industries would account for about two-thirds
of the proposed program. Increasingly, projects are selected to spread
development benefits outside the Central Plains area, and one of the main



- 6 -
functions of the Bank's Resident Regional Mission in Bangkok is to assist
the Government in developing projects which will achieve this. Our readiness
to finance some local costs in appropriate cases will enable the Bank to
participate more fully in projects in agriculture, the social sectors and
projects having significant social benefits.
21.       In FY76, about 90%, by dollar amounts, of projects proposed for
Bank lending are expected to benefit the countryside, where most low income
people live. An irrigation project in the northern region was approved in
July 1975. In addition to the proposed Northeast Thailand Rural Development
Project and the Livestock Development Project which is also before the Exe-
cutive Directors, negotiations have been invited for a rubber replanting
project in the southern region and for a telecommunications project which
would extend telephone services to some rural areas not previously connected.
We also plan to present an education project designed to benefit the rural
population to the Executive Directors in the next few months. An assessment
of the financial implications of a possible country wide rural electrifica-
tion program is presently being undertaken. An industrial estates project,
to assist the location of small and medium-scale industry outside of
Bangkok, has been deferred because of legal and administrative problems
delaying acquisition of the site.
22.       On November 30, 1975, Bank loars and IDA credits disbursed and
outstanding amounted to $304.2 million, representing about 22% of the
country's estimated total external debt and about 47% of public external
debt. This exposure is not excessive in view of Thailand's modest overall
public external debt (about 4.2% of GDP in 1975). In addition, although
the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over the next five
years, the Bank Group's exposure is expected to decline rapidly to about
16% of total external debt and 26% of total public external debt. Servicing
of the Bank debt in 1980 is projected to account for about 8.2% in the total
debt service and about 32% of the country's public debt service; this com-
pares with 8.4% and 43% respectively in 1975.
23.       IFC has made two equity investments in the Industrial Finance
Corporation of Thailand totalling $380,000; besides two loans to and an
investment in the Siam Cement group totalling $32.08 million. IFC has also
made a loan of $300,000 to Concrete Products Ltd. Prospects for other IFC
operations are reasonably good; potential projects include a pulp and paper
project based on bamboo and bagasse, a zinc mining and refinery project, and
the development of privately sponsored industrial estates.
PART III - THE NORTHEAST REGION
24.       The Northeast Region, containing 16 of Thailand's 70 changwats
(provinces), comprises one-third (170,000 km2) of the country's total land



- 7 -
area and about a third (13.6 million) of its population. Only the provin-
cial capitals have urban concentrations of any signiEicance; most people
live and work in the countryside. Agriculture dominates the economy, ac-
counting for nearly half of the gross regional product and some 85-90 per-
cent of total employment. Rice is the main crop, grown mostly for local
consumption.
25.       The Northeast has historically lagged behind other areas of
Thailand in terms of economic development and standards of living. For
example, it accounts for only about 16 percent of the gross national
product and its per capita income is less than half that of the nation
as a whole. While the region contains 40 percent of the country's total
rural population, its farmers have benefitted the least from recent in-
creases in agricultural prices: the cash income of most farmers remains
below that of the poorest farmers in other regions. The generally low
fertility of the soils and uncertain rainfall are serious handicaps; prob-
ably the greatest impediment to economic and social development until quite
recently, however, was the region's relative isolation from the rest of
the country. While over the last decade, the major towns have been linked
with each other and with Bangkok by paved roads, the great majority of
villages still lack all-weather access to market centers.
26.       As communications within the region and with the rest of the
country improve, the economy is slowly changing from a subsistence to a
more commercially-oriented base. The most promising means the farmers
have for adding to their income, in the near term at least, appears to
be growing of upland crops such as kenaf (a fiber crop similar to jute
but of lower grade) and cassava. Prices for these crops have been rela-
tively high over the past few years and considerable additonal land has
been brought under cultivation as a result. Continuous cropping of both
kenaf and cassava, however, depletes soil fertility, eventually causing a
decline in yields. The degree to which production of these and other up-
land crops can be expanded and stabilized will therefore depend on improved
soil conservation and water management.
27.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives has several programs
in the Northeast designed to help the farmers overcome these problems. In
addition to its rice development centers at Phi Mai and Ubon which are being
strengthened under Credit 461-TH (see paragraph 30), it runs a research cen-
ter (the Northeast Agricultural Research Center) at Tha Pra which carries
out research on upland crops as well as on livestock, fisheries and forestry.
The Ministry's Department of Agriculture also runs several field stations in
the region which experiment with various farming techniques. The impact of
this research has been minimal to date, however, partly because of the ina-
dequacy of extension services. The present ratio of extension agents to
farmers is about 1 to 4,000. A new approach involving the recruitment and
training of progressive farmers as extension workers has been adopted with



- 8 -
encouraging results in the IDA-financed Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement
Project (Credit 379-TH) and the Government is introducing this approach
in the Northeast Region.
28.       Most of the population of the Northeast live in small villages,
some 20,000 of which dot the region. The typical village contains about
100 households; crops are raised on owner-operated plots of about three
hectares each, located nearby. The villages vary considerably in their
level of development and access to potable as water and electricity.
Lack of access to the all-weather road network is typically the greatest
impediment to the villagers bettering their existence; the difficulty of
transport on existing earth tracks (when they are passable) often pre-
cludes the marketing of crops and puts Government services such as educa-
tion, medical assistance and agricultural extension beyond the villagers'
reach. Recognizing this as a major constraint to the development of the
Northeast, the Government in 1966 created the Office of Accelerated Rural
Development (ARD), specifically responsible for providing basic infra-
structure to rural areas. This agency has constructed a network of over
6,000 km of high-standard laterite feeder roads in the Region. It has also
begun drilling wells for some of the more accessible villages to help relieve
the shortage of potable water.
29.       The Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA), a state enterprise
established in 1960, is responsible for electricity distribution throughout
Thailand except for the Bangkok-Thonburi metropolitan area which is handled
by the Metropolitan Electricty Authority. Most of PEA's energy requirements
are purchased from the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand. It is
an efficient and well-managed institution and its financial position is
sound. Only about six percent of the villages in the Northeast Region have
been electrified to date, but the agency plans to carry out an extensive
rural electrification program in the region over the next 25 years.
30.       The Bank Group is already assisting the Government in its develop-
ment efforts in the Northeast Region through the Northeast Thailand Irriga-
tion Improvement Project for which a credit of $7.0 million was approved in
February 1974 (Credit 461-TH). Under that project, three irrigation
systems covering some 42,000 ha are being improved and the Governnment's
research program to develop improved methods for growing rice under rainfed
conditions is being strengthened. Effectiveness of the IDA credit was
delayed by about four months because the appointment of consultants and the
establishment of coordinating committees took longer than expected, but the
project is now proceeding on schedule. Bids have been received for the
first lot of equipment, and for the first phase of civil works.



- 9 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
31.       The various project components were among several potential
projects in the Northeast Region identified by a Bank Economic Mission
which visited Thailand in July 1971. The upland crop improvement compo-
nent was subsequently prepared as Part B of the Northeast Thailand Rainfed
Crop Improvement Project, a Mekong Pioneer Project under UNDP Regional
Project 253. The road and water supply components were prepared by the
ARD with techical assistance provided under Credit 461-TH. The rural
electrification component was prepared by PEA, whi:Le the extension
component was prepared jointly by the Department of Extension and a Bank
preappraisal mission which visited Thailand in June 1974. The project was
appraised in November 1974. Negotiations took place in Washington from
October 15 to 17, 1975; the Government delegation was led by H.E. Ambassador
Anand Panyarachun, assisted by Dr. Amnuay Viravan (Undersecretary of State,
Ministry of Finance), Khun Prasong Sukhum (Secretary-General, ARD), Dr.
Vira Pitrachatra (General Manager, PEA), Khun ThawLsak Sesaweech (Department
of Agricultural Extension) and Khun Vichit Piyarom (Department of Public
Welfare).
Project Description
32.       The proposed project is designed to improve the rural infrastruc-
ture where deficiencies are greatest and to assist the farmers to increase
their productivity. The project includes the following:
(a) the improvement of access to isolated villages
through the construction of about 1,300 km of
village access roads and the improved maintenance
of about 2,000 km of existing laterite roads;
(b) the improvement of village water supply through the
construction of about 4,000 tubewells and the con-
struction or rehabilitation of small dams and ponds;
(c) the provision of electric power in 346 villages;
(d) the introduction of improved agricultural techniques
through upland crop research and an expanded program
of extension services; and
(e) the study of existing land settlement areas to identify
a future land settlement project and, as a pilot opera-
tion, the undertaking of a few high-pricrity investments
in roads, water supply, land development and irrigation
in selected settlement areas.



- 10 -
Details are provided in the report, "Appraisal of the Northeast Thailand
Rural Development Project" (No. 721-TH of December 31, 1975), which is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The Appraisal
Report was prepared prior to the availability of Third Window resources;
the use of Third Window terms, however, does not affect the analysis. A
loan and project summary is provided in Annex III.
Village Access Roads
33.       The 1,300 km of village access roads to be constructed are those
identified as having the highest priority in each of the 16 provinces of
the Northeast, on the basis of village population, agricultural potential
and other socio-economic factors. Each road would be about 10 km long,
and would connect an average of four villages with either a paved highway
or a laterite feeder road. The population served by each road, including
its immediate hinterland, would be about 6,000. The roads would follow
the alignment of existing earth tracks. They would be constructed to a
width of 5 m with a 20 cm compacted laterite surface; culverts and single-
lane bridges would be provided where necessary. Consulting services would
be provided for engineering and supervision of construction and to help
prepare future rural development projects.
Road Maintenance
34.       Much of ARD's maintenance equipment is nearing the end of its
useful life and it is becoming increasingly difficult for that agency to
maintain the roads which fall under its jurisdiction. To help improve
ARD's maintenance capacity, the project provides maintenance equipment
for 16 maintenance units, each capable of maintaining about 125 km of
road annually. The equipment would be deployed in the four provinces
(Udon Thani, Nong Khai, Sakon Nakhon and Buriram) which have the oldest
equipment and the longest length of roads. Specialist services will be
provided in road maintenance to assist ARD in the planning and scheduling
of maintenance, in improving quality control and field supervision, and
in budgeting and cost controls.
Village Water Supply
35.       ARD presently drills about 200 village wells annually throughout
the Northeast. Its capacity would be expanded under the project to about
1,400 wells annually by providing additional drilling equipment, including
50 small rigs which are simple and inexpensive to operate and can be readily
transported to remote areas and 10 medium sized percussion rigs with trucks.
Well casings, screens, hand pumps, two bucket augers a mobile dredge would
also be provided. Drilling crews would be trained at ARD's Water Resource
Center at Khon Kaen. Water supplies will be improved in those villages
which ARD surveys have shown to be suffering most from a water shortage
in the dry season and where villagers have agreed to help keep the wells



- 11 -
in working order. Provision is also made in the project for constructing
and rehabilitating village ponds in areas where groundwater is unusable.
(See Section 3.06 of Loan Agreement).
Rural Electrification
36.       As part of its rural electrification program in the Northeast
region, PEA would, under the project, extend its l:ransmission facilities
to 346 additional villages located in 10 provinces. Its Office of Rural
Electrification would be responsibile for planning, design, and construc-
tion; works would be carried out by three construction crews under the
supervision of regional engineers.   The project includes engineering,
supervision and installation of distribution lines including 222 km of
22 kv primary lines, 315 km of 22 kv primary line taps, 468 km of secondary
line (460/230 v), transformers and auxiliary equipment, and connection and
metering of an estimated 27,000 initial consumers in the project villages.
Vehicles, warehouses, field offices and test equipment would also be
provided.
Upland Crop Improvement
37.       The proejct would strengthen and coordinate the Department of
Agriculture's research and development programs for upland crops in the
Northeast by (a) assisting the Northeast Agricultural Research Center at
Tha Phra in its efforts to evolve viable and permanent farming systems for
the upland soils of the Northeast and (b) upgradirLg six field crop stations
for on-station and on-farm trials to test farming systems for research on
specific crops and for seed multiplication. Facilities, equipment, mete-
rials, technical assistance and training would be provided.
Agricultural Extension
38.       To improve the effectiveness of the extension service in the
Northeast, the Government has recently decided to adopt the approach which
is meeting some success in the Central Plain (parn 27); that is, the re-
cruitment and training of progressive farmers to serve as extension workers.
The project would help establish this system in four provinces of the North-
east (Ubon Ratchathani, Yasothon, Sisaket and Roi Et) in order to demonstrate
the feasibility of this new approach to agricultural extension on a larger
scale and in an area with a less favorable soil and water regime. About
380,000 farm families, cultivating about 1.1 million ha would be reached.
The project would provide equipment and facilities for strengthening the
Northeast Regional Extension Training Center at Khon Kaen and for establish-
ing extension facilities in each of the four provinces as well as the over-
seas training of subject matter specialists.



- 12-
Land Settlements
39.       Seventeen land settlement areas have been established over the
past ten years in the Northeast Region to provide land for farmers whose
holdings were flooded by newly constructed reservoirs or were too small
to provide a livelihood. Consulting services would be provided under
the project to study these areas and the Government's plans for future
settlements, with a view to recommending a program for long-term invest-
ment requirements. As a first stage, the project would include a number
of small infrastructure improvements initially identified under the study,
such as construction of roads and tubewells, land development, and small
irrigation works.      Bank appproval of the work program would be required
prior to execution. (See Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement).
Project Execution
40.       Responsibility for the various project components falls within
the jurisdiction of several Government departments and agencies and this
administrative structure would be retained under the project. The various
project components, although complementary, are not interdependent since
selection of the villages to be provided with roads, water supply or elec-
tricity was based on different criteria. As there is little overlap among
the project components, no special mechanism for overall coordination was
considered necessary.
41.       The ARD, within the Ministry of Interior, would be responsible
for all road construction and maintenance, and all well drilling and pond
rehabilitation. Also within the Ministry of Interior, the Department of
Public Welfare, through its Self-Help Land Settlement Division, wouldbe
responsible for the land settlement studies and, except for roads and
wells, for the execution of pilot projects. The PEA, which also functions
under the umbrella of the Ministry of Interior, would be responsible for
rural electrification. Within the Ministry of Agriculture and Coopera-
tives, the Department of Agriculture and the Department of Extension would
be responsible respectively for the upland crop research and the agricul-
tural extension. Each implementing agency would appoint a Project Director
who would have overall responsibility for supervising and directing the
implementation of that agency's project component(s). The Project Directors
would have the responsibility and authority to appoint and assign per-
sonnel, secure the services of consultants and advisors, award contracts,
prepare budget requests and allocate funds, and review and approve annual
work programs and progress reports. Each of the Project Directors has the
necessary authority by virtue of his official position or seniority to
serve in this capacity. (See Section 3.10 of Loan Agreement and Section
3.01(b) of Project Agreement).
42.       ARD would employ consultants to engineer and supervise construction
of the village access roads, to help supervise maintenance activities and
to prepare future rural development projects. That agency would also retain
the services of an engineering advisor for the Water Resource Center. The



- 13 -
Department of Agriculture would retain the services of a research program
advisor who would assist in preparing the annual uork programs, review
progress in project implementation, and provide technical assistance and
advice to the proejct coordinator and his staff. The Department of Public
Welfare would employ consultants to carry out the proposed land settlement
studies, and to prepare pilot projects and assist in their implementation.
All such technical assistance would be under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank.
43.       The project would be implemented over a period of about five
years. Each of the implementing agencies would prepare annual work pro-
grams which set out in detail their plan of work for the ear ahead and
would submit such programs to the Bank for review and comment by Septem-
ber At of each year. (See Section 3.05 of Loan Agreement). Construction
of the following three years. The maintenance equipment would be in full
operation by the 1977/78 dry season. The first year of the well-drilling
program would be largely devoted to further develcpment of well-drilling
techniques and the establishment of training programs. Drilling activities
would be in full operation by the end of the third year. Electrification
of villages would begin in 1976, with 100 villages being connected. Some
150 villages would be electrified the following year and the remaining 96
villages would be connected in 1978. The agricultural research and demon-
stration facilities and the extension services would build up gradually and
should be fully developed by mid-1978. The land settlement studies are
expected to begin in 1976 and to be sufficiently well advanced to allow
selection of the first pilot projects by 1977.
Cost Estimates and Financing
44.       Total project costs are estimated at $45 million, of which the
foreign exchange component would be $21.0 million, or 47 percent of the
total cost. The Bank loan of $21.0 million would cover all of the foreign
currency requirements. The Government would finarce the remaining costs
through annual budgetary appropriations to the implementing agencies or,
in the case of PEA, through other arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
45.       As part of its new policy regarding the financing of public en-
terprises (see para 11), the Government intends tc limit considerably its
direct equity contributions to such entities; PEA will therefore be expected
to cover as much of its financial needs as feasible through self-generated
funds and borrowings.  The Government realizes, however, that undertaking
of its national rural electrification program, of which this project in-
to cover as much of its financial needs as feasible through self-generated
funds and borrowings.  The Government realizes, however, that undertaking
of its national rural electrification program, of which this project in-
terest rate of no less than 4 percent per annum. In line with this policy,
it was agreed during negotiations that the Government would enter into a



- 14 -
Subsidiary Loan Agreement with PEA providing for the onlending of $3.6 mil-
lion of the proceeds of the Bank loan at an interest rate of 4-1/2 percent
per annum and would provide the additional $3.6 million equivalent required
to cover the remaining capital costs of this project component at an interest
rate of 4 percent per annum. (See paras (b) and (e) of Section 3.01 of the
Loan Agreement). The impact of PEA's financial position is the same as a
Bank loan of $3.6 million onlent at normal bank terms with the additional
$3.6 million provided as equity. The Government also undertook to provide
PEA with funds to cover the operating costs of the rural electrification
program should PEA be unable to meet these expenditures from its own resources.
(See Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement).
PEA's Financial Position
46.       PEA's financial position is sound with a return on net fixed assets
in 1973 of 13 percent and a debt-equity ratio of 1:3. PEA's forecasts (to
1982) indicate its financial situation will continue to be satisfactory,
although not as favorable as at present, with a return on net fixed assets of
over 7.5 percent and a debt-equity ratio below 1:2, assuming present tariff
levels. PEA's present tariffs were reviewed by a Bank mission as part of a
study of electricity rates in Thailand, and its report is presently being
reviewed by the Government. Also, a second study is presently underway
of the financial flows among the three entities responsible for electricity
generation, transmission and distribution (para 29). That study is expected
to help determine (i) the appropriate allocation of income among the three
activities, (ii) equitable tariff rates and tariff schedules, and (iii) what
subsidies, if any, woud be necessary in the long term to support an expanded
rural electrification program. It would therefore be premature at this stage
to make recommendations concerning the modification of PEA's tariff structure.
In any event, the effect of the relatively small rural electrification compo-
nent proposed in connection with this project would not have a significant
impact on PEA's overall performance.
Procurement
47.       Construction of the 1,200 km of village access roads to be under-
taken from 1977 to 1979 would be by contracts awarded to prequalified con-
tractors after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines (about $9 million excluding contingencies). Because of the wide
geographical dispersion of the roads, each year's program would be divided
into several contracts (but not more than three) covering between 100 and
150 km. Bidders would have the option of bidding on combined contracts for
any one year. Contracts for buildings and land improvement ($1.1 million),



- 15-
small dams and ponds ($0.4 million), pilot projects in land settlement areas
($0.5 million), and the 100 km of village access roads to be constructed in
1976 ($0.8 million) would be awarded after competitive bidding advertised
locally, following normal Government procurement procedures which are satis-
factory to the Bank. Road maintenance and all well-drilling operations would
be carried out by ARD on force account, and all rural electrification works
would be carried out by PEA, also by force account.
48.       All vehicles, equipment and materials except electricity distri-
bution poles ($8.7 million) would be procured under international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A 15 percent preference
margin, or the prevailing customs duty if lower, would be extended to local
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Off-the-shelf items, each costing
less than $10,000, would be purchased through normal government procurement
procedures. The total cost cf such items would not exceed $500,000. Pre-
stressed concrete distribution poles ($1.3 million) for rural electrification
would be procured after competitive bidding advertised locally.
Loan Disbursements
49.       Disbursements from the loan account for civil works executed by
contract and for procurement of distribution poles for rural electrification
would be at the rate of 40 percent. Disbursements for all other equipment
and materials would be made at the rate of 100 percent of the cif cost of
directly imported items, or the ex-factory price net of taxes for items
manufactured locally, and at the rate of 65 percent of total expenditures
for imported items procured locally. For the services of local advisors
and consulting firms, disbursements would equal 55 percent of total costs.
Disbursements for the services of foreign advisors and for training would
equal 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost. Retroactive financing up
to a total of $100,000 has been provided for expenditures from December 1,
1975, on drilling equipment and consultant services to allow the timely
start of the well drilling training program. It is expected that disburse-
ments would be completed by the end of the fiscal year 1981. Any funds
remaining in the loan account upon completion of the project would be used
for additional works, eqipment and/or technical assistance after agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank.
50.       Each implementing agency would be responsible for procurement
and disbursement application for its respective project component(s), and
would maintain a separate account for the project component(s) for which
it is responsible. Auditors satisfactory to the Bank would be employed
to audit the eccounts annually, and the audited project accounts, together
with the auditors' comments, would be sent to the Bank within four months
of the close of each financial year.



- 16 -
Justification and Benefits
51.       The village access roads, village water supplies and rural elec-
trification included in the proposed project would benefit directly some
400,000 farm families, or about 2.5 million people, whose incomes and
living standards are among the lowest in Thailand. The upland crop im-
provement program would aim at solving the most pressing agricultural pro-
blems of the region; namely the loss of soil structure and fertility and
decline in yields caused by continuous cultivation of kenaf and cassava,
the main cash crops in the Northeast. Solutions to those problems would
lead to increased farm incomes throughout the region. Finally, the esta-
blishment of a more effective extension system in four provinces, involving
the recruitment and training of progressive farmers, would serve as a model
for extending the system to other provinces. In addition to its economic
and social benefits, the project is further justified by the support it
would provide to government agencies in developing their capacity for
planning and implementing rural development programs. The project is
not expected to have any adverse ecological effects.
52.       The estimated economic rate of return on investments in village
roads, accounting for 35 percent of total project costs, taking into account
agricultural benefits and passenger cost savings, would be 20 percent. The
estimated economic return (which includes the benefits arising from conversion
of diesel operated rice mills and water pumps to electricity) on investment in
village electrification, accounting for 15 percent of total project costs,
would be 12 percent. The weighted average economic return on village access
roads and village electrication -- the project components for which benefits
have been quantified -- is 17 percent. Benefits due to the investment in
equipment to support ARD s maintenance program for 2,000 km of existing
feeder and link roads have not been quantified, but maintenance is clearly
justified to preserve a large investment in a rural road system which is
generating significant social and economic benefits. Improvements in village
water supplies would reduce water-borne diseases and eliminate considerable
unproductive time and effort devoted to hauling water over long distances.
These benefits have not been quantified but are judged to justify the small
per capita investment (about $3) in village wells. The agricultural com-
ponents of the project could generate very large returns even if they are
only partially successful, and are justified by the significant impact
they could have on the productivity and incomes of the rural population.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Provincial Electricity
Authority and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft
resolution approving the proposed loan, are being distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors separately. Features of special interest include those
referred to in paragraphs 35, 39, 41, 43 and 47 of this report. Additional



- 1 7 -
conditions of effectiveness are that the Project Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to in paragraph 47 of this report, have
been duly signed and authorized and have become fully binding.
54.       1 am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and with the established criteria for
Third Window loans.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President



Pge I of 3 P.P.
ODWNTRY DATA- TAIIAND
ARLgA                                           L!CZULA710N                               LlDSmT
SO       i=-,000  k 2                             i   on3(qAid7l1)
sTW7?o  baa  397  -ie'io  Caid-1973)  359er k2 of land nnder.citicatnon
SOCIAL InDICATORtS
Thailand                     Nefl.r.oo  aotel  J-P
GNP PER CAPITA US$ (ATAS BASIS) a                                           220 7         220 /A        310 L      2,320 /n
D71sRAFHIAC
CrAd-a irto eat. (per thouanDd)                              46           L3 /b          L5 /b         28         19.2 Ic
Cud. dath rat. (par thaouAad)                                13           00 /b          12 7b          8          6.6 7/
Infat artolity rt. (pr thousand lie, birth.)                           80-90             80           .           12.6 7W
Uif .oPsotanpy At birth (yea)                                56           59             58            65           72
Soa..s rrodootta,  ta /2                                                 3 27/          3.3 /b        2.5 /b 
Pjlattue groath rat. a                                      3.0          3.1 Id         3.0 /         2.2 7?        1
Pplation groth rat. - urban                                 ..             5 77          b67            6            3 7W
Ag. StrOc-    (poronut)
0-11                                                     L3            L5             L3 /a         60 o       26  I/
15-6,                                                    L5             52            57W          5707       65 .7W
6a cnd  3or                                                3             3              37            37          .2 7W
Ago depend-ency ratio /L                                   09            0.9            0.9 7i        0.8 7.       0 L 7?
EFo-n-e d.pendency r   o /b                                1.0           1.1            1.5           1..b       o06
Urban Population a.paront of total                           12 /e        13 L           32 /r         L /Li        72 Ih
FPily planning,  Na of ano-pt-r.  olatin. (tho..)                        550            b09
.. of uer. (% of   -iead   n)                            10              8
Total labor -ora  (thosand)                              13,700        16.700        12,300        10,500 at,i 53,200   k
Pr.os.twa. aployad ih agricultur                           82            79            51            68 /o      19.1
PseosotagP oployad                                                                      7            . 6.0 7T    1.1,
INCOiT DISTRIBUTION
P...ansa7-~. eastod hy highs.t 8%..                             .               25 /10       15AI
P_roant of nationsi oas reni-ad by hig.ast 20%                                           56 /c         37Wt
Lhrosot or natbonal icou_  sa -inad by loa-t 20%                                                      lo .  2 /
P--t nhf.atioo...noa      esoined bylI.sst640%...                                        12'cc         2674
MSTtIURTDON OP 0451 0133IV
S omoed by hop 10S of onniasa..                                           ..                           25
S osuad by malleet 10% of nouee-                                                        ,,              2
HEALTH MD4 NUTITITON
Pon.3atio AN r physTican                                 58,600         0,250 /c      2,710         2,050          6 60 /
Popoulatbon p. rnrabog pseesn                             L, 200 Li     2,950 L       1,970   L     1,360  e       3L60 7
Poypulattia  par hoapital had                             1,320 /=       520 /c         850 Ii      1,920           50 /c
P-r capita cai-oria supply as S of requiramots /5            95 L         105            85           103          006
Par ospita p-otsie  apply, thtal (g-s par dayT               65 L         52             65            65           76
Of abob,aial ad plb   l                                                 17 /t          22            1 19 /i.1   165
D.ath ..t. 1-4 yaar /7...                                                 .                71         .1.0 /
*DU0ATION
Adjaat.d /b prosary sohool e-roll,ot ratio                   79           83 /c         112 /c         106         1O
Adjueatd              . hmconord ashO21 t rolluaot estio     12           137W           657           hi           90
Ts-. of ohooliog posidad, fir.s    d _  oond lanai  1         2            12            10            12           12
Vocatbol anrol.ant as     of e. enhool sorolot               19            12 /l.u       10 Z/sN       15 /o        20
Adrit lit.-Y ro  ra                                                       -              72 /1.n       91  -" '     99 /' Y
HOUSIN)
Aesrags No of P."so-s pr roan (urhao)                                                                 2.7          1.0/1
P,catt of oooopitd unt. atht pipad nate                                                  66 -v a          8 ib       5 /u
Acooss ho aeote.toity (no 5 of total popuabtion)                          17             23 k -c       50 /0c
P_roant of Lea popul.tio -ou-ct.d to slantrioity                         13              6   .        30 7Wc
Nldio fl iae   pa. 10C0 poolatboo                             6            83            66 Z.        128 /r       658
Paceonga  oar. pa, 100C pOpulotio                             2             7/            8A            o7 2       1
Ilactbo peter oooou,aption (g'ut p.oh )                      23           166 7?        255 /-        392 Zi     3,909 7.
NaooPrint eanouoptioo pic kg per pear                       07           1. 5 7         1.771         3 7 a       19.67W
Notoa.  Piguoe     - refer altbar to bbt lateb partoda or *o    aaanu   af  mntst       Nsrat        t    sb   aa
bth lateet  r.. Lhteot pariode refer ih pron.ipla to            detrlbotio     aa and am af a      a   aalt ima
the pear. 1956-60 or 1966-70; tho lateat year- in pri.-      6 Pr.tato            raqarmt        r     a         - satb
ciple ho 1960 ad 1970.                                          lihd by NrNa No-nomia Sa.arab Sarvias prov          id-I fa   slot
1 Tha Per Capita GNP eetiaate is ut kaet price-   ur fi-a                  of 60 gr  of total protLo Per day, a   20 grm af
pra   utter than 1960, celcuotad bY tha nose onreraian       aimal ad pulaa pro    a of obioh 10 g   *. ha.uld be ania
techntqueoe the 1972 World BanR utl.                        prtio. Thee stn       d. a   a      t la   t      e      of
71 Anargag nubahr of doght-ers p-r onean of reproduotir          gr     of Wtoa iPro.io sd 23 gA   of aimal prot.   s an
age.                                         ararage~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   for tba -aId, propoed by PAO In the Third World Foo
Zi  Nipoaitino gre-th rebee -re for the deoode  nodiog id        Swa.,
1968 and 1970.                                           71 Sea atadias ban sugotd tht annd. dath rt.t        of hoildes
/h  Out,n ol p   1pulti-on -cder lh and 6 and oner tc popula-   aga  1 t   grougi 4. y  s b od a. a float appr ti    da  of
,dcc of ogo  15-6h fun ago depend-ncy ratio and to labor -   lautrbthan
0-cnn nO 0'0s 15-6h fcc -cc -iolc dep,-dancy rati..         Percotame enrollsd or aorrmpooiog population of eaton  as
S   pFAO roferenco otandordo rpreeect phyilologiorl re-         us defined fan eAch anu.try
qlroneneto 7cr no--l -o-ilipY and balth, taking
1972;       /b  196%-70 1! e-tiei;    /n  1971;  /d   1960-72;  /e  tunicipoiltu  ;   If   or F, e defititlan cC urban, ser
UN loengraphic Y-orbok 1973, p. 127;   ZL  Sooul city Ad enninipoliti-o of 5,000 or .ore Inhabitant.;  7W  Chirn
(Shit b) h-ig 30,000 cr more i.habitan;     /I  Etitate;   7W  IE-1.de pr-nn.e -king or     nr te th r    h ee u- d
_-ed force;     1 k   oed non 20 por_nt ao.pcle tabulatiot f nn.uo r-l-cnc;    /l  1969;   7W  1962;  7W  Hcusholds;
/o   1961;   /   Pbli. indcti-l cnyonly                7W  Perananal in gccernacct sernic-a only;  /i Nutar nn *he
rngnter, cnt nll uo-king i lhbrcontry;     7W  1965;  /t 196h-66;   /I   1966;  /I   1967;  DW -Lo or ocneicnl.
cdnLot; rccref-r to plblic octoola and Inniude techoical edncation at the p1-et-sncldar  lenel ; 7W  10 feore and scer;
/Y   15 Ypor, and co-r;  -W lnficl;ton,,ot onoioAble;   ba    unoide or -uLeido;  lob W-ter piped is-ide;   bc   Perce-tuge
n,f dcelling.
a   rlopan ran S cc on11   nect-   as a nbj-ectic  contrp hecauaa  hidacnd s dYoelopcet proceen can raoobP be -e-anred
unnnnst cOot ol Jupoc  u an Oniac cn.ntrp ubicchle i lghi, ' trade nrinted, ha ccoed _ron an acr;coli llY-ba-od to an
i,nltcrol"lc-buncd occocopy, nd In dning no boo retained ito culturel dai-inot,nrnrae
hS lnce 3, 197S



ANNER I
Page 2 of 3 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974                                                                                        ANNUAL kAIE OF CR0W130
(7., constant prices
US0 Millio.         2                                                  =O                1965-70             1970-74
rNP at Mark-t Prices                   13,550          100.0                                                7.2                 8.5                  6.2
Crooo Doo-otie   cnoect                 3.400           25.1                                               14.4               10.4                   3.0
Groos tatlosal Baviog                   3,388           25.3                                               14.6                11.5                  9.2
Coceert Account B1atne                    -12             .1
F:tpCor_  of cooda, NFS                 3,140           23.2                                               10.0                 7.1                 10.7
eporcs of Goods, NFBS                  3,425           25.3                                               11.1                 12.3                 4.0
t)UiPIIT, LABOR FORCF AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974
Value Added                             Labor Foee-                               V.A. pe- W-oker-/
US$ Million                              m Million                                  US$                %
Agrocolesre                            4,311            31.8                   13.8               76.6                    312             41.4
lodootry                               4,059            30.0                    1.3                7.2                 3,122             414.6
Sect; eos                              5,180            38.2                    2.9               16.0                  1,786             237.2
Reel1 l.cated..
Total/A-nraOg          13,550           100.0                   18.0              100.0                   753             100.0
CiO%ERNROENT FINANCE
General Gooeroment                                                  Conora I Gsoveennee
0S0 MIllion        P. of GDP                                       u00 MilOss 7- of GDP
1974        1974        1972-74                                     t974       1974          1972-74
C--reco  Rco-iplo                      2,190        17.4         16.5                                      1,835        13.4           14.2
c--rret  ope,d,p tdes                  1.457        11.8         12,7                                      1,385        11.0            2.0
Coroct Surpls                            7335        5.8          3.8                                        550        4.4            2.1
Cop-tal Enpreditorco                     655         5.2          6.1                                        345        2.7             3.7
Ac-tec         i .ic,tatce loot)          76          .6           .5                                          6          .1             .1
('0115Y CREDIT AND PRICES
1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974
(billions of Babh estot-odiog end period)
X.ony sod Quasi Msone                  40.9    46.2    53.7    66.6    81.9    98.5
Bank I:Iedtt c CentrlI G-ovrn=ent (net) 8.5    13.0    19.6    27.0    29.6    25.6
Book ,eed.  to Pi,oato toeor           22.9    27.9    30.8    34.6    49.4    66.7
(Percentages or lode Numbsers)
R.'ccy sod Qosol M-ony M-   '. of GDP  31.7    34.1    36.9    41.0      38.2  37.3
'D2 DPflsior ( 1962   00)             114.2   102.6   111.5   1.20.5  144.8   174.9
Aoosal perceotage Changes in:
'1(l, lftiacor                               -1.6     1.0     8.7    20.2    20.8
BaIk Credit to Central Gonenneot (net)       52.9    50.7    37.27    9.6   -13.6
tack Credit ts PeIoate Sector                21.5    10.7    12.2    42.9    35.1
Dote-  Dp to 1973 co.oersion rote to dollars is 8 20.8; fe 1973,F 20.4; f-r 1974, 8 20.0.    1974 data basod O p-ellotoa-y figures
shoch sl be spdated by the fo-ehbonitg economic
1/ colon added at escerecntarleet prises.
2/  re=tati oostinotno based 00 1970 cene.
3/ Thai Fiscal Yearn .od,g September 30 of calendar yeoa- aho-A.
/   E-titates fto GDP daring fistl pear ty ete deived by adding 1/4 of GDP at ealand-a pear -l to the 3/4 of GDP foe year t.
Boo applicable.
Bet arsolahle.



A2NNEX I
Page 3 of 3 pages
TRADE, PAYMENTS, AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-74)
1972    1973    1974    1975-                                        US$ Million       _   .
us$ Million
Exports of Goods, NFS              1,532   2,085    3,141   3,247     Rice                                   293              16.8
Inports of Goods, NFS              1,627   2 239    3,423   3,825     Rubber                                 188              10.8
Resource Gap (deftoit = -)           -95    -15'3   *'T8'2   -578     Corn (maize)                           182              10.6
tapioca products                       130               7.5
Interest paynents (net)                5       7       32   ) -27     Tin (metal)                            111               6.4
t)cher Factor Payments (net)         -21     -28       -37  )         Sugar                                  102               5.9
Workers I Remittances                  .        .       .      .      Kenaf and jute                          49               2.8
Net rransfers                         59      146      275    129     All other co-rodities                  673              38.9
Cuirrent Balance                     -52     -29       -12    47                          Total            1,728             100.0
Direct  .oreign Ievestment (Net)v     56      67        83     70     EXTERNAL DEBT   DECEMBER 31, 1974
Net MLT Borrowing
Dinhursemnents                     309     265       506    384                                              US$ Million
Amorti-ation                       221      262      265    211     Public Debt, -ncl. guaranteed                 SL8
Subtotal                           88       3       241    173     Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                  632
Capital Grants                          .      ,        .             Total outstanding & disbursed               1,150
Other Capital (net)4-                 33       42       13      9
tither Items n.e i. -                  67 34           157     26     DEBT SERVICE iATIO FOR 1974
Increase in Reserves (+)             192     113      482    -198
Cross Reserves (end year)          1,052    1,295    1,858            Public Debt, i-ol. guaranteed                 2.0
Net Reserves (end year)              969    1,082    1,5b4  1,366     Non-Guaranteei Private Debt                   8.7
Total outstaniing & disbursed               10,.7
Fuels acd Related Materials
Imports                            150     229       629    712
of wdhicb:petroleun                149     228       627    710     IBRD/IDA LENDING, Nqvemb,r 30. 1l75 (UB5 Million)
Exports                             12       18       14     30
of shich:petroleun                  12      18        14     30                                              IBRD         IDA
RATE OF EXChANGE                                                      Outstanding & Disbursed                  300.u        3.t
Undisbursed                              233.1       23.2
lhrough July 1973                                                     Outstanding i-I. Und-sbursed                         37.0
LIS$ 1.00 = 8 20.8
t 1.00 = US$ 0.048
Since Jluly 1973
u s   1.00 =   20.0
8 1.00 = US$ 0.05
Note:   8alasce of payments projecrtins are not yet available as the balance of pay-ents oItlook cs currently being reviewed -itt
the Government.
1/ Includes official and private transfers.
X/   E4qity capital only.
3/ Tncludes sbert-term public and private capital and portfolio inv-etment.
4/ Includes SDR allocations, profits from exchange realignments, and err-rs and omissions.
5/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
Nut Applicable.
e/ EstoMace



ANNEX II
Page  I
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
zas of November 30, 1975)
$ Million Amount
Loan or                                                     (Less Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year    Borrower               Purpose       Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty Loans fully disbursed                             309.6   -         _
514-TH      1967    Kingdom of Thailand    Sirikit Dam   26.0    -       0.2 /a
Irrigation
702-TH      1970    Port Authority of     Ports          12.5    -       2.5
Thailand
790-TH      1971    Electricity Genera-   Power          27.0    -       3.6
rating Authority of
Thailand
822-TH      1972    Kingdom of Thailand    Education     15.4    -      13.6
864-TH      1972    Telephone Organiza-   Telecommuni-   37.0    -      24.6
tion of Thailand      cations
870-TB      1972    Kingdom of Thailand    National      28.6    -      13.1
Highways
369-TH      1973    Kingdom of Thailand   EducatiDn       -     19.5    19.1
379-TH      1973    Kingdom of Thailand    Irrigation     -      5.5     2.6
898-TH      1973    State Railway         Railways       15.0    -       8.1
461-TH      1974    Kingdon of Thailand    Irrigation     -      7.0     6.5
977-TH      1974    Electricity Genera-   Power          75.0    -      65.1
rating Authority of
Thailand
992-TH      1974    Industrial Finance     Industry      12.0    -       4.2
Corporation of
Thailand
1021-IS     1974    Metropolitan Water-   Water Supply  55.0     -      53.1
works Authority
1149-TH     1975    Kingdom of Thailand   Irrigation    95.0    -       95.0
Total                                         708.1   32.0   311.3
of which has been repaid                   124.6    -
Total now outstanding                         583.5   32.0
Amount sold lb                  65.2
of which has been repaid      24.9          40.3
Total ncw held by Bank and IDA               543.2   32.0
Total undisbursed                            283.1   28.2
la   This loan was closed on December 26, 1975, and undisbursed amount of
$0.17 million cancelled.
lb   Of which US$41 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



ANNEX II
Page  2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of November 30, 1975)
$ million Amount
Year         Company            Type of Business     Loan   Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and    Concrete Products     0.30    -        0.30
Aggregate Ltd.
1964   Industrial Finance       Industrial Finance     -     0.19     0.19
Corporation of
Thailand (IFCT)
1969   Siam Cement Group       Cement and Construc--
tion Materials        18.33/a 3.75    22.08
1971   Industrial Finance                                    0.19     0.19
Corporation of
Thailand (IFCT)
Total gross commitments                       18.63   4.13     22.76
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                       15.80   1.70    17.50
Total commitments, fully disbursed             2.83   2.43      5.26
/a   In addition, a loan of $10 million was signed on December 10, 1975,
and was fully disbursed as of December 31, 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION -/
Loan 514-TH    Sirikit Dam Proiect; $26 Million Loan of September 19, 1967;
Effective Date: November 1, 1967; Closing Date: original,
June 30, 1973; current, October 31, 1975 2/
The works under this project have been completed, with the closure
of the dam being carried out on schedule in June 1971. Substantial increases
in the principal civil works contract (+41%), which resulted from unforeseen
adverse foundation conditions, have been largely compensated by savings on
other items and the total cost of the project is estimated at $78 million,
as against $76 million at appraisal (+2.5%). The current closing date is
October 31, 1975, to allow for settlement of some minor claims.
Loan 702-TH    Third Bangkok Port Project; $12.5 Mlillion Loan of August 6,
1970; Effective Date: November 6, 1970; Closing Date: original,
July 31, 1974; current. July 31, 1976
Construction, presently about 85% completed, is expected to be
finished by April 1976. Construction work on the project which consists of
four deep-water and two lighterage berths, together with transit sheds and
ancillary facilities is proceeding satisfactorily, but somewhat behind the
original schedule. Two berths were commissioned in late 1975, and two more are
expected to be commissioned early in 1976. The civil engineering work was
placed on a fixed-price contract and the only significant cost overruns will be
those caused by changes in foreign exchange rates and the Goverment's decision
to compensate contractors on fixed-price contracts for overall increases of
construction costs after June 1974. The Closing Date has been extended from
July 31, 1974 to July 31, 1976. The financial situation of the Port Authority
is very sound.
Loan 790-TH    South Bangkok Thermal Unit No. 4 Project; $27 Million Loan
of November 11, 1971; Effective Date: January 27, 1972;
Closing Date: November 30, 1976
Project execution is on schedule. Costs have increased by about
13% due to changes in currency exchange rates.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.
2/   The loan has been closed effective December 26, 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Loan 822-TH    Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15 .4 Million
Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
Project implementation has been delayed by about 22 months due to
late appointment of campus master planner, late Cabinet approval of Executive
Architects' fees and, more recently, delays by the Executive Architects in
preparing adequate plans and specifications on scheduLe. These delays have
now been overcome and construction is expected to be :endered during the last
quarter of 1975, commence in early 1976 and be completed by mid-1978. Con-
tracts for equipment, valued at US$1.6 million, were awarded in August 1975.
Implementation of the technical assistance program is well underway. Project
costs are expected to exceed the appraisal estimate by about US$8 million due
to cost overruns for civil works. Overruns will be met by the Government.
Disbursements, currently US$1.8 million, are expected to reach US$2.5 mil-
lion by the end of FY76 and US$7.5 million by the end of FY77.
Loan 864-TH    Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The project is now moving forward satisfactorily and it should be
practicable for the Telephone Organization of Thailand (TOT) to overcome some
of the delays which occurred at the outset. Procurement action is well
advanzed and equipment deliveries are in progress. Increased prices have
required TOT to rephase its project financing and to redistribute some for-
eign costs between Loan 864-TH and the Japanese EXIM Bank credit. Re-alloca-
tion of Loan 864-T}I has been approved. New tariffs have come into effect in
September 1975 and are estimated to generate 20% more revenues annually which
will help TOT finance its program.
Loan 870-TH    Fifth Highways Project; $28.6 Million Loan of December 26, 1972;
Effective Date: March 26, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1977
Works under the project have been divided in nine contracts of
which two have been completed and four are expected to be completed shortly,
only slightly behind schedule. The remaining three contracts have been
terminated because the rapid increase in cost led to Financial problem  for
the contractors since, despite the Bank's recommendatLon, the contracts
provided only for costs escalation on petroleum products while costs from
materials, labor and equipment, and spare parts also escalated rapidly.
These contracts are being re-bid to complete the works. In spite of these
difficulties the project is likely to be completed no more than one year
beyond the original schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit 369-TH  Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
Project implementation remains about 14 months behind schedule.
Delays have been caused by inexperienced project management, inadequate
staffing of Ministry of Education design offices, late recruitment of
technical assistance and increased construction costs for civil works,
which necessitated lengthy procedures for budget approvals. Recently,
adequate provisions were made to meet the expected cost overruns and
noticeable progress was achieved in civil works, procurement and technical
assistance. About a third of the total civil works contracts and 20% of
the total furniture and equipment contracts have been signed. Six teclnical
assistance experts are in place and 30 Thais have been sent abroad for train-
ing under the project. Project costs are now estimated at US$50.6 million,
30% above the appraisal estimate. Actual disbursements reflect delayed im-
plementation; they amount to only US$0.4 million, but are expected to reach
US$2.0 million by the end of FY76.
Credit 379-TH Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $5.5 Million
Credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: August 23, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Physical execution of the project is proceeding on schedule.
A program of strengthening agricultural extension services in the project
by training of progressive farmers as extension workers has been established.
Loan 898-TH    Fourth Railways Project; $15 Million Loan of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: September 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977
Due to initial delay in procurement, the project is about one year
behind schedule. However, orders have now been placed for all items except
for rails required for track renewals. The estimated total cost of the
project has increased from $69.3 million to $85.6 million (+23.5%) of which
$5.6 million is required in foreign exchange. To accomodate this increase
the Bank has agreed to reallocate the proceeds of the loan to cover the
full foreign exchange costs of all items, except rails, to be procured out
of the loan and the Government has agreed to provide the Railway with $7.5
million to finance the costs of rails; the Government will meet the debt
service payments on this amount until the Railway is financially able to
do so. Due to inaction by past governments to allow the Railway to raise
tariffs to meet substantial increases in fuel costs and wages the Railway
failed to earn any rate of return in 1973/74. In July 1975, the Government
approved selective tariff increases and in September 1975, authorized a 15%
increase in passenger fares. The Railway is now preparing an implementation
schedule and forecasts of the effects of these increases on its earnings posi-
tion.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit 461-TH Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project; $7 million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date. October 7, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Project implementation began about six months later than scheduled
because of delays in final approval of the consultant's contract. There have
been further delays in equipment procurements due to establishment of new legal
procedures for government approval of contract documents.  Despite these delays,
good progress was made in the 1975/76 working season cn rehabilitation and im-
provement of the main canal systems, and in the settir,g up of agricultural ex-
tension services.
Loan 977-TH    Ban Chao Nen Hydro-Electric Projects; $75 million Loan of
April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Construction of the project is at an early s tage and is proceeding
satisfactorily. The civil works contractor commenced work in March 1974,
and has mobilized equipment on site, constructed camp facilities and begun
the diversion tunnels. The Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand's
(ECAT) short-term financial position may become difficult because of a
committed expansion program based on a growth rate of electricity demand
increase now unlikely to be achieved following a tariff increase of 60%
and energy conservation measures to combat the fuel crisis. The position
will be mitigated by ECAT's ability to raise bonds in the local market.
During FY74, B 450 million ($22 million) of 5-year bords were raised at
9-1/2% and 9%. Although estimated operating income declined for FY74, ECAT
has met its convenanted 30% contribution to construction from internal cash
generation for the four years ended EY September 1974.
Loan 992-TH    Second Industrial Finance Corporation cf Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1978
The full amount of the $12 million loan has been committed. The
commitment was more rapid than originally estimated. Disbursements have also
been very satisfactory; as of November 30, 1975 total disbursements amounted
to $7.8 million. Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's operations
and financial condition has continued to be satisfactory.
Loan 1021-TH   Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project consists of expansion and improvement of raw water
facilities, construction of a treatment plant of 800,000 m3/day capacity,
transmission tunnels, and distribution centers to meet the expected water
demand of the metropolitan area through 1982. A complementary project
financed by Asia Development Bank (ADB) would include trunk mains, dis-
tribution pipes, tubewells and purchase of wAter meters. Construction
work on the project has not commenced. Most of the contracts have



ANNEX II
Page 7
been tendered but bid evaluation and contract award, which have yet to
be finalized in several cases, have generally taken upto six months
longer than scheduled. The project is presently estimated to be about
12 months behind schedule and to cost about 10% more than the April 1974
forecasts.
Loan 1149-TH   Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975: Effective Date: October 31, 1975: Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The loan became effective on October 31, 1975.



ANNEX III
Page  1
THAILAND - NORTHEAST THAILAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUM34AR'
Borrower:              Kingdom of Thailand
Beneficiary:           Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives, and Provincial Electricity Authority.
Amount:                US$21.0 million
Terms:                 Standard Third Window terms.
Project Description:   The improvement of access to isolated villages
through construction of about 1,300 km of village
access roads and the improved maintenance of about
2,000 km of existing feeder roads; the improvement
of village water supply through construction of
about 4,000 tubewells ani the construction or rehab-
ilitation of small dams and ponds; the electrifica-
tion of 346 rural villages; the strengthening of
upland crop research and the expansion of agricul-
tural extension services; the study of land settle-
ment areas and the undertaking of selected infra-
structure improvements.
Estimated Costs:                     -----US$ Million-----
Local  Foreign   Total    % of Total
Village Roads                 6.6     4.4     11.0          24
Road Maintenance Equipment    0.1     2.6     2.7            6
Village Water Supply          1.6     2.3      3.9           9
Rural Electrification        -2.5     2.9      5.4          12
Upland Crop Improvement       3.1     1.3      4.4          10
Agricultural Extension        2.2     0.8      3.0           7
Land Settlements              0.3     0.4      0.7           1
Management & Administration   1.0     0.3      1.3           3
Contingencies:   Physical     1.7     1.6      3.3           7
Price         4.9     4.4     9.3          21
Total              24.0    21.0    45.0          100
Financing Plan:
Government         24.0       0    24.0           53
Bank                  0    21.0    21.0           47
24.0    21.0     45.0         100



ANNEX III
Page 2
Estimated Disbursements
from Bank Loan:                                 --US$000-----------
Fiscal Year       Annual        Cumulative
1976            100              100
1977            800              900
1978          7,600            8,500
1979          7,500           16,000
1980         4,600            20,600
1981            400           21,000
Procurement
Arrangements:        Road maintenance, construction of tubewells and
installation of rural electrification would be by
force account. Contracts for construction of
1,20() km of village access roads would be awarded
after international competitive bidding according
to Bank guidelines.   Contracts for other roads,
buildings, dams and ponds and for procurement of
transmission poles would be awarded after competi-
tive bidding advertised locally. All other vehicles,
equipment and materials would be procured after
international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines except that as much as
US$500,000 worth of items costing US$10,000 or
less could be bought off-the-shelf. In evaluation
of bids, eligible domestic manufacturers would be
accerded a preferential itargin cf 15% of the c.i.f.
price of competing inports or the rate of applica-
ble zustoms duties, whichever is lower.    Retroactive
financing up to a total of US$100,C00  would be provided
for expenditures from December 1, 1975, on drilling
equipment and technical assistane.
Consultants and
Technical Assistance: Consulting firms would be engaged under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank to engineer
and supervise construction of village access roads,
to assist in road maintenance, to prepare a program
of rural development projects, and to review invest-
ment needs in land settlement areas (about 200 man-
months of professional services). Individual experts
would be employed under terms and conditions accept-
able to the Bank to render technical assistance in
water supply and upland crop research (about 60 man-
months).
Rate of Return:        The economic return on the investment in village
access roads is 20%. The economic return on the
investment in rural electrification is 12%.
Appraisal Report:      721-TH, dated December 31, 1975.



I BPRD   I 1 48 7
A  - ( L A C,  102            03              1014'           105     .JAICil 1975
f  0.  r,^Zo.                          ~~~~~~~THAILAND
R)   '-X             4         ~~NORTHEASTr THAILAND
Yif   .- n      , '                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~H,ghwcys
.A           .                                     Single Track kodl,ays
KHMER                 |Rvr
\   REPU3LIC            ,--                   hn9o Pvnc    Bo-ndo,ies        9
O  p Gf,r  ,                     -   - knr~~~~~~~~~~ternac onazl Bouindaries
%                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 20 43 60 8C ICD0
%                 ~~~~~~~~L A O S                               _ -!z  _J
g==_.             ~~~~~~KILOMETERS
AMkLAYISIA                       i             \
16'                                     k /k .  Eto>,    p     )
l ~   {     {a    S     \ -       P  ?ch.m     /     l 
t eSoro                   A           ,            )        ,.L K_ro
14'   L-S                                    KH ;IMER REPIUB IC                  1
)    ,(PcchinB                                             rl l!,.dZl(illZE  ;}   n. ff  .



1020  NORTHEAST THAILAND                1&jo,
PROPOSED VILLAGE ACCESS ROADS IN
KHON KAEN PROVINCE
NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL ROADS
ARD ROADS
PROPOSED VILLAGE ACCESS ROADS
-|-~-- - | RAILWAY                    IN
-    - PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES (CHANGWAT)
_170     -D ISTRICT BOUNDARIES  (AMPHOE)   / *.
RIVERS                        )
LOI            S Chompu  0   I) UDON TIIANI *
LES>!~~~, c,,     \   XA1/                         J     * 
m~'  tOA              Phong  Ki wa ,i
(.                                      ,<    - --\\ 
_, haeA    _~    ~   ~~~~~    ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  . . 9 . ..... ..\,z0
C    o- urng huef --                    >-  \\
CHAIYAPHUM    N    H                    KO     y   N
--i~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~0
0   10   210  3i0  40  50 /'LA6        ..... \  't
KILOMETERS
-160                                          Is\, tt             l"l
1 020         M-cha Kh       /t
/] _             , ,- n,,   a    \ MAhA SAri-AKHAfvl
* /- | .z g KK 10/ Ban Pha,
)  '-  .-,  r   \LAOS
Cudo  Th-,,,                               --
KIION KAE     E K_,,             -     g   y 
Kl A N 
W  d,        <-\-           <'1             tsE--s.. f~~..~1
- 'tp  iS % ./19<2o9 1  Nongkng  Ho stg
NAKHON RATCHASIMA
7 It,,  5...... aric   ~h,'I   tn h,, fa 3,,p d to
KHMER  REPUBLIC  I'ly   -d ',,,e, 51a, ap-n~  S1.1- n i I d., ,,,
Iv,,,d 8-,k  -,1,1 tnd i n  1y.ti-7 o .  e
.~~~~~_____        ______________________________|_          -----A ^'.



