CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1198 T-TH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Northeast Thailand Rural
Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PROVINCIAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
Dated February 27, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 27, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and PROVINCIAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY (hereinafter called
PEA).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Kingdom of Thailand (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty-one million dollars
($21,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that PEA agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth: and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower
and PEA, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement will be made available to PEA on the terms and
conditions therein set forth: and
WHEREAS PEA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obli-
gations hereinafter set forth:
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PEA shall carry out Part G of the Project des-
cribed in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, fi-
nancial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and works for Part G of the Project to be financed out of
proceeds of the   an, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) PEA undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by PEA
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, PEA shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
0


﻿Section 2.04. (a) PEA shall furnish to the Bank, promptly up-
on their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for Part G of
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon its obliga-
tions under paragraph (a) of this Section, PEA shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank for review, within a period of three months
after the date of this Agreement (or such other period as the Bank
may agree), and thereafter by September 30 (or such other date as
the Bank may agree) of each year, a program for the execution of
Part G of the Project during the next year, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(c) PEA: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Part G of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use
thereof in Part G of the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation
upon the provisions of paragraph (d) of this Section, enable the
Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in Part G of the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part G of the Proj-
ect, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so relent to it
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-5-
(d) PEA shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of PEA and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.05. PEA shall duly perform all its obligations un-
der the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, PEA shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) PEA shall, at the request of the Bank, ex-
change views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part G
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other mat-
ters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) PEA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of Part G
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by PEA of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PEA
Section 3.01. (a) PEA shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations all in accordance with appropriate engi-
neering, administrative and financial practices and under the sup-
ervision of experienced and competent management assisted by expe-
rienced and competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PEA shall with-
in two months after the date of this Agreement appoint its Manager,
Office of Rural Electrification, to serve as Project Director with
over-all responsibility for the supervision and direction of Part
G of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) PEA shall maintain its existence and right
to carry on operations, and shall take all steps necessary to ac-
quire, maintain and renew all interests in land and other proper-
ties and all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are
necessary or useful in the carrying out of Part G of the Project
or in the conduct of its business.
(b) PEA shall at all times operate and maintain its plants,
facilities, equipment, machinery and other property, and promptly
as required make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in
accordance with appropriate engineering and management practices.


﻿-7-
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PEA shall not
sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets, which shall be required for the efficient operation of
its business and undertaking.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PEA shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. PEA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, c such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably reqL ted; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of PEA and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.


﻿0                             -9-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of PEA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
(i)       the date on which the Loan Agreement shall termi-
nate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)      a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Sec-
tion, the Bank shall promptly notify PEA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, ca-
ble, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re-
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿0                             -11 -
For PEA:
Provincial Electricity Authority
200 Ngam-Wongwan Road, Bang Khen
Bangkok 9
Thailand
Cable Address:
PEA
Bangkok
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of PEA may be taken or executed by its General
Manager or such other person or persons as PEA shall designate in
writing.
Section 6.03. PEA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evi-
dence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of PEA, take any ac-
tion or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by PEA pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-12-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gregory B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
PROVINCIAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
By /s/ Upadit Pachariyangkun
Authorized Representative


