CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1198 T-TH
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Northeast Thailand Rural
Development Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 27, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 27, 1976, between KINGDOM OF THAILAND
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECON-
STRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment by making the Loan as hereinafter provided:
(B) The Bank has determined that the Borrower is eligible to
receive this Loan as an intermediate term loan, as that term is de-
fined in Resolution No. 75-111 of the Executive Directors of the
Bank establishing an Interest Subsidy Fund for the Third Window
(hereinafter called the Fund) and upon the terms and conditions
set forth in such Resolution:
(C) The Administrator of the Fund (hereinafter called the
Administrator), subject to the terms and conditions set forth in
the Resolution referred to in (B) above, is obligated to pay to
the Bank semi-annually from the resources of the Fund an amount
equal to four per cent (4%) per annum of the outstanding amounts
of principal on intermediate loans, of which this Loan is one: and
(D) Part G of the Project will be carried out by the Provin-
cial Electricity Authority (hereinafter called PEA) with the Bor-
rower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to PEA a portion of the proceeds of the Loan
as hereinafter provided;


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ARD" means Office of Accelerated Rural Development, a
department of the Borrower's Ministry of the Interior;
(b) "DPW" means Department of Public Welfare, a department
of the Borrower's Ministry of the Interior;
(c)  "NEAR" means the Northeast Agricultural Research Center,
functioning under the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Co-
operatives and located at Tha Phra;
(d) "PEA" means the Provincial Electricity Authority, an
agency of the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to Pro-
vincial Electricity Authority Act, dated September 20, 1960 of the
Borrower;


﻿(e) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and PEA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project
Agreement;
(f) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PEA pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
(g) "Baht" and "B" mean the currency of the Borrower.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-one mil-
lion dollars ($21,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-6-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
four and one-half per cent (4-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time;
provided, however, that if the Administrator shall at any time de-
termine that the resources of the Fund shall not be sufficient to
pay to the Bank at the next succeeding semi-annual interest payment
date of the Loan the amount scheduled to be paid by the Administra-
tor at that interest payment date as specified in paragraph (C) of
the Preamble to this Agreement, the Borrower shall, upon notifica-
tion by the Administrator of such determination and the amount of
the resulting shortfall, pay additional interest on such principal
amount of the Loan equal to such shortfall.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on Januaiy 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The General Ianager of PEA is designated as re-
presentative of the Borrower for the purposes of -.king any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions
with respect to Part G of the Project.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B and
C of the Project through ARD, Parts D and E of the Project through
the Department of Agriculture and the Department of Agricultural
Extension, respectively, of its Ministry of Agriculture and Coop-
eratives, Part F of the Project through DPW, and shall cause PEA
to carry out Part G of the Project, all with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, fi-
nancial, agricultural and engineering practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, personnel and other
services, and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall relend an amount equivalent to three
million six hundred thousand dollars ($3,600,000) of the proceeds
of the Loan to PEA under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and PEA, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank, including, inter alia, an in-
terest rate of four and one-half per cent (4-1/2%) per annum.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-8-
(d) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause PEA
to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agree-
ment and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action necessary
or appropriate to enable PEA to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(e) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraphs (a) through (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall lend
or cause a bank in the territory of the Borrower to lend to PEA an
amount of seventy-two million Baht (B72,000,000) out of the Borrow-
er's or said bank's funds, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including, inter alia, an interest rate of four per
cent (4%) per annum, towards the financing of Part G of the Project.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in (i) the engi-
neering and supervision of the works, and the preparation of the
feasibility study, under Parts A and B of the Project, and (ii) the
carrying out of Part C, D and F of the Project, the Borrower shall
appoint or cause the respective departments referred to in Section
3.01(a) of this Agreement to appoint consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the


﻿9-
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction, work
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to re-
cord the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concern-
ing the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause the departments re-
ferred to in Section 3.01(a) of this Agreement to prepare and fur-
nish to the Bank for review, within a period of three months after


﻿- 10-
the date of this Agreement (or such other period as the Bank may
agree), and thereafter by September 30 (or such other date as the
Bank may agree) of each year, a program for the execution of their
respective parts of the Project during the next year, in such de-
tail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The program referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
shall include, inter alia, the steps to be taken with respect to
the recruitment and training of project personnel.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause ARD to generally
follow the criteria established by ARD's ISONAAM Survey in the
selection of villages for well drilling included under Part C of
the Project.
For the purposes of this paragraph, the term "ISONAAM Survey"
shall mean the extensive survey of about 2,000 villages with a
severe water shortage carried out by ARD during 1974 on the basis
of a point system rating quality of present water supply, popula-
tion using, and distance to, said supply, time spent waiting for
water, and availability of water for livestock.
(b) The Borrower shall, before well drilling operations com-
mence in a village, cause ARD to make arrangements for the volun-
tary participation of the villagers in said operations and in main-
tenance of the wells and handpumps thereafter.
(c) The Borrower shall cause ARD to furnish to the Bank for
its review proposals for the construction of water surface storage
and water infiltration systems prior to the execution of said pro-
posals.


﻿*                              -11 -
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause ARD to furnish to
the Bank for its approval the selection of roads to be constructed
or improved under Parts A(i) and (ii) of the Project prior to com-
mencement of the works.
(b) The Borrower shall cause DPW to furnish to the Bank for
its approval the proposals for pilot projects and infrastructure
improvements under Part F of the Project prior to the execution
of said proposals.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all reasonable measures to ensure that the execution and opera-
tion of the Project are carried out with due regard to ecological
and environmental factors.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when need-
ed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be requir-
ed for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.10. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall within two months after the date of this Agreement
make, or cause to be made, the following appointments with the re-
sponsibilities indicated for each of them:
(a) (i) The Secretary-General of ARD shall be appointed to
serve as Project Director with overall responsibility for the


﻿- 12 -
supervision and direction of Parts A, B and C of the Project, and
(ii) one or more senior officers within ARD shall be appointed to
serve as Project Manager with respect to Parts A, B and C of the
Project.
(b) (i) The Director-General of the Borrower's Department of
Agriculture shall be appointed to serve as Project Director with
overall responsibility for the supervision and direction of Part D
of the Project, (ii) a senior officer within the Borrower's Depart-
ment of Agriculture shall be appointed to serve as Project Coordi-
nator with responsibility for the day to day management and coordi-
nation of Part D of the Project, and (iii) additional experienced
staff in adequate numbers as shall be required at NEAR and other
research stations shall be appointed.
(c) (i) The Director-General of the Borrower's Department of
Agricultural Extension shall be appointed to serve as Project
Director with overall responsibility for the supervision and direc-
tion of Part E of the Project, (ii) a qualified senior extension
officer of the Borrower's Department of Agricultural Extension
shall be appointed to serve as Project Officer with responsibility
for the execution of Part E(i) of the Project, and (iii) the Direc-
tor of the Northeast Regional Extension Center of the Borrower's
Department of Agricultural Extension shall be appointed to serve
as Project Officer with responsibility for the execution of Part
E(ii) of the Project.
(d) (i) The Director-General of DPW shall be appointed to
serve as Project Director with overall responsibility for the su-
pervision and direction of Part F of the Project, and (ii) a


﻿- 13 -
qualified senior officer of the Self-Help Land Settlement Division
of DPW shall be appointed to serve as Project Officer with respon-
sibility for the execution of Part F of the Project.


﻿-14-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt,
which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the
creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or permitting
the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that
effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other
legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien
created on assets of any of its political or administrative subdi-
visions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank
secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to
the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿- 15 -
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such sub-
division, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or ex-
change stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the ministries or departments of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause above-mentioned ministries or
departments to: (i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section and the financial statements for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of such financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably request-
ed; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning


﻿- 16 -
such accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause all roads, facili-
ties and equipment included in the Project to be adequately main-
tained in accordance with sound engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other re-
sources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the generality
of the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
shall cause ARD to take all necessary steps in order to ensure
the proper maintenance of the water supply facilities included
in Part C of the Project. Such steps shall include, inter alia,
the monitoring of the proper functioning of said facilities, the
training of villagers in the operation, maintenance and repair
thereof and the provision of spare parts as and when needed for
the purpose.
Section 4.04. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower spec-
ifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to be-
lieve that the funds available to PEA will be inadequate to meet
the estimated expenditures required for the operation of the rural
electrification system provided for under Part G of the Project,
to make arrangements promptly to provide PEA, or cause PEA to be
provided, with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.


﻿-17 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) PEA shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of PEA under the Project Agreement.
(b) The Provincial Electricity Authority Act, dated Septem-
ber 20, 1960, of the Borrower shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of PEA to carry out the covenants,
agreements and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.
(c) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of PEA or for the suspension of its operations.
(d) A default shall have occurred in the due and punctual
payment of any amount payable by PEA to the Borrower under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(e) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that PEA will be able to perform its obligations
under the Project Agreement.


﻿-18-
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and PEA.
(b) The event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of thir-
ty days.
(c) Any event specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-19 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addition-
al conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaninil of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of PEA have been duly authorized or ratified by all neces-
sary corporate and governmental action; and
(b) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment on behalf of the Borrower and PEA, respectively, have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and govern-
mental action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Condi-
tions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, PEA, and is
legally binding upon PEA in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Borrower and PEA, respectively, and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and PEA in accordance with its terms.


﻿- 20 -
Section 6.03. The date May 27, 1976, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 21 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok 2,
Thailand
Cable address:
MINANCE
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H1 Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 22 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By /s/ Upadit Pachariyangkun
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gregory B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-23-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
Parts A, B and C of
the Project
(1) Civil Works                6,180,000         40%
(2) Vehicles, Equipment        4,710,000
and Materials
(a) Directly im-                            100% of foreign
ported                                 expenditures
(b) Manufactured                            100% (ex-factory)
locally
(c) Imported but                            65%
procured lo-
cally
(3) Consultants' ser-           1,500,000        100% of foreign
vices                                       expenditures or
85%
Part D of the Project
(4) Civil Works                  100,000         40%


﻿-24-
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5) Vehicles, Equipment           460,000
and Materials
(a) Directly im-                             100% of foreign
ported                                  expenditures
(b) Manufactured                             100% (ex-factory)
locally
(c) Imported but                             65%
procured lo-
cally
(6) Consultants' ser-             230,000         100% of foreign
vices and overseas                           expenditures or
training                                     85%
Part E of the Project
(7) Civil Works                   370,000         40%
(8) Vehicles, Equipment           300,000
and Materials
(a) Directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) Manufactured                             100% (ex-factory)
locally
(c) Imported but                             65%
procured lo-
cally
(9) Overseas training              70,000         100% of foreign
expenditures


﻿-25-
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
Part F of the Project
(10) Civil Works                  200,000         40%
(11) Vehicles, Equipment           80,000
and Materials
(a) Directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) Manufactured                             100% (ex-factory)
locally
(c) Imported but                             65%
procured lo-
cally
(12) Consultants' ser-            200,000         100% of foreign
vices and Overseas                           expenditures or
training                                     85%
Part G of the Project
(13) Civil works and              700,000         40%
procurement of
poles
(14) Vehicles, Equipment        2,900,000
and Materials
(a) Directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) Manufactured                             100% (ex-factory)
locally
(c) Imported but                             65%
procured
locally


﻿- 26 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(15) Unallocated                3,000,000
TOTAL           21,000,000


﻿-27-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expend-
itures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the ter-
ritory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made in respect
of Categories (2) and (3) on account of expenditures incurred after
December 1, 1975, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equiva-
lent of $100,000.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such


﻿- 28 -
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then ap-
plicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the pro-
cedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the
Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Loan.
7.   The following provisions shall apply in respect to any of the
Consultants' Contracts for which the Borrower shall apply for with-
drawal under Categories (3), (6) and (12) above:
(a) when submitting to the Bank the first withdrawal appli-
cation with respect to each such contract, the Borrower shall noti-
fy the Bank as to whether the Borrower elects 100% of foreign ex-
penditures or 85% of total expenditures for such contract to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;


﻿-29-
(b) no disbursement for any such contract shall be made be-
fore the Bank has been notified of the Borrower's election with
respect to such contract; and
(c) the Bank shall take note of such election by the Borrower
with respect to each such contract, and any and all withdrawals
with respect to such contract shall be made in accordance with such
election.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to improve rural infrastructure,
to strengthen research and development programs for upland crops,
and to help establish an effective agricultural extension system,
all in the Borrower's Northeast Region.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   (i)       The construction of about 1,300 km of village
access roads;
(ii)      The improvement of about 100 km of roads in
land settlements; and
(iii)     Studies for preparation of further rural
development projects.
Part B:   The strengthening of maintenance programs for about
2,000 km of existing rural roads in the provinces of
Udon Thani, Sakon Nakorn, Nong Khai and Buriram, in-
cluding the purchase and use of necessary road main-
tenance equipment.
Part C:   The construction and equipping of about 4,000 tubewells
and the construction and rehabilitation of small dams
and ponds for village water supply, and the provision
of necessary equipment and vehicles.


﻿-31-
Part D:   (i)       A research program at NEAR to develop viable
and permanent farming systems for upland soils;
and
(ii)      The upgrading of NEAR and six field crop sta-
tions for on-station and on-farm trials to
test farming systems, for research on specific
crops, and for seed multiplication.
Part E:   (i)       The establishment of an agricultural extension
system in the provinces of Ubon Ratchatani,
Yasothon, Roi-Et and Sisaket, including the
provision of necessary equipment and facilities
and the recruitment and training of progressive
farmers as extension workers; and
(ii)      The strengthening of the Northeast Regional Ex-
tension Training Center, including the provi-
sion of necessary equipment and facilities.
Part F:   (i)       Studies of land settlements; and
(ii)      Pilot projects for land development and small-
scale irrigation in selected settlements.
Part G:   The electrification of about 346 villages in the Bor-
rower's Northeast Region through the installation of


﻿- 32 -
distribution lines, transformers and auxiliary equip-
ment; the connection and metering of about 27,000 in-
itial consumers; and the purchase and use of equipment
and facilities necessary therefor.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿-33-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
January 15, 1983                                370,000
July 15, 1983                                   380,000
January 15, 1984                                385,000
July 15, 1984                                   395,000
January 15, 1985                                405,000
July 15, 1985                                   415,000
January 15, 1986                                425,000
July 15, 1986                                   430,000
January 15, 1987                                440,000
July 15, 1987                                   450,000
January 15, 1988                                460,000
July 15, 1988                                   470,000
January 15, 1989                                485,000
July 15, 1989                                   490,000
January 15, 1990                                505,000
July 15, 1990                                   515,000
January 15, 1991                                530,000
July 15, 1991                                   540,000
January 15, 1992                                550,000
July 15, 1992                                   565,000
January 15, 1993                                575,000
July 15, 1993                                   590,000
January 15, 1994                                605,000
July 15, 1994                                   615,000
January 15, 1995                                630,000
July 15, 1995                                   645,000
January 15, 1996                                660,000
July 15, 1996                                   675,000
January 15, 1997                                690,000
July 15, 1997                                   705,000
January 15, 1998                                720,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-34-
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
July 15, 1998                                    735,000
January 15, 1999                                 755,000
July 15, 1999                                    770,000
January 15, 2000                                 790,000
July 15, 2000                                    805,000
January 15, 2001                                 830,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 35 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1%
More than three years but
not more than six
years before maturity                    2-1/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                    5-1/2%
More than sixteen years but
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity                    7-1/4%
More than twenty-one years
but not more than
twenty-three years
before maturity                              8%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿- 36 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts shall be let
under procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
2.   Contracts for carrying out the civil works under Part A(i) of
the Project shall be grouped into not more than ten bulk contracts
in accordance with appropriate technical standards and procurement
practices.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Parts A.1 and 2 above:
(a) The Borrower may award contracts on the basis of compe-
titive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local
procedures for the following:
(i)       civil works for the construction of about 100 km
of roads under Part A(i) of the Project;
(ii)      civil works for the improvement of roads under
Part A(ii) of the Project;


﻿- 37 -
(iii)     civil works under Parts C, D, E, F and G of the
Project; and
(iv)      prestressed concrete poles for Part G of the Project.
(b) Off-the-shelf items costing less than $10,000 equivalent
each may be procured in accordance with the Borrower's usual pro.
curement procedures, provided, however, that the aggregate cost of
such items does not exceed $500,000 equivalent.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods (Vehicles, Equip-
ment and Materials); Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other ex-
penditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Thailand may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿- 38 -
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Thai-
land if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Thailand equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Thailand.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evaluat-
ed bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be com-
pared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a
bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offer-
ed in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other


﻿-39-
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison un-
der paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Procurement Without Contracting
The civil works required for the improvement of roads in land
settlements included in Part A(ii) of the Project may be carried
out by force account by ARD.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions By Bank
1.   With respect to any contract for vehicles, equipment and ma-
terials estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more and
with respect to any contract for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower
shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail
of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifica-
tion in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified and
the Borrower shall make such additions or deletions from the said
list as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 40 -
(b) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and the reasons for the intended award and shall fur-
nish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, to-
gether with the recommendation for award and such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿*                             -41-
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


