Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
Reprt No. 7769
PROJECT CCMPLETION REPORT
LIBERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
(CR. 839-LIB)
MAY 22, 1989
Africa Regional Office
Thbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Liberian dollar is officially at par value with the US dollar which
is legal tender in Liberia.
WEIGHTS AND 'EASURES
1 hectare (ha) - 2.47 acres
1 kilometre (km) - 0.62 miles
1 km2 - 0.39 miles2
m9(r) - solid cubic metre, round wood
ms(s) - solid cubic metre, sawn wood
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB  -    African Development Bank
CP   -    Cooperative Program
FAO  -    Food and Agricultural Organization
FDA  -    Forestry Development Authority
FOB  -    Free on Board
FTI  -    Forestry Training Institute
GDP  -    Gross Domestic Product
GOL  -    Government-of Liberia
GTZ  -    German Aid (Deutsche Gesellschaft fur
Technische Zusammenarbeit)
IDA  -    International Development Association
IRR  -    Internal Rate of Return
LFC  -    Liberian Forestry Corporation
ODA  -    British Overseas Development Administration
PCR  -    Project Completion Report
SAR  -    Staff Appraisal Report
WB   -    World Bank
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oc ok  ctD,-hewaI
May 22, 1989
DIfOIRAIDDK TO THE  XEmCUTIVE DrhCTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Liberia
Forestry Project
(Credit 839-LIB}
Attached, for information, is a copy of the report entitled
'Project Completion Report on Liberia Forestry Project (Credit 839-LIB)"
prepared by the Africa  Regional  Office,    No  further evaluation of this
project by the Operations Evaluation Department has been made.
Attachment
This document has a restrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonrance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World anlk authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIBERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 839-LIB)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ... ............. ......                                          i
Bassic Data Sheet .......... ............     O........ ....................... i
Evaluation Summary ....... *0*.......  0..0.....0......................*..........  v
Overview .................. *............    0 ...................... 
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.   Introdnction .........                   ..........**.**.     9
II.   Project Description ....... *.****  ....... o... **..    11
III.   Implementation .............  **.t................................    12
IV.   Operating Performance and Impacts .....................    23
V.   Financial Re-Evaluation .........  . ............. .    25
VI.   Institutional Performance .................27
VII.  Economic Re-Evaluation ..........                              29
VIII.   Bank Performance    .                                         29
IX.   Conclusions ..... 00 .......       .........         ....¢X*-so  30
Tables:
1.   Project Implementation Key Indicators
2.   Industrial Wood Production and Exports
3.   Assessed Forestry Fees
4.   Average FOB Values
5.   Project Cost Summary
6.   Financial Summary
7.   Disbursement Summary
8.   Project Cost Details
9.   Project Financial Rate of Return
10.   GOL Cash Flow, Financial Basis
11.   FDA Expenditure and Funding
Maps  IBRD 13427R - Liberia Forestry Project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.I



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIBERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 839-LIB)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Liberia--Forestry
Project was prepared by the Forestry Development Authority (FDA) in June/
July 1986. The project was jointly financed by the African Development
Bank (ADB), German Aid (GTZ), International Development Association (IDA)
and Government of Liberia (GOL).  The FDA acted as the executing authority.
Loans, credits and grant commitments to  the project were $17.5 million and
actual cost was $17.8 million.
Loans and credits from ADB and IDA became effective in December
1978 and GTZ grant aid in March 1978. The project was scheduled to be com-
pleted by December 1983 and was actually completed by December 1986. Credit
closing, originally scheduled for June 30, 1984, was extended to June 30,
1987. During the 106 months between effectiveness and credit closing, the
credit was suspended four times for a total of 27 months. The outstanding
balance of $420,000 was cancelled on May 17, 1987.
The PCR was prepared in accordance with Section 2.05(c) of the
Project Agreement dated July 28, 1978 between FDA and IDA. It is based on
a review of Staff Appraisal Reports (SAR) by ADB and IDA, supervision let-
ters, financial reports, audited accounts and other reports held by IDA and
FDA, and after obtaining comments from IDA staff. The Basic Data Sheet in-
cludes information not available when the PCR was prepared in 1986 but dif-
ferences are minor and do not affect the assessment of the project. The
draft report has been read by representatives of IDA, GTZ and GOL and where
appropriate their comments have been included.
The draft report has been read by the Operations Evaluation De-
partment (OED), and copies were sent to the Borrower and its agencies for
comment in February 1989. No comments were received.



- II -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIBERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 039-LIB)
-                                                     BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal           Actual or         Actual as X of
Expoetation      Current Estimate   Appraisal Estimate
Project Cost (USI million)            17.6                 17.8                 104
IDA Credit Amount (USS million)        8.0                 6.8 /                93
Cofinancing (US$ million):
- African Development Bank (ADB)    6.0                  4.7                  94
- Government of Liberia (COL)        4.7                 6.0                  106
- German Aid (GTZ)                   1.8                 2.6                  144
Date Board Approval                 June 1976           11/07/78
Credit Agreement Date V             June 1978           28/07/78
Credit Effectivenes  Date          Sept. 1978           20/12/78
IDA Suspension Dates                19/00/88            21/10/68
11/10/84            19/01/65
20/02/86            80/09/s6
19/02/88            17/05/07
Closing Date                        80/06/84            80/08/87
Physical Completion Date            Dec. 198B           Dec. 1988
Physical Completion State ()
- Buildings                          100                76 V/
- Plantation                         100                6o
Rate of Return (M)
- Financial                         17.8                 0.4
Institutional Performance             Good         Adequate, improving
Plantation Performance                Good           Major problems
Building Performance                  Good           Major problems
3/  Undlsbursed balance of 8422,808.80 cancelled on 17 May 1967.
2/  ADB a0'.';eid loan negotiation as observers, GTZ Invited but did not attend.
1/ See paragraph 8.19.



- iii -
CALUATIVE DIS8lWSEMETS
7/79 79/W  69)61  61/82   28 816 j 8418S/5   85/68     ?
Appraisl Estimate (USS mlillion)  1.7  8.6  4.6   ;..4   6.o  -      -      -     -
Actual (USS million)         6.5  0.6  1.6   2.1   2.9   3.6   4.2   S.3   5.6
Actul as X of stimate         29   21   86    89    46    60    76    66    93
Data of final disbursement: 31 DocemWr 188
Outstanding balance of USS9.4 a. cancelled on 17 May 1687.
3. Mlsslon Data
Month  Numbec    Field    Specializations  Performance Trend  Problet1
/Year  Persons   Mandays  Represented (1)  Rating (2)    (3)  Tvpes (-)
Recounalsance   2/3/74    4          26      f. a              n.a.         n.a    n.a
Organizational  1/2/76    3          30      f, at, Mo         n.s          n.a    n.a
Identification    3/76    2           7      p. f              n.a.         n.a    n.4
Preparation        6/76    3          8      f, et             n.a.          a*8.   n.a.
3/4/77    6         30      f,e,fa,,ps,fs    n.a.          n.a.   n.a
Api-aisal      10/11/77    3         24      ae, fat f         n.'.         n.a.   n.a.
Supervision 1    11/78    1          13      a                 1            1       0
2   4/5/79    2          6       fa, f             1           1       M
3     9/t9    1          9       f                 1           2       F,M
4  9/10/80    1          5       f                 2           2       H,P
5     4/81    1         15       f                 2           2       F,M
6    12/81   2           8      f. fa              2           1       M
7     4/82   1          22       f                 2           1       M
8 11/12/82   1          10       f                 2           1       F
9     4/83   1           8       f                 2           2       F
10    12/83   2          12      f. fa              2           2       F,X
11     1/85  2            9      f                  3           1       F
12    12/85   1           5      f                  2           1       0
5. Other Project Data
Borrower:            Republic of Liberia
Executing Agency:   Forestry Development Authority
Follow-on Project:  None identified
'. f-forester, e-economist, et-education/eraining, mao-anagement/organizatcor., p-pulp
and paper, fa-financial analyst, s-sawmilling, ae-sgricultural economist, ps-plantatior
specialist, fs-forestry advisor.
2. 1-problem free/minor problems, 2-problems are moderate, 3-major problems.
3.  1-improving, 2-stationary, 3-deteriorating.
'. F-financial, T-technical, X-managerial, P-polilical, 0-other, n.a.not applicable



- lv -
STAFF INPUTS
(staff weeks)
FY74 FY75 FY7t  FY77 FY76 FY79 FY86 FY81  FY82 FY83 FY84 FYO8  FY86 FY87 FY88 TOTAL
Preappralsat     87.6 19.5 42.1 27.6 12.5                                                            139.3
AppratesI                              72.6                                                           72.0
N"eotstlte                              6.6  1.8                                                       7,9
Supervle v'n                                 11.6  7.5  11.4  10.8  10.9 16.8  6.4  5.8  3.2   .1 76.6
Oth-r                        6.8   .2   .5                                                             6.0
Subtotal       87.5 19.5 47.4 27.8  91.7  11.9  7.6 11.4  10.8  1J.9  16.8  6.4  5.8  8.2   .1 801.8



PROJECT COM4PLETION REPORT
LIBERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 839-LIB)
EVALUATION SUMARY
Obiectives
1.       The objectives of the Project were:
(a) to upgrade the FDA, the forest regulatory authority, in order
to improve government's forestry planning and intervention in
the forestry sector; and
(b)  to determine the technical and  financial feasibility of a pU'p
industry based on long-fiber furnish from pine plantations.
The means to attain these objectives were:
(a) for FDA, provision ot buildings, vehicles and equipment,
ircreased central and regional staff, logistical support,
technical assistance, and training; and
(b) for pulp industry feasibility, establishment of a Trial Indus-
trial Plantation of 1600 ha to test mechanized plantation me-
thods, select a suitable pine species, and determine cultural
methods.
2.       Over the five-year Project period, costs were estimated at US$17.5
million. Financing was to be provided by IDSA, ADD, GTZ and GOL (see
Table 6).
3.       The strengthening of FDA was  expected to reduce evasion of forest
fees  by  concessionaires,  thereby   increasing  Government  revenues  and
providing an 18X financial rate of return on Project investments in FDA
strengthening (which the SAR also 'considered a close approximation of the
economic rate of return" (SAR, Para. 6.01)).
4.       Based  on  most-likely-outcome  assumptions,  including  its being
followed by large-scale commercial industrial pine plantations, it was
expected that the  Trial  Industrial    Plantation component would generate
economic returns to investment of between 4 and 112, 42 if the output were
chipped and exported; 102 if the output were converted to sawlogs mainly
for export, and 11% if a pulpmill were built and the pulp exported.
Implementation Experience
5.       Implementation, slow to begin with,  was further disrupted by the
civil disturbances in 1979  and  1980.    The construction of buildings was
slower than planned and proved more costly (see Para. 3.19 and Table 1).
Training programs took place but were slow in being established (see Para.
3.22). Some ex-patriate technical assistance personnel proved effective,



- vi -
while others with no previous experience in Liberia did not successf-ally
adjust to their working conditions.    Training of Liberian replacements by
expatriate staff was unsuccessful.
6.       The Trial  Industrial  Plantation  experienced  higher  costs than
forecast, lags in implementation, and lower output (see Paras 3.16 to 3.18
and Table 1). The area to be planted had not been surveyed at appraisal
and was not until 1984; the high forest removed to make place for the
plantation proved to contain double the amount of wood estimated at ap-
praisal (see Para. 9.08).   For  this and other reasons, establishment cost
2.08 times appraisal estimated (Para. 4.02). Regrowth of the tropical rain
forest was much more vigorous than projected; more and more expensive
weeding was needed. Seedling survival was only 602. Once up, the Pinus
caribea and oocarpa grew well. As against the target of 1600 ha, 1039 ha
(65%) were established (see Para. 4.02).
7.       Implementation was  seriously   incumbered  by  interruptions  in
external funding resulting from numerous suspensions by IDA and by the
donors.    The  Borrower's  contribution  declined  too  (see  Para. 3.40).
Record-keeping and reporting were poor (see Paras 3.31 & 3.32) and It would
not be possible to give  the  project  an  unqualified audit.  Records were
destroyed when FDA offices were  broken  into during the civil disturbances
(see Para. 3.33).  A revolution  in  1980 caused major changes in FDA board
and staff (see Para. 6.03), but the new management proved more energetic in
pursuing Project goals. In the face of Liberian conditions, a revolution,
and repeated suspensions by the foreign financiers, including IDA, bidding
procedures failed to select reliable contractors (see Paras 9.10-9.11).
Results
8.       FDA was strengthened.  It  got more buildings--more in the capital
than anticipated at appraisal and fewer in rural areas, more vehicles, and
more staff. Training funds for Liberian staff were generally well used
(see Para. 4.04). Studies were conducted that could guide FDA's interven-
tion in the sector in the future, but no results have yet emerged from this
effort (see Para. 4.04).
9.       Evasion of forest exploitation fees  was studied in 1985 and found
to be 112, a drop from the 15-to-201 estimated at appraisal if that esti-
mate is to be trusted.    This  apparent increase in Government revenues (a
decrease for concessionaires) was applied to a decreasing base of forest
exploitation, probably due mainly to changes other than the tightening of
fee collection. In any case, the apparent increase in revenues was not
enough to offset the Project's costs and to give the fiscal return anti-
cipated at appraisal.
10.      The Trial Industrial  Plantation  demonstrated  the possibility of
establishing pine plantations in Liberia and revealed some of the technical
problems.  It also  established  that  such  plantations are uneconomic, at
least in the near future.    Even without high establishment cost stemming
from high clearing cost and other factors, and without high mortality and
high weeding cost, the plantation would have been rendered uneconomic just
by the unanticipated fall in world market prices for pulp (see Paras 4.02 &
4.03).



- vii -
Sustainability
11.      It is difficult to  assess  the  long-term effect of strengthening
FDA. It remains to be seen whether the findings of the various studies
done under the Project, e.g. one to improve the management of the natural
tropical high forest on a sustainable basis, will be implemented and/or
recommended  policies  enforced.    FDA  has  clearly  benefitted  from the
Project's training  component,  despite  leakages.    The sustainability of
changes once expatriate experts leave is moot because of their failure to
train replacements.
12.      The industrial plantation activities  will  not  and should not be
sustained, as the trial demonstrated.
Findings
13.      The Project  demonstrated  how  difficult forestry-sector institu-
tional strengthening can be in a period of administrative and social flux.
In view of this flux, and of repeated disruptions from suspensions by ex-
ternal financiers, it is actually remarkable that the project accomplished
part of its goal of FDA-strengthening. At the end of the day, however, the
financial rate of return to this component of the project is recalculated
at 0.4%. FDA's capability as a regulatory authority has been improved but
further action is required (see Para. 9.04). Fee management and assessment
have improved but joint action of FDA and GOL is required to improve col-
lection (see Para. 5.04) if full benefits are to be gained in the future.
14.      If the investment decision were  to  be  made today, it is highly
unlikely that IDA would agree to finance the Trial Industrial Plantation.
In part, this situation is the result of reaction to outside concerns of
arguable scientific merit, such as the current preference for native mixed
forest stands over monoculture, for selective-cutting over clear-cutting,
for preserving rare plant and animal species on the verge of extinction,
and just for tropical natural forests in general--all preferences which the
appraisal mission in 1978 could not have been expected to anticipate. Even
had it anticipated them, it is not obvious to what extent it ought to have
factored such concerns  into  its  consideration.   Moreover, the appraisal
mission should noL be faulted for failing to guess that the world market
for softwood timber and chips would turn out to be far lower than then
predicted.
15.      These  considerations  aside,  however,   there  are  grounds  for
questioning the technical good sense of the Trial Industrial Plantation.
In the very wet, tropical environment of the Bomi Hills, it should not have
been a surprise that clearing and containing natural re-growth would be
difficult and expensive. Given the decision to go ahead with the trial
before inventorying the timber on the site to be cleared, it is surprising
that the "eyeball" estimate of the inventory would be only half the fact.
Even abstracting for the  unforeseeable  considerations mentioned above, it
seems surprising that the forest land use of choice for this area, with
practically no dry season,  was  plantation  pine.   And, finally, it seems
surprising that this activity, with its low labor input per hectare on a
sustainable basis, was proposed to address the regional unemployment
problem in the Bomi Hills when the iron mine closed.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIBERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 839-LIBE
Bank Overview of the Forestry Project Completion
Report which -was prepared by the Borrower
I. GENERAL
Introduction
1.01      The Project Completion Report (PCR) was prepared by the Forestry
Development Authority (FDA) with assistance of two consultants, one in
forestry and another in financial matters. Arrangements for writing the
PCR were made when the credit closing date was June 30, 1986 and the credit
balance was expected to he disbursed before December 31, 1986. The PCR was
written in June-July 1986.
1.02      The Project was identified and prepared between 1974 and 1977 by
the Government and FAO/CP, and appraised by the Bank in October-November
1977. Board approval was obtained on July 11, 1978 and the project became
effective on December 20, 1978. The original closing date was June 30,
1984 but closing date was extended three timea to June 30, 1987. The
Project was cofinanced with GTZ whicha provided most of the technical
assistance and with the AFDB which provided partial funding for the
project.
Project Design
1.03      The proje~ct was the Bank's first forestry intervention in Liberia
and was designed as the first phase of diversification and modernization of
the I_oerian forestry sector. The two principal elements included in the
project were: (a) strengthening of the newly created FDA; and (b)
establishment of an intdustrial plantation trial.
1.04      FDA strengthening was to introduce improved forest management
practices and improve forest revenue assessment. FDA was to be
strengthened through training programs, technical assistance, provision of
a new FDA headquarters, regional offices and accomodations, vehicles and
equipment. The pilot industrial plantation would determine feasibility and
costs of mechanical forest clearing and viability of growing pine primarily
meant for pulpwood. Studies would provide policy guidance on forest fees
and forest management, and examine the viability of expanding the
plantation trial into a large scale plantation program as it was envisaged
during appraisal.



-2-
Project Implementation
1.05      The project was affected by the civil disturbances in 1979 ant
1980 when accounting records were disturbed and the FDA general manager was
replaced. Delays in completion caused by the slow implementation of the
building program, in combination with the Bank's withholding of
disbursements to Liberia, were the reasons behind the three year extension
of the credit.
1.06      FDA Strengthening.  The initial technical assistance in finance
and legal matters proved to be useful in defining FDA policies as expressed
in FDA issued regulations on stumpage fees and other tatters. The
structure of forest fees was sound and well balanced. An elaborate control
system comprising of way bills and other documentation to cover movements
of logs and sawn timber was designed but never effectively implemented.
Following the departure of the first legal/financial adviser, the forestry
advisor focussed his activit-y mainly on the plantation trial, building
program and staff training while overall forest management on a nationwide
basis was given less attention than desirable. Bank supervision may also
have focussed too little on institutional aspects during early
implementation. The trial plantation and the building program was seen as
'Bank activity" by the FDA management, while aspects relating to the
overall performance of the sector (efficiency of natural forest management,
concession control etc.) was perceived to some extent as "FDA's own
business". This attitude was reflected in progress reports submitted by
FDA to the Bank. Later on Bank missions attempted to change this view but
were only partially successful. FDA however, gradually responded more
positively to the ongoing dialogue with the Bank, and in 1984 hired an
internationally recruited financial adviser, an internal auditor and also
set up a management control unit to visit the regions for inspecting
concession control and fee assessment. The increased emphasis on forest
fees and export performance led to such aspects being included in FDA
quarterly reporting and probably contributed to the increase in forest fee
capture in despite of a deteriorating market for tropical hardwoods. The
GTZ financed technical assistance in marketing intelligence and monitoring
of forest industry performance led to a number of FDA publications and
increased the overall level of knowledge but the activity was not
adequately continued following the departure of the consultants in 1983.
The technical assistance in mapping and inventory was most useful and led
to the production of a national forest map. Technical assistance was
useful for program implementation and undoubtedly helped raising the FDA
standard of management. The training program as a whole can be described
as sucessful. Useful technical training was obtained in aerial photography
interpretation and cartography. Much of the education/training was,
however, not very specific (e.g. general forestry education abroad) and its
direct Impact on the project was not obvious. The building program
experienced considerable delays in the beginning of the project life due to
a combination of poorly performing contractors and inadequate management by
the FDA. Later on performance improved and the program was about
completed.



1.07      Industrial Plantation Trial.  The plantation was targeted at 1600
ha, starting at 200 ha and increasing to 450 ha annually by year 5. The
planting program was supported by infrastructure such as nursery, roads and
housing. 1039 ha were planted between 1979 and 1985 when planting was
stopped because of financial shortcomings. Constraints in meeting targets
were mainly caused by slower than expected performance in land clearing and
by problems with pine establishment which resulted in more replanting thar
normal at the expense of new establishment. The constraints were caused to
some extent by the fact that GTZ technical assistance personnel were not as
experienced in tropical forestry as the jobs required. The fact that the
plantation was sited in a location lacking previous plantation activity and
without roads, housimng and public facilities discouraged managers and other
staff in taking up permanent residence at the site which contributed to
less than adequate supervision. Lower achievement rates (65 percent) and
higher costs (208 percent) can be attributed to inexperienced supervision
of mechanical operations, inability to efficiently support heavy equipment
and vehicles given the local conditions and the "long supply line", lack of
sufficient effective administrative and cost controls. However the area
planted was sufficient to draw the conclusions which the pilot project was
meant to. Height measurements, taken in the plantation study, carried out
under the project, showed that Pinus caribaea and P. oocarpa both grow
satisfactorily, but the high rainfaTl and vegetative conditions of the site
(disturbed natural forest) in combination with the inability of the pine
species to effectively control weeds by shading makes the growing of pine
in this area uneconomic. In addition to this, the high project costs
experienced under Government Management, makes pulpwood production
uneconomic under the given market conditions.
II. PROJECT IMPACT
Project Objectives
2.01      The project had two principal objectives:  (a) strengthening of
the FDA to provide it with the management and technical ability to operate
as a regulatory authority, eliminate forest fee evasion and improve forest
fee management; and (b) establishment of an industrial plantation trial to
examine the feasibility of growing tropical pine for long fiber pulpwood
production.
Impact on FDA Management and Fee Assessment
2.02      Both the training and technical assistance undoubtedly impacted
considerably on FDA's overall performance. The effect of this
institutional improvement is difficult to quantify but FDA's performance on
accounting, execution of planting and building programs generally improved
during the life of the project. One way to quantify the improvements in
institutional efficiency is through an analysis of FDA's performance in fee
assessment/collection. The performance improved even during the years of
the early 1980's when Liberia's timber exports declined drastically due to



the world wide recession. The recession hit Liberia particularly hard
because of tho high value of the dollar whicT made Liberian timber
relatively uncompetitive in the traditional western European Market. The
PCR suggests that tee evasion was reduced from the preproject level of
about 20 percent (SAR) to about 11. At the same time the FDA was able to
increase the percentage of forest fee capture (percent of concessionaire's
profit margin per mi) from 28.5 percent at appraisal stage to 37.8 percent
in year 1980/81. Despite of the industry's declinPig profit margin (due to
the recession), which lead to FDA's lowering of fees, the percentage of
margin captured in forest fee assessment remained fairly constant as from
1980/81. Similarly the proportion of forest fees collected improved
(versus assessment), when collection was under FDA's direct control, even
if this period coincided with the time of financial hardship for the
industry.
2.03      The financial benefits of the project were in the SAR forecast to
arise from the implementation of policies leading to more efficient
assessment of forest fees. These improvements were expected (SAR) to yield
$3.3 millions per year by the end of the project resulting in a financial
rate of return of 17.8 percent over 20 years. However the SAR forecast
foresaw a continued rise in market price and harvested volume which did not
take place in reality and this led to lower than expected rate of return.
The PCR estimated the financial rate of return (based on current dollars)
to be 0.4 percent over a 20 year period. The SAR suggested that the
economic return on the project would be little different from the financial
rate of return and did not present a calculation. The incremental income
to government (from increased fee margin) represents a financial transfer
from the private sector, and in itself does not represent an economic rate
of return, except for Liberia possibly receiving a greater value share
(e.g. by reducing of underinvoicing). However, there could be considerable
economic benefits from an efficient forest fee management through the
effects on resource management and reduction of wasteful exploitation of
the resource. These benefits are largely unquantifiable as are most other
benefits from institution building.
Impact on Plantation Development
2.04      The plantation was meant to be a trial and was not included in
the SAR calculation of the project's rate of return. The area planted made
it possible to draw the conclusion that the cost of growing of pine in the
given area was high because of weed competition. It was also demonstrated
that the Government's running of the plantation scheme resulted in high
costs which made the venture uneconomic. The plantation should supply saw
logs in the future but is not expected to have a significant impact on
Liberia's wood production.
Environmental Impact
2.05      The most direct environmental project impact is the establishment
of a national parks and wildlife section with FDA and the creation of the
13,000 ha Sipo National Park in 1983.



III. ISSUES
Project Background
3.01      The project was designed in a period when, following the oil
crisis, there was a general belief that the world was running out of raw
materials. There was a boom in raw material markets including that of
timber. Future world wide pulpwood shortages had been forecast by FAO. A
Swedish pulp and paper company had begun investing in pine plantations in
Liberia for the purpose of raw material supply to its pulpmills; however,
the company, for a variety of reasons gave up its plans a few years after
having started, and the 1978-1979 peak in the timber and pulp markets was
replaced by a seve-^e decline as from 1981. The outlook at the time of
appraisal had a s,rong influence on both project design and early
Implementation.
Project Design
3.02      Considering that FDA was a quite new agency, it was ambitious to
expect it to improve the overall national forest service and at the same
time embark on a plantation scheme which in its technique was new to
Liberia. The assumption about the growing market was so entrenched that
apparently it was considered that the Governmens. should have a stake in it,
although the private sector was already involved. The :ize of the
plantation (1,600 ha) was large for a trial. Knowledge on the of growth
performance could have been obtained from existing pine provenance trials
(Oxford trial) in Liberia and from the Swedish experiments. The plantation
size was apparently choosen because it was seen as the beginning of a large
scale plantation development. Furthermore the emphasis on a building
program so comprehensive must be seen on the background of these
expectations. The rate of return calculation in the SAR was based upon FDA
capturing a fee share of the margin of a timber market which was expected
to increase both in volume and value terms.
Project Implementation
3.03      The expectations to the future and the relative good financial
position which FDA enjoyed during the early period influenced
implementation. The new project headquarters was sited about 6 km outside
of Monrovia.  The site was a hill with a great scenic beauty and view but
there was a difficult access road, no electricity and water nearby, and the
site itself made foundation works difficult which contributed further to
cost overruns for this building. During project implementation, however,
there was a general improvement in FDA management of building and
plantation programs, and also the overall dialogue with IDA improved.
3.04      The rate of return calculation compares the pre project fee
capture with the fee capture during the life of the project. Naturally it
to not possible to determine how the fee capture would have developed in a
"without project" scenario. With the project however, it would seem likely



that the fee capture ratio would have deteriorated subsequent to 1980 when
the market deteriorated. It seems beyond doubt that the FDA strengthened
by the project was in a better position to resist pressures from
concessionaires for a wholesale reduction in forest fees. It may therefore
be concluded that the zate of return calculation because of its methodology
is conservative in its nature.
3.05      In retrospect the question could be asked if the project should
have been modified during the period of implementation. In this connection
it should be remembered that the project headquarters site was chosen quite
early in the implementation stage during which time also most of the
infrastructure cost at the trial plantation was incurred. During project
life the empnasis therefore was to improve on performance both at the
building and plantation programs. Landclearing at the trial plantation was
stopped In 1983-84 because of financial problems and because it was
considered that the area planted was large enough to draw the necessary
conclusions. The fact that FDA's overall institutional performance
improved consistently during the life of the project was the reason why the
project generally was rated 2 during most of its life.
IV. LESSONS LEARNED
4.01      The major lessons learned from the project are:
-    project design should not be too ambitious and should consider
institutional inexperience.
-    specific targets for action and development need to be built into
the SAR also when the major objective is institutional
development. The mere financing of incremental staff and
infrastructure is not sufficient to ensure that the expected
developments will happen.
-    it may be concluded that when a project both contains compouents
which are relatively simple to execute and monitor, and at the
same time components which are more difficult and complex to
implement, then there is a high risk that the more complex
elements are not given adequate attention.
-    the assumption is often being made that tropical countries
generally have a comparative advantage for production of
plantation timber because of high volume increments. This needs
to be carefully analyzed on a case by case basis. The growth
potential (in this case estimated at 15 m9 mean annual increment)
for pine in Liberia is not above what can be achieved under
temperate conditions where weeding problems are less severe and
plantation establishment therefore tends to be cheaper.



-7-
establishment of pine and Eucalyptus generally is most successful
if seedlings are planted in a weed free ground. Full mechanical
soil preparation is therefore often recommended. However this
contributes under a high rainfall regime (rainfall in Cape Mount
is above 2,000 mm annually) to a rapid leaching of the soil, which
can make successful establishment difficult. If species used
also are slow in canopy closure (as P. caribaea) this will lead
to high weeding and establ:.shment costs, particular when planting
is done on areas influenced by previous farming and therefore
having severe weed problems.
trial plantations should preferably be carried out at the site of
an ongoing plantation program. In this way it can utilize the
experience of existing fore.stry staff and infrastructure costs
will be less.



-9-
LIBERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 839-LBR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
Background
1.01      The Liberian economy grew rapidly in the 1960's and 1970's
largely based upon mining of iron ore and diamonds and the production of
rubber. The economy was strong but dualistic as the concession sector
was not closely integrated with the traditional sector. The concession
sector is wholly export oriented and was badly effected by the world
recession ln the lateli970's and early 1980's especialfy in the mining
sector. The population was estimated to be 2.2 million 1985, GDP per
head was.$440 in 1982 but this hid substantial differences between those
engaged in the concession sector and those engaged in the traditional
industry. The GOL follows an open door policy backed with a freely
convertible currency.  The export of logs is the fourth largest export
earner for the country after iron ore, rubber and diamonds and
contributed 5X of export earnings. The sector is controlled largely by
Liberian registered but expatriate owned companies who concentrate their
effort in the log export market. Against this background the GOL is
anxious to develop a modern industry based upon renewable resources.
Forestry Subsector
1.02      Forestry has played an increasingly important role in the
Liberian economy. Contribution to GDP increased in the 19709 to a high
of five percent at the peak of the tropical hardwood market in 1979/80,
before declining to approximately three percent recently. However value
added is low as the industry is primarily based on-round log export
employing imported equipment. Saw milling capacity is low and is
primarily designed to satisfy the minimum level of-local processing
required by existing concession agreements.
1.03      Log production and exports had risen throughout the 1970's
until they peaked at 858,000 m9 (r) and 489,000 ms (r) respectively in
the period 1978 to 1980. They then w-ent into decline reaching a low of
332,000 mg (r) and 207,000 m9 (r) respectively in 1983/84 (see Table 2).
Processed timber exports have never accounted for a substantial
proportion of exports. Average FOB prices rose and declined with volume
until 1983/84, since when they have continued to decline despite some
recovery in volume (see Table 4). Forest fee assessment peaked at $14.8
million in 1979/80 but under the combined pressure of lower volumes and
FOB prices fell to the current level of $5.7 million (see Table 3).
1.04      The closed high forest area is estimated at 4.8 million
hectares, 49 percent of- he total land area. Excluding areas judged



- 10 -
* unsuitable for develori,04t the area of exploitable forest is estimated
at 4.1 million hectares. Approximately 1.7 million hectares are
classified as national forests. In addition, rubber plantations occupy
141,000 and forest tree plantations approximately 9,000 hectares.
Shifting agriculture annually destroys an estimated 37,000 hectares, of
high forest (0.8 percent); the trend is increasing. Commercial logging
activities are very extensive but ext, action operation remove only an
average I to 2.5 e (r) per hectare a very small proportion of the
standing volume. About 235 timber species occur in Liberia of which
some 30 are exported, another 20-30 sire used locally in addition to the
exported species.
1.05      Since the early 1970s, the .oncessionaires had been made
responss.ble for reforestation but thia had proved unsuccessful and later
FDA (as successors to the Bureau of Fo.:estry) assumed the management of
these largely hardwood plantations fin.nced by a levy on all timber
severed.  In the mid 1970s the Liberian Forestry Corporation (LFC), a
Swedish owned consortium, established a pine plantation in Bong County
but after encountering problems, abandoned it in 1980 soon after the
revolution which changed the government. FDA assumed the management of
this plantation.
International Forestry Assistance
1.06      Exte,nal assistance commenced in the late 19409 when USAID
assisted in establishing the Bureau of Forestry. A torest inventory
completed in 1951J provided the first inventory of Liberia's forest
resource. GTZ interest, via the German Forestry Mission, began in the
early 1960e and was responsible for a more complete inventory in 1968 in
addition to their long-term technical assistance. FAO involvement in
the early to mid 1970s concentrated in university forestry educational
assistance and advisory work in the legal/administrative control of
forest concessions. ODA became involved via the Mano River Union, an
economic association between Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone, in
support for the Forestry Training Insitute (FTI) at Bomi Hills. The
World Bank's involvement started with the assistance to the forestry
program of the University of Liberia and assistance to FTI and developed
in the mid 1970s in conjunction with FAO/CP's project identification.
The Project however represents the World Bank's first involvement in a
wholly forestry project in Liberia.
Formulation
1.07      GOL identified the establishment of industrial plantatiot of
fast growing tropical pines to produce pulpwood as a means to offset the
exhaustion of the Bomi Hills Iron Mine, the major industry in
Montserrado County. A series of FAO/WB/CP missions took place. A
Reconnaissance Mission occurred in March 1974; a mission recommending
the creation of FDA as a public corporation separate from the Ministry.
of Agriculture, to assume all the duties of the then iureau of Forestry,
took :lace in January/February 1976; an Identification Mission to assess



*            ~~~- 11 -
the suitability of pine plantation establishment was made in March 1976.
A Preparation Review Mission by FAO/WB/CP was made in June 1976 and the
Preparation Mission occurred in March/April 1977.
1.08      The Project was appraised by a three-man team from the World
Bank in October/November 1977. Negotiations between IDA and GOL
occurred in May during which ADB, but not GTZ, observers were present.
The Appraisal Report was finalized on June 27, 1978. The loan received
Board approval 11 July 1978.IDA and GOL concluded a signed agreement on
July 28, 1978. Loan effectiveness was scheduled for September 1978 but
was delayed until December 20, 1978 to obtain a legal opinion from the
Liberian Ministry of Justice.
II. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Obiectives
2.01      The 'Project was designed as the first phase of diversification
and modernization of the Liberian forestry sector and was a priority
item In the GOL Development Plan. Three principal elements included in
the project were: (a) strengthening of the newly created FDA; (b) an
industrial plantation establishment trial; and (c) the execution of
special studies and surveys critical to forestry development. The
Project complemented the FTI partly financed by the Bank's Third -
Education project :ocated at Bomi Hills. FTI would provide technical
forestry training for Mano River Union country members and the logging
and sawmilling center would provide skilled industrial forest workers.
2.02      FDA strengthening was to introduce improved forest management
practices, to correct deficiencies in forest revenue collection and to
provide professional and technical staff training to enable FDA to plan
and direct future forestry development. The trial industrial plantation
at Cape Mount was intended to establish the technical and cost basis for
a large scale industrial plantation progrum commencing in 1982-83.
Special studies and surveys were required to help determine strategy and
policy in accounting, finance, marketing and forest development.
Components
2.03      Major components of FDA strengthening included:  overseas
fellowship in specialized fields unavailable in Liberia; local training
for technical staff; a construction program to provide central and
regional offices, and regional staff housing and support facilities;
vehicles and equipment; central and regional staff increases; long term
technical forestry assistance in general forestry and administration;
and specialist assistance in tropical hardwood marketing and promotion,
mechanized wood processing and forest management.
2.04      The trial industrial plantation would: determine the costs of
the most effective methods of forest clearing, land preparation,



- 12 -
planting and plantation maintenance; and select the most productive pine
species for the area.
2.05      Special studies and surveys included consultancies in market-
Ing, accounting and finance, and plantation management; and forest
development studies in charcoal production, forest policy, natural
forest yield, porn- handling, plantation pre--feasibility. Provision of
aerial photography and satellite data for two-thirds of Liberia was also
Included.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
Planned Schedule3
3.01      Implementatibn was programmed for 'the five-year period
1978/79-1982/83. Key project implementation iLdicators are summarized
in Table 1. All office construction, and the majority of staff housing
was scheduled for completion within three years. Major vehicle and
equipment included a regional fleet of light vehicles plus heavy land
clearing and road construction equipment to be obtained early in Year 1.
The balance of equipment and vehicles procurement was planned for the
first and fourth year. Staff increases were scheduled to total 124 of
which 33 were project-related and 91 staff for regional revenue
apsessment. Except for increased regional scaling staff, the personnel
increase was scheduled by Year 2. Two expatriate senior advisors
already in place before the Project were to continue, one for four years
and the other a further 1½ years. Three specialists in marketing, wood
products and planning were scheduled for the initial three years. A
total of 212 man months of overseas fellowships was provided for
specialized professional training during the first three years. A total
of 200 FDA technical staff were to be trained at FTI over five years.
3.02      The trial industrial plantation was targeted at 1,600 ha,
starting at 200 ha and increasing to 450 ha annually by Year 5. A
nursery, annual production capacity 2.6 million seedlings, was included.
Road construction was estimated at 50-60 km plantation roads and 12 km
of access roads. Semi-permanent staff accommodations and support
facilities including a mobile workshop were planned. Research trials
and studies were generally specified. Local staff were to be supported
by two plantation specialists during the first three years. Access road
construction, nursery preparation and some tempora zy housing were
underway or nearing completion prior to start-up.
3.03      A total of 25 man months of consultancy services were
provided. Special studies were estimated to require 55. man months.
Consultancies and studies were intended for completion by the end of the
third year. The forest policy study and an industrial plantation
program were covenanted to be completed within six and eighteen months
respectively from the Project start. Aerial photography was scheduled
during the first year.



- 13 -
Planned Implementation
3.04      FDA organization would comprise a nine-member board of direc-
tors directing the Authority reorganized into five divisions at
headquarters and three field regions reporting to a Managing Director.
Divisional responsibilities were to include: (a) Planning and Research-
formulation and monitoring of forest policy and billing of fo:est fees;
(b) Management-exploitation, fee policy and forest management enforce-
ment and control; (c) Utilization-monitoring local processing and
exports; (d) Administration--reeponsible for administrative matters and
personnel; and (e) Finance--financial management and control and forest
fee collection.
3.05      The SAR provided for six senior headquarter posts, two senior
internationally recruited (one forestry and legal) advisors, GTZ
provided three specialists supporting the Planning and Researcai
Division, the two expatriate staff at the trial plantation. These were
key project staff and their qualifications and experience were subject
to acceptance by IDA.  Required professional and technical staff were
estimated to increase from 300 to 424 by the SAR to ensure a staff to
forest area ratio of 1:8000 hectares comparable to other West African
timber producing countries.
3.06      The Planning and Research Division would implement a data
collection and analysis system to obtain local and export market data ,
local exploitation and processing costs and market values and plantation
costs. This service was considered to be basic to establish a balanced
forest taxation system and to improve fee management. Collected
information would also be evaluated to permit long term forest manage-
ment and plantation planning. The division was also intended to imple-
ment all project monitoring and evaluation procedures and to produce
quarterly project reports to the FDA Board. The Management Division
would implement the trial plantation and obtain the aerial photography
and satellite resource data.
Revisions
3.07      A number of minor changes were required compared to the
original plans. Plantation targets were altered for the fifth year from
450 to 250 hectares and the establishment period lengthened by one year.
The target total area remained unchanged.  At the end of the sixth year,
FDA made a decision to convert the plantation program to a.maintenance
basis rather than to continue as forecast.  The subsequent plantation
evaluation study by consultants supported this decision. The loan
agreement was revised twice: once to permit the purchase of land
clearing equipment; and secondly, to cover payment for plantation
maintenance labour. The construction prog.am was revised by FDA to
replace two regional offices by district offices and to provide field
laborer accommodation as well as permanent rather than semi-permanent
staff facilities at the trial plantation. Regional offices were rented
to replace planned-construction. Final construction locations varied



- 14 -
from those forecast. Specifications for land clearing equipment were
altered in the third year to procure heavier equipment. Forest fee
collection was transferred to FDA from the Ministry of Finance in
November 1981 but returned to the Ministry 18 months later.
3.08      FDA organization was *-hanged in Year 3 with the creation of a
Deputy Managing Director responsible for all field and technical opera-
tion. The former post of Assistant Managing Director became responsible
for administration and financial matters and was later upgraded to the
Deputy Managing Director level. A fourth field region was formed in
1982.
3.09      The major Project revision involved the considerable effort
placed on forest resource survey and mapping. This aspect was either
totally unforeseen during preparation and appraisal, or existing
capabilities judged atequate. Originally, the only related component
involved purchase of new aerial photography and satellite data.
Start-Up
3.10      The project was scheduled to begin early in the 1978/79
working season but a six month delay occurred. The delay resulted from
IDA's requirement to obtain a Liberian legal interpretation regarding
lending conditions prior to loan effectiveness. FDA unfamiliarity with
ADB procurement procedures delayed the initial equipment and vehicle
procurement. As a result of the delay and procurement problem, FDA was
not fully prepared to commence implementation until Year 2. Aerial
photography was not obtained as planned as a result of the delay. For
the short time available during Year 1 poor weather conditions reduced
flying time and resulted in unacceptable photo quality.
3.11      Plantation development, financed initially by FDA but later
reimbursed by IDA, was underway prior to the loan becoming effective.
FDA hired local clearing and road construction equipment to offset the
delay in purchasing equipment. The impact on plantation work was to
delay some land clearance and resulted in higher first year costs
compared to estimates but was not critical to overall performance.
3.12      Early reports state that start-up was hampered somewhat by
slow decisions by the Board of Directors of FDA without giving reasons.
FDA - General
3.13      Until early 1980 little wa. done regarding the management of
forest fees despite a strengthening market and there was a fall in the
percentage of the margin between FOB prices and concessionnaires costs
taken by fees. It was not until the 1980/81 financial year that the
percentage taken by fees rose and reached a peak of 37.8% in 1981/82
when faced with falling export volumes and FOB prices, FDA sharply
reduced forest feus. A continued decline in the market caused further
reductions in fees but FDA successfully gradually increased the



- 15 -
percentage of the margin taken by fees until 1985/86 when they were
taking 37.2%.
3.14      The importance in the management of forest fees of
concessionnaires costs was recognized early in the Project and a survey
was undertaken by the Planning Research Division but there wns a failure
to create a regular monitoring system. Structured estimates of these
costs are not therefore available. -
3.15      Forms were designed, for use by concessionaires and FDA, and a
system of counterchecks introduced to control the movement of logs and
timber between forest, sawmills and ports in an effort to eliminate fee
evasion. The systems were not wholly effective due to their reliance on
clerical skills and in 1984 further mearres were taken by the creation
of a Management Control Unit part of whose duties were to carry out
random checks on scaltkg, sawmill records and port operations. Problems
remains but some of the methods of eliminating it are understood and
being used.
Trial Industrial Plantation
3.16      Height measurements, taken in the Plantation Study carried out
under the project, showed that Pinus caribaea and P.oocarpa both grow
satisfactorily compared to elsewhere in the world.  However, several
technical factors impacted resulted at the Industrial Trial Plantation;
these are low survival rates and high weed competition which are likely
both to have a negative impact on volume production. Compared to
estimates, planting averaged 60 percent of SAR estimates. Peak annual
planting was 80 percent of estimates and the lowest 35 percent.
Allowing for the program revision, which increased the period one year,
completion totalled 65 percent. Nursery production averaged 70 percent
with an annual high of 103 percent over the period. Nursery and
planting capacity were never tested owing to the underachievement in
land clearing which was the limiting factor. Actual total and average
per hectare plantation establishment costs were 135 and
208 percent of the estimates, respectively.
3;17      Forecasted work targets and schedules were, in retrospect,
optimistic. Low physical achievements and high costs resulted from low
equipment utilization (crawler tractor utilization averaged 35 percent),
heavier vegetation cover than originally anticipated, improper equipment
operation and maintenance, high fuel consumption, and overstaffing of
support staff and labor. In addition, the quantity and quality of
plantation housing and facilities was increased substantially over
appraisal estimates. Fuel shortages, unavailability of spare parts, the
labor payment system and internal purchasing procedures were also
contributing factors to the low utilization rate and high costs
experienced. Poor technical results are primarily attributed to low
survival rates which averaged 60 percent. Although initial surv_.val
rates reported were mostly acceptable, the required weeding operation
was not funded regularly. Adequate and detailed records were maintained



- 16 -
during the first year only before being allowed to lapse rendering
proper monitoring and analysis of results incomplete.
3.18      The principal causes of the problems experienced are
attributed to: inexperienced supervision of the mechanical operations,
inability to efficiently support heavy equipment and vehicle under local
conditions, a shortage in continuous technical supervision, lack of
administrative and cost controls and funding problems resulting from
high costs.
Building Construction
3.19      The building program intended for FDA strengthening envisaged
in the SAR was considerably altered in respect to quantity, quality, and
location.  The comparisons are:
Projected                      Actual
Units     Average cost p/u    Units       Average cost p/u
Monrovia
Head Office      1       $ 536,000              1  )    $    1,379,000
Workshop         1       $   9,000              1  )
Regions
Offices          3       $  66,600              2        $      27,100
Workshops        3       $  16,400
Hov, Lng        99       $  24,800             67        $      27,300
Compyeeion of the program was much slower than anticipated (see Table
1). The reasons for delay were: (a) the need to redesign and obtain
new tenders after initial tenders proved to be expensive; (b) failure of
the bid evaluation and selection procedure to select competent and
financially sound contractors; (c) problems flowing from suspension of
disbursements from funding agencies; (d) insufficient and poor technical
supervision during construction and failure of management to take
corrective action quickly. In the case of the new headquarters in
tMonrovia the choice of a poor and remote site also added to delays and
cost.
3.20      Changing concessionaire operation areas and changes in the
number of regions and location of regional offices, especially after
1981, changed the requirements for offices and housing in the regions.
This together with the failure of contractors to complete contracts led
to the abandonement of work on two sites. The buildings at the Trial
Industrial Plantation will not be fully utilised if the pL.-Itation
remains on a care and maintenance basis. The design of the headquarters
building is wasteful of working space and better utilization of floor
space could have been achieved at lower cost.
3.21      The building program included in the Trial Industrial
Plantation component of the Project was not specified in the SAR other



- 17 -
than being estimated to cost US$477,000. Table 1 shows that 7 staff
housing units were provided, 1 workshop and 90 labourers housing units
built for a cost of US$479,000 within the first 4 years of the project.
Most of tEe building was carried out on a materials plus contract labour
basis and supervised by FDA.
Training
3.22      Considerable project effort has been extended to FDA staff
training. The fellowship program completed 216 man months of special-
ized foreign training, 102 percent of the forecast. Technical and
vocational project training completed about 50 percent of the forecasted
requirement. In ad.ition to project sponsored training, GTZ, USAID and
Dutch Aid sponsored three times the project input in professional
training both in Libti4a as well as foreign.locations over the same
period.  Most non-project training was in the field of general forestry
and aerial photography interpretation.
3.23      Almost all professional training was initially scheduled for
the first three project years. In fact, 22 percent was completed by
Year 4 and 85 percent of actual training has occurred since 1980. The
training component directly related to plantation establishment was not
completed. The designed program was related tc forestry professional
and technical needs and did not foresee a bas!. :equirement for training
in accounting, financial anc management controls.
3.24      The followship program, undernay by 1981, selected management
and administration specialities as well as recognized forestry needs.
As completed, about 50 percent of fellowship time was spent as
forecasted, 35 percent was spent in management and administration
training and the remaining 15 percent was spent in forestry disciplines
not specified by the forecast. Trainee retention rate, in terms of
expended training time is currently 67 percent. However, all of the
staff who received non-forestry training (33 percent of fellowship time)
are no longer employed; some have left FDA on their own accord, others
have been dismissed as unsuitable.
3.25      Technical and vocational training commenced and proceeded as
planned, except at reduced enrollment levels. The FTI vocational
training was terminated in 1983 because of lack of demand from the
forest industry. The technical program was terminated in 1984 because
of lack of funding by the Mano River Union. Available FDA data does not
permit analysis as to trainee retention.
Technical Assistance and Special Studies
3.26      Two expatriate senior advisors (one forestry and one legal'
administration/financial) in place pre-project continued-with the
Project. These posts were extended by 33 and 50 percent, respectively
beyond the forecasted terms, and time expended amounted to 138 man
months, 128 percent of the forecasted amount. A replacement senior



- 18 -
forestry advisor was in place from early 1983 until 31 December 1985.
Three specialists associated with the Planning Research Division were in
place within six months of start-up and completed 100 percent of
forecasted time. Two expatriate plantation specialists were planned for
a total of 120 man months but three speciealists (nursery, silviculture
and mechanical) were In place from the start of plantation work and
expended 195 percent of forecasted time. It was necessary to eng8ge a
financial advisor and a forest resource officer each for 24 month
periods.
3.27      Consultancy services and special studies were forecasted to
require 80 man months. Consultancies were enviLaged in marketing (12)
man months, accounting and finance (6) and plantation management '7).
Special industry related studies planned included:  charcoal proc 'tiotx,
plantation pre-feasibility, forest policy development proposals. natural
forest sustained yielt, and port handling. -Consultancy time expent.ed
amounted to eight man months of which; 50 percent was for aerial
photography; 20 percent for mapping; and the balance equally divided
between accounting and financial, forest inventory, and plantation
specialities. Special studies completed included the charcoal and
plantation studies which required approximately 12 man month's.
3.28      Both of the original senior advisors were accustomed to
Liberian working conditions and had been closely associated with the
forestry situation before joining FDA. In retrospect, the first senior
forestry advisor appears to have concentrated too much effort on the
trial plantation at the expense of developing and supporting FDA
forestry planning and management as well as administrative management
and control. The first legal and administrative advisor concentrated on
legal matters and underestimated the implementation requirement for
internal financial and administrative controls. They were however
responsible for the writing of early forestry regulations on wastage,
forest fees and control of log and timber movements, in addition to the
design of administrative systems to eliminate evasion of forest fees.
The Appraisal did not foresee the additional need for accounting and
financial assistance to the Project, and did not make provision for
extensive involvement in forest resource surveys as actually developed.
3.29      The expatriate specialists attached to the Planning Research
Division aided in the production of a number of reports and surveys but
the Planning Research Division was physically and organizationally
isolated from mainstream FDA activities. The division never fully
fulfilled its contemplated role. Plantation specialists supplied did
not match the original concept which envisaged two experienced
professionals, a plantation manager and land clearing and road
construction engineer. The need for a senior equipment workshop manager
was unforeseen. However technical specialists experienced difficulties
adjusting to working conditions and lacked sufficient overseas
experience. Although nursery operations ran well, difficulties arose in
achieving land clearing targets and keeping equipment operating. Very
little of forecasted consultancy time was expended. A study of



- 19 -
plantation policy was undertaken in 1984 which also touched upon some
alternative forestry strategies. A major study was completed but
remains unadopted, on forest policy in the natural forest. The subject
is still fundamental to planning Liberian foiest development. The port
handling study was not critical during the P:-nject.
3.30      New aerial photography and satellite resource data was planned
for the eastern two-thirds of Liberia to enable completion of a land use
classification and resource survey by ihe Mano River Union. The imagery
was also to be used for FDA forest planning and concession control.
The Project completed a broadly-based vegetation map showing the
location and extent of high forest of Liberia. The contemplated land
use mapping, not a direct project output, remains uncomplete. The
intended use of the photography and satellite imagery is unclear in the
Appraisal Report. The implied forestry usage suggests a very extensive
application for very broad vegetation mapping whereas the land resource
use application implies very intensive use. The photography scale
specified is suitable for broad vegetation mapping and is unsuitable
for reasonably detailed forest inventory or land use mapping.  The
Appraisal Report over estimated the strength of the survey -and mapping
section and an expatriate forest resources advisor with inventory and
mapping experience was recruited for a 24 month period.  In addition to
the aerial photography, associated consultancies and a training
component within the Project were used. A significant bi-laterally
sponsored non-project training component was also employed. The first
year project delay and poor flying condition in the second year resulted
in only 45 percent of the planned area being photographed. Satellite
data and analysis services were not purchased.
Reporting
3.31      Progress and annual reports were issued irregularly over the
Project except for the latter years. The reports lacked a consistent
structure and were weak in reporting factual data. Information was
presented in a non-objective fashion and there was a major lack
continuity. Project reports are an incomplete record of project
activities.
3.32      Poor reporting appears to have resulted from two factors:
failure to prepare and introduce procedures to keep and maintain basic
summary data; con:entration on day-to-day operating problems obscured
the need; the FDA Planning, Research Division responsible for reporting
was ineffective. The Bank dfd not appear to interpreted the lack of
reporting as being indicative of project performance.
Accounts and Audit
3.33      The establishment of FDA required the creation of a new and
appropriate financial control and reporting system. Project
implementation stressed this need but unfortunately there was a failure
to recognise the importance of the accounting function early on the



- 20 -
Project. The situation was exacerbated by a high turnover of accounting
staff and finally by a break into the FDA offices during civil
distuz'ances in 1979 and 1980 when accounting records were disturbed.
These factors led to the audited accounts for the year ended 30 June
1978, the fiiat full year of the Authority's existence, not being
produced until 21 April 1982 and those for the year ended 30 June 1979,
the first year of the project, until 13 Decerber 1982. Both sets of
accounts were qualified by the auditors on the basis that the Authority
did not keep proper books of account during the periods reported upon.
In late 1980 new financial managers were appointed who commenced by
implementing, as a matter of urgency, financial control procedures to
replace the inadequate ones then in existence.. They also sought to
bring the accounting records up-to-date and rfter producing the 1978/79
accounts in 1982 moved onto later years but f'.nancial pressures were
growing by 1983 and it was 1985 before auditee accounts for the years
1980/81, 1981/82 and t982/83 were produced and 1986 before 1983/84 and
1984/85 audited accounts were available.
3.34      The'effect of not designing an appropriate accounting system
at the commencement of the project coupled with a serious backlog of
nominal ledger bookkeeping by late 1980 led the accounts department to
concentrate on financial accounting rather than the management and cost
accounting techniques required to monitor and control costs of the
project. Inappropriate accounting policies adopted, at times against
the advice of the Financial Controller, further complicated the ability
to measure financial performance. The original cost estimates of the
*Project, particularly those of the trial plantation, were not easily
divisible into specific cost elements for future cowarison; There is
no evidence of periodic budgets and corresponding work programs being
prepared for specific operational aspects, e.g. land clearing, aerial
photography interpretation. The failure to develop a financial
reporting system alongside the annual budgetary exercises surrendered
management control to financial expediency.
Costs
3.35      Cost comparisons with those made in the SAR are difficult to
obtain and, in the early years, frequently unreliable. Comparison of
some of the major elements are however shown in Table 5. Two major
influences on total costs were labour costs and fuel and lubricant costs
which even after contingencies allowed for in the projections were US$ 2
million overspent.



- 21 -
3.36      The effect of increased labour costs and staff levels were:
ProJected                 Actual
FDA General         US$ 1,015,900              US$ 1,488,800
162 manyears              334 manyears
Trial Industrial
Plar,tation
Salaries          US$   780,000              US$   868,000
196 manyears              257 manyears
Wages             US$   250,000              US$   575,000
153,000 mandays           270,000 mandays
The increased total cost was more due to additions to staff over
projected levels than to labor rate inflation.
3.37      Fuel and lubricant costs were affected by worldwide inflation
but also by hiher than forecast consumption levels at the Trial
Industrial Plantation. The comparisons are:
FDA-General               Industrial Plantation
Actual Expenditure        US$ 1,183,000             US$ 714,000
Less Price escalation           792,000                 481,000
Expenditures at '77 prices      391,000                 233,000
Projected expenditure           435,000                 164,0OO
3.38      The buildings component of FDA-General contains serious
escalation of costs above those envisaged in the SAR and also costs
arising from the failure of contractors to complete work to contract.
Resional             fQ Building
Original estimates        US$  3,326,000            US$  670,000
(inclusive of contin-
gencies)
Original contracts             1,569,000                 581,000
Actual cost                    1,867,000                 885,000
Land, services, &
ancillary work                   15,000                 494,000
Less abandoned work, etc.    (  161,000)                ( 55,000)
Cost of completed work         1,721,000               1,324,000
The choice of site of the headquarters building had serious effects on
the total cost of the building. Both regional and headquarters building
costs were alqo affected by delays (See Table 1). Comparison of the SAR
projection of the cost of the regional program with actual is



- 22 -
unrealistic due to significant changes in the type and number of units
built (see para 3.16).
Disbursemetits and Funding
3.39      Disbursements from both main funding agencies to the project
were disrupted by suspensions of disbursements due to non-payment of
interest by GOL. The first of these occurred in mid 1981 by ADB and
from 1983 onwards the suspensions by both ADB and IDA became more
frequent and prolonged. This disrupted certain aspects of the project,
especially the building program, and coupled with the slowness in
implementation of the buAlding program and trial plantation, led to a
slow rate of disbursement against forecast. By the end of 1980 when it
had been forecasted that 70 percent of the disbursement_would have been
made only 26 percent (bDB 25 percent, IDA 27 percent) had been made and
it was not until early 1984 that the 70% level of disbursements was
reached (see Table 7). Indeed, by the 30 Jure 1984, the original
closing date, only 87 percent of the ADB loan and 60 percent of the IDA
credit had been disbursed. The interaction of slowness in
implementation a6nd disrupted disbursements affected total costs.
3.40      The funding of the project as an whole canrct be separated
from the general funding of FDA, particularly when considering GOL
contribution, and Table 11 sets out the position during the project
period showing a deterioration of the availability of funds from 1981/82
until 1985/86.  Most of the deficiency of funding was compensated for by
FDA not paying interest and withholding taxes to the government and
delays in payments of salaries and wages.  The GOL have agreed to
$1,180,000 of the unpaid interest and taxes being treated as an
additional subsidy to FDA. Nevertheless the failure of GOL to provide
cash disbursements when due, affected the implementation of the project.
The delay of disbursement due to suspensions by ADB and IDA caused FDA
to attempt to fund, short term, from GOL disbursements, parts of the
program originally intended for loan/credit funding. This further
complicated the funding picture and helped cause the rise in total GOL
cash disbursement to FDA from $2.6 million in 1977/78 to $5.1 million in
1981/82. Another factor complicating the situation still further was
the steep rise in non project FDA expenditure which amounted to
$4,313,000 in the five financial years 1978/79 to 1982/83 and absorbed
much of the $5,088,000 provided by GOL as additional disbursements above
1977/78 levels in the same five year period. In those years a
contribution of $4,483,000 was also required from the GOL for the
project. Expenditure fell in the two years 1983/84 and 1984/85 but GOL
disbursements also fell leading to little improvement in the financial
situation of FDA.



-23 -
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND IMPACTS
FDA - General
4.01      Only two specific objectives for FDA strengthening were given
in the SAR; that it should eliminate fee evasion and manage the forLit
fees.  Some progress has been made on eliminating the fee evasion, the
latest review suggested that the figure was 11Z as against 202 taken in
the SAR, and the management of fees has given the GOL a larger
percentage share of the margin between FOB prices and concessionaires
costs.
Trial Industrial Plantation
4.02      The third oijective of the Project was to create a 1600
hectare pine plantation for production of long fibre pulp to test for:
tecT.nical problem, costs of establishment and the most appropriate pine
species and piovenance, in advance of a much larger development. The
Project created a plantation of 1039 hectares at average costs of 208X
of those envisaged in the SAR. These costs and the decline in the pulp
market has rendered the implementation of a commercial plantation
inappropriate at this time. Control of weeds emerged as a major
technical factor under Liberian conditions.
4.03      Nursery operations were satisfactory throughout the Project.
Severe problems were experienced in land clearing operations. High
costs must have been evident early in the project because of low
achievement. Operating problems were related to three factors:
(a) insufficient knowledge of vegetation conditions;
(b)  inexperienced management and technical staff; and
(c)  logistical and maintenance problems associated with operating
heavy equipment effectively.
The absence of comprehensive and consistent methods of management
accounting did not allow the situation to be corrected as the problems
arose and for lessons to be learnt in later operations. Similarly
failure to maintain continuous growth data on different pine species and
provenances has lost some needed information the trial was intended to
provide. Nevertheless, the experience has caused FDA to appreciate more
fully the problems associated with planning and operating a successful
mechanised plantation and, particularly, in the areas of operation of
heavy plant and cost control, take measures to correct the shortcomings.



- 24 -
Technical Assistance and Training
4.04      The fourth objective of the Project was associated vitth
strengthening FDA in helping to provide the management and technical
ability to operate as a regulatory authority. Its purpose was to
proidde policies, monitoring and management for the forestry sector of
the economy. FDA's training program has equipped it with more
technically trained personnel and the experience gained during the
Project period has given its managers, good managerial background
knowledge. A number of studies have been undertaken but, as yet, little
in the way of enforceable policy or guidance for the forestry sector has
emerged.
Builiing Program
4.05      A major element in the strengthening of FDA was the planned
construction of a central office and offices and housing in the regions.
The changes in areas of operation may make some of the regional
buildings less critical than at the time of appraisal but a centralised
office in Monrovia was crucial and is now available.  Unfortunately, the
delay in obtaining these buildings made this element an hinderance to
the Project's other objectives rather than an enhancement and too much
management time was involved in obtaining completion of the buildings.
Environmental Impact
4.06      The  host direct environmental Project impact is the creation
of the 13,000 hectare Sipo National Park in 1983 and the establishment
of a wildlife section within the Management Division. FDA's involvement
in wildlife management, even at a modest level has made a positive
contribution to local public awareness and appreciation for maintaining
the natural environment.
4.07      Land clearing operations at the trial plantation had a
potential direct impact. Much of the area proposed for clearing and
plantation, originally thought to be of low quality and volume, proved
to be high forest with much higher wood volume although containing few
commercial species. This resulted in higher volumes of wood being
destroyed than originally planned. Some local concern was expressed
about the justification of destroying high forest without making
economic use of the wood volume. As the final area cleared was small,
any potential effects were minimal.
4.08      Based on Project mapping new and more accurate estimates of
shifting cultivation and consequent deforestation were completed. The
current annual deforestaticn rate of 37,000 ha is less than one percent
of the high forest area but incre-sing. Neither the Project nor
logging intensity, which is too light to be a factor in this increase
have major impact on the problem which arises from social, economic and
cultural norms.



- 25 -
V. FINANCIAL RE-EVALUATION
5.01      The SAR evaluation of the project was made under a set of
criteria which cannot be readily identified in proposed project
expenditure nor in existing FDA expenditure. It divided FDA activities
into three sectors and then further divided the "Project" sector into
two subdivisions. This gave the following structure:
(a) Non-Project Activities. FDA's activities at the level and in
the pattern that existed prior to implementing the project.
(b) Project Activities. Subdivided into two categories:
(i) Strengthening of FDA. Extra staff needed to execute the
enhanced duties of FDA, the Addittonal fogisticel
requirements to bring existing anci tnhanced activities to
an acceptable level of efficiency, and training and
technical assistance for the existing and enhanced
activities.
(ii) Trial Industrial Plantation. All the direct activities
of the plantation including technical assistance and some
studies and training relating to-the plantation plus a
proportion of the general advisory function.
(c) Additional Project Related Activities. Extra staff required
to bring to a satisfactory level the activities of FDA as they
existed prior to the project.
The internal rate of return calculation in the original evaluation was
based upon the costs arising from categories b (i) and c. A government
cash flow, on a financial basis, only took account of costs in category
b(i) and (ii). The principle followed was that the Trial Industrial
Plantation was research work that would only be justified by subsequent
developments and only FDA's strengthing could be evaluated in financial
terms. Despite reservations regarding the principle and the way it was
applied the following re-evaluation has followed the criteria used in
the original evaluation to maintain comparability. However, a
government cash flow on a financial basis with tax benefits has been
prepared taking into account expenditure arising from categories b(i)
and (ii) and c.
Financial Return
5.02      The financial benefits of the project were forecast to arise
from the implementation of policies leading to the more efficient
assessment of forest stumpage fees and other forest fees. The policy
aims were to reduce fee evasion and improve management of the fee
structure which, if successful, would increase total revenues 'by 15% to
20%' and 'by at least 7h%' respectively. The forecast foresaw a



- 26 -
continued rise in market price and volume, and the improvements were
expected to yield $3.3 million dollars per year by the end of the
Project. The market strengthened for three years but then deteriorated
rapidly (Tables 2 and 4). There was some Improvement in fee management
in terms of percentage recovery of fee margin which after an initial
decline from 28.5% in 1977/78 to 19.3Z in 1979/80 increased to 37.2% in
1985/86. The only detailed investigation into evasion in 1985 revealed
that It had orobably dropped to 11Z from the Appraisal estimate of 15%
to 20%. These improvements result in a sustainable incremental income
of $990,400 per year at current export levels and FOB prices. The
timing of costs during the Project period was substantially different to
those forecast but similar in total. Following a substantial reduction
of staff in late 1985, the future incremental cost is projected to be
lower than forecast. Nevertheless, the internal rate of return forecast
to be 17.82 over 20 y.ars in the SAR with the possibility of a reduction
to 132 in adverse circumstances is now assessed at 0.4% over a 20 year
period (Table'9). This return does not take account of the GOL's
ability to collect the enhanced revenue.
5.03      The Project was forecast to produce a cumulative cash flow
surplus in financial terms to the GOL after 7 years and a $92 million
surplus over the life of the loan, omitting category c expenditure and
any return from the plantation (b(ii) above). It is felt more
appropriate if the government cash'flow allows for full Project effects
including: taxation, all expenditure added to FDA's expenditure, and
all fiscal returns. The Project is not expected under current
conditions to produce a cumulative cash flow surplus until 2003 and over
the life of the loans a surplus of $6 million (Table 10).  The whole of
the cash flow reduction is substantially attributable to a lower revenue
flow which was forecast to be $140 million compared to $46 million over
the 50 year period.
5.04      The cash flow takes no account of the ability of the GOL to
collect the revenue generated by the Project. This has varied since
1978/79 from low points of 49% to high points, during a period when FDA
were responsible for collection, of 80%. Taking only 80% of the revenue
to be collectable turns the cash flow in the 50 year period into a
negative of $2.7 million.
Sensitivity Analysis
5.05      Project sensitivity is analyzed from three view points:
firstly, future variations in FOB price, export volume and FDA costs;
secondly, FDA's ability to manage the fee margin and reduce tax evasion;
and thirdly, calculation assumptions. The Project IRR is most sensitive
to declining FOB values (a factor untested by the SAR) and less
sensitive to fluctuations in export volume and hardly affected by FDA
costs, as shown below:



- 27 -
Percentage Change in Factor
+10%               -101
IRR changes to:
FOB Value                   +6.41            -12.7Z
ELport Volume               +2.31            - 1.8X
FDA Costs                   -0.7Z            + 1.5%
5.06      Future fee margin management is mcre critical to IRR than tax
evasion as summarized belov:
Absolute Change in Factor
+2%          -2-2
IRR changes to:
Fee margin (currently 37%)            +3.91          -3.51
Tax evasion (currently 11%)           -0.61          +1.41
The above FOB effect assumes constant fee margin but the combined future
effect of fee management and FOB price changes on the IRR is:
Absolute Change in Factor
+21       7    21
IXR changes to:
FOB price up 102 (relative)           +8.4Z         +1.52
FOB price down 10% (relative)         -4.31        -14.3Z
5.07      The sensitivity calcuation assumes full collection of all
incremental income. If collection levels have been 10 percent lower
during the Project, and the situation remains uncorrected, returns are
negative, -2.9%. A 30 percent under collection of incremental income
reduces the IRR to -10.71. The accuracy of estimating concessionaire
costs throughout the Project is highly sensitive and point out the
importance of this factor in a proper fee structure. A 10 percent
underestimate of concessionaire costs increases the IRR to 12.41: a
corresponding 10 percent overestimate reduces the return to -X2.9%.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
6.01      FDA was a new organisation primarily staffed from the former
Bureau of Forestry with little experience of acting independently. Its
relationship with government ministries, although partially legally
defined, had not been tested nor developed. Its relationship with the



- 28 -
private logging and processing industry was uncertain. Internal working
relationships and procedures had not become established. It is in this
light subsequent evants must be judged.
6.02      The organisational effort of commencing a new plantation
program, a building program, and a training program, came together with
an expansion of activities in the Planning Research Division, and in
aerial photography interpretation. This was too ambitious. Some parts
of the programs were consequently delayed to their detriment.  The Trial
Industrial Plantation received more attention then other elements of the
Project and the financial justification of the whole project was lost
sight of.
6.03      In April 1980, a revolution occurred which changed the
government and caused changes in the FDA Board and staff. This again
impacted upon the progress of the Project and put into place management
who had to learn again the various objectives of the Project.
Fortunately this new management did begin to take positive action at an
early stage, first trying to institute controls in the financial affairs
of FDA but also in getting the training and building programs started in
earnest.
6.04      FDA management performance over the Project period may be
measured by the following factors:
(a)  Since 1980/81, management of the export fee structure appears
to have captured a larger proportion of the log export margin
and there has been progress in preventing evasion of tax;
(b)  Minor species now account for over 10% of log exports,
compared with less than 3% at the outset and export species
number 30 compared with 20;
(c) Although initially under implemented, the fellowship program
initiated addressed skill needs some of which were unforeseen
during Appraisal;
(d)  The proportion of forest fees collected, compared to assessed.
amount improved when collection was under FDA's direct
control;
(e)  Project monitoring and evaluation was never serioisly
attempted and has prevented a detailed record of project
activities, accomplishments and performance;
(f)  Uncontrolled staffing and labor levels were allowed to
continue too long but have been put under control recently;
(g) A draft forest management plan was prepared within a year of
the original target date but has not been agreed with
interested parties and adopted;



- 29 -
(h) Although accounting and financial controls were implemented
initially they did not operate adequately; and
(i) During the project, the Board of Directors could have taken a
more active role in providing adequate guidance and control to
shape the Authority in.o a more effective organization.
6.05      Financial constraints have impacted seriously on FDA since
1983, and limited its choice of action. There are still internal and
external problems to be addressed: there is still a need for
improvement in budgeting, cost control, and in setting clearly specified
work ?rograms at field, division and section levels; FDA must formulate
clearly understood and acceptable policies with the private sector of
the incustry; relationships with other ministries and agencies must be
developed and the primae responsibility of FDA for the sector recognised;
and, fiially, the funding of FDA must be put onto a more certain basis.
VII. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
7.01      The SAR suggested that the economic return on the Project
would be little different from the financial return and did not present
a calculation. As all of the incremental income to the government
represented a transfer from the private sector any economic return is
dependent upon the extent to which private sector profits are retaineu!
in the economy and upon subjective assessment of FDA's impact on the
utilization of the natural resource. This excludes the impact of the
operations at the Trial Industrial Plantation which had A distributive
effect providing paid work in an area of low employment.
VIII. BANK PERFORMASNCE
8.01      The objectives of the Project as originally envisaged were
correct insofar as they sought to strengthen a regulatory authority in
the forestry sector and diversify the sector to compensate for the
depletion of Liberian mineral reserves.
8.02      The SAR was overly optimistic with regard to implementing
several components of the Project at the same time. It over-estimated
FDA's capacity, at that time, for managing unfamiliar problems. It
failed to recognize the need for monitoring, reporting and control both
financial and non-financial. The full effects of a downturn in the log
export market were not considered in sufficient detail rendering the
financial justification unsound.  There was a failure to set the Project
into context with FDA's existing activities, both managerially and
financially, thereby causing difficulties in defining what was Project
and what was ion-Project activities.



- 30 -
8.03      Early supervision missions reported no significant problems
but at this time the Project was steadily slipping behind the
Implementation schedule and it was at this stage that the initial over
optimism should have been recognized. Also no consistent and
comprehensive reports were being received and audited accounts were not
forthcoming but this was not recognised as a serious problem in early
years of the project. Too much emphasis was initially placed on the
trial plantation with relatively little on forest fees and the
development of natural forest management. Later attempts, during
supervisory missions, to change the emphasis were not fully understood
by FDA managers and advisors and progress was slow. Later, there was a
gradual realisation by FDA of the purpose of some of the advice offered
by the supervisory staff and a realization by the sunervisory staff of
the social, political and economic constraints that FDA work within but
this process was slowed by the infrequency of face-to-face meetings.
IX.  CONCLUSIONS
9.01      Institutional development and FDA strengthening was the
significant Project component. Other than for the forest fee aspects
and a staff to forest area ratio, both of which are not perfect measures
of efficiency, no other specific and measurable objectives were set for
this component. FDA was already active and it may have been preferable
to summarize every divisions activities, their weaknesses, and their' -
omissions, and then to set-specific targets against which each section
and division could be measured. Clear areas of responsibility should
have been set for each division particularly in relation to fee
management and assessment, and overlapping of responsibility avoided.
9.02      A newly created organisation requires time to assume its role
in any sector of an economy and to acquire the internal relationships
and methods needed to fulfill that role. It was therefore ambitious for
FDA to attempt to create the basis for a new long fibre pulp industry at
the same time as involving itself in the traumas of expansion, and
reorganisation. Better strategies may have been to delay the
implementation of the Trial Industrial Plantation un-il the
strengthening of FDA had an effect, or to establish it as a separate
project but coordinated with FDA, or to have awaited the outcome of
development by LFC.
9.03      FDA's monitoring, reporting, and controlling functions, both
internal and external, were initially never strong enough and even
though they have improved still need further development.
9.04      The relationship between FDA and other ministries and agencies
is still ambivalent and FDA will be viewed by the industry as merely a
fee assessment agency until its position as the prime regulatory
authority of the forestry sector is recognised by other ministries and
agencies. A system of joint committee with other interested parties



- 31 -
omight eleviate the situation. In particular, the relationship between
FDA and the Ministry of Finance in relation to the collection of forest
fees must be harmonised.
9.05      It is unrealistic to separate GOL financial contribution to
the Project from their general contribution to FDA budget. A more
acceptable approach would have been to agree overall budgets for the
years in question taking into account expansion of other FDA activities
and Project activities and if need be, impose limits upon the
contribution to the two areas of activity as the Project progressed.
9.06      The initial design of the training program was altered to meet
perceived needs as the Project progressed. It is difficult in a
situation where an organisation is to expand and its role change, to
plan training requirements far ahead but it is made easiJr if an overall
manpower policy and plan is created. FDA suffers from the lack of a
comprehensive policy and plan.
9.07      A negative factor in project achievement was the deficiency in
FDA's Board of Directors in establishing policy and controls to guide
the development of the Authority.
9.08      Trial plantation results were strongly affected by heavy
vegetation conditions. Original information forecast light vegetation
and an inventory to determine the physical characteristics of the area
was not completed until 1984. This should have been carried out before
commencement as the lack of information resulted in under specification
of clearing equipment and underestimation of clearing costs.
9.09      Even under the best operating conditions, a project relying
heavily on mechanized equipment requires effective maintenance support,
expevienced supervision and an assured spare parts supply to ensure
equipment utilisation. All factors were lacking at the trial
plantation.
9.10      Construction contact bidding procedures failed to select
reliable contractors. It is doubtful whether in Liberian conditions
normal bidding procedures will bring about satisfactory results and the
techniques adopted in obtaining the trial plantation housing (see para
;.21) and restricted bidding, used in reletting the contract for a
failed contractor at the end of the regional building program, proved to
be more successful.
9.11      Repeated suspension of disbursements by funding agencies make
it difficult to maintain a building program and have effects long after
the reasons for suspension have been overcome. Contractors are not
willing to undertake work without heavy pre-financing payments which
destroy the owners insurance against unreliable contractors. A
compromise method of funding building construction must be found.



LIBERIA
FORF.STRT PROJECT (Cr. 839-LB)
Project Implemantation - Key lndicatDrs
1978/79 11    1979/80      1980/81      1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984185     1985186   1986J87       TOTAL
Items                Unit   Est   Act   Lat   Act   Est   Act   Bat   Act    ot- Act   eat   Act   E_    Act   gat  Act  got  Act   _i t            Act
1. Trial industrial Plantation
Clearing, original        ha      200 110      2S0 203      300 157      400.328     450 157                                                    1600      955
Clearing, revised         ha       -            -            -            -          225 157      225 84        -            -                   1600    1039
Planting, original       ha        -           200 110      250 203      300 157     400 328      4S0 157       -   84       -                   1600     955
Planting. reviaed        ha        -            -            -            -           -            22S 157     225  84       -                  1600    1039
Seedling production    '000       320 250      400 350      480 350      640 661     720 301      360 134                    -                  2920    2046
Seedlings planted        '000      -           266 146      333 272      399 148     532 356      S99 197      293 109                          2422    1228
2/ 31
Veeding                   ha       -           200 109      450 316      750 475     950 666      925 267      850 471    1060 601              5188    2909
Road - Access             km      12  12                                                                                                           12      12
- Plantation        km        -             7   3       9   8       10   4       14  10        8   3       10  5        -                    S8       33
2. Building Construction
Office - main           units                                 I   -                                                                       I                 I I
- Regtonal       units                                3   -                    -    I                                             -         3        1
- District       units                  -                                                                                  I                         I
4/                        4/           S6
Housing - Staff          units     -   I       10   3        47   -       14  1        1 4  2       14   -                   -   33               99       7S          W
Workahop                                        4   1                                                                                 -   I         4       2
Subtotal- Planned                  -   I       14   4        51   -       14  13       14  26       14   -                   -   34               107      80
Housing Labour  7/                 -  30        -  30                                   -  15       -  IS                                                  90
Other 7/                           -   I        -   I         -   I        -   I                                                                            4
TOTAL, Including revisions         -  32       14  35        51   1       14  14      14  41       14  15                   -   34  -   2        t07     174
1/  Eat - Appraisal estimate; Act - Actual completion;
2/ Backlog weeding target
3E Estimate
t/ Voinjama 2, Kolahun 7. Cape Mount 4
Sl Zwedru 17, Cavalla 8
61 Buchanan 5. Bassigay 9. luyena S, Canta 5 and Tropo1 7
7/ Cape mount
IX S
040'



34                               Table I
Page 2
Estimate   Actual   Actual as Z          Status
Item                                          of estimate
3.t Training Program  1/ (man mouths)
Nursery/Planrations               12        -           0
Land Clearing                      6        -           0
Equipment Maintenance              6        -           0
Research                           6        -           0
Flancial Management                       12          na    No longer employed
Economic Plan-ing                  -       24          na    No longer employed
Policy and Administration          -       12          na    No longer employed
Wood Science                       -       30          na    On staff
Forest ManAgement                 48       54         112    On staff
Silviculture                       -       30          na    On staff
Forest Administration              -       24          na    No longer emplcyed
Marketing                         30       12          40    On staff
Study tour - Wildlife-             -        3.         uia   On staff
- Research             -         3          na    On staff
Ensineering                       24        -           0
Wood processing                   20        -           0
Wildlife                          24        -           0
Librarianship                     12        -           0
Land use planning/air photo
Interpretation              24        12          50    On staff
TOTAL                            212      216         102  /
1/ Other training results included: technical - 111 rangers; and vocational -
195, 55 and 40 perceut of estimated project requirements,
2/ In addition, GTZ provided 588 man-months of professional training in general
forestry and aerial photography interpretation and about 80 man-months of
aerial photography interpretation and survey training was sponsored by the
USA and Netherlands.



-35-
Table 2
|  -      LIBERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT - (Cr. 839-LBR)
Log and Processed Wood Production and Exports -
Round Log, '000 m3 (r)                  Procbessed Wood.  '000 m  (s) -
Year       Total    Export    Local                  Total,   Export    Local
1976/77     616       296       320                   147       4/        na
1977/78     580       337       243                   112       4/        na
1978/79     8'8       373       485                   223       62        161
1979/80     8(G       489       320                   147       61         86
1980/81     539       341._     198                    91    -  26         65
1981/82     412       234       170                    82       22         60
1982/83     353       216       137                    63       16         47
1983/84     332       207       125                    58        7         51
1984/85     384       233       151                    69        6         63
1985/86 -/  307       202       105                    48        1         47
1/   Source:  FDA
2/   Includes sawnwood, boules, sleepers, plywood and veneer.
3/   For nine month period ending March 31, 1976.
4/   Not available on a financial year basis.  Atlanta report states
calendar year 1976 figures to be 132, 49 and 83,.respectively.
FDA reports calendar year 1977 exports at 43.
5/ Estimated, conversion rate - 0.46.



- 36 -
TABLE 3
LIBERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
(CR. 839-LBR)
Assessed Forestry Fees - ($'OO0) 1/
Land                                     Industrial      Forest
Year      Rental 2/ Severance   Reforestation       Incentives 3/  Products 4/   Total
1976/77    843.5    923.5           1847.0         N/A  5/         NjA          3614.0
1977/78    843.5    870.4           1740.8         N/A             N/A          3454.7
1978/79    843.5   1190.1 -         2574.3        '9215.1          N/A          13823.0
1979/80    843.5   1089.1           2424.7         10460.5         N/A          14817.8
1980/81    843.5    775.8           1617.6         10971.6         355.5        14564.0
1981/82    795.0   '595.8           1235.4         6492.5          200.7        9319.4
1982/83    818.0    509.7           1030.5         3802.8          158.1        6319.1
1983/84    741.6    490.4           1024.8         3381.1           85.6        5723.5
1984/85    822.8    552.0           1151.1         3025.1           62.5        5613.5
1985/86 6/ 820.0(e) 437.1            906.1          2466.4          17.6        4647.2
1/   Source:  FDA
/ Land rental, severance and reforestation fees remained constant throughout the
project.  Rates In effect are:  Land rental $0.25 per hectare; severence $1.50
per ei (r); and reforestation $3.00 per ms (r).
3/   Determlned on a species basis:  Fees cn export logs were revised five tlmes
during the project in response to rising and falling FOB log prices: Effective
date of fee changes were: 1 January 1980, 1 August 1981, 1 April 1982, 1
December 1982, and 2 January 1985. Industrial species fees have varied from $49
to $75 per ms(r) for highly preferred sipo to $1 to $2 for the least preferred
species.
4/   Determined on a species and product basis but at lower rates to the Industrial
Incentive fees on log exports. Fees in export processed wood were-revised at
the same time as changes to Industrial Incentive fees. Product fees are
Andirectly related to the amount of local processing. Plywood exports are
exportable without fee, while boules carry the highest fee.
5/   Not available
_/   For 9-month period ending 3, march, 1986.



- 37 -
TABLE 4
LIBERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 839-LBR)
Average FOB values 1/
Logs $/M5(r)                              Processed wood $/mI(s)
Preferred                      Sawn                          Plywood
Year    Species    Others   Total       Wood     Boules-  Sleepers  Veneer  Total
1977      N/A 2/    N/A      $138       N/A      N/A       N/A        N/A      N/A
1978/79   150        108      144       N/A      N/A       N/A        N/A      238
1979(80   173        148      171       248      194       -          270      245
1980,81   195        173      180       272      202        125       297      261
1981/82   170      . 149      160        279     524        232       156      261
1982/83   158        144      156        267     182       -          279      267
1983/84   151        157      152       254      275       -          326      248
1984/85   138        138      138       237      150       -          296      233
1985/86   N/A       N/A       124       N/A.    N/A        N/A        N/A     N/A
1/ Source: FDA, data are weishted average.
1/ Not Available



- 38 -
Table 5
LIBERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 839-LBR)
Stm"mary of Project Costs
(US $4 N4llion)
PROJECTED                    ACTUAL
LOCAL    FOREIGN   TOTAL   LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY - GENERAL
Buildings                        1.9        2.2      4.1    1.6       1.6      3.2
Vehicles and Equipment           0.5        1.4      1.9    0.2       0.8      1.0
Incremental Staff Salaries       1.0        -        1.0    1.5        -       1.5
.Incremental Operating Costs      0.8       1.3       2.1    1.0      1.0       2.0
Subtotal                         4.2        4.9      9.1    4.3       3.4      7.7
TRIAL INDUSTRIAL PLANTATION
Buildings                        0.2        0.3      0.5    0.2       0.3      0.5
Vehicles and Equipment                      0.9      0.9     -        1.4      1.4
Salaries and Wages               1.5        -        1.5    1.5       -        1.5
Operating Costs                  0.7        0.4      1.1    1.0       1.0      2.0
Subtotal                         2.4        1.6      4.0    2.7       2.7      5.4
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
TRAINING
FDA - General                               2.5      7,5              2.9      2.9
Trial Industrial Plantation                 0.8      *; 1.5                    1.5
Aerial Photography                          1.1      1.1              0.7      0.7
Subtotal                                   4.4    - 4.4              5.1       5.1
TOTAL                          6.6       10.9     17.5    7.0      11.2     18.2
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~im                      mmi      inmm     mm               m .;



- 39 -
TABLE 6
LIBERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 839-LBR)
Sumary of Financing
(US $ Million)
TOTAL     IDA    ADB     GTZ      GOL
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY GENERAL
Projected                  9.1      3.7    2.7     --       2.7
Actual                     7.7      2.8    1.6       -      3.3
TRIAL ThDUSTRIAL PLANTATION
Projected                  4.0      0.7    1.3      -=      2.0
Actual                     5.4      1.3    2.4       -      1.7
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
TRAINING
0
Projected                 4.4       1.6    1.0       1.8      -
Actual                     5.1      1.8    0.7       2.6      -
TOTAL COSTS
Projected                 17.5      6.0    5.0       1.8    4.7
Actual                    18.2      5.9    4.7      2.6    5.0



Table 7
- 40-                      -
LIBERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT (Cr. 839-LBR)
Timing of Disbursements
(US $'000)
YEAR           ADB       IDA      GTZ       GOL                TOTAL
1978/79       211.6      508.1    221.0    521.4               1462.1
1979/80      1020.7     310.8    245.8    584.1                2161.4
1980/81       815.9     820.7    601.6   1376.7                3614.9
1981/82        -        435.9    636.0   1767.9                2839.8
1982/83      1295.4     833.1    595.7    452.2                3176.4
1983/84       991.8     702.0    258.8       54.1              2006.7
1984/85       355.4     541.6       9.5    344.3               1250.8
1985/86         -       1179.9      -       (95.0)             1084.9
1986/87         -       531.6       -        58.1               589.7
4690.8    5863.7   2568.4   5063.8              18186.7



LIBIU A
FORES7MT PROJECT (Cr. 839-LIE)
Project Costs
TOTAL     1978179     1979/80   1980181    1981/82    1982J83    19833/4    1984185    1985186   19D6J 7
Forestry Development Autbority - General
Incremental Cost
Salaries                                      1488.8        98.7      171.1      204.4       267.9      &*7.4      244.9      234.4
Operating Costs                               2002.4       113.6      2;3.8      279.4       473.7      314.9      337.3      269.7
Vehicles and 3quipm_t                            971.2         -        351.2        43.1        -        258.3      300.S       18.1
Buildings                                       3261.4         -        152.0      578.2       369.3      462.8      208.1      201.8     816.1     473.1
Sub-Total                                       7723.8       212.3      888.1      110S.1     1110.9     1303.4     1090.8      724.0     816.1     473.1
Total Industrial Plactatton
Salaries and Wage                                1417.5       80.7      142.8       196.2      302.3      318.8      217.1      159.6
Operating Costs                                  2126.9      491.0      101.5       432.6      433.3      361.7      220.8       86.0
Buildinga                                        479.0         -         22.2      407.7        22.0       22.7        4.4
Vehicles and Equipment                           1377.6        -        441.4       718.2      170.2       44.6         3.2
Sub-Total                                       5401.0       571.7      707.9      1754.7      927.8      747.0      44S.5      245.6
Teebuical Aassatance and Training
AdvisorS - Senior                                1108.8      299.0      135.1        99.0        -        .197.5      109.4     133.6     135.2
- Construction                          175.6        0.9         5.7        7.4       19.9        21.7       10.9      47.7       33.6      31.8
marketing   Planning                             1104.0        -         30.0       368.0      3f8.0      338.0
Specific Studies                                  156.2                              22.4                   3.0        0.9       60.0      37.8      32.1
Audit                                             311.9                                                                          20.6      43.3      48.0
Aerial Photograpby - Advisor                      273.3                                         99.0      174.3
- Operating                   385.5      157.2      173.4         -         18.9       30.8         5.2
Trial Industrial Plantation Staff                1464.4      221.0      215.8       233.6      268.0      2S7.7       258.8       9.S
Fellowshlps                                      282.2         -          5.4       24.7        27;.3     102.2       8S.2       13.8      18.9       4.7      cr
Sob-Total                                       5061.9       678.1      565.4       755.1      801.1     1125.2      470.4      281.2     268.8      116.6     oo
TOTAL                                           18186.7     1462.1     2161.4      3614.9     2839.8     3176.4      2006.7    1250.8    1084.9      S89.7



LIERIU
FORSTRtY PROJECT (Cr. 839-W5R)
Financial Rate of Return Calculation
(US# lwo)
1987/U8
1978/19    1979/80   1980/81    1981182    1982/83   1983/24   1984185   1985/86   1986/87           to
1997/98
Incremental.Project Costa l/
Salaries                          98.7       171.1      204.4       267.9     267.4      244.9.    234.4       129.5      20.3       20.3
Operating Costs                  113.6       213.8      279.4       473.7      314.9     337.3      269.7     294.9      331.5      331.5
Vehicles and £qulpent                        351.2       43.1         -        258.3     300.5       18.1       -        120.0      120.0
Buildings                                    152.0      578.2       369.3     462.8      208.1      201.8     816.1      473.1        -
Technical Assistance             229.0       371.5      463.8       446.8      595.6      85.6      152.5      179.1     111.9        -
Training                                       2.7        12.3       13.7       51.1      42.6        6.9       9.4        2.4        -
Additlonal Operational Staff
Salartes                          74.2       221.7      257.5       268.1      254.2     215.3      202.1                                                      t 
Operating Costs                   47.3        95.2       67.3       151.6       76.6     106.0       82.8
TOTAL COSTS                        562.8      1579.2      1906.0     1991.1    2280.9    1541.3    1169.3    1429.0    1059.2         471.8
Incremental Income                 147.2       282.6     2265.0      1838.6      417.5     S74.0      5S8.3     990.4      990.4      990.4
Net Benefit                       (415.6)   (1296.6)      359.0      (152.5)  (1863.4)   1967.3)   (610.0)   (438.6)    (68.8)    518.6
Internal Rate of Return 0.42
I/ See para 5.01.



- 43 -
UM
-                   ~       ~~ VS3a(1
U_               _         iuu       i~is uS ig0i           IS NdU     157a         zi          wIueA   i9rls        199~          oa,o
* ~~~~   i~~~ww  iaxessC* rm -        -                                   -        -ams 
198792     213/13      a27/78
0 a~~~LS                192.    85.            -         3195.       61.8       83.*        -          -
92                  92.       31. 7,                41.        453.1      7020       541.6     117.9       531.4
Sb t.al              19.7    131.5   1630.6 4g8.9 a12                    165.        37.0       11179      531.6
1 a_)  (1) 132.        7963  323.5        IM.           375.7      5166       501.        1.4       31.4        31I.4     614.0        6914.0     17820
A M Cd              1.5       8.    M2           liL.          in.?       51.6       31.5       31.4       6.4         691.      S1.4          5.2    *782.0
1DlK~~m.   I  S92.8^ 3051    2                  .6        83.2    .920.          139.       321.       14790       31I.4   S01            1157.2    112.
vi~~~,a  7#     )3?      9.6  16tD.0         869.1       613.1       4.4        92.      (73.0 (U    15.0          350 U.0   4 270        15O
_          457.0     319.1   *.5          13.6        527.9      10O.8       86.9      3.90        10.1
Sa w1              11S7.6    169. i     .5        14.8        auks1.9   1am0        1165.1     1.5         1l.7 &       7.1      471.0        4571.0     s5.0
mtm
ftem9 -  S   ) 132.6    2%    300.1         787.5       32.9       23.9       83.0
w-r
M3.bWmma  l) 32.2             92.    141.6        170.6       19.6       Lo.          7        618.  6)7.0            6AL1      463.0
-                     .6                53 31..1    10.          .7        183        2L.0       ;9.0       I0         40        1.0           00        3.0
6996               131 .10     ?92    31 1.5     232.        291.9       28L9       2107.4     1.3         1M.?      1127.7     10           6467.0       W463.0
A    OM           A(4       (764   3.6           (5          (415.      (2.5)    (67.            20       (87.        (         (1            4.2        5192.0
9M69     G.W         (45WA    (135.2) (92.L)       (14.6)    (3875.)    (1914.6)   (812.)   .(25           078.2)      (28.6)   (4921)          67.1       60G9.1
(1)       Mm9. gos    ylaW            -g-aot
MO val @9.0 $Li pnk Iuttn..
470*' m_nd 49*4.405  pw t.
(21)  I klw      c               d Gm as fl  6i5/
(lt)      f   192/8S _     w     u  aly.
(V  )   (8I  bdeaapugof wi...
b)  _ I_         _       1   by 1I of biltg    3twp   d g k aIm  (1omi   I)
W      _      WS3. 72~         q,  6w            sitig b~ 34 m    o61SC



--
D~~ _                                                                      _  (v
1977/78      1978        1979/)0    ig0/8l       1I82           9          ,1988       [9WM        1X            !17          2987/U
NWNaeiwr nVrrInES
Salari"                       1016.0         1169.1     1101.3      1270.4       1541.5        1514.5      136.0       94          12264        120.3        1103
perat.                         650.1          782.2      521.4       392.8        962.9         532.7       7405       607.6        965.0        98.7         9.7
Rdor.staduu                    393.4          ma        1521.3       101.6        72D.0        1290.7       959.5      22.          350.0        350.0        3S0.0
OUter CApIt                    219.0          158.6        -           -           62.8          -           50          -,          500         10           30.0
SA total                      234. 5         299. 7     3144.0      1764.8       3X7.2         3M4.9       3160       2142.        2561.4       2556.        "5Au.
Saladrs                                        98.7      171.1       20.4         267.9         267.4       244.9     234.4        (1)
(lerarf                                       113.6      213.8       219.4        473.7         314.9       337.3     269.7        (13)
ozsata"                                       300.3      140.8       12.8         118.9         396.5       121.2     257.9         249.9        121.9
* 7a*nLtw                                        -         5.4        24.7         27.3         3O.2         85.2      1.8           16.9          4.7
TrIl hwout.Ial, Plm*atk        219.5          352.2      707.9      3754.7        927.8         747.8       445.5     245.6          11)
ert  li1totpqdy                 -            157.2      173.4         -           18.9          30.8         5.2                                                                              a
bulidw                           -              -        152.0       578.2        368.3         462.8      238.       201.8         82.1         473.3
Oker (apital                     -               -       351.2        43.1          -           258.3      3m.5        18.1
219.5        1022.0      3935.6     3013.3       2.8           2510.7      1747.9    1241.3        I.9           s9s.r
SAlaIes                                        74.2      221.7       257.5        26L.          254.2       215.3     202.1         (Ll           -
(Watlns                                        67.3       95.2        67.3        151.6          76.6      106.0       8L8          (Ut)          -
1413.5    316.9       324.8        419.7         m0.8        321.3     264.9           -            -
iwm~~~~r           22.p      209.7       1~~~~~~~~~.  183.3  ~~~~~~             224.~~2    334.3        36.0         366.0        362.0
jUl3               2568.0         4386.0     745         52584        6071.8            s       5369.4     2.7          4012.5       3523.7       2910.
Ing Temln bmwJ-Al (1)                           213.6     1004.6       733.0         98.9        1295.4      991.8      335.4         -
0m                               50.2      310.8       850.7        435.9        833.1       702.0      541.6        1179.9
cIL              (fly           2641.6         3127.5     3811.2      3s39.5       5146s.        3216.5      2262.8    M2            2124.0       323.7       2660.0
Other hem                         12.5          187.5      265.5        99.0         82.4         52.4        45.6      131.9         250.         250.         80.0
1IWAI.                          2654.I         4034.7     5392.1      5546.2      M5763.7        597.4      4ea2.2    307.1          35s3.9       3513.7       290.
ReINeI sEMp A8qlcy                86.1        (252.3)     (94.1)       287.4     C 308.1)      (1055.1)   (1367.2)  C 96$.6)       (458.6)          -            -
5                                                                                 .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
(M)    Receipt u1y. lb acm   tahn  of pr*tW  repoe   de as Io tam 3W84.
(11)    Actud cash r epts as diutlEct fLa hblget allocatUc.
(lii)    Ilqtitwse trafwerrd to Sn  ptoject actlvltled.
(Iv)    lkeludbx C17 Qt. 1reaged as a gtro  of servias.



IBRD 134278
A Fl    R I C  A\
X  0<            , t  ~~~~~~G U I N E A_
'-_'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
AFRICA               /k\    'SoXw D VO R
S ~    ~+ I§ E R                      FR A  N Djt  E 
LIBERIAA              <          /      /    < 
'OESR   PROJECT °AdN             e v                 Povod Roods
e^"_             Loo  S.odoce Roods
I    ---  6  b-Roads .de, Co o
t0rO.fe ( oto  A., =o,
-'- 1ls0> '   ' 14ro    t  :  rl ['       v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*Corol Ir
Roe.1, P,1 ood00
SON                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Z -  Coo,~ Boo
N  T  Radmods~~AGUT 91



IRR 13427R
I'00        '            Cv900                                                                         8
AFR i CA\ 
LEONE                                      tt v  G  U  I N  E    A
S~~~~~                   r/ E R R0o A5                                                                A . ^    F
ND                                                                          E is U/IN r  ,!   -        Anr,
trode            Loose S.rloce Roods
L E 0 c fRoods under Consruchron
LaI, -V x                              }   ,                                                                    4z A*,f,e 'onddA',so  -I
-7                        ,                             :00- ' ,'   Mo1o, Po1ts
nit 'rino  Ports
S'                            7                        C 0  U N                        a D E    Ro°oods
0   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *                                       Cop-rol Crty
,   T                                                     Coorry Coo sols
ROaPRTSPORT  'O.'O~, \o.sro                                                     --------R /od Cn Ceks
Sn                                  S                  r5'                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Co.wasy Boondanes
* -  Isot,onol eorndor.es
5400ONVL                                  GRANDvts -BAS SA9                                                              H-        i  s0
~~~, , , * + ~~~~~~- K. . .0                                                                                       C OTo\ER
rtornbrav4e ~ ~         ~                                  K ",,r irl-"
<>  \ wTs *  - w Y                   '           ~      IVOIRE
FORESTRY PROJECT N0                                               E/
$00. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~      
Mt rrrer.  05"eR                                   , l0S
11                      i1 ao                              tae                                9sto' W0RPE
AUGUST 1916



