Documentof o
The World Bank                          &10
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                k
Report No. 1954-LBR
LIBERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
June 27, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offlicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official monetary unit is the Liberian dollar,
with a par value to the U.S. dollar. The U.S. dollar
is legal tender in Liberia
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 ha         - 2.47 acres
I kmn        - 0.62 mile
1 km'        - 0.39 mile
13metric ton - 0.98 long ton
m3 (r)       - solid cubic meter of round wood
m  (s)       - solid cubic meter of sawn wood
ABBREVIATIONS
GOL      Government of Liberia
FDA      Forest Development Authority
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
F.O.B.   Free on Board
FT'      Forestry Training Institute
ODM      Overseas Development Ministry (U.K.)
GTZ      German Agency for Technical Cooperation (Ltd)
LFC      Liberia Forestry Corporation
IDA      International Development Association
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Developmert
4FD      African Development Bank
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
u.b.     Under Bark
B.D.U.   Bone Dry Unit
DBH      Diameter Breast Height
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



LIBERIA FORESTRY PROJECT             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Co,ntents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND .............................................1
A. Project Background..                                                1
B. General ..                                                          1
C. Contribution to the Economy           ..                            2
D. Forestry Sector             ..                                      3
E. Institutions..                                                      5
F.  Objectives, Strategies and Policies        .       .               6
G.  Bank Involvement in the Subsector         ..                       7
II. THE PROJECT AREA.                                                        8
III.  THE PROJECT ............................................                9
A.  General ............................................               9
B. Project Description    ..10
C. Implementation Schedule.                                           15
D.  Costs and Financing Arrangements         ..15
E. Procurement and Disbursement    .               .18
F. Budgets, Accounts and Audit    ..18
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND ORGANIZATION .19
A. Organization                       ..                              19
B. Staffing   ..19
C.  Operations  ...................................                   20
D. Training   ..21
E. Monitoring and Evaluation .21
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES .22
A. Production .22
B. Markets and Prices .23
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS    ..26
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .27
A. Project Benefits .27
B.  Economic Analysis - Industrial Trial Plantation                   28
C. Risk and Sensitivity Analysis .29
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS         .       .30
This Staff Appraisal report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal
mission which visited Liberia in October/November 1977 composed of Messrs.
van de Poll, Bolduc and Fishwick (Bank).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Table 1- 14
Annex 1 - Related Documents Available in Project File
Chart No.
I(a) Organization Chart of FDA
I(b) Organization Chart of FDA (Technical Service Divisions)
II   World Bank 18759 - Industrial Plantation Development Organization
Map No.
IBRD 13427 - Project Area
IBRD 13428 - Forestry Concessions
List of Tables
Table 1    Growth of Logging and Sawn Timber Industry 1970-1976
Table 2    Forestry's Revenues 1970-1976
Table 3    Summary - Project Costs
Table 4    Project Costs - Forest Development Authority
Table 5    Project Costs - Industrial Trial Plantation
Table 6    Project Costs - Technical Assistance and Training
Table 7    Estimated Schedule o"-Disbursements
Table 8    Manpower and Staff Salaries (FDA Headquarters)
Table 9    Manpower and Staff Salaries (FDA Regions)
Table 10   Illustrative Government Cash Flow
Table 11   Economic Internal Rate of Return - Forest Development Authority
Table 12   Economic Internal Rate of Return - Plantation for Pulp Production
Table 13   Economic Internal Rate of Return - Plantation for Sawlog and Chips
Production
Table 14   Economic Internal Rate of Return - Plantation for Chips Production



I. BACKGROUND
A.   Project Background 1/
1.01      The project was identified in 1974 by the Government of Liberia
(GOL). Over the next three years, several FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
missions visited Liberia and studies of the forestry sector were carried out
in conjunction with the West German Aid Mission. A Cooperative Program pre-
paration mission visited Liberia in March/April 1977 and submitted its report
in July 1977.
1.02      In February 1977 an advance from the preparation facility of
US$198,000 was approved, principally for the employment of two technical
advisors to assist FDA (para. 4.04).
1.03      The project which would be the first Bank Group investment in
the forestry sector in Liberia, is a first step to diversify and modernize
Liberia's forestry base. Its principal components involve institution-
building by strengthening the Forestry Development Authority (FDA), which was
formed in 1976, and implementation of an industrial trial plantation of fast-
growing species. It is expected that the project would:
(a)  enable FDA to control all forestry operations and
direct future investment in the sector;
(b)  lead to the establishment of a large scale industrial
plantation development program commencing in the early
1980's for pulp production and other industrial uses.
B.   General
1.04      Liberia has a total area of about 98,000 km  and a population of
1.6 million, growing at 3.3% per annum, but with an urban growth rate of 7.9%.
Average population density is about 14 per km . Average per capita GNP in
1976 was US$450. Although 4% of Liberians have average per capita income
levels of US$3,000, the majority of the population (70%) is living at a near
subsistence level with average per capita income of less than US$120 per
annum.
1.05      The growth of the economy remains heavily dependent on the export-
oriented iron ore, rubber and forestry enclave sectors. These, with iron ore
by far the largest single activity, are the main source of export earnings,
employment and Government revenue; forest product exports account for about
4% of foreign exchange earnings. By contrast, traditional agriculture
supports the majority of the population. With growth continuing to be largely
a function of enclave activities, the increase in real GDP, which averaged
6.4% per annum during 1967-1970 has slowed down considerably to an estimated
2.5% in 1976; and may have declined further during 1977. The decline in GDP's
rate of growth is mainly a reflection of lower iron ore production.
1/   See Project File, Annex 3-I.



- 2 -
1.06      Liberia's climate is tropical, with a monsoon from May to October.
The annual rainfall varies from 4,500 to 2,200 mm. The soils are mainly
lateritic, very acid and lacking in nitrogen. In general, the soils of
Liberia are more suited to growing timber and tree crops than intensive
agriculture.
1.07      The 4.8 million hectares of forest (49% of the total land area)
are distributed evenly over the whole country. The 2 million hectares of
productive closed forest, which contain most of the valuable timber species,
are located mainly in the southeast. In the west, the tropical forest is
of poor quality.  The remaining 2.3 million hectares of broken forest is
disturbed by shifting agriculture and is progressively declining in area
and value. It is estimated that about 30,000 ha of forest are destroyed
annually by shifting cultivation.  Permanent farming is confined to tree
crops such as cocoa, coffee and oil palm, and the bush-fallow system is
likely to continue. An estimated 0.5 million ha are commercially cultivated
and the total actively being cultivated is 0.8 million ha, or 8% of the total
land area.
1.08      The inadequate road system seriously hampers movement of logs
and sawn timber.  A number of secondary roads 2have been constructed by
concessionaires. The road density is 0.03/km , which is the lowest in West
Africa. The present railway system is owned and operated by iron ore mining
concessions for transporting iron ore from the interior to Monrovia and
Buchanan. The transport of logs or processed wood by rail has to be negotiated
with the mining companies, and increasing quantities of timber are handled by
the Nimba line to Buchanan. There are four major ports--Monrovia, Buchanan,
Greenville and Harper. Ships calling at Robertsport, Marshall and River Cess
have to have their cargoes handled with the help of surfboats. Up to 1969,
all these ports were managed and operated by private companies. Since this
date, they have been the responsibility of the National Port Authority (NPA)
at Monrovia, and more recently, at Greenville and Harper. Buchanan is still
operated by LAMCO, 1/ but there are plans to make the LPA responsible once the
quays have been reorganized. There are plans to reorganize and expand Monrovia
port if increased freight warrants it. The inadequacies of other ports used
by log-export companies are a continual source of complaints. Logs are lost,
deteriorate in value and orders cannot be met because of unsatisfactory con-
ditions. Any significant increase in wood exports could only be achieved
by improving port facilities.
C.   Contribution to the Economy
1.09      While the forestry subsector is relatively small in terms of con-
tribution to GDP (about 2.5% to GDP in 1976), exports of forestry products
are significant and rank as the fourth largest export commodity after iron
1/   Liberian-American-Swedish Minerals Company--largest iron ore producer
in the country.



ore, rubber and diamonds. Exports in the period 1972-76 averaged US$13
million, and in current dollar values, exceeded US$45 million in 1976, or
about 4% of tStal export value. The totai volume of logs removed inc5eased
from 48,000 m  in 1967 to about 605,000 m  in 1976, of which 315,000 m ,
with a F.O.B. value of US$37 million, were exported. About 290,000 m of
logs wers locally converted to sawn lumber, exports of which amounted to
49,000 m , valued at about US$8 million (Table 1). GOL derived about US$8
million revenue in 1976 from its forests through stumpage fees, land rentals
and reforestation fees (Table 2). This should be compared with its expendi-
ture in the forestry sector of about US$1 million. Direct employment provided
by the sector is currently about 5,000 persons, of which, 5% are expatriates
occupying principally the senior managerial positions. Contribution of
forestry to countrywide employment is about 6%.
D.   The Forestry Sector
1.10      Resources and Industries.  About half Liberia's land area is
covered by forests.  Some 2 million ha is closed tropical hardwood productive
forest, all of which has been allocated to 46 concessionaires. The balance
is described as open forest, which is subject to farming rights and shifting
cultivation.  Of the productive foresi, the estimated "sustainable" supply
of commercial timber is 1.8 million m 3(r) 1/ per annum, compared with present
annual removals of about 0.6 million m . This represents a vast resource as
the current supply of tropical hardwood from other countries is becoming ex-
hausted.
1.11      Work on a forest resources inventory has been mainly carried out
by a German Aid forest mission. More than 235 species of trees have been
identified, of which, 60 to 90 are considered to be potentially marketable.
Presently, however, less than 15 species, accounting for about 20 percent of
total standing volume, are well known on the world market. Exploitation of
the concessions has therefore mainly been a "creaming" operation which results
in over-cutting of the more valuable species. Increased research into the
utilization and marketing promotion of lesser-known species could help to
prevent over-exploitation of established species and would make more effective
use of Liberia's forest resources.
1.12      The present exploitable forest is likely to diminish because con-
cessionaires, who are less interested in long-term utilization than in short-
*        term exploitation of valuable species, rarely carry out improved forest
management procedures (e.g., replanting). There are also competing land
use claims, mainly from shifting agriculture; the 80% of productive forest
declared as National Forest is still being encroached upon by shifting culti-
vators who follow concessionaires' logging operations. An immediate priority
is therefore to protect and efficiently exploit the full potential of a
permanent forest estate by demarcation of permanent forest reserves and
intensification of forest management. Improved forest management of natural
tropical high forest could increase the mean annual incremental production
1/   (r) = roundwood (logs).



from 1 to 2 m /ha/year. Furthermore, plantations with fast growing species
can produce up to five times more wood annually than slow-growing natural
forests. Thus plantations can produce as much as natural forests but on
a smaller area. This approach would reduce land needed for forestry and
release fertile forest lands for agriculture. Conversion of part of the
forest areas to rubber, cocoa, and oil palm could therefore be considered.
1.13      Apart from Government's intention to provide continuous timber pro-
duction from the indigenous forest through natural regeneration by controlled
cutting cycles and sustained yield management, Liberia is also embarking on a
modest reforestation program. Although the concessionaires are required to
undertake reforestation, in practice, very few have complied. In an attempt
to ensure that concessionaires carry out reforestation, GOL, in conjunction
with German Technical Aid, initiated a program in 1974, financed by a Refores-
tation Fund. This is funded by fees levied from concessionaires on logs
harvested.  By the end of 1976, about 4,500 ha had been reforested   under
this program. 1/ Since the country is ecologically and climatically well-
suited for fast-growing species for manufacturing timber, woodpulp and wood-
based panel products, GOL intends to embark on large scale industrial forest
plantations, provided they can be economically justified. At present, little
is known of the performance on a commercial scale of fast-growing indigenous
or exotic trees in plantations, or of the techniques and cost of establishment.
A period of intensive commercial scale trials is therefore needed before a
major program can be undertaken.
1.14      Forest exploitation grew in importance only from 1968 after a pre-
liminary countrywide forest inventory was completed. Following this, more
concessions were granted, covering most accessible forest areas. Because
of lack of capital and technical knowhow, most concessionaires are foreign
entrepreneurs with European marketing outlets. Although the Liberian timber
industry,is still based on log expsrts, wood locally processed rose from
77,000 m  (r) in 1970 to 290,000 m  (r) in 1976 (i.e., about 48% of total log
production). Local processing -which accelerated partly from the introduction
of legislation in 1973 and aimed at 100% local processing of logs by 1977- is
mainly concentrated on saw milling and simple furniture production. With few
exceptions, however, local processing is unplanned and unregulated. The
larger expatriate-controlled logging companies have made little effort to
develop local manufacturing capacity and many sawmills are small, poorly
equipped, under-financed, inefficient and poorly managed. Government regards
development of the mechanical wood processing industry as important since
this will significantly increase the value added from the sector, and contri-
bute to employment and industrialization opportunities. The immediate need
is to establish the political climate necessary to attract foreign capital
and technology and to encourage greater Liberian participation in the owner-
ship and management of forest companies by introducing small-scale wood
processing industries.
1/   Mainly confined to "enrichment" planting of natural species and Teak.
The area planted with tropical pines is still extremely small.



-5-
E.   Institutions
1.15      The Forest Development Authority (FDA).  Following the recommenda-
tions of a US Economic Mission in 1949, an Act for Conservation of the Forests
of the Republic of Liberia was passed in 1953, the primary objective of which
was the protection of forest resources. The Bureau of Forestry was then
established in the Department of Agriculture and Commerce. Initially, it
concentrated mainly on forest inventories and concession allocations; but
it was then realized that it had neither the flexibility, nor the financial
freedom to function efficiently. As a result, following an organizational
study prepared by FAO/World Bank cooperative program, FDA was established as
a corporate body under the Forest Act in early 1976. FDA, which is financed
through GOL's budgetary appropriations is responsible for the administration,
conservation and control of national forest areas; formulation of forest
policies (including land use); investment proposals; forest inventory planning
and control of concession licenses 1/; monitoring of private sector logging
and sawmill operations, including marketing; collection of revenues, carrying
out of forestry management programs; and research and forestry training.
The Concession Secretariat
1.16      The Secretariat is the executing body of the Concession and Invest-
ment Commission, which oversees all concession agreements and formulates
general policies and rules relating to exploitation of Liberia's natural
resources. One of its tasks is to introduce uniformity among concession
agreements, particularly investment incentives and taxes. In 1973 the Secre-
tariat introduced a standard agreement for forestry concessionaires, and
agreements made before 1973 will have to be renegotiated. New applications
for and renegotiations of existing concessions are processed in close liaison
with FDA.
Training and Research Institutions
1.17      The College of Agriculture and Forestry in the University of
Liberia, which was assisted under the Bank's First Education project, is
the sole institution for graduate training in forestry. Existing training
facilities are adequate for supplying Liberian professional foresters.
However, by emphasizing and introducing new forestry concepts in Liberia,
such as industrial plantation management, tropical High Forest inventory,
mechanical wood processing and tropical hard wood marketing, which presently
are inadequately taught in Liberia, specialization in these fields would
have to be obtained overseas.
1.18      Technical forestry staff training, formerly carried out by the
Agricultural Extension Service, will be carried out by the Forestry Training
Institute (FTI) in Bomi Hills. The FTI is partly financed under the Bank's
1/   Carried out in conjunction with the Concession Secretariat of the
Ministry of Finance.



-6-
Third Education project and staffed by United Kingdom ODM Technical Assistance.
The Training and Research Board of the Mano River Union, 1/ established in
April 1976, would have overall responsibility for FTI on behalf of GOL and
Sierra Leone. FTI's operations, with an annual output of 20 Liberian and 5
Sierra Leonean forest rangers, and about 80 forest workers, would be financed
out of the Mano River Union training and research budget provided by GOL,
Sierra Leone and the private sector. The training of forest industries
workers (logging, sawmilling, etc.) would be carried out by a logging and
timber processing training center at Bomi Hills, financed under West German
Bilateral Aid (para. 3.01). In addition, the industrial trial plantation
would provide opportunity for FTI to acquire practical experience in modern
silvicultural practices.
1.19      Present silvicultural research is limited to small scale trials in
enrichment planting of degraded high forest using indigenous species with
useful timber properties and some exotic hardwoods. Under a German Technical
Aid Program, introductory trials with tropical pines and some eucalyptus are
being carried out, with a similar program also being carried out by the
Liberia Forestry Corporation (LFC), but under quite different climatic and
edaphic conditions. 2/
F.   Objectives, Strategies and Policies
1.20      The role played by the forestry sector in the Liberian economy is
still comparatively small but has considerable untapped potential. Thus,
in view of the decline of the mining industry which hitherto led Liberian
economic growth, and the desirability of moving away from over-dependence
on non-renewable resources such as iron ore, GOL is anxious to encourage
expansion of timber exploitation and to promote timber processing industries.
In view of the favorable demand prospects for forest products, forest re-
sources, which are renewable, could contribute to strengthen Liberia's per-
manent resource base.
1.21      Liberia's long-term forestry development strategy would therefore
be directed toward the building up of forest inventories; intensification
of forest management and marketing intelligence; promotion of viable indus-
trial development (mechanical wood processing, industrial plantations) with
greater Liberian equity participation; developing the present transport infra-
structure, including port handling facilities; introducing forest legislation
and enforcement; and integrating forestry with rural development.
I/   In 1973 the Mano River Union was established between Liberia and Sierra
Leone. The expressed objective of the Customs Union is active collabora-
tion and mutual assistance in matters of common interest (e.g., joint
effort in the training of middle-level forestry staff and lower level
forestry workers).
2/   LFC is a Swedish-owned private company, which in 1970, commenced imple-
mentation of a pulpwood plantation program in the Bong County to produce
woodchips for export to 3 Swedish pulp companies.



1.22      Under Liberia's two-stage socio-economic development plan (1976-1984)
GOL is seeking to:
(a) receive an appropriate share of the revenues from Liberia's
forest exploitation which is mainly carried out by fore,gn
private companies under concession arrangements;
(b) increase output by developing efficient plantations,
logging and mechanical wood processing facilities;
(c) obtain better intelligence information to improve forest
management, planning and policy formulation.
1.23      Compared with the West African timber-producing countries, Liberia's
forest exploitation is a relatively new industry and accordingly Liberia's
forestry service is of recent origin and weak due to lack of experience,
restricted funds and inadequate training programs. The Government recognizes
that these objectives can only be attained through efficient Government forestry
institutions. Therefore, the strengthening of the FDA and training of Liberians
in the forestry sector is an important element of Liberia's strategy for forest
development.
1.24      The strengthening of FDA will enable GOL to meet the objectives of
the development plan needing urgent attention (see paras. 1.10-1.14) including:
(a) increased research into utilization and marketing promotion of
lesser known species;
(b) pLoduction of forests and improvement in forest management
and planning;
(c) introduction of industrial trial plantations with fast growing
species; and
(d) introduction of exploitation and fiscal policies to attract
foreign capital and technology for development of forest
industries and increased Liberian participation.
G.   Bank Involvement in the Sub-Sector
1.25      This project, which would be the first Bank Group investment in
the Forestry sector in Liberia, is fully in line with the recent Bank Group
Forestry Sector policy Paper. 1/ The Policy Paper stresses that the weakness
of forest institutions has proved to be the single, most important obstacle to
Bank forestry activity, and places emphasis on the development of industrial
forestry projects. Through the strengthening of FDA and the trial plantation
leading to an industrial forestry program, the proposed project meets both
these objectives.
1/   Report No. 1778, September 15, 1977.



- 8 -
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
2.01      Forest reserves and concessions exist throughout the country.  FDA,
which has jurisdiction over all of them, has its headquarters in Monrovia
and administrative headquarters located in the western, central and eastern
districts. Therefore, the institutional building aspects of the project will
take place throughout the country. However, the industrial trial plantation
will have a specific location, in the recently declared national forest area
in the Grand Cape Mount County, (Maps IBRD 13427/8).
Proposed Industrial Plantation Program
2.02      The western forestry district (with Bomi Hills as administrative
headquarters) includes 130,000 ha which was declared a National Forest
in August 1977 specifically for future industrial plantation development.
The trial plantation is in this area, as would be the proposed industrial
plantation development in the early 1980's. The 130,000 ha is located in two
separate blocks north and south of the Bie Mountains in the Grand Cape Mount
County of Western Liberia. The quality of the forest to be cleared is low
and contains very few commercial species and the few suitable logs removed in
clearing operations will be utilized by GOL for construction purposes. The
monsoon climate, undisturbed forest soils and the proximity to large perennial
rivers and the port of Monrovia make it a natural choice for development of an
industrial export-oriented plantation for producing either pulp, sawn timber
or both. The transport infrastructure and port facilities at Monrovia would
have to be improved to handle the additional exports which would be generated
if a major plantation program is developed in the region.
2.03      Since the closing down of the iron ore mines at Bomi Hills, the
largest township adjacent to the project area, the problem of employment in
this region has become acute. A large scale forestry program and associated
logging and processing industries could, in time, provide permanent employment
for up to 2,500 people. The 1974 population census gives the total population
of Grand Cape Mount County as 56,600. The population residing around the
project area totals 16,500, of which, 5,500 are considered to be working
population.
2.04      Within the 130,000 ha, there are 72,000 ha without traditional
farming rights. There are 50,000 ha of plantable land, the balance being
steep hills or otherwise protected forest.  It is considered that a total
plantable area of about 70,000 ha could be made available for a large ssale
industrial plantation. This could produce annually, either 1 million m of
pine wood suitable for a pulp industry of about 180,000 tons per year capa-
city, or a combined pine/gmelina plantation producing sufficient long and
short fiber material for a pulp industry with 250,000 ton per year capacity.
If further studies, included as part of the project, indicate that sawn timber
production would be a more viable alternative than pulp production, the same



- 9 -
area could produce up to 252,000 m  (s) 1/ a year of sawn timber plus about
400,000 m waste material for chips. The same area of pine planSation, pro-
ducing only chips for the export market, would produce 975,000 m (r) per
annum, from which 375,000 Bone Dry Units (B.D.U.) 2/ could be processed.
Details of investment models for these possible plantation development alter-
natives are given in para. 7.07.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   General
3.01      The project which has high priority in the Government's development
plan and is in line with Bank Group forestry policy (para. 1.25) will be a
first step to diversify and modernize Liberia's forestry sector. The three
principal elements of this first project would be: forestry institution
building, the establishment of industrial trial plantations and the execu-
tion of studies and surveys which are of crucial importance for the ultimate
development of the sector. The project would complement the commercial log-
ging and sawmill training project now being prepared by the German Agency for
Technical Corporation (GTZ) and the Third Education Project (Cr. 1417-LBR)
under which a forestry training institute is to be constructed at Bomi Hills
(para. 1.18).
3.02      The project is expected to lead to the establishment of a large
scale industrial plantation development program commencing in 1982/83. The
trial plantation (para. 3.07) would form the nucleus of the first phase of
a proposed 70,000 ha program, which would be implemented over a 15-year
period. The results of the trial, in conjunction with the various studies
proposed under the project, would provide the basis for proceeding. One of
the most important studies is the pre-industrial plantation survey which will
consider industrial timber end uses, either for pulp or sawlogs integrated
with chips. The outcome of the ongoing LFC trials (para. 1.19) will also be
taken into account. Investment models have been prepared (para 7.07), which
indicate that both forms of investment would be viable. By 1982, FDA will
be fully equipped to implement the first phase of the large scale industrial
plantation program following increased staffing and training provided under
the project. This would provide essential continuity of FDA production
operations.
3.03      FDA would also consider local wood processing investment possibi-
lities, although these are expected to be small and are likely to be financed
by private foreign entrepreneurs.
1/   m (s) - the volume of planks measured after converting logs (r) in a
sawmill. Approximately 50% of logs is converted in planks.
2/   B.D.U. - 2,400 lbs weight over drywood (e.g. pines have about 2.6 m (r)
1 B.D.U.).



- 10 -
B.   Project Description
3.04      Summary Project Description.  The project, which would be imple-
mented over the five-year period 1979 through 1983, would involve:
(a) strengthening the Forest Development Authority
and providing housing, offices, vehicles and
equipment;
(b) establishing a 1,600 ha commercial scale industrial
trial plantation of fast-growing exotic and in-
digenous species in Grand Cape Mount County;
(c) training of Liberians, particularly in industrial
forest management, market intelligence and
mechanical wood processing; and
(d) technical assistance in the form of consultancy
services to carry out high priority studies and
surveys.
Detailed Features
3.05      Forest Development Authority. 1/  Assistance would be provided to
FDA to introduce forest management practices, and to improve the present
inefficient forest revenue collection system. FDA would be responsible
for the industrial trial plantation (para. 3.07) and would be staffed and
equipped to control all forestry sector operations and to plan and direct
future forestry development, including implementation of Government-
controlled projects.
3.06      To achieve this, FDA administrative headquarters would be built in
Monrovia and regional headquarters would be constructed at Bomi Hills,
Sanniquellie and Zwedru. Staff housing, workshops and guest houses would be
provided in the three regions together with vehicles and other equipment.
During the five-year development period, local staff would be substantially
increased from 300 presently to an estimated 424, including some additional
staff (91) recruited for revenue assessment mostly in the regions (para. 4.05).
The remaining total (33) would be project related staff of which approximately
half (18) would be employed in Monrovia and the remainder in the regions. The
cost of hiring the additional assessment staff has not been included in proj-
ect costs since their employment is not considered to be directly project
related and could be incurred whether or not the project takes place. In
addition to the above staff, two internationally recruited advisors, who are
already in post and financed by the Bank's Project Preparation Facility (para.
4.04), will provide technical assistance in general forestry and administra-
tive matters, for a total of 78 man months. To assist FDA in reviewing and
1/   See Project File, Annex 3/III.



- 11 -
preparing forest policies and improving forest management techniques, three
additional specialists, also to be recruited internationally, would provide
expertise, each for five years, in tropical hardwood marketing and promotion,
mechanized wood processing and forest management (the latter with emphasis
on land use planning using aerial photo interpretation techniques). 1/
Further details in Chapter IV and Tables 6, 8 and 9.
Industrial Trial Plantation 2/
3.07      An industrial trial plantation of 1,600 ha would be established
over the five-year development period in the national forest reserve near
Bomi Hills. This is expected to lead to the establishment of a large scale
industrial plantation development program commencing in the early 1980's.
The industrial trial plantation component will include:
(a)  mechanical clearing of 1,600 ha of low-value tropical
high forest;
(b)  establishing a nursery to produce 2.6 million high-
quality fast-growing pines and gmelina seedlings;
(c)  land preparation and planting;
(d)  construction and maintenance of 50-60 km all season
and dry season access and plantation roads;
(e)  semi-permanent accommodation for plantation management
and staff, together with vehicle and equipment
maintenance facilities; and
(f)  conducting research trials, in-service training and
special studies to evaluate results from the trial
plantation.
To achieve this, two specialists in industrial plantation management and
forest clearing and road construction would be required, together with
twelve lower level professional and technical staff for the trial plantation.
3.08      The most important aspect of the industrial trial plantation will
be evaluation of the results to enable large scale industrial plantation
development to commence in the early 1980's. This will include:
(a) determining the most cost effective method for removing
high forest, land preparation, and planting and main-
taining fast-growing species for industrial purposes; and
1/   For Terms of Reference see Project File, Annex 3/V.
2/   See Project File, Annex 3/III.



- 12 -
(b) determining the most productive species and provenances
for the region including yield and growth studies.
By the early 1980's yield and growth data from species/provenance planting
trials will be available from the proposed 1,600 ha plantation project (4/5
years old), LFC trial plantation (7/8 years) and from a small area of trial
plantings carried out by German Aid (6/7 years). In addition, results from
pulping tests of 15 year old pines, planted by the College of Forestry, will
also be available. Details of a possible Phase II Project are given in paras.
3.02 and 7.07.
Training 1/
3.09      Because of limited possibilities for training and obtaining practical
experience in forestry in Liberia, selected staff will be awarded fellowships
for overseas training. The project will provide, over a five-year period,
US$212,000 for approximately 212 manmonths of fellowships as follows:
(a) 30 manmonths for training forestry graduates and
engineers in industrial plantation techniques,
silviculture, nursery, mechanical land clearing
and heavy equipment maintenance;
(b) 92 manmonths for forest officers to be trained in
forest management, forest engineering, forest socio-
economics, planning, and mechanical wood processing;
(c) 30 manmonths for training in hardwood timber
marketing, analysis and promotional techniques;
(d) 24 manmonths for training in land use planning and
aerial photo interpretation;
(e) 24 manmonths for post-graduate training in national
parks and wildlife conservation; and
(f)  12 manmonths for training of a forestry librarian.
3.10      Forest ranger training will be carried out by the FTI, and for
forestry industrial workers, by the proposed commercial logging and timber
processing training center to be financed under West German Bilateral Aid.
The internationally recruited staff would provide in-service training of
project staff in methods of establishing large scale industrial plantations,
forest management and in project monitoring and evaluation. Training will
mainly take place during the first three years. GOL has already earmarked a
number of candidates for further training.
1/   See Project File, Annex 3/IV.



- 13 -
Consultancy Services and Studies and Surveys 1/
3.11      Consultancy Services.  The project includes 25 manmonths of con-
sultant services, estimated at US$138,000, to establish an effective market
intelligence system (12 man-months), to strengthen FDA accounting and finan-
cial operations (6) and to assist plantation management with the evaluation
of plantation trial results (7). The unit cost for consultants to provide
services and studies (para 3.12) is calculated at about US$6,000 per manmonth-.
3.12      Studies.  A further 55 manmonths of specialist consultant services
costing about US$351,000 would also be included to investigate future forest
industry projects as follows:
(a) Charcoal
The viability of transforming cleared forest at the industrial
trial plantation site into charcoal for use in the pig-iron
smelting industries or export to Europe.
(b) Pre-industrial Plantation Survey
Wood produced in 15 or 25 year rotations by tropical pines
and exotic hardwoods has a number of end uses. The consul-
tants would conduct a pre-industrial survey for a pulpmill,
including export facilities and will compare the benefits of
exporting pulp with these obtainable from sawn wood and chips.
The study will also carefully evaluate growth rate performance
of the various trial plantations, including those obtained by
LFC (para. 1.19). At the same time this socio-economic
impact of the industrial plantation on the total environment
should be studied. Assurances were obtained that on the basis
of the results of the consultant's study, GOL would prepare,
not later than June 30, 1982, in consultation with the
Association, investment proposals for expanding the trial
into a full industrial plantation development program.
For further details, see paras. 3.02 and 7.0%.
(c) Forest Policy Proposals
FDA, as a matter of priority, will have to formulate forest,
fiscal, management, exploitation and reforestation policy.
Some of these are already under review, with technical assis-
tance provided by GTZ. Assisted by specialist staff provided
under the project, together with four manmonths of consultancy
services, FDA would be able to complete these policy proposals.
In view of its importance for the planning and development of
the forest industry, an assurance was obtained that FDA would
1/   See Project File, Annex 3/V, including terms of reference.



- 14 -
prepare and submit to the Association before June 30, 1979,
for review and consultation, proposals regarding the framework
and implementation of Liberia's forest exploitation and fiscal
policies based on studies by FDA, German Aid and other agencies.
(d) Sustained Yield Study
A study would be carried out to assess conflicting data
regarding the maximum amount of natural forest which can be
cut annually while maintaining sustained yield. The existing
1.8 million m3 of sustained yield is based on the premise that
about 70 hardwood species are marketable. This is probably
over-optimistic (para. 5.02) and requires a realistic assess-
ment of the marketing potential of all species, including
those grown on industrial plantations.
(e) Port Handling Facilities
Since the present log and log-based goods port handling
facilities are inadequate to cope with present and projected
log and processed timber exports a study will be carried
out to assess the port handling requirements together with
an improvement plan and cost estimates.
(f) Aerial Photography Interpretation: see para 3.13.
Surveys
3.13      The project includes US$1,000,000 for obtaining improved photography
and landsat imagery for two-thirds of Liberia; this photography and imagery
would complete the land use classification exercises of the Mano River Union
land resources survey. With completion of the land use classification,
Liberia would have a much needed tool for national and regional agricultural
planning. Use of landsat imagery will make it possible to determine those
forest areas which should be demarcated permanent forest reserves, scheduled
for management as natural forests or proposed for intensive industrial planta-
tion development. The survey includes aerial infrared photo production to
make more precise demarcations and definitons of species which can be used for
specific projects developed by FDA. Under the project, FDA will develop a
Forest Management/Planning Section, which, with the help of landsat imagery
and aerial infrared photographs, will be able to improve planning and control
of the concessions and permit better reforestation planning.
3.14      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that consultants em-
ployed under the project for services, studies and surveys would be appointed
on terms and conditions, and with qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Association.



- 15 -
C.   Implementation Schedule
3.15      Selection of staff is already underway.  FDA headquarters staff
appointments will be mainly required during the first year, whereas appoint-
ments in the regions will be spread over four years. Overseas training
requirements have been agreed in principle with FDA and suitable candidates
are being selected. Training will mainly take place during the first three
years. Consultancy services and studies will be required during the first
three years. Construction of houses and other buildings would be spread over
the first two years of the project. Procurement of equipment for plantation
development would be completed in Year One, and equipment and vehicles for
FDA in the first and fourth year. Pre-project activities for the plantation
component, including road construction, temporary housing and nursery prepara-
tions, have nearly been completed (para. 3.20). Planting of the industrial
trial plantation is scheduled as follows:
PROJECT YEAR       1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    Total
Planting (ha)       200     250      300     400      450    1,600
D.   Cost and Financing Arrangements
3.16      Cost Estimates.  Total project costs over the five-year development
period (1979-1983) are estimated at US$17.5 million, of which, US$10.9 million
or 62% would be foreign costs. Project cost estimates include an estimated
US$0.3 million of identifiable indirect taxes, but excludes all other identi-
fiable import taxes on items imported for the project. The latter reflects
the Government's present policy to exempt from duties and taxes all goods
imported, especially for projects of this nature. Base cost estimates are
based on prices and quotes obtained during appraisal at the end of 1977 and
include physical contingencies amounting to 5% of base cost estimates. The
expected price increases applied as shown below are in accordance with Bank's
general guidelines.
1978    1979    1980/1983
Vehicles, Equipment                     7      6.5        6
Salaries, Technical Assistance          7      6.5        6
Buildings                               8      7.5        7
Contingencies total US$3.2 million, 18% of total costs, or 22% of baseline
cost. Estimated project costs are summarized below and detailed in Tables 3-6.



- 16 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
x Foreign
% of Total Exchange of
Local   Foreign   Total       Costs     Total Cost
-----US$ Million-------
Forest Development Authority
Buildings                             1.6      1.6       3.2
Vehicles and Equipment                0.4      1.1       1.5
Incremental Staff Salaries            0.8       -        0.8
Incremental Operating and
Maintenance Costs                   0.6       1.0      1.6
Subtotal                         3.4       3.7       7.1       41            21
Industrial Trial Plantation
Pre-project Road Construction         0.3       -        0.3
Road and Plantation Development       0.6       0.3      0.9
Buildings                             0.1      0.3       0.4
Vehicles and Equipment                0.2      0.6       0.8
Staff Salaries                        0.4       -        0.4
Operating and Maintenance Costs       0.4      0.1       0.5        _             _
Subtotal                        2.0       1.3       3.3       19             7
Technical Assistance and Training    -         3.9       3.9        22            22
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS             5.4      8.9      14.3       82            51
Contingencies
Physical                              0.3      0.4       0.7         4             2
Price                                 0.9      1.6       2.5        14             9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              6.6     10.9      17.5      100            62
Percentage                             38        62      100
Proposed Financing
3.17      The project would be financed by three co-financiers, IDA, GTZ and
the African Development Bank (ADB). Of the total project costs of US$17.5
million, IDA would contribute US$6.0 million, GTZ US$1.8 million and ADB
US$5.0 million.



- 17 -
Summary of Proposed Financing
(including contingencies)
Total     IDA       ADB      GTZ       GOL
-------------- US$ Million -------------
Forest Development Authority
Foreign Exchange              4.9       2.2      2.7        -         -
Local                         4.2       1.5        -        -        2.7
Industrial Trial Plantation
Foreign Exchange              1.6       0.3      1.3        -         -
Local                         2.4       0.4       -         -        2.0
Technical Assistance and Training
Foreign Exchange              4.4       1.6      1.0       1.8        -
Local                           _        _        _         _         _
Total Costs                        17.5      6.0       5.0      1.8       4.7
Percentage                          100       34        29       10        27
3.18      The three co-financiers would finance a total of US$12.8 million
or 73% of total project costs, which would cover all project foreign exchange
costs of US$10.9 million and US$1.9 million of local costs. The IDA credit
would finance US$6.0 million on standard terms to cover US$4.1 million or
38% of foreign exchange costs and US$1.9 millioil or 29% of local costs. The
IDA credit would be applied to cover building costs, pre-project road con-
struction costs, and technical assistance costs (see para 3.22 for details).
The Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit GMBH (GTZ) would
contribute US$1.8 million equal to 16% of foreign exchange, or 10% of total
project costs as a grant to cover certain technical assistance costs. ADB
would contribute US$5.0 million, equal to 46% of foreign exchange and 29%
of total project costs. The ADB loan would be for 20 years including 5
years of grace on reimbursement of principal, with interest at 8%. ADB
contribution would finance the foreign exchange cost of project vehicles,
the foreign exchange component of the project's incremental operating costs
including fuels, lubricants, maintenance supplies, planting materials, etc.
It would also cover the total production cost of the project's aerial photo-
graphy component. GOL would finance the remaining US$4.7 million or 71%
of local project costs or 27% of total project costs.
3.19      It would be a condition of effectiveness that the ADB loan of
US$5.0 million and GTZ's grant of US$1.8 million had been formally signed
by ADB, the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany and GOL.
3.20      In addition to the proposed contribution of US$4.7 million, GOL
would be required to contribute the necessary funds estimated at US$0.9
million during the project period for FDA non-incremental staff engaged in
revenue assessment (see Tables 8 and 9). Assurances were obtained that
all such additional funds needed by FDA for this purpose would be provided
by GOL. To enable planting to begin in 1979, pre-project startup activities



- 18 -
have nearly been completed (para 3.15). Retroactive financing of up to
US$250,000 would be provided to cover expenditures incurred after January 1,
1978, to carry out such activities.
E.   Procurement and Disbursement
3.21      Procurement.  Civil works contracts for buildings and houses would
not be suitable for international competitive bidding since they would be
large in number and widely dispersed in location covering 22 forest districts
throughout the country. Such contracts, valued at US$4.1 million, would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to IDA. Simple structures such as huts, small
workshops and storage facilities would be constructed through FDA's force
account up to an aggregate amount of US$600,000. Contracts for items to
be financed by ADB (i.e. vehicles, equipment, operation and maintenance and
aerial photography) would be awarded in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to ADB. International staff and consultants would be employed on terms
and conditions and with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA.
3.22      Disbursement.  The IDA Credit would be disbursed during 1979-1983
as follows, and details are in Table 7.
Amount           % of Expenditure
Category                    Allocated           to be financed
(US$ million)
I.   Civil Works for FDA
and Plantation                   4.1             90% of total expenditures.
II.  Technical Assistance Studies    1.3               100% of foreign expenditures.
and Training
III. Unallocated                       0.6
6.0
3.23      Disbursement would be fully documented.
F. Budgets, Accounts and Audit
3.24      Budgets.  FDA would prepare its own annual budget for approval by
FDA Board of Directors and the Bureau of Budgets prior to incorporation in
the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture.  FDA budgets would be based on
appraisal program and objectives, amended as required to reflect current costs
and policy changes. FDA would submit to the Board for approval, quarterly
cash flow statements and projections, including revenues, in accordance with
these budgets. The Ministry of Finance would deposit advances to the FDA
bank account on the basis of these cash flows at least one month prior to
commencement of the quarter. Approved annual budgets and long-term develop-
ment programs would be sent to the Association for review. Assurances to
this effect were obtained from GOL.



- 19 -
3.25      Accounts and Audit.  FDA would maintain accounts in accordance with
acceptable accounting practices to reflect the operations and financial posi-
tion of the project a-ad to provide evaluation data. The accounts of FDA
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and
annual audited financial statements, together with short and long form re-
ports, including a statement as to whether or not Association funds had been
used for their intended purpose, would be submitted to IDA within four months
after the end of the financial year. Assurances to this effect were obtained
at negotiations.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND ORGANIZATION 1/
A. Organization
4.01      The FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program assisted Government to form FDA,
whose functions and responsibilities were enacted in December 1976. Pres-
ently, FDA has a Board of Directors and a total staff of about 300, most of
whom transferred from the former Bureau of Forestry. FDA Board of Directors
of nine members comprises: The Minister of Agriculture (Chairman) and rep-
resentatives of the Ministers of Finance, Local Government, Planning and
Economic Affairs, Commerce Industry and Transportation, the President of
the Liberian Bank for Development and Investment, two members to be appointed
by the President; and the Managing Director, gho is also the Chief Executive.
4.02      Under the project FDA will be reorganized (Charts I(a), I(b)).  The
FDA headquarters will be reorganized into five divisions: (a) a Planning and
Research Division which would be responsible for formulating and monitoring
all forest policies including the forest taxation and forest management
policies; (b) two Technical Services Divisions which would be responsible
for enforcement and control (management) of forest exploitation and fiscal
policies as well as forest protection, reforestation, plantations and train-
ing, and for monitoring processing (utilization) of forest resources; and
(c) Administration and Controller's divisions which would be responsible for
administrative and financial matters of FDA. In the three regions, covering
22 forest districts, the headquarters will be upgraded and reorganized.
B.   Staffing
4.03      Under the project all key posts would be filled by persons with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Assocition: the Managing
Director, the Assistant Managing Director and the five Divisional Heads of
FDA. In addition, five professional staff would be appointed: three special-
ists in tropical hardwood marketing; mechanical wood processing with back-
ground in data processing; forestry management planning, the Industrial Trial
1/   See Project File, Annex 3-II/III.



- 20 -
Plantation manager and the mechanical engineer. In the event that persons
with acceptable qualifications and experience are unavailable in the country,
they would be recruited internationally. These posts would also be filled
by persons with qualifications and experience and on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations.
4.04      Two technical advisers, financed under the Project Preparation
Facility, are assisting in forest management, legal and administrative matters.
The advance under the facility was for 30 manmonths; the forest management
advisor will stay until the end of the project period, and the other advisor
should have completed his work in two years. In addition, FDA will receive
18 manmonths of consultant services in marketing intelligence and accounting
and financial procedures (para. 3.11).
4.05      During the 5-year development period FDA professional and technical
staff would increase from 300 to an estimated 424. The increase of 124 in-
cludes 33 incremental staff, principally for forest management and reforesta-
tion purposes, and about 91 recruited specifically for revenue assessment of
stumpage fees. The present ratio of staff to the total forest area under
concession is about 1-13,000 ha. The proposed staff increases would reduce
this to about 1-8,000 ha, which is in line with other timber producing coun-
tries in West Africa.
C. Operations
Planning and Research
4.06      The planning and research division will formulate and review forest
policies for a balanced forest taxation system and an improvement in the
assessment and collection of stumpage fees. The establishment of domestic
wood processing would be encouraged, but log exports would be maintained at
no less than 20% of total forest exploitation since sufficient high quality
processing technology (e.g. veneer) will not be available in Liberia for a
long time. It would also focus on developing and improving forest management
and planning practices.
4.07      One of the most important activities of the planning and research
division will be the collection and evaluation of market intelligence, logging
and processing costs and plantation establishment. This data will be used to
determine policies for the development of domestic wood processing and would
provide the basis for assessing f.o.b. timber values and taxes. The services
would be improved for collecting and interpreting information for the long-
term forest management planning for concessions and forest reserves, and for
setting and adjusting logging rates, particularly for removal of commercial
species.



- 21 -
Technical Services Divisions
4.08      The technical services divisions would enforce and control forest
exploitation and fiscal policies by concessionaires. They would also be
responsible for forest protection, surveys, reforestation, training and
monitoring utilization of output.
4.09      The technical services division for management would be responsible
for implementing the industrial trial plantation; details of the organization
requirements for this component is shown in Chart 2.
4.10      The trial plantation headquarters will be in Grand Cape Mount
County. Field activities would be carried out from a subsidiary field office
and a camp at the plantation site. Vehicle maintenance and servicing of
project equipment would be carried out by a mobile workshop. Staff require-
ments for the industrial trial plantation are modest. In addition to the two
senior staff to be recruited (para. 4.03) approximately 20 professional and
technical staff would be required to operate the plantation. In addition, 7
manmonths of consultancy services to advise in intensive forest management
techniques and operations would be provided under the project (para. 3.11).
Administration and Controller's Divisions
4.11      The Administration and Controller's Divisions, which would be
responsible for all FDA administration and financial matters, would be headed
by the administrative manager and the financial controller, respectively.
Under the project six manmonths of consultant services would be provided to
improve and strengthen the accounting and financial operations of FDA (para.
3.11).
D. Training
4.12      The head of the Training and Extension Unit, in the Technical
Services Divisions, would formulate and coordinate training requirements for
intermediate and lower technical staff. Training for forest rangers, scalers,
etc., would be carried out by the FTI under the Mano River Union, and the
proposed Commercial Logging and Sawmill Training Center financed by GTZ would
provide training for industrial workers. All internationally recruited staff
would have responsibility for training their Liberian counterparts and for
in-service training of junior project staff (para. 3.10).
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.13      The FDA Planning and Research Division  would be responsible for
monitoring and evaluation and would submit quarterly progress reports to
FDA Board. The format of these reports would be established when project
specialist staff are appointed. The monitoring and evaluation section would
provide the basis for formulating and adjusting forest policies and regula-
tions. It would also monitor growth rates and performance and yields obtained
at the trial plantation. Other activities of the monitoring and evaluation
section would include an assessment of the consequences for the industry in
promoting lesser known species and of manpower and training requirements of
the forestry sector.



- 22 -
4.14      Through the monitoring and evaluation process the Planning and
Research Division would prepare the project completion report on behalf of
GOL. The completion report would in particular assess to what extent the
strengthening of FDA has increased revenue assessment and collection, pro-
moted local processing industries and increased Liberian participation in the
forestry industry. The scope and format of both the monitoring and evaluation
quarterly progress reports and the project completion report would be dis-
cussed and reviewed during project supervision.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES 1/
A. Production
5.01      The project is concerned with institution building, together with
trials and studies to determine the feasibility of establishing large-scale
industrial plantations. The only output directly attributable to project
investment will be from the 1,600 ha trial plantation. However, FDA would
become effectively involved in forest management, which would lead to
increased hardwood timber production and would be responsible for the pro-
posed large-scale industrial development program. For this reason the
following paragraphs assess the existing and potential yields and total
production of tropical hardwoods and plantation-grown timber.
Tropical Hardwood Production
5.02      The current log removals of about 605,000 m3 are substantially
below the potential yield Vf the productive natural forest (2 million ha)
estimated at 1.8 million m (r). However, past calculations were based on
the assumption that some 70 species could be marketed, whereas in practice,
only 15 species are currently acceptable on the world market. The sustain-
able annual yield of presently acceptaBle species is estimated to be only
240,000 m  (r) compared with 605,000 m  of actual log removals in 1976.  One
of the project studies (para. 3.12e) will reassess future long-term sus-
tainable log production targets, taking into account first, possible market
outlets for some of the species currently not acceptable and, secondly, the
extent to which plantations of selected faster grown indigenous species of
known market acceptance (e.g., Terminalia and Triplochiton) could, in time,
increase allowable cuts and productive potential. Overcutting of selected
species can only be justified if the range of exportable species can be
significantly increased and faster growing concentrated plantations could
provide compensatory wood supplies more quickly than regeneration of the same
species under natural forest conditions. Experience in other West African
countries (e.g., Congo and the Ivory Coast) indicates that the prospects for
each plantation development are promising.
1/   See Project File, Annex 3/I and VI.



- 23 -
Plantation Production
5.03      Potentially, the most important species in Liberia is considered
to be a tropical pine-Pinus Caribaea, which should be planted primarily for
production of long fiber pulpwood, although its future value may also include
coniferous sawlogs. Systematic establishment of these pines in Liberia com-
menced only two years ago, but the results are encouraging enough already
to warrant expansion. Two plantations are being planted--one in lower Bong
County by the Swedish Consortium Liberia Forestry Corporation, and the other
in Montserrado County by the FDA, assisted by West German Technical Aid (paras.
1.13 and 1.19).  Mean annual increments in both areas are ex ected to average
15 m /u.b./ha,l/ which would produce a total volume of 225 m u.b./ha for
pulp on a 15-year rotation, or 45 cm DBH 2/ sawn logs in 25 years with proper
management.
5.04      Short fibered pulp material is supplied by exotic hardNoods such
as Eucalyptus and Gmelina.  Mean annual increments of up to 30 m  u.b./ha
would be obtained fr2m these trees under Liberian conditions, and on a 7-
year rotation, 210 mi u.b./ha would be produced. The majority of Eucalyptus
species and Gmelina will coppice from the cut stumps and up to 2 coppice
rotations over a period of 28 years could be expected from Eucalyptus before
replanting becomes necessary. Gmelina is preferred because it produces a
higher quality pulp.
B. Markets and Prics
5.05      Liberia is one of the few countries in Africa that is rich in
accessible forest resources in proportion to the local population. In the
West African tropical hardwood trade, which is mainly aligned with timber
importers and manufacturers in Western Europe, Liberia's share of the West
African log and sawn timber exports was about 385,000 m in 1976 and ranks
fifth. In 1975, 6 species made up 72% of the log and sawn wood export mar-
ket (Niangon, Sipo, Azobe, Makore, Tetrabelinia, Lovoa), with 15 to 20 other
species marketed in smaller quantities. In dealing with markets and prices
distinction has been made between tropical hardwood and plantation grown
timber.
Tropical Hardwood
5.06      Over the last two decades, the worldwide growth in the market share
of tropical hardwoods has increased considerably. Between 1960 and 1970,
world consumption of tropical hardwood logs increased by about 7% per annum
while consumption of coniferous and temperate hardwood logs increased only
1.3% and 0.6% per annum respectively. Africa's share of the world tropical
hardwood exports comes mostly from West Africa. About 75% of exports are
3~~~~~~~~
1/   m  u.b. - cubic meter excluding Bark.
2/   DBH - diameter breast height.



- 24 -
logs, and the balance sawn wood, veneers and plywood. Over the next 10
years, demand for hardwood, especially quality hardwood, is expected to
continue to rise rapidly. Consumption of tropical hardwood in Liberia is
projected to grow 5% per annum, whereas aggregate world consumption growth,
according to the latest World Bank forecasts, is projected at 4.2% per annum
to 1980, and 4.0% per annum from 1980-1990.
5.07      With the world's most accessible forests being increasingly ex-
hausted, together with the rapid depletion of forest resources of the West
African leading exporters, Ivory Coast and Nigeria, marketing prospects for
Liberia are good. With the established high demand for a number of species,
particularly those with decorative properties, prospects for exporting logs
to Western Europe remain good and competition from the Asia-Pacific regions
is considered minimal. For sawn timber, potential markets for increased
exports include Europe, the Middle East and possibly Nigeria and the Sahelian
countries. However, considerable competition is expected from Asian suppliers,
with high-quality production, and freight rates similar to those from West
Africa. For exports to Western Europe, the Lome Convention will provide
Liberia with tariff advantages for processed wood products over major Asian
rivals of between 5% and 13%. On the other hand, to be successful, Liberia
must improve its road infrastructure, which is reflected in late deliveries;
its storage and port facilities (para 3.12f), which have led to impaired
quality; and its marketing contacts, which are inadequate as the timber trade
places much trust in mutual confidence. In addition, Liberia has not yet
built up an adequate sawn timber processing capacity, 1/ and with few excep-
tions, does not yet meet world market quality standards. One of the aims of
the proposed project is to improve and increase sawn timber output by promoting
increased mechanical wood processing by concessions through FDA's efforts in
offering technical advice and market intelligence.
5.08      Because of the great variety of species and grades and the rela-
tively closed nature of the market, there is no clear indicator for hardwood
log prices. However, it appears that the prices of West African logs have
risen by about 30% in real terms over the last 10-15 years. Based on IBRD
price projections, prices of tropical hardwood logs in constant dollar terms,
depending on the species, are expected to be 40 to 60% higher in 1980 than
in 1975, and 50 to 70% higher in 1985, which may be somewhat overly optimistic.
Tropical hardwood sawn wood prices will rise in real terms by 15% between
1970/72 and 1980, and by another 5% in 1985.
5.09      In calculating the estimated projects benefits derived from strength-
ening FDA, an average F.O.B. price of US$131 m for logs was used. Prices were
based on actual end 1977 prices, adjusted according to IBRD price projections
for 1985   The average 1985 F.O.B. price for square-edged timber would be about
US$263/m by using the same trend forecast as the IBRD projections.
1/   Although the present capacity in Liberia is about 205,000 m  (s) of which
less than 50% is utilized, poSentially the local wood processing industry
could grow to about 600,000 m (s).



- 25 -
Plantation-Grown Timber
5.10      The primary objective of GOL's plantation development program is
to produce low-cost long fiber softwood (e.g., pines) and short fiber hard-
woods (e.g., Gmelina) in significant quantities for export in manufactured
form, either pulp, chips, or sawn timber integrated with chips primarily to
Western Europe.
5.11      Concerning future world market prospects for pulp and paper, recent
reports prepared by FAO and World Pulp and Paper Demand, Supply and Trade,
indicates that pulp consumption is expected to increase from about 48 million
tons (1972/74) to 74 million tons in 1990. This projected demand can be met
by available surplus capacity until the early 1980's. However in the longer
term, world demand for paper will continue to increase and substantial capacity
will have to be installed during the next decade. Western Europe and Japan
in particular will continue to be increasing net importers of pulp3and paper
products. Their currSnt pulpwood imports equivalent 167 million m (r) will
rise to 284 million m (r) by 1990. Earlier studies by the Bank 1/ indicate
that some of the developing countries located in the tropics, of which Liberia
is one, which have the potential to produce fast growing pulpwood plantations
and relatively low cost pulpwood, will be able effectively to compete with
pulp manufacturing enterprises located in the traditional producers' countries
(e.g. North America and Scandinavia) where wood supplies are becoming scarce
or more costly. Recent studies by FAO 2/ support that the developing coun-
tries should be able to increase their export pulp production by about two
million tons between 1975 and 1990. They also indicate that the developing
countries will increase their share of world trade in pulpwood and pulp from
the present 6% to about 10%.
5.12      World long fiber pulp prices, which remained fairly constant through
the 1960's, rose four times in the period 1970-1974, reaching a peak of US$600
per ton in 1975. With large stocks in the major producing area of Scandinavia
and North America, and generally depressed market conditions throughout the
world, long fiber pulp prices fell drastically between mid-1976 and late 1977
to less than US$350/ton. This is considered a temporary phenomenon which will
persist into the early 1980's. Bank IPD projections indicate that a mill net
price of US$395/ton for bleached long fiber pulp would be a realistic average
price for calculating the possible economic viability of an export-oriented
pulp mill in Liberia. Similarly, a mill net price of US$370/ton would be rea-
sonable for bleached short fiber pulp.
1/  Madagascar Appraisal Report No. 590-MAG (Annex 8 p. 4 and 5).
2/   Demand, Supply and Trade in Pulp and Paper - Trends and Prospects
to 1990: FAO Advisory Committee on Pulpwood Paper, Tunisia 1977.



- 26-
5.13      In assessing the possible economic viability of exporting plan ation
grown pine sawn timber, a mill net price of US$90 m  (s) (about US$120/mi  (s)
C.I.F. Europe) has been used. The amount of sawlogs produced from the project
trial plantation could easily be absorbed in both the domestic and export
market to Europe and elsewhere. The production of chips has been valued at a
mill net price of US$50 per B.D.U. Both price estimates were obtained from
the Forestry Department of FAO.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Stumpage Fees
6.01      One of the principal benefits of strengthening FDA will be the
implementation of policies leading to more efficient collection of forest
stumpage fees and other forest taxes (paras. 3.05 and 7.06).
6.02      Presently, it is estimated that about 15% to 20% 1/ of forest
stumpage fees are not collected by FDA due to incorrect scaling of logs and
marking of species and poor control of log exports at ports, together with
insufficient knowledge to assess the economic value of raw and processed
lumber. There is a lack of information about the cost of logging and proces-
sing operations and market trends and prices which result in under-recovery
of stumpage fees. It is estimated that recovery of stumpage fees could be
increased by at least 7.5%, which would represent an increase in revenues of
between US$2-3 million per annum by 1982/83 (Table 11). The impact of this
is dealt with under the government cash flow (para. 6.04).
6.03      Although the proposed strengthening of FDA will produce major
benefits, many are not quantifiable. The increase in staff, together with
housing and office facilities, equipment and transport, will permit FDA to
perform effectively without having to rely on the concessionaires for housing,
transport, etc. Increased efficiency and better control of FDA staff in
determining and collecting stumpage fees should lead to an immediate increase
in log export revenues (para. 6.02). The estimated financial rate of return
from strengthening FDA, based on the incremental costs and benefits derived
from increased log export revenue collection is 17.8% (Table 11) over 20
years. The financial return can be considered a close approximation of the
economic rate of return. During the development period, FDA would be staffed
and equipped to control all forestry sector operations, and to plan and direct
future forestry development, including implementation of Government-controlled
projects.
1/   See Project File, Annex 1 (Part V).



- 27 -
Financial Implications to Government
6.04      The financial implications of the project for Government are sum-
marized in Table 10. After taking into account the incremental stumpage fees
(para. 6.03) and stumpage fees from the 1,600 ha plantation, the cumulative
deficits rise to US$2.6 million by 1981, but are eliminated by 1984. Annual
cash surplus thereafter average approximately US$1.7 million after meeting
all project costs and debt service.
6.05      The Government cash flow does not take into account costs and
financing for the proposed large-scale industrial plantation development
scheduled to start in 1982/83. However, there are likely to be substantial,
but at this stage unquantifiable, increased revenues from local processed
timber. This would result from the more effective use of currently under-
utilized mechanical wood processing capacity; one of the aims of the project
is to improve the increased domestic wood processing (para 5.07).
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
A.   Project Benefits
7.01      The project would increase the benefits from GOL's forest develop-
ment and the value added by the sector through more efficient utilization
and control of natural resources, increased plantation grown wood production,
protect the environment and develop the mechanical wood processing industry.
This would be achieved by strengthening FDA (paras 6.02, 6.03) and imple-
menting an industrial trial plantation and studies which would lead to the
establishment of a large-scale industrial plantation development program.
Environmental Impact and Land Use and Exploitation Policy
7.02      The plantation program would assist in preventing soil erosion and
improve water catchment area protection in the Grand Cape Mount County. Fur-
thermore, the introduction of forest management plans in the concession areas
and forest reserves would help to conserve Liberia's natural forests, thereby
protecting the natural ecosystem and avoiding environmental disruptions.
Under the project, a start will also be made with investigations concerning
programs for preservation of national parks and wildlife conservation.
7.03      The proposed completion of the national land use classification
program would provide Liberia with a much needed tool for national and
regional planning as it will delineate the most suitable areas for forest
development and avoid unnecessary conflicts between agriculture and forestry.
7.04      Studies relating to the sustainable yield of Liberia's natural hard-
wood timber (para. 3.12e), together with the promotion and market intelligence
of the lesser-known species could result in a significant upward revision of
the allowable cut of preferred species, with further potential increases in
foreign exchange earnings.



- 28 -
B.   Economic Analysis - Industrial Trial Plantation
7.05      In calculating the economic rates of return, the following assump-
tions were made:
(a) project life based on rotation of 20 years for chips, 15
years for pulp (with residual values for the pulpmill)
and 25 years for sawlogs;
(b) all prices expressed in end-1977 prices;
(c) because of input duties and quantitative restrictions,
the accounting price of foreign exchange was adjusted to
US$1.075. Since the common unit of account is measured at
border prices, a standard conversion factor of 0.93 was
used, project costs exclude price contingencies, but include
5% physical contingencies; exclude identifiable taxes and
duties;
(d) although the opportunity cost of labor in the project area
is about 10% below the market wage rate, to reflect the
higher seasonal demand of labor for some of the plantation
operations, the market wage rate of US$1.50 per manday
has been used for project laborers. All local costs were
multiplied by the standard conversion factor to express
them in terms of border prices; and
(e) output has been valued at export parity prices. Since
no IBRD forecast has been made for plantation/mill output,
FAO/EEC and Bank IPD price projections were used. FDA
revenues are based on actual end-1977 prices for tropical
hardwood logs adjusted according to IBRD price projections
for 1985.
7.06      Although the proposed 1,600 ha trial plantation is mainly for fact
finding and training, the economic justification assumes that it will lead
to the establishment of a Government large-scale commercial industrial plan-
tation program of about 70,000 ha by the 1990's. To test the viability of
this large-scale program, preliminary feasibility study calculations have
been made. Models (Tables 12-14) representing three probable plantation end
uses were prepared for pulp, sawlogs integrated with chips and for chips
only. The net foreign exchange earnings/savings arising mainly from exports
(at full development) together with the estimated economic internal rate of
return and the net present worth for the three options are shown below:



- 29 -
Economic
Year to                     Net Annual   Net        Internal
Reach Full    Investment  Incremental  Present   Rate of
End Use Options  Development  Logging  Mill   Benefits   Worth 1/   Return
-_------------------ US$ million ------------------------
(i) Pulp (including
250,000 ton/year
pulp mill)              16         50    202         47       7.86        10.8
(ii) Chips (including
chipping mill)         13          23      14        12  (-) 19.00 2/      3.7
(iii) Sawlogs with chips    15            53     16        13        1.45        10.4
A comparison of the above figures show that the production of chips only is
unattractive subject to confirmation by the pre-industrial plantation study
(para. 3.12b), and indicates that (i) may be preferable to (iii) because of
the slightly higher rate of return. For example, by producing and exporting
pulp, the average net annual benefit would be US$47 millon with a discounted
net value of about US$8 million, whereas the estimated net annual benefit from
production of sawnlogs with chips would be US$13 million, with a discounted
net value of about US$1.5 million. These figures clearly reflect the signif-
icant difference in the scope and economic impact of a long-term industrial
plantation program with and without a pulpmill. Overall the prospects for
the establishment of a large-scale industrial plantation development program
appear satisfactory (para. 5.11).
C.   Risk and Sensitivity Analysis
7.07      Several tests were made to determine the sensitivity of the rates
of return to various alternative assumptions. For the plantation end use
calculations, a 10% increase in costs and a reduction in benefits by the same
amount would result in a drop in the rates of return of both the pulp and
sawlog chip models to about 7%. If the benefits increased by 10%, without
any increase in costs, the rates of return would increase marginally to
between 11% and 12%.
7.08      For the FDA component (para 6.03), a 10% increase in costs coupled
with a 10% reduction in benefits would result in a drop in the financial rate
of return from 18% to 13%. A project delay of one year without any changes
in costs and benefits would reduce the rate of return to about 14%.
1/   Discounted at 10% estimated opportunity cost.
2/   Positive net present worth will only be reached if discounted by 4%.



- 30 -
7.09      There are no known abnormal risks for the FDA component.  However,
an apparent risk may be that GOL would not pursue policies conductive to the
engagement and retention of competent staff, even with the present shortage
of professional and skilled staff in the country. However, recent indications
show that GOL may not reduce public corporation salaries and benefits of pro-
fessional and technical staff. Furthermore, the shortage of professional and
skilled staff may be off-set by overseas and on-the-job training at all levels.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from Government on the
following principal points:
(a) before June 30, 1982, taking into account the results of
the project's and LFC's plantation trials and the industrial
feasibility study, GOL would prepare, in consultation with
the Association, its investment proposals for a long-term
industrial plantation development program (para. 3.12b);
(b) before June 30, 1979, GOL would prepare and submit to the
Association for review and consultation, proposals regarding
the framework and implementation of Liberia's forest exploita-
tion and fiscal policies based on studies by FDA, German Aid
and other agencies (para. 3.12c);
(c) GOL would contribute all additional funds required by
FDA during the project period for payment of staff
involved in revenue collection (para. 3.20).
(d) the posts of Managing Director; Assistant Managing Director;
the five divisional heads; three specialists in (i) tropical
hardwood marketing, (ii) mechanical wood processing, with
background in data processing, and (iii) forestry management
planning; the industrial trial plantation manager and the
mechanical engineer would be filled by persons on terms and
conditions, qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Association (para 4.03).
8.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that the ADB loan agree-
ment of US$5.0 million and the credit agreement of US$1.8 million with GTZ had
been signed by ADB and the Governments of the Federal Republic of Germany and
Liberia (para. 3.19).
8.03      It was agreed that retroactive financing of up to US$250,000 would
be made available for expenditures incurred since January 1, 1978 to carry out
certain civil works pertaining to the plantation (paras 3.15, 3.20).
8.04      On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$6.0 million to the Government of
Liberia.



TABLE 1
LIBERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Growth of Logging and Sawn Timber Industry 1/
Logs Produced '000 m 3                Converted in Sawn Timber '000 m3
Export       Local       Total            Total     Doiestic       Export
1970      144           77        221               35          34             1
1971      205          114        319               53          52           0.7
1972      222          180        402               83          83           0.4
1973      364          160        524               73          69             4
1974      259          150        409               69          67             2
1975      220          244        464              103          80            23
1976      315          290        605              132          83            49
1/ Source:  Forestry and Timber Industries - Liberia, Vol. III - Atlanta,
January 1977.



TABLE 2
Liberia
Forestry Project
1/
GOL's Forestry Revenues    (US$IOOO)
Year     Local Stumpage   Export Stumpage   Total Stumpage   Land Rental   Reforestation
Fees 2/           Fees 3/           Fees             Fees 4/         Fees 5/
1970         57.9              232.9             290.8            289.5           -
1971        102.2              330.5             432.7            315.9           -
1972         74.5              795.4             869.9            350.0          -
1973         51.2            2,468.4           2,519.6            834.1          -
1974        108.4            2,245.7           2,354.1            754.6           588.3
1975        212.0            3,523.0           3,735.0            711.4           668.1
1976        262.3            6,024.1           6,286.4            757.7           874.0
1/     Source:  FDA and Concession Secretariat.
2/     Based on fees of $1/1m3 felled for local processed wood,. irrespective grade and
species.
3/     Based on fees between $2-36/m3 felled for export of logs, depending on species.
(These fees have been increased in this period about 6 times.)
4/     Fees at $0.10/acre.
5/     Provided concessionaire does not carry out reforestation measures, fees at
$1.44/m3 felled, Davable to reforestation fund.



FORESJRY PROJECT
SUMMARY OF P`ROJECT COSIS
(U.S. $000)
FOREIGN EXCHANGE
YEAR 1      YEAR 2      YEAR 3      YE1-A  4    YEAR 5             4T LUT AL  (7.)      (U  I      I 0UCAL
COSTS                            LUST 
(A)CAPITAL COSTS
F.D.A.        --HOUSING                    $  945,3  $1,676.8   $210.0  $  210.0  $  210.0                  $ 3Y252,1    5 2  $ L.676.8   $ 1,5 72.3
--VEHICLES                   $  446.2  $   66.8  $   35.0  $  452.4  $   66.8                 $ 1,067.2    80  $   853.8  $  213.4
-EQUIPMENT                   $  298.2  $  192.6  $               $        -$          -       $   490.8   64  *   315.5  1'  175.3
SUB TOTAL                                $1,689,?   $ 1,F93 6 .2  $  245.0  $  662.4  $  2/6.8            $ 4P810.1   59  $ 2v846.1   $1.964.0
PL AN'T'ATIO0N  --PRE-PROJEC T             $  250.0  $          -  $         -$          --$         -      $   250.0       -  $          -  $  250.0
-ROADS                       $  268.1  $          -  $     1.6  S             $       -       $   269,7    80  $   215.8  $   53.9
-CLEARING                    $     6.0  $  263.6  $           -  $      1.6  $        -.      $   277.2    80  $   221,8  $   55.4
-PLANTING                    $   51.3  $    13.5  $           -  $   46.8  $          -       $    111.6    81   $      90,4  $   21.2
-MANAGEMENT          S~~~~~~~ 465.0  $    -  $        -  $   12.0  $           -      $   477,0    73  $   344.5  $  132.5
suB TOTrAL                               $1,040.4  $  277,1  $          1.6  $   66.4  $           -      $ 1,p385 .5    63  *   872.!5   $  513.0
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS                           $2,730.1  $2,213.3  $  246.6  $  728.8  $  276.8                 $ 6,195.6    60  $ 3,718.6   $2,477.0
(D)OPERATING COS'TS
F.D.A.        -SALARIES                     $  126.0  $  156,9  $  164.7  $  172.5  $  172.5                 $   792,6       -  $         --  $  792.6
-MAINTENANCE                 $  230.1  $  285.4  $  345.4  $  359.8  S  366.1                 $ 1,586.8    58  $   917.2  $  669.6
SUB4 'TOTAL                              $  356.1  $  442.3  $  510.1  S  532.3  $  538.6                 $ 2,379.4    39  $   917.2  51,462.2
PLANTAT'ION  -ROADS                         $   19.5  $   25.5  $   29.4  $   41.1  $   47.7                 $    163.1    55  $      89.1  $   74.0
-CLEARING                    $  137.3  $   51.4  $   61.0  $   80.2  $   89.9                 $    419.8    38  $    159.7  $  260.1
-PLANTING                    $   51.7  $   61.5  $   71.3  $   90.9  $  100.7                 $   376.2    27  $        98.6  $  277.5
-MGT. SALARIES               $    78.6  $    78.6  $   78.6  $   78.6  $    78.6              $   393.2       -  $          -  $  393.0
-MGlT. OPERATING             $   98.5  $   98.5  $   98.5  $   98.5  $    98.5                $   492.5   11  $         54.2  $  438.3
SUB TOTAL                                $  385.6  $  315.5  $  338.8  $  389.3  $  415.4                 $ 1,844.4   22  $   401.6   $1,442.9
TOTAL OPERA'TING COSTS                        $  741.7  $  757.8  $  848.9  $  921.6  $  954.0                 $ 4,223.8    31  $ 1,318.8   $2,905.1
(CITECHNICAL ASSISTANCE & TRAINING             $1,228.0  $1,247.0  $  573.0  $  440.0  $  356.0                 $ 3,844.0   100  $ 3,844.0  $  
'TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                          $4,699.8  $4,218.1  $1,668.5  $2,090.4  $1,586.8                 $14,263.4    62  $ 8,881.4  $5,382.1.
CONTINGENCIES
(A)PHYSICAL                                  $  235.0  $  210.9  $   83.4  $  104.5  $   79.3                 $    713.1    62  $   442.1  $  271.0
(B)PRICE                                     $  346.9  $  632.3  $  361.3  $  612.2  $  599,1                 $ 2.551.10   62  $ 1,582.1   $  969.7
SUB TOTAL                                     $  581.9  $  843,2  $  444.7  $  716,7  $  678.4                 $ 3,264,9    62  $ 2,024.2  $1,240.7
TOTAL. PROJECT COSTS                           $5,281.7  $5,061.3  $2,113.2  $2,807.1  $2,265.2                  $17,528.3    62  $10,905.6  $6,622.8
i-I



06/15//s
LIBERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
FOREST DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
TOTAL COSTS (U.S. $000)
FOR. EXCH.
YEAR 1    YEAR 2  YEAR 3    YEAR 4    YEAR 5             TOTAL  (Z)        COST      LOCAL
COSTS                        COST
(A)OPERATING COSTS
STAFF SALARIES (*)            $  126.0  $  156.9  $164.7  $  172.5  $  172.5           $  792.6    -  $         -  $  792.6
OPERATING & MAINTENANCE       $  230.1  $  285.4  $345.4  $  359.8  $  366.1           $1,586.8   58  $  917.2  $  669.6
SUB TOTAL                         $  356.1  $  442.3  $510.1  $  532.3  $  538.6          $2,379.4   39  $  917.2  $1.462.2
(P)CAPITAL COSIS
HOUSING  BUILDING             $  945.3  $1,676.8  $210.0  $  210.0  $  210.0          *3,252,1   52  *1,676.8  $1,575.3
VEHICLES                       $  446.2  $   66.8  $ 35.0  $  452.4  $   66.8          $1,067.2   80  $  853.8  $  213.4
EQUIPMENT                      $  298.2  $  192.6  $    -  $         -  $       -      $  490.8   64  $  315.5  $  175.3
SUB TOTAL                         $1,689.7  t1,936.2  $245.0  $  662.4  $  276.8          $4,810.1   59  $2F846.1  $1,964.0
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                $2,045.8  $2,378.5  $755.1  $1,194.7  $  815.4           $7Y,189.5   52  $3,763.3  $3,426.2
CONTINGENCIES
(A)PHYSICAL                       $  102.3  $  118.9  $ 37.8  $   59.7  $   40.8          $  359.5   52  $  186.9  $  172.6
(B)PRICE                          $  154.9  $  373.4  $167.6  $  354.5  $  314.8          $1,365.2   52  $  709.9  $  655.3
SUB TOTAL                          $  257.2  $  492.3  $205.4  $  414.2  $  355.6           $1,724.7   52  $  896.8  $  827.9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 $2,303.0  $2,870.8  $960.5  *1608.9  $1,171.0           $8,914.2    -  $4,660.1  $4.254.1
($) PROJECT RELATED STAFF ONLY.
C**) 5X
(8*** RATES BASED ON I.B.R.D. ESTIMATIONS



TABLE 5
06/14/ ,71
LIBERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
TRIAL PLANTATION - TOTAL COSTS
(U.S. $000)
FOR. EXCH.
YEAR I  YEAR 2  YEAR 3  YEAR 4  YEAR 5             TOTAL  (X)        COST      LOCAL
COSTS                       COS T S
uilERArINS3 COSTS
ROADS                        $   19.5  $ 25.5  $ 29.4  $ 41.1  $ 47.7  -           1 163.1   55  t   89.1  $   74.0
FOREST CLEARING              $  137.3  $ 51.4  $ 61.0  $ 80.2  S 89.9  -  $  419.8   38  $  159.7  $  260.1
NUJRSERY AND F'LAN'T'ING     $   51.7  $ 61.5  $ 71.3  $ 90.9  $100.7  -  $  376.0   27  S   98.6  $  277.5
MANAGEMEN'  (SALARIES)       $   78.6  $ 78.6  $ 78.6  $ 78.6  $ 78.6  -  $  393.0    -                    $  393.0
MANAGEMENT (OPERATING)       $   98.5  $ 98.5  $ 98.5  $ 98.5  $ 98.5  -  $  492.5   11  $   54.2  S  438.3
SUB TOTAL                     $  385.6  $315.5  $338.8  $389.3  $415.4  -  t1,844.4   22  $  401.6  $1,442.9
CAPITAL COSTS
PRE-PROJECT CONSTRUCTION  $  250.0  $    -  $    -  $    -  $    -  -  $  250.0    -                       $  250.0
ROADS                        $  268.1  $    -  $  1.6  $    -  $    -  -  $  269.7   80  $  215.8  $   53.9
FOR-S' CLEARING              $    6.0  $263.6  $    -  $  7.6  $    -          $  277.2   80  $  221.8  $   55.4
NIJRSERY AND fLANT[NG        $   51.3  $ 13.5  $    -  $ 46.8  $    -          $  111.6   81  $   90.4  $   21.2
MANAGE3MENr                  $  465.0  $    -  $    -  $ 12.0  $    -  -  $  477.0   73  $  344.5  $  132.5
'UB *tOTAL                    $1,040.4  $277.1  $  1.6  $ 66.4  $    -  -  $1t385.5   63  $  872.5  $  513.0
TOT'AL BASE;LINE C'OSTS        $1,426.0  $592.6  $340.4  $455.7  $415.4  -  $3,229.9   39  $1,274.1  $1,955.9
CON TINGE NCIES
(A)PHYSICAL (*)             $   71.4  $ 29.6  $ 17.0  $ 22.8  $ 20.8  -  $  161.6   39  $   63.0  $   98.6
(B)FRICE (**)               $  104.0  $ 83.4  $ 72.2  $131.1  *153.1  -  $  543.8   39  $  212.1  $  331.7
SUB TOTAL                     $  175.4  $113.0  $ 89.2  $153.9  $173.9  -  t  705.4   39  $  275.1  $  430.3
tOTAL PROJECT COSTS            $1,601.4  $705.6  $429.6  $609.6  $589.3  -  $3,935.3   39  $1,549.2  $2,386.2
5*% 5X
(**) RAIES BASED ON I.B.R.D. CALCULATIONS.



06/14/78
LIBER [A
FEORE77n7VrWOJEC I
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND T RAISING
(U.S. $000()
YEAR 1            YEAR 2l           YE-AR 3        YEAR 4          YA R S                      FOR.EXCH,
COST      OTY       TOTAL. O~TY       TOTAL. OTY    T OTAL  OTT TO~l,IT~AI., ST Y    TOTAL.         TOTAL  (X)         COST  LOCAL
FPER                                                                                              COSTS                       COST
uNITr
(A)ADVISORS TO F.D.A.
FORESTRY                 N/No      $  5.50         18  $   99.0    12  *   66.0    12  $ 66.0    12  $ 66.0                $      -     $  297.0  100  $  297.0  $   -
LEGAL & ADMIN.           N/Mo       $  5.50        18  $   99,0       6  $   33.0           $     -         $              $            $  132,0  100  $  132,0  $   -
SUB TOTAL                                                   $  1.98,0         $   99.0          $ 66.0         $ 66.0          $     -    $  429,.0          $  429.0  $   -
(B) STAFF
ND. SURVEY A NAFP.(*)  N/YR          $ 70.00          1  $   70.0       1  $   70.0       1  $ 70.0      1  S 70.0       1  $ 70.0       $  350.0  100  $  350.0  $   -
NKT. RESEARCH OPF.(*) N/YR           $ 70.00          1  S   70.0       1  $   70.0       1  $ 70.0      1  $ 70.0       1  $ 70.0       $  350.0  100  $  iso.0  $   -
NONIT,  & EVAL.OFF.(*) N/YR          $ 70.00          1  $   70.0       1  $   70.0       1  $ 70.0      1  $ 70.0       1  $ 70.0       $  350.0  100  $  350.0  $   -
PLANTATION MGR,(*)        N/YR       $ 70.00          1  $   70.0       1  $   70.0       1  $ 70.0      1  $ 70,0       1  $ 70.0       $  350.0  100  $  350.0  $   -
ROADS A F.C, ENGR(*)  N/YR           $ 70.00          1  $   70,0       1  $   70.0       1  $ 70.0      1  $ 70.0       1  $ 70.0       $  350.0  100  $  350.0  $   -
SUB TOTAL                                                   $  350.0          $  350.0          $350.0         $350.0          $350.0      $1,750.0          $1,750.0  $
(C) CONSULTANTS
NKTG.  MONIT,  M* /No               $  6.00          4  $   24.0       4  $   24.0       4  $ 24.0          $     -         $     -     $   72.0  100  $   72.0  $ -
FINANCE ANGI.             N/NO       $  4.00          3  $   12.0       3  $   12.0          $     -         $     -         $     -     $   24.0  100  $   24.0  $ -
SYLVICULTURE              N/Mo       $  6.00          1  $     6.0      1  $     6.0      1  $  6.0          $     -         $     -    S   18.0  100  $   18.0  $ -
PLANTATION NOT.           N/NO       $  6.00             $        -        $        -     1  $  6.0      1  $  6.0           $     -     $   12.0  100  $   12.0  $ -
FOREST CLEARING           N/MO       $  6.00             $        -        $        -        $    -      1  $  6.0           $     -     $    6.0  100  $        6.0  $ -
MENSURATION               N/No       $  6.00             $        -        $        -        $     -         $     -     1  $  6.0       $    6.0  100  $        6.0  $ 
SUB TOTAL                                                   $   42.0          $   42.0          $ 36.0         $ 12.0          $  6.0      9  138.0          $  138.0  $ -
(D)STUDIES & SURVEYS
AERIAL PHOTO-           SUN/YR       $500.00          1  $  500.0       1  $  500.0          $     -         $     -         $     -    $1,000.0  100  $1,000.0  $   -
CHARCOAL                  N/MO       $  6.00             $        -   10  $   60.0           $     -         $     -         $     -    $   60.0  100  $   60.0  $   -
PRE-INDUSTRIAL SURV,   N/NO          $  7.00             $        -        $        -    7  $ 49.0           $     -         $     -     $   49.0  100  $   49,0  $   -
SOCIO-ECONOMIC SURV.  N/NO           $  6,00             $        -    3  $    18.0          $    -          $     -         *     -    $   18.0  100  $    19.0  9   -
FORESTRY POLICY           N/NO       $  5.00          4  $   20.0          $        -        $     -.        $     -         $     -    $   20.0  100  $   20.0  $   -.
SUSTAINED YIELD STUDY N/NO           $  6.00          3  $   18.0       6  $   36.0          $      -        $     -         $     -    $   54.0  100  $   54.0  $   -
PORT HANDLING STUDY   N/NO           $  6,00          3  $   18.0       4  $   24.0          $    -          $               $     -    $   42,0  100  $   42,0  $   -
AERIAL PHOTO INTERP.  N/Md           $  6.00             $        -    6  $   36.0        6  $ 36.0          $     -         $     -    $   72.0  100  $    72.0  6   -
SUB TOTAL                                                   $  556.0          $  674.0          $ 65.0          $     -        $      -    $13506,1,                           -
PLANTATION GRAD,(2)   N/No           $  1.00          6  $     6.0      6  $      6.0        $      -        $     -         *     -    $   12.0  100  $    12.0  $   -
LAND DEV. ENGR.           N/No       $  1.00          6  $     6.0         $        -         $     -        $               $     -    $      6.0  100  $       6.0  $   -
EQUIP. NAINT. OFF.        N/MO       $  1.00          6  $     6.0         $        -         $    -         $     -         $     -    $      6,0  100  $       6.0  $   -
REBEARCN OFFICER          N/No       $  1.00          6  $      6.0         $       -         $     -        $     -         $     -    $      6,0  100  $       6.0  $   -
PROF. FORESTERS (4)   N/No           $  1.00         12  $   12.0   12  $   12.0    12  $ 12.0   12  $ 12.0                  $     -    $   48.0  100  $   48.01 $   -
FOREST ENGINEER           N/NO       $  1.00             $        -   12  $    12.0    12  $ 12.0            $     -         $     -    $   24,0  100  $   24.0  $ 
LAND USE PLNG.(DELFT) N/NO           $  1,00         12  $   12.0    12  $   12.0             $     -        $     -         $     -    $   24.0  100  $   24.0  $ -
WOODPROCESSING ENG.   N/NO           $  1,00         10  $   10.0    10  $   10.0             $     -        $     -         $     -     $   20.0  100  $   20.0  $ -
IIKTfi & MONITORING       N/NO       $  1.00         12  $    12,0    12  $    12.0       6  $  6.0          $      -        $     -    $ tik-0  100  5   N0.0  $ 
ADMIIN. A LIBRARIAN       N/No       $  1.00          6  $      6.0     6  $      6.0         $     -        $     -         S     -      $   12.0  100  $    12.0  $ -
WILDLIFE TRG,(TANZ.)  N/NO           $  1.00          6  $      6.0    12  $    12.0      6  $  6.0          $     -         $     -      $   24.0  '100  $   24.0  9 
SUB TOTAL                                                   $   62.0          $   82.0          $ 36.0          $ 12.0          $     -     $  212.0          $  212.0  $ -
TOTAL                                                         $1,228.0          $1,247.0          $573.0          $440.0          $356.0      $3,644.0  100  $3,644.0
()TO BE FINANCED BY GTZ



TABLE 7
LIBERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year and                                          Cumulative
Semesters                  Disbursements               Disbursements
FY 1979
First                              0.6                         -
Second                            1.1                          1.7
FY 1980
First                              1.0                         -
Second                             1.1                         3.8
FY 1981
First                              0.4                          -
Second                             0.4                         4.6
FY 1982
First                              0.4                          -
Second                             0.4                         5.4
FY 1983
First                              0.3                          -
Second                            0.3                          6.0



o -2 ~~~~S                                                         .0   n..n......n oe  -S2w@Rg t A on'  l  |4
t   -   no  M  n   _  nbn>o^<  N  n-  ooo   roor   n^000F  - s~~~~~ -  @e@s@4    -  - - - -  - -     -    -4 - -  3 wI         
,-  E   EE  E     E----------         -----   ----         ----------------EE--------------------                                           .2 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -|_                           - -8 -8888=0  - -8g  -e~"  - -80"""<oowo8Soo8s -S - -8w -| -s8 - -               
Li~~~~u 8 8w  S 8   8SS8 o8_ 888 S8S<884goS88  o S8 08S,8 | 8w| 8 2S
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A -  vAs
oa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                   A .                                                2'" A 



41    0000                  0000I0                    0       0    0 0;   0 -  0                      r   0  roo_0ww        0 g     0       0                           ooo:  j         .0 S             cii ' -
.J  ooo ~.........                       .       4A        .1 . '-,                 -                                             -.14,                   040      0s         . 44 0 4               4~   4 
.4000.-,.-,0..onr,oooor,0. .4                  .       .044.   0. ~. .0.4. .     00....000 ....         .A  0 0                              .     .  0.  .  .     ~.04.4         01. .0
-- --              ---        ---r4 w _                           ---------__             ---          ------------<__                     -------                 -   - n^         -A --
X                                                            -,A~~~~~~~4  -t       00                                                                                                               00
-w - -" -  E----                        ------------                      -----------                           ------- - - -"E -_ - - -_-E - - -              nn_
_   tS   0000000^j0..... ...                               r                            o            _                4...                0    oIot ji oi  ooot VI           8  oo... !..00  0 7 . .
------------  ---4 ----0                          -           0.------ ----o  ----.------- _                                _           ---0             -----
........  ....          ~     ~     ~     0                                                                               ............000 44     ...00~4*f   340.V04-
z ~ ~ ~ ~      ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~ ~ ~ ~ ---   ------@--E---- -------a-e--8S-   _Se   woo5S<
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I                                 *0
S~~~    ~~              I oI A                                                                                         Jh
0       00000009000 0  t              90g^g     00    21   00 0 0 0 0 0 09 0 0 9 9 0                                                    01      00 UeU               oo803 -  b        gg|       g2 b          U
*       00        0000o  . na    :0l 44  O O.* l 4  4fl.0             00 0 4              00      00      40 z4 4                        -      000    0.00 tD                 0 n.00                0                                        
re. 0000& oj00A41044440                                                                                    0                           .04 






LIBERIA
F0RESTRY PROJECT
Iloo      - -lo   oso,oo   Cash Flow
(US$0 '0007
1400
1979      1987       1981       1982       193        1984       1985       1988       1987          1988     1989       1990       1991        1892      1993       1994       1995        1996      1987       1998       1988        2088       2801       2992        2903       2028
Cash Ilotlo
(i` UiPogdE                                           1,702      2,102         0          0          0                                                                                                                                                                                                             
(11) 110 l1,a-t                                        2.00O      1.0I          10        91          00         -          - 
(Iii   FlEGoG-o                                           380        392        38         330        330         -          -                     --                     -          -          -          -          -          ---------
Sol-totol                              ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~4.080  4.,380  1,280  2,030     1.030         -          -          -
S'b-'-.1                                 ~     ~ ~~~~~- 19 5    789     1,392      2, 193     3.020      3,027      3,020      3,020        3,970    3,020       3,020      3,020      3.020r    3.020       3.020      3,020      3,020      3,070      3,020      3.820      3,029      3.220      3,020        3,020   75,300
T0001 CAS9 INFLOW                                             4.090      4.375      1.869      3,113      3,223      3.020      3,0207     3,020      3.020        3.020    3,720      3,020      3,020      3,020      3,020      3,020      3,020      3.020      3,000      3,020       3,920      3.020      3.020      3,020        3,920    75,509
Cboh O-tfloo
(17 PlA                                              2,3013     2,8751 1   96 0       1,609      1,271        689        669        689        689          689       699        699        689        699        689        189        699        989        689        69         68          8          9           8969               1,2
PI1 ....ato                                         1.601        705        13         610        589.                   -          -                                                                                                                                                                                  
(iio)  ToPl  OOo oc                                     ,4        1,485         723        188        50a                                                                -          -          -          -          -          --                    -          -          -          --                                -
Sob-tot1                                              5,249     5,061      2,113      2,907      2,265         689        689        699       699          699       689        689        989        699        699        699        189        699        699        609        689        688         6 89       689          689    17,225
1b7Db IS- Codt2' 1                                                                3          0         4           5         45          41        4            45      105        105        104        104        103        103        102        102        101        101        220         218        217        216          214      4,820
(107 ADB toot                                            9         236        316        356        39584                 34         19          51         561       584        58     34 58       4       5      94  584              39 54      584        591        994--                                         -
Sob-totl                                                 86        257        319        394        039        629        629        679       429          629       669        699        688        688        697        687        696i       686        693        695        220        218        2 17       716           214     4,820
TOTAL CAII OIITPLOO                                           5,331      1,319      2,461      3,2It      2,704      1,318      1,318      1,318      1,318       1,318    1 ,379      1,378      1, 377     1,377      1,376      1, 376     1,375      1,375      1,374      1,374         909        907        906        915          913    22,045
tOT 14S0 0100                                                (1,254)      ( 74 3)    (592)    ,212          519      1,702      1,702      1,702      1,702       1, 702    1,641      1,642      1,643      1, 643     1,644      2,5314     2,483      2,655      2.986      3,156      2,111      2,113      2,114      2.115         2,117    53,453
CL'1TLAETIE CASE PLOW                                        (1,254)   (1.9973   (2.5493   (2,3773   (1,858)          (156)    1,546       3,249      4,950       6,632    9,294       9 ,9 36    11,309    13,222    18,866    17,180    19,663    22,330    2S,316    28,472    30.583    32,696    34,810    36,925                 39,042    92,497
1/ ls-  Pooj-atl 01      4004
2/IS-da-   To-o; Iotorooto   3/0 of 12 901 .0...0 h                      ..o . -totdtog: Iorwo SI -sr;
poloo- altp     amots f 15 of nota oot(06 oillIoo) 000  00__  11-20, 300 oP
3/ ADS tort: Ioosappo-Li-ly  91%100  20 yaar.   orotoo   r id 000  Y.sro  6-20.






LIBERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Financial Rate of Return Calculations
Forest Development Authority
(US$ 000)
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Year 6      Year 7      Year 8      Year 9      Year 10      Year 11-20
Incremental Costs 1/
FDA
Staff Salaries                           126.0      156.9       164.7       172.5       172.5       172.5       172.5       172.5       172.5       172.5          172.5
Operatind and Maintenance                230.1      285.4       345.4       359.8       366.1       366.1       366.1       366.1       366.1       366.1          366.1
Housing and Building                     945.3    1,676.8       210.0       210.0       210.0         -           -           -           -           -               -
Vehicles                                446.2         66.8       35.0       452.4        66.8       150.0       150.0       150.0       150.0       150.0           150.0
Equipment                                268.2       192.6         -          -           -           -           -           -           -           -               -
Advisors to FDA                          198.0        99.0       66.0        66.0         -           -           -           -           -
Expatriate Staff 2/                      210.0      210.0       210.0       210.0       210.0         -           -           -           -           -
Consultant Backup Services 3/             36.0        36.0        24.0         -          -           -           -           -           -           -
Studies 4/                               297.0      316.0         18.0         -          -           -           -           -           -           -
Fellowships 5/                            35.0       41.0         18.0        6.0          -          -           -           -           -           -               -
Additional Operation Staff 6/            104.1       154.6       192.7       221.7      247.7       247.7       247.7       247.7       247.7       247.7           247.7
Sub-total                             2,895.9    3,235.0    1,283.8    1,698.4    2,273.1           936.3       936.3       936.3       936.3       936.3           936.3
Add: 5% Contingencies                      144.8       161.8        64.2        84.9       113.7       46.8        46.8        46.8        46.8         46.8           46.8
TOTAL INCREMENTAL COSTS               3,040.6    3,396.8    1,348.0    1,783.3    2,396.8           983.1       983.1       983.1       983.1       983.1           983.1
Incremental Benefits 7/
Stumpage Revenues from Log Exports           -         217.0       654.0    1,537.0    2,437.0    3,356.0    3,356.0    3,356.0    3,356.0    3,356.0               3,356.0
Net Benefits                          (3,040.6)  (3,179.8)      (694.0)    (246.3)        50.2    2,372.9    2,372.9    2,372.9    2,372.9    2,372.9             2,372.9
1/ See Tables 3 to 6, 8, 9.
2/ Expatriate staff pertaining to FDA.
3/ Consultants for Plantation excluded.
4/ Studies pertaining to stumpage fee, sustained yield and 50% of aerial photo and
photo handling studies.
5/ 50% of total fellowship program.
6/See Table 8.
7/ See Project File, Annex 3G.



TABLE 12
LIBERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
ECONOMIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN CALCULATIONS
Industrial Plantation - Pulp Production
(UJ.S.$ millions)
Plantation    Logging      Loglig       Pulpuill      Pulpmill
Prolect Year      Cost    Capital Cost Oper. Cost Capital Cost  Oper. Cast Total Cost L/ Revenues
1             5.7                                                               5.7
2             2.4                                                               2.4
3             2.2                                                               2.2
4             1.9                                                               1.9
5             2.0                                                               2.0
6             1.8                                                               1.8
7             2.0                                                               2.0
.8           10.6                                                               10.6
9-            3.6                                                               3.6
10             3.8                                                               3.8
11             3.8                                                               3.8
12             3.7                                    4.7           2.8         11.2
13             3.9                                   28.7          10.7         43.3
14-            3.7                                   64.0          2.3.9        91.6
15             3.7                                   56.2          24.7         84.6
16                          81           11.5        33.6          33.2         86.4         45.6
17                         2T.6          13.4         1.3          22.5         39.8         70.6
18                          2.1          14,9         1.3          21.3         39.6         85.7
19                          3.0          15.7         1.0          18.8         38.5         95.3
20                          2.3          15.4         1.0          18.9         37.6         95.3
21                          2.0          15.3         1.0         .18.9         37.2         95.3
22                          5.9          17.1         1.0          18.9         42.9         95.3
23                          2.8          16.3         1.0          18.9         39.0         95.3
24                          3.0          16.4         1.0          18.9         39.3         95.3
-- 25-                        3.1          16.5        1.0          18.9         39.5         95.3
26                          3.0          16.,6        1.0          18.9         39.5         95.3
27-                         1_1          16.2         1.0          18.9         37.2         95.3
28                          6.3          17.2.        1.0          18.9         43.4         95.3
29                          2.8          16.4         1.0-         18.9         39.1         95.3
30                          Z.'          17.1         1.0          18.9         39.1        375.3  2i
1/ Local coats adjusted by a 0.93 standerd conersion factor.
2/ Includes'reSaiAl value of .111 and logging equipment.



TABLE 13
- ~~LIBERI.A
FORESTRY PROJECT
ECONOtKIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN CALCULATIONS
Industrial Plantation - Sawlog and Chip Production
(U.S.$ millions)
Logging   Logging   Chipping   Chippiug   Savill   Sawmill
Project  Plantation  Capital  Oper.    Capital         Oper.   Capital   Oper.   Total11Revenue Revaenu  Total
Year      Cost       Cost      Cost       Cost       Cost      Cost      Cost     Costs- ChiPs  Savlogs Revenues
1        2.7                                                                      2.7
2        2.4                                                                      2.4
3        2.9                                                                      2.9
4        2.4                                                                      2.4
5        2.4                                                                      2.4
6        2.4                                                                     2.4
7        2.4                                                                     2.4
8        1.9                                                                     1.9
9        4.7                                                                     4.7
10        1.9         1.4      0.9        3.2         0.3                         7.7   2.9                2.9
11        1.9          .5      0.9                    0.3                         3.6   2.9                2.9
12        1.9          .1      0.9                    0.3                         3.2   2.9                2.9
13        1.9          .1      0.9                    0.3                         3.2   2.9                2.9
14        1.8          .1      0.9                    0.3                         3.1   2.9                2.9
15        1.8         2.0      2.4        2.5         0.5       1.5      0.8     11.5   6.3        2.2    8.5
16        2.0         1.0      2.4                    0.5       0.1      0.8       6.4   6.3       2.2    8.5
17        2.0         0.2      2.4                    0.5                0.8       5.9   6.3       2.2    8.5
i8        2.0         0.2      2.4                    0.5       0.1     0.8       6.0   6.3        2.2    8.5
19        2.0         0.2      2.4                    0.5       4.4      0.8     10.3   6.3        2.2    8.5
20        1.9         3.9      3.8        3.0         0.7       0.2      2.4     15.9   9.6        6.5   16.1  4
21        2.0         2.0      3.8                    0.7       0.2      2.4     11.1   9.6        6.5   16.1
22        2.1         0.5      3.8                    0.7       0.4      2.4      9.9   9.6        6.5   16.1
23        1.9         0.5      3.8                    0.7       0.4     2.4       9.7   9.6        6.5   16.1
24        1.9         0.5      3.8                    0.7       0.4      2.4      9.7   9.6        6.5   16.1
25        1.9         0.5      3.8                    0.7       0.4     2.4       9.7   9.6        6.5   16.1
26                    7.9      7.2        1.0         0.9      4.9      8.6      30.55  16.8      22.7   39.5
27                    3.0      7.2                    0.9       3.9     8.6      23.6  16.8       22.7   39.5
28                    1.0      7.2                    0.9       0.5     8.6      18.2  16.8       22.7   39.5
29                    1.0      7.2                    0.9       0.5     8.6      18.2  16.8       22.7   39.5
30                    1.0    .7.2                     0.9      0.5      8.6      18.2  16.8       22.7   39.5
31                    1.0      7.2                    0.9       0.5     8.6      18.2  16.8       22.7   39.5
32                    1.0      7.2                    0.9       0.5     8.6      18.2  16.8       22.7   39.5
33                    1.0      7.2                    0.9       0.5     8.6      18.2  16.8       22.7   39.5
34                    1.0      7.2                    0.9       0.5     8.6      18.2  16.8       22.7   39.5
35                    3.9      6.2                  - .-. 7    0.5      8.6      19.9  14.0       22.7   36.7
36                    1.0      6.2                    0.7       0.5     8.6      17.0  14.0       22.7   36.7
37                    1.0      6.2                    0.7       0.5     8.6      17.0  14.0       22.7   36.7
38                    1.0      6.2                   0.7       0.5      8.6      17.0  14.0      22.7   36.7
39                    1.0      6.2                    0.7      0.5      8.6      17.0  14.0      22.7   36.7
40                    3.0      4.8                   0.4       0.4      7.6      16.2  10.3      20.5   30.8
41                    1.0      4.8                   0.4       0.4      7.6      14.2  10.3       20.5   30.8
42                    1.0      4.8                   0.4       0.4      7.6      14.2  10.3      20.5   30.8
43                    1.0      4.8                    0.4      0.4      7.6      14.2  10.3      20.5   30.8
44                    1.0      4.8                   0.4       0.4      7.6      14.2  10.3      20.5   30.8
45                    1.0      3.3                   0.2       0.3      5.7      10.5   7.2      16.2   23.4
46                    1.0      3.3                   0.2       0.3      5.7      10.5   7.2      16.2   23.4
47                    1.0      3.3                   0.2       0.3      5.7      10.5   7.2      16.2   23.4
48                    1.0      3.3                   0.2       0.3      5.7      10.5   7.2      16.2   23.4
49                    1.0      3.3                   0.2       0.3      5.7      10.5   7.2      16.2   23.4
50                    1.0      3.3                    0.2      0.3      5.7      10.5   7.2      16.2   23.4
1/ Local costs adjusted by a 0.93 atandard conversion factor.



TABLE 14
LIBERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
ECONOMIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN CALCULATIONS
industrial Plantation - Chip (Pine only) Production
(U.S.$ millions)
Plantation       Logging-      Logging-      Chipaill        Chipmill
Prolect Year       Cost       Capital Cost   Oier. Cost   Capital Cost   Oper. Cost   Total Cost 1/   Revenues
1             4.6                                                                        4.6
2             4.8                                                                        4.8
3             5.4                                                                        5.4
4             2.9                                                                        2.9
5             2.7                                                                        2.7
6             2.8                                                                        2.8
7             6.2                                                                        6.2
8             4.2                                                                        4.2
9             2.8                                                                        2.8
.10            2.9                                          2.0                           4.9
U              2.0            1.0             1.3           5.9            0.4           10.6             3.9
12             2.0            1.0             1.3           5.9            0.8           11.0             7.7
13             2.0            1.9             4.3                          1.2            9.4            12.5
14             2.0            1.1             4.3                          1.2            8.6            12.5
15            2.0            1.1              4.3                          1.2            8.6            12.5
16             2.0            1.1             4.3                          1.2            8.6            12.5
17             2.0            1.1             4.3                          1.2            8.6            12.5
18             2.0            1.1             4.3                          1.2            8.6            12.5
19            2.0             1.1             4.3                          1.2            8.6            12.5
20             2.0            1.1             4.3                          1.2            8.6            12.5
21                            1.1             4.3                          1.2            6.6            12.5
22                            1.1             4.3                          1.2            6.6            12.5
23                            1.1             4.3                          1.2            6.6            12.5
24                            1.1             4.3                          1.2            6.6            12.5
25                            1.1             4.3                          1.2            6.6            12.5
26                            1.1             4.3                          1.2            6.6            12.5
27                            1.1             4.3                          1.2            6.6            12.5
28                            1.1             4.3                          1.2            6.6            12.5
29                            1.1           _4.3   ,                       1.2            6.6            12.5
30                           1.1          -A..3-                           1.2            6.6            12.5
1/ Local costs adjusted by a 0.93 standard conversion factor.



ANNEX I
LIBERIA FORESTRY PROJECT
Additional Documents and Data Available in Project File
Annex 1. Liberia Forestry Organizational Study
(Report No.: 12/76 LIB. 3 - April 15, 1976 - FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program)
Annex 2.  Preparation Report
(Report No.: 26/77 LIB. 4 (four volumes) - July 18, 1977 -
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programn)
Annex 3.  Supplementary Appraisal Report for Project Operations
A self-contained report has been prepared to guide implementations
and contains greater narrative detail on project components.  It
contains the following working papers:
I. Forest Resources, Industries and Marketing
II. Forest Development Authority
III. Industrial Trial Plantation
IV. Training and Research
V. Technical Assistance (including terms of reference)
VI. Financial and Econbtmic Aalysis






_S$S3)oN,  ~ .ISUJJ1U  DNildflO)2Y  SNDI~13D 102nd          1]L,N Y,                                 I                                .     ...                          j Ui33
4)bU)S)d biEYNYW B11dlid|  _NOulYl3lNSVSIl 1 53Wd
T     C I U1 e e | 9311VHD O              i              d                            |                           <                         j            .     I,33ON 3dINNY1d                                                                                                                               33| )) )23,NHJ3I                        I
0                           l       |                                                                                     ] 8         N                                                                                         H3W353d    |                                         N3W331NtW S3d |               N131J2Il n dOi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~323  0203  33)3
{.  d)3150[YZniO 0311,33|
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)T ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~       ~        ~        ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ o 3NiHVHD9ft



I



CHART I (b)
TECHNICAL SERVICE DIVISION
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
FOR THE
MANAGEMENT OF THE F0DA.
BOAR0 OF DIRECTORS
T             MANAGIN G DIRECTOR
I   GERMAN                      WORLD BANK                                              A       RAIE
|HTECHNICAL  |ADVISORY TEAM  AlSLEH FI ER
IWTERGRATED sAWFHLLI                                                                            OERW        -BASED1                                                                                                        NATURALWILIEM
PLANTATIONS                                     ~~~~~~~~~REGENERATUIONIDA   PHMM
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
SCALERS     TRA INIG  AND1ATRLWDIF   N I
| AINDUSTY CRIESOL                      PROOCTON                      MAR|ETNO                  IrOTEessed W00 SEi         |XNSI                     PROJECTLMANTATI S               RE|EONCESIONS   |               | NSCALERS  f Logs I






LIBERIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL PLANTATION ORGANIZATION CHART
PLANTATION MANAGER
DEPUTY MANAGER
ROAD CONSTRUCTION AND               I       NURSERIES AND                          FNNEADAMN
|  FOREST CLEAflING SECTION ;|            PLANTATIONS SECTION                       ISTRATION SECTION
ROAD CONSTRUCTION J                           RI                                     PERSONNEL
FOREST CLEARING                          PLANTATIONS                                ACCOUNTS      l
u   EGUIPIAENT  l                                                        2   PROCUREMENT AND 1
m MAINTENANCE                                  l                                    STORES      j
World Bank - 18759
1-4-






lBRD 13427
!co. i  ,         r          ,!                       9'9,tt ,VCINJA'                                FSRtrARY 1978
i>6>~2                    /      .0             4-*t.
ARICA                                                                            -  Lyrm  
LIBERIA[oen                                                                  
tx ,JC ! tres - X - W ~G U, I NS E' A
.L    F                   zor
V   'Z.].o                                   r          FDA trers
S I E k R A_<~~~~~~~ _ U) 'N T Y  SclS  mh --                                                                  H Brurdqtrers
L E O  N E   '             A N D        11                                '                     < lrULttF                     ,E
N I M          ~ A          Iswma~oi Aiwport
ROBE T /                       f                            Bo 0, So  +o .  .......                                     o., Poor
0    20  30  N  T TnVroads
DMW   T            rr                                                       copot C-t05  F ) ND 0
L                         _A  N  D R        A A  Rover  A/y                                             I Vr 0g~  R//  Y
FORESTRY  PROJECf                               R,. C.      $/IN                                            oat  
rsw                                                   t    GREENVo e g                       /   z   # > _ >       \ 'kti Poa~~GREEN
0 r       20  4s      v     -      t>S        S      ;
9- |  t ,                             9.J,2cG       7






IBRO 13428
r 1     O       o 9 O  sFEBRUARY 978
LIBERIA
r-eKVoinjor                                     FORESTRY   PROJECT
LIBER A                  /   )    ynK3nsarg                                                     Concession  Areas
Z.-                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fre forpose,
I   iJ            ,K313h~~~~~~~~R nlOG       
\"'if  /'<,   J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*~* / W 
F  .                             <                 t r   A0)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rm fo aIuE2sar0
R - ;; KetnJ ( 7LC \g;ZlC;3otn, XL~-    avedreed
MolsR*viO~~~~~~~~~CR                    soy                                                 P- f., C -y
K-8n    u  I                                                                                              Pr-ry  -rr   rd
RX, cffirgX  p     /               >1  ><,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R, MoCpe 2
i5                           r    ~Bopore    51 SToreLe    G I... V                h   X        n                        T            P
'T-CO
'  "'  ,  .   ,,,,',#      ,~~~ L     *^iC               pl: @,,
4.aeer.R.Re.,eeBr.eZf                                               Nlfe 'psAt
d i                                                                          C.-ty  ~.e pei   ret
RRob_lfwd '- Ki./CUNTRNC              LTEe
,    ,  _   ill                          7 i^f 7=St =.       - 0       r                         ;      6K.                   ,
ReRer.reerrm. de.d,TLCr
oar end~~~~~~~~~~~~~



