                                             CONFORMED COPY




                                    CREDIT NUMBER 839 LBR




Development Credit Agreement
              (Forestry Project)



                   between


              REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA


                      and


     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




              Dated July 28, 1978
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 839 LBR


                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT


     AGREEMENT, dated July 28, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).

     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;

      (B) the Project will be carried out by the Forest Develop-
ment Authority (hereinafter 'referred to as FDA) with the Bor-
rower' s assis;ance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make ava:lable to FDA the proceeds of the Credit as herein-
after providec,;

      (C)  the Borrower,   to assist  in  financing part of the
Project, intends to receive from the Deutsche Gesellschaft für
Technische Zusammenarbeit GmbH (hereinafter referred to as GTZ) a
grant (hereinafter called the GTZ grant) in an amount of one
million eight hundred thousand dollars equivalent ($1,800,000) to
be made available on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the GTZ Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and GTZ, and from the African Devel-
opment Bank (hereinafter referred to as ADB) a loan (hereinafter
called the ADB loan) in an amount of five million dollars equiva-
lent ($5,000,000) to be made available on the terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the ADB Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and ADB; and

     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to Pxtend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions he einafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
FDA;

     NOW   THEREFORE   the   parties   hereto   hereby agree   as   follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                   General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
                                -2-


Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).

     Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:

                                                                  the
     (a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between
Association and FDA of even date  herewith,  as  the    same  may  be
amended from time to time, and such term  includes   all   schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement.

     (b) "FDA Law" means the Act of 1976 establishing FDA,
organizing and providing resources to FDA, as may be amended from
time to time.

     (c) "Advance" means the amount of funds provided by the
Association to the Borrower for the preparation of the Project
under an agreement constituted by an exchange of letters between
the Borrower and the Association dated December 15, 1976 and
February 4, 1977.

                             ARTICLE II

                             The Credit

     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to six million dollars ($6,000,000).

     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
                                -3-


     (b) On the Effective Date of this Agreement the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself out of the proceeds of the Credit, an amount
equivalent to: (i) the principal amount of funds withdrawn by the
Borrower out of the Advance and outstanding on such date; and (ii)
service charge accrued thereon up to such date.

     Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the materials and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.

      Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associ-
ation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.

     Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1988, and ending
February 15, 2028, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.

     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.

                           ARTICLE III

                    Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause FDA to perform in accordance
                                -4-


with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable FDA to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.

     (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) hereof,
the Borrower shall: (i)     make sufficient budgetary allocations
and financial transfers on behalf of FDA in order to assure
FDA's fulfillment of the obligations set forth in Section 3.03 of
the Project Agreement; and (ii)   at least one month prior to the
commencement of each quarter,    deposit, to the account of FDA,
advances based on the quarterly cash flow statement to be prepared
by FDA in accordance with Section 4.03 (b) of the Project
Agreement.

     (c) The Borrower shall     iake the proceeds of the Credit
available to FDA on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association for the purpose of carrying out the Project.

                            ARTICLE IV

                    Remedies of the Association

     Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:

     (a) FDA shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of FDA under the Project Agreement;

     (b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it  improbable that FDA will be able to perform its    obli-
gations under the Project Agreement;

     (c)  the FDA Law shall have been amended, suspended, abro-
gated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of FDA to carry out the covenants,
agreements and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement;

     (d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of FDA or for the suspension of its operations; and
                                     -5-


     (e)   (i)    Subject   to   subparagraph   (ii)   of   this   paragraph:

                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of the GTZ grant or of the ADB
                        loan shall have been suspended, cancelled
                        or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                        to the terms of the GTZ Agreement or of the
                        ADB Agreement, or

                  (B)   the ADB loan shall have become due and payable
                        prior to the agreed maturity thereof.

           (ii)   Subparagraph (i)    of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if:    (A) such suspension,    cancellation,
                  termination or prematuring is    not caused by the
                  failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
                  obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
                  funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
                  from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
                  tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
                  this Agreement.

     Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:

      (a) the events specified in     paragraphs (a)   and (b) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower and FDA; and

     (b) the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e)
(i) (A) and (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.

                                  ARTICLE V

                        Effective Date; Termination

     Section 5.01.  The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:

     (a)  that the GTZ Agreement has been executed and delivered
on behalf of the parties thereto; and
                                -6-


     (b)  that the ADB Agreement has been executed and delivered
on behalf of the parties thereto.

      Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by FDA, and is legally
binding upon FDA in accordance with its terms.

     Section 5.03. The date October 26, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses


     Section 6.01.   The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


     For the Borrower:

          Minister of Finance
          Ministry of Finance
          Monrovia
          Liberia

          Cable address:                          Telex:

               MINFIN                                 4221
               Monrovia                               Monrovia

     For the Association:

          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
                                   -7-


         Cable address:                            Telex:

              INDEVAS                                  440098 (ITT)
              Washington,   D.C.                       248423 (RCA) or
                                                        64145 (WUI)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF,   the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first  above written.


                   REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA



                   By /s/   Francis Dennis
                                             Authorized Representative



                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                    By Is! R. Chaufournier
                                               Regional Vice President
                                                        Western Africa
                               -8-


                             SCHEDULE 1

             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit

1.   The table balow sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                 Amount of the
                                Credit Allocated         % of
                                 (Expressed in       Expenditures
      Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

(1)   Civil works for                4,100,000      90%
      Parts A and B of
      the Project

(2)   Technical assis-               1,300,000      100% of for-
      tance, studies and                            eign expen-
      training                                      ditures

(3)   Unallocated                      600,000


                     TOTAL           6,000,000



2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower; provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of
another country from the territory of which goods or services are
supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or ser-
vices shall be deemed to be foreign expenditures.

3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
                              -9-


decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.

4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, and
subject to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, provided,
however, that an amount not exceeding $250,000 equivalent may be
withdrawn for expenditures under Category (1) incurred after
January 1, 1978.

5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.

6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
                                -   10   -




                              SCHEDULE 2

                      Description of the Project

     The Project is the first    phase of the Borrower's         forestry
development program and consists of the following Parts:

Part A:    Institutional Support for FDA

      Improving and strengthening the capacity of FDA to control
forestry sector operations and to plan and direct future forestry
development, through the construction of additional facilities of
FDA (including administrative and regional headquarters, housing
and workshops), the provision of vehicles and equipment, provision
of technical assistance, and an increase in the staff of FDA.

Part B:    Industrial Trial Plantation

     Establishment of a trial industrial plantation of about
1,600 hectares in the national forest reserve in Grand Cape Mount
County.

Part C:    Training

     (1)   Provision of about 212 man-months of fellowships for
           overseas training of forestry specialists, substantially
           as set forth in Appendix 1 to this Schedule.

     (2)   In-service training of FDA staff in methods of estab-
           lishing large-scale industrial plantations, forest
           management, and project monitoring and evaluation.

Part D:    Consultants' Services, Studies and Surveys

     Consultants' services, studies and surveys related to for-
estry development and wood processing and production, substan-
tially as set forth in Appendix 1 to this Schedule.




      The Project     is expected   to be    completed by June   30, 1983.
                                    -   11    -




                        APPENDIX 1 TO SCHEDULE 2


Trainii_ Under Part C of the Project

    Part C of the Project includes:

     (1)   about 30 man-months for training forestry graduates
           and engineers in industrial plantation techniques,
           silviculture, nursery, mechanical land clearing and
           heavy equipment maintenance;

     (2)   about 92 man-months for forest officers to be trained
           in forest management, forest engineering, forest
           economics, planning; and mechanical wood processing;

     (3)   about 30 man-months for training in hardwood timber
           marketing, analysis and promotional techniques;

     (4)   about 24 man-months for training                in   land   use planning
           and aerial photo interpretation;

     (5)   about 24 man-months for post-graduate training                        in
           national parks and wildlife plantations; and

     (6)   about    12 man-months       for       training of a forestry librar-
           ian.

Consultants' Services, Studies and Surveys
under Part D of the Project

     Part D of the Project includes:

     (1)   provision of about 25 man-months of consultants'
           services to establish an effective market intelligence
           system (about 12 man-months), to improve FDA accounting
           and financial operations (about 6 man-months), and to
           assist in the evaluation of plantation trial    results
           (about 7 man-months);

     (2)   provision of about 55 man-months of consultants'
           services for studies in the following areas:

           (a)     charcoal production;
                             -   12   -



      (b)   pre-industrial study for a pulpmill             and a        study
            of industrial plantation development;

      (c)   study of forest policy proposals, including fiscal,
            management, exploitation and reforestation policy;

      (d)   social, economic and environmental             study    of     the
            industrial plantation;

      (e)   studies   of   sustained      yields   in   natural    forests;

      (f)   studies of port handling facilities; and

      (g)   aerial photography interpretation.

(3)   A survey of land resources in the territory of the
      Borrower, using landsat imagery and aerial infrared
      photo production.
