Document of                     FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1453b-EC
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ECUADOR
May 6, 1977
Latin America and the Catibbean
Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnanc. of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivaleats
Currency Unit      = Sucre (S/)
US$1               = Sucre/ 25.00
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures:  Metric
1 meter (m)                    =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)               =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)       =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)           =  0.98 long ton (lg ton)
=  1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AADT                  -  Annual Average Daily Traffic
BNF                  -  Banco Nacional de Fomento
CEDEGE                -  River Guayas Basin Development Commission
DGOP                  -  Directorate General of Public Works of MOP
ECUATORIANA           -  Ecuadorian Airlines
ER                    -  Economic Return
FONADE                -  Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo
FONAPRE               -  Fondo Nacional de Preinversiones
FYR                   -  First Year Benefit
ICB                  -  International Competitive Bidding
IDB                  -  Inter-American Development Bank
IERAC                -  Instituto Ecuatoriano de Reforma Agraria y Colonizacion
INERHI               -  Instituto Ecuatoriano de Recursos Hidrgulicos
JUNAPLA               - National Planning Board
MAG                      Ministry of Agriculture
MOP                   -  Ministry of Public Works and Communications
OED                   -  Operations Evaluation Department of IBRD
O & D                 -  Origin - Destination Survey
PCR                   -  Project Completion Report
SAETA                -  Sociedad Anonima Ecuatoriana de Transporte Aereo
SAN                  -  Servicio Aereo Nacional
TAME                  -  Transporte Militar Ecuatoriano
TAMS                  -  Tippets, Abbot, McCarthy and Stratton
UNDP                  -  United Nations Development Fund
USAID                 -  United States Agency for International Development
Latin America and the Caribbean
Projects Department



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ECUADOR
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY .....         .........................   i-xii
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR              ..................................
A.   General .......      ...................................
B.   The Transport System ...................        ...1....... 
C.   Recent Developments .....           .........................     3
D.   Planning, Coordination and Financing .............                3
E.   Recommended Improvement and Development ..........                4
Table 1.1 - Estimates of Transport Sector
Expenditures (1970-1975) ....          ............    6
II.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR .................................                 7
A.   The Highway Network ..............................                7
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic and
Regulation .....................................               7
C.   Highway Administration ...........................                8
D.   Highway Planning .................................                9
E.   Highway Financing ................................                9
F.   Highway Engineering and Project Preparation    ......            10
G.   Highway Construction .............................               11
H.   Highway Mlaintenance ..............................              11
I.   Feeder Roads .....................................               12
Table 2.1 - Highway Network (1963-1976) ....            ...........   13
Table 2.2 - Vehicle Fuel Consumption (1965-1975) ......               14
Table 2.3 - Vehicle Fleet by Categories (1965-1976) ...               15
Table 2.4 - Highway Expenditures and Road Users
Contribution (1970-1976) ....          ............   16
Table 2.5 - MOP Highway Design Standards ....            ..........   17
Table 2.6 - MOP Feeder Road Design Standards ....           ......    18
This report has been prepared by Messrs. Julius Varallyay (Engineer), Jose
M. Veniard (Economist) and Dirk van der Sluijs (Agriculturalist) and has
been edited by Miss Virginia R. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
III.   PAST AND ONGOING BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE
HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ..................................            19
A.   Past Assistance .................................            19
B.   The Fourth Highway Project ......................            20
Table 3.1 - Technical Assistance Elements under
the Fourth Highway Project ....       .........   24
IV.   THE PROPOSED FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT ....          ...............   25
A.   General Description .............................            25
B.   Cost Estimates and Financing ....................            25
C.   Execution and Procurement .......................            27
Table 4.1 - Disbursement Schedule ......... .. .........          29
V.   THE DURAN-BOLICHE ROAD ...............    ..    ..............     30
A.   Description .....................................            30
B.   Preparation and Engineering .....................            30
C.   Other Project Preparation Mleasures ....        ..........   31
D.   Project Impact ..................................            31
E.   Economic Evaluation .............................            32
Table 5.1 - Duran-Boliche Highway Traffic Flows
(1976-1990) ............................          36
Table 5.2 - Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs;
Duran-Boliche Road .....................           37
Table 5.3 - Results of Economic Evaluation;
Duran-Boliche Road .....................           38
Table 5.4 - Marginal Evaluation of Interchange and
Four-Lane Highway; Duran-Boliche Road              39
VI.   PUERTO ILA-DOBLONES ROAD ..............................            40
A.   Description ......................................           40
B.   Preparation and Engineering ......................           40
C.   The Area of Influence ............................           41
D.   Specific Developmental Measures ....          ..............  42
E.   Economic Evaluation ..............................           43
Table 6.1 - Estimate of Land Use in 1976 and 1990 after
Implementation of the Road Project ......         46
Table 6.2 - Estimated Present and Future Yields with
and without the Project        .................   47
Table 6.3 - Estimate of the Additional Production
Resulting from the Road Project .... .....    48
Table 6.4 - Summary of Agricultural Producers Surplus
for Selected Years ......................          49
Table 6.5 - Results of Economic Evaluation ....        ........   50
Table 6.6 - 1976 Land Holding Pattern in the Area of
Influence of the Puerto Ila-Doblones Road          51



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VII.   PREPARATION OF SECONDARY AND FEEDER ROAD PROGRAM   ......    52
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....       .............    53
CHARTS
I - Ministry of Public Works and Communications
II -  Project Implementation Schedule
MAP
IBRD 11882R3 - Ecuador Fifth Highway Project - Transport Network
This report is based on information provided by the Government, in particular
its Ministries of Public Works and Communications and of Agriculture; by the
Consultants TAMS (US) and ASTEC, Suelos y Concretos and Cimentaciones, Ltd.
(all of Ecuador); and on the findings of an appraisal mission in October-
November 1976 consisting of Messrs. Julius Varallyay (Engineer), Jose M.
Veniard (Economist) and Dirk van der Sluijs (Agriculturalist). The producer
surplus analysis was based on the methodology presented in "'The Economic
Analysis of Rural Projects" by Messrs. Carnemark, Biderman and Bovet (TRP).
Mr. Gershon Feder (YP) adapted and applied the corresponding computer model
as needed.
Two post-appraisal missions - Mr. S. Miquel (Engineer) in January 1977 and
Messrs. J. Varallyay and L. Slavinsky (Structural Engineer, Consultant)
in March 1977 - visited Ecuador to review preparation of engineering.






STAFF PROJECT REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ECUADOR
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
A. The Transport Sector
Background
1.        Ecuador's geographical configuration, comprising three widely differ-
ing regions - the Costa, the Sierra and the Oriente (Amazon) - has been a deter-
mining factor in the development of its economy and of its transport system.
The principal transport flows follow several corridors: (a) the country's
most important corridor links Quito, the capital, to Guayaquil, the main port
and industrial center; (b) two North-South corridors serve the Costa and
Sierra regions extending from the Colombian to the Peruvian borders; and
finally (c) the recently developed pipelines and road links between the
Oriente and the coast channel mainly crude oil for export. The highway
network developed largely after the Second World War, increasing considerably
since the 1960's and reaching a total of 26,500 km in 1976, of which 13,000
km, including trunk roads and important secondary roads, are under the respon-
sibility of the Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MOP).
Highways
2.        Ecuador's domestic transport is based essentially on roads for
general cargo and passengers, with petroleum products channelled by pipelines.
In 1974, total freight movements amounted to about 10.7 billion ton-km, of
which 5.4 billion were carried by pipeline. Road transport accounts for
nearly 95% of total intercity freight transport and about 90% of total inter-
city public-service passenger traffic. Several indicators related to overall
road traffic suggest that road traffic has expanded at about 10% p.a. over the
last decade.
3.        The importance of the two major urban centers of Quito and Guayaquil
is shown by the fact that about 62% of the total vehicle fleet is registered
in the provinces of Pichincha and Guayas. The vehicle fleet more than doubled
in the period 1970-1976, reaching 125,000 vehicles in 1976. The truck and bus
fleet grew rapidly during the last decade and so did its share of the traffic.
High demand and the absence of strong competition from railroads stimulated
development of intercity bus operations which, on the whole, seem adequate, in
terms of price, quality of services, and volumes supplied. Intercity freight
operations are also generally adequate. The largely unregulated trucking
industry competes actively for traffic.



- ii -
4.        Road transport is regulated and administered by a variety of Govern-
ment agencies, including MOP, the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, and
the Interior Ministry. Passenger traffic is generally regulated, including
routing and tariffs. Regulations for trucking are less strictly implemented.
Overloading of trucks is still a problem in spite of attempts by MOP to
improve the situation. In the early 1970's, four weighing stations were
installed on trunk roads under an earlier Bank project, but a shortage of
adequately trained personnel and necessary Government commitment slowed down
the establishment of effective control. The Bank has been pressing the
Government to enforce legal axle load regulations. The Government is pre-
paring to take action under the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1231-EC, May
1976) to establish effective control and enforcement of legal axle load
regulations. In view of the importance of this matter for the protection of
large road investments carried out over the last ten years, similar provisions
concerning the enforcement of axle-load limits are incorporated in the proposed
loan (Section 4.03 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
5.        Since the 1950's, Ecuador has undertaken a major effort to improve
and complete its trunk road system. Over the period 1966-1975, road construc-
tion received by far the largest share of all transport infrastructure invest-
ments, accounting for nearly 30% of all public investment. Large areas, how-
ever, such as the sparsely populated Oriente lowlands east of the Andes and
most of the northwestern coastal region, remain isolated. There is a contin-
ued need for agricultural feeder and secondary roads.
6.        Within MOP, the Directorate General of Public Works (DGOP) is respon-
sible for highways. DGOP does not have enough qualified personnel at the
professional level. Traffic data are not available for planning and program-
ming purposes; the 1973 Highway Miaster Plan has not yet been updated; and
coordination with other transport agencies is weak. Recent experience has
shown that MOP lacks sufficient capability to define adequately the scope
of pre-investment studies and to contract and supervise consultants. The
Government undertook, within the framework of the Fourth Highway Project, to
improve highway planning, particularly as regards traffic data collection and
evaluation, and to build up MOP capacity for pre-investment studies. Techni-
cal assistance and institutional measures under the above project are now
being initiated.
7.        Highway expenditures are financed through the general Government
budget, under DGOP allocations. Recurrent expenditures for highway mainte-
nance, periodic improvements, administration and supervision, including the
total of MOP's operating budget, absorb about 40% of the overall MOP expendi-
tures for highways. Capital expenditures in 1975 amounted to about 60% of
total MOP expenditures, reaching about US$30 million equivalent. Estimated
contributions from road user charges cover current highway expenditures as
well as roughly one-third of capital outlays. Retail prices for gasoline and
diesel oil are low in comparison with international levels. On the other
hand, high import duties tend to discourage renewal of the fleet. The need to
rationalize road user charges will be reviewed by the transport planning unit
to be set up within the framework of the ongoing Fourth Highway Project.



- iii -
8.        A large part of the highway construction work in Ecuador, includ-
ing projects financed externally, has been awarded to local contractors. To
improve their performance, technical assistance is being initiated under the
ongoing Fourth Highway Project to review the road construction industry and
related Government policies and practices.
9.        Highway maintenance is performed through seven regional divisions
of the Maintenance Directorate under DGOP. In spite of earlier programs,
further improvement is still necessary. The level of MOP's overall mainte-
nance expenditures has increased in recent years, and the current level seems
to be adequate for the trunk road network under MOP's jurisdiction. However,
management procedures and work techniques have to be improved in order to
ensure efficient use of available resources. Workshops and garages also
require urgent improvements. An important element of technical assistance,
now being initiated, has been included in the ongoing Fourth Highway Project
for highway maintenance. The covenants of Loan 1231-EC concerning the streng-
thening of highway maintenance would also be covenants of the proposed Loan
Agreement (Section 4.03 (a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
10.       Planning and construction of feeder roads are closely related to
the agricultural sector and require coordination with agricultural development
programs for extension services, agricultural credit, improved marketing, etc.
Although feeder roads have received increasing attention in recent years as
the pressure increased for opening previously uncultivated land of high poten-
tial, the preparation of sound feeder road projects and accompanying develop-
ment programs has been inadequate because of poor coordination among the various
Government agencies involved. Therefore, following the recommendations of the
recent Bank economic mission (November 1976), an element of technical assis-
tance to MOP has been included in the proposed project to improve planning
and preparation of feeder roads.
11.       Beginning with the First Loan to Ecuador (FY54), the Bank and IDA
have lent US$97 million for transport, out of which US$50.5 million were
devoted to highways. The Bank has made four loans for this purpose, in FY54
FY58, FY64 and FY76; the third of these loans was associated, in a consortium
project, with an IDA credit and loans from USAID and IDB. The first two loans
helped to finance the paving of about 1,100 km of roads, primarily in the
Guayas River basin, and others linking Guayaquil with the Sierra, and Quito
with the northern coast. The third loan and its co-financing helped to carry
out parts of the Government's 1964-1973 transportation investment program.
Both the second and third projects included highway maintenance programs,
which, however, fell somewhat short of expectations, in particular because of
the lack of continuity in the middle and high echelons of DGOP. The first
three projects contributed to the completion of the main road network in the
coast agricultural area, while important links between this area, the Sierra
and the northwest were also improved. The Bank's experience with these three
projects has been generally good, altough the magnitude and complexity of the
third one required special coordination among the lending agencies and a very
long disbursement period.



- iv -
12.       The Fourth Highway Project and the proposed Fifth Highway Project
emerged from a comprehensive review of the transport sector carried out in
1974. While originally conceived as a single project, it was later staged
into two projects in order not to delay institutional improvements in the
transport sector until engineering for the Duran-Boliche road was completed.
The Bank loan for the Fourth Highway Project was approved on March 30, 1976
and became effective last October. The Fourth Highway Project is aimed at
improving planning and management for the transport sector as a whole as well
as for the highway subsector, while providing for the upgrading of a high-
priority road. Last March, MOP invited consultant firms to submit proposals
for the various technical assistance elements included in the project; bids
for highway construction were opened on April 18 and are being evaluated.
The improved MOP planning and operating capabilities to be acquired from the
technical assistance provided under the project are expected to strengthen
MOP's ability to execute both the Fourth and the proposed Fifth Highway
Projects successfully.
Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
13.       In September 1974, a Bank mission visited Ecuador to study the trans-
portation sector in depth. The mission concluded that: (a) although service
levels were generally adequate, upgrading of the system would be necessary to
increase its efficiency and to accommodate the growing requirements of the
economy; and (b) serious institutional deficiencies would have to be remedied
in the areas of pricing policies, coordination, planning, and project prepara-
tion to allow the continued development of the system. Transport sector
investments in the next few years should address the following needs:
(a) Highway Infrastructure - the need to improve the trunk road
network, including integration of the Oriente, improvement of
north-south corridors and access to major cities, in particular
Quito and Guayaquil, expansion of secondary and feeder road
systems, and improvement of road maintenance; and
(b) Other Modes - the improvement of seaport capacity and maritime
shipping, greater use of inland waterways, in particular in the
Oriente; definition of the future role of the railway, and
expansion and improvement of air transport services.
14.       Because of the fragmentation of sector management and the fact that
the agencies involved do not have adequate capacity to ensure the functions
of coordination and planning, the issues of intermodal planning for meeting
long-term demand for transport have been neglected. Within the framework
of the ongoing Fourth Highway Project, the Government agreed, in a first
stage, to establish within MOP an adequately staffed unit for planning and
coordination of land transport (road and rail); and, in a second stage, to
establish an appropriate agency with enlarged responsibilities for all modes.
After an initial delay, MOP has initiated recruitment of necessary technical
assistance, which is a prerequisite for the above measures.



B. The Project
Project Description
15.       The proposed project comprises elements that earlier were considered
as part of the ongoing Fourth Highway Project. Later, due to slow progress
in project preparation and limited availability of Bank funds, these elements
were eliminated in the post-appraisal stage of loan processing. The proposed
project would include:
(a) civil works and related supervision for the construction of
four-lane paved highway (25 km) between Duran and Boliche;
(b) civil works and related supervision for the construction
of a development road between Puerto Ila and Doblones (29 km)
and for construction and improvement of about 75 km of
lateral feeder roads in the area of influence of the
Puerto Ila-Doblones road; and
(c) pre-investment and organizational studies for the prepara-
tion of a regional secondary and feeder road program, prin-
cipally in the provinces of Guayas, Los Rios, and El Oro.
Implementation of the project is expected to take about three-and-one-half
years from mid-1977 to end-1980.
Duran-Boliche Road
16.       The Duran-Boliche road is one of three major accesses to Guayaquil,
the country's largest urban center and main seaport. The present two-lane
road with its poor riding surface has inadequate capacity for the relatively
high traffic volumes (at 5,800 with about 48% heavy vehicles), carrying
passengers, agricultural products for consumption and export, and imported
goods between the Costa and Sierra regions and the port city of Guayaquil. It
needs constant and costly repairs due to structural deficiencies compounded
by periodic flooding.
17.       The proposed works would consist of constructing a four-lane divided
highway (25 km in length) between the Guayas bridge (slightly north of Duran)
and the crossroad of Boliche. The works would also include one grade-separated
interchange, one at-grade intersection, and one underpass under the approach
span of the existing Guayas bridge at the Duran end of the road. Two critical
aspects received particular attention during project preparation: (i) the
fact that the road crosses a flood plain and (ii) the approach to the Guayas
Bridge. Design standards and engineering and cost estimates were reviewed
during appraisal and, after subsequent minor design revisions, are now accept-
able.



- vi -
18.       MOP has taken two specific measures to remove potential sources of
delay in the implementation of civil works:
(a) MOP and the "Consejo Municipal de Guayaquil" have confirmed
their agreement concerning the design of the approach to the
Guayas bridge, the scope of related right-of-way acquisition,
including the specific properties to be affected thereby, and
arrangements for securing and financing such acquisition.
(b) MOP and the "Concejo de la Provincia de Guayas" have confirmed
their agreement concerning the location and design for the new
Guayas bridge toll collection facilities, which would be relocated
under the project.
19.       Although some additional urban traffic would be generated by the
project, it would have no adverse environmental impact on the area. It is not
expected that any significant urban development would take place in the exist-
ing low, rural land adjacent to the proposed road, although some development
is expected along the first 1.5 km. The alignment of the proposed road would
not interfere with the planned development of the Guayaquil metropolitan area,
including Duran, which is currently under study by a UNDP-financed Urban
Development Planning team. Under the proposed land use zoning and highway
network, prepared by this team in November 1976, the Duran-Boliche road is
shown in the proposed project alignment as the only Guayaquil access from the
east.
Puerto Ila-Doblones and Related Lateral Feeder Roads
20.       The proposed 29-km Puerto Ila-Doblones penetration road will give
access to a large fertile area hitherto largely isolated and undeveloped, west
of the existing Santo Domingo-Quevedo highway. This road is expected to pro-
duce substantial benefits by providing improved all-weather transport services
to those areas already under cultivation, thus facilitating their full devel-
opment, and by opening for development new agricultural and forested areas.
21.       The proposed works would consist of:  (a) the Puerto Ila-Doblones
road (29 km), with two major bridges; and (b) a network of lateral feeder
roads totalling about 75 km. Final design work for the Puerto Ila-Doblones
road was incomplete at the time of appraisal, but supplementary engineering
carried out by MOP with the assistance of a local consultant (ASTEC), follow-
ing Bank recommendations, has sufficiently refined the cost estimate for
purposes of determining financial requirements. Further soils studies for
bridge foundations and possible subsequent design revisions are still necessary
for the finalization of engineering and bidding documents. M0P has agreed to
carry out such supplementary engineering starting Mtay 1977. The exact scope
and implementation schedule of the necessary supplementary soil studies and
engineering, which would take about four months, were reviewed and agreed



- vii -
during negotiations. The possibility of effecting cost reductions in the
surface course of the Puerto Ila-Doblones road was also reviewed and agreed at
the time of negotiations. Completion of the above engineering and design
revisions would be a condition for disbursement of the proceeds of the proposed
loan allocated to finance the Puerto Ila-Doblones project component (paragraph
4 (c) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
22.       The location and approximate length of lateral feeder roads required
to serve the area of the Puerto Ila-Doblones road have been defined and esti-
mated on the basis of a preliminary survey. Detailed definition of alignment,
engineering, quantity takeoffs, contracting documents and cost estimates will
be prepared under the Rural Development Study financed under the ongoing
Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1231-EC). In order to ensure the proper prepara-
tion and timely execution of this project component, the Government will
prepare, not later than December 31, 1977, a program of feeder roads taking
into account the recommendations of the abovementioned study.  Adoption of
such a program, acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition for disbursement
for feeder road construction under the proposed loan (paragraph 4 (b) of
Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
23.       In order to help realize the potential increase in agricultural
production possible after the completion of the project, the Government agreed
(Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement) that it would:
(a) provide extension services to local farmers starting in 1979,
in accordance with a program acceptable to the Bank, to be prepared
no later than December 31, 1977, in light of the recommendations of
the Rural Development Study financed under Loan 1231-EC;
(b) make credit available to local farmers for complementary on-farm
investments in accordance with arrangements acceptable to the Bank,
to be prepared no later than the end of 1977, in light of the
recommendations of the Rural Development Study financed under Loan
1231-EC; and
(c) (i) review land tenure patterns in the area of influence of the
project taking into account the conclusions of the Rural Development
Study financed under Loan 1231-EC, and (ii) discuss, no later
than the end of 1978, appropriate measures designed to ensure a
reasonably equitable distribution of the benefits of the project
among farmers within the project area.
Cost Estimates and Financing
24.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$38.1 million,
of which about US$17.5 million, representing the estimated foreign exchange
component, would be financed by the proposed Bank loan. The balance would be
financed by the Government.



- viii -
Cost in US$
(Million Equivalent)
Local  Foreign   Total    % Bank
Civil Works
(a) Duran-Boliche (25 km)                       7.7      7.7      15.4
(b) Puerto Ila-Doblones (29 km)                 3.9      2.7       6.6
(c) Lateral Feeder Roads (75 km)                1.5      1.0       2.5
Sub-total                               13.1    11.4      24.5       47
Consultant Services
(d) Construction SPN                            1.2      1.2       2.4
(e) Preparation of Feeder Road Program          0.2      0.4       0.6
Sub-total                                1.4      1.6      3.0       53
Base Cost (up to mid-1977)                      14.5    13.0      27.5
Contingencies                                    6.1     4.5      10.6
TOTAL PROJECT                           20.6    17.5      38.1        46
25.       The estimates of construction cost for the Duran-Boliche and Puerto
Ila-Doblones roads are based on detailed engineering and current prices for
similar works. The additional engineering discussed in paragraph 21 above is
not expected to result in substantial increases in this cost estimate. The
estimates for the 75 km of lateral feeder roads are based on average per km
costs for similar works. Cost estimates for consulting services are based on
recent contracts for similar services with Ecuadorian firms as well as joint
ventures of Ecuadorian and foreign firms.
26.       The foreign exchange component of the civil works has been estimated
at 47% on the average. It is expected that construction of the Duran-Boliche
four-lane divided highway would be done by a joint venture of local and
foreign contractors, and the Puerto Ila-Doblones road and the lateral feeder
roads, which are of smaller scope, are expected to be constructed entirely by
local contractors. The foreign exchange component of consultant services has
been estimated at an average of about 53%, assuming that supervision of con-
struction (about 450 man-months of professional services) would be contracted
to local firms, whereas the preparation of the regional secondary and feeder
roads program (about 120 man-months of professional services) would be carried
out by a blend of foreign and local consultants. The cost per man-month for
professionals would average US$5,200, ranging, for different services, from
US$2,000 to US$6,000. A contingency allowance of 10% has been included to



- ix -
allow for increases in construction quantities for civil works. 1/ An allow-
ance of about 30% of total project base costs has been allowed for price
variation for both civil works and consultant services.
Execution
27.       Within MOP, the DGOP would be responsible for execution of the
project. During negotiations, the Government agreed to ensure adequate liaison
and coordination with other Government agencies such as MAG, IERAC, INERHI and
CEDEGE to assist MOP in the preparation of the regional secondary and feeder
road program.
Procurement and Disbursements
28.       Civil works for road construction and improvement totalling about
130 km would be carried out on the basis of unit price contracts awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines.
The works of the lateral feeder roads are not likely to attract international
bidders and would generate adequate competition among local contractors.
Consequently, invitations to bid for these works would not be published
abroad; publicity within Ecuador (including notice to Bank member country
embassies) would suffice. For bidding purposes, the works would be divided
into lots of appropriate size, and firms prequalified in a manner acceptable
to the Bank would be allowed to bid for any lot or combination of lots.
Specific arrangements for the division of civil works in lots were discussed
and agreed at the time of negotiations. General terms and conditions of civil
works procurement including, specifically, prequalification procedures, bid
and performance bonds and guarantees, the price variation formula and the
specific cost items to be covered by such formula were also reviewed and
agreed during negotiations.
29.       Disbursements of the loan would be made as follows:
(a)  for civil works, 47% of total expenditures; and
(b)  for construction supervision and for the preparation of the
regional secondary and feeder road program, 53% of total
expenditures or 100% of direct foreign exchange cost.
The Bank would finance retroactively up to US$150,000 equivalent of expendi-
tures on consultant services for the Duran-Boliche road to be incurred after
May 1, 1977.
Economic Evaluation
(i) The Duran-Boliche Road
30.       The economic justification of the proposed Duran-Boliche highway is
based on benefits resulting from (a) reduction of vehicle operating costs;
1/   20% for lateral feeder roads (para. 22).



x
(b) passenger time savings; (c) reduction of road maintenance costs; and
(d) reduction of road accidents. Present traffic volumes on the Duran-Boliche
highway vary from 5,800 to 4,330 vehicles per day and are among the highest in
the country. Heavy vehicles, which account for about 48% of the total traffic,
transport passengers and goods between production centers in the Costa and
Sierra and the port city of Guayaquil. A variety of agricultural products,
including bananas, rice, sugar and livestock, for local consumption and
export, as well as imported goods are carried on this highway. Vehicle
operating costs savings accounted for about 55% of total quantifiable benefits
for existing and projected traffic volumes. Savings in time is one of the
important reasons for improving the existing road, which suffers from conges-
tion and on which average speeds are low. Passenger time savings accounted
for about 35% of total quantifiable benefits, while reductions in maintenance
costs and accidents accounted for the remaining 10%. Benefits derived from
reduction of traffic accidents were based on local observations and the
reductions in accident rates when upgrading from two lanes to a four-lane
divided highway observed under similar conditions.
31.       The proposed road, which accounts for 56% of project costs, is well
justified, with an economic return (ER) based on best estimates of 20%,
including time benefits. The ER without time benefits is 14%. Sensitivity
analyses have been carried out on the main parameters affecting the economic
evaluation (cost and benefits), showing that the ER would, even under adverse
assumptions, still be acceptable. An economic evaluation on the interchange
at the junction with the Babahoyo road was made separately. The results
indicate that the marginal investment in the proposed grade-separated inter-
change in comparison with a controlled at-grade intersection is well justified,
with an ER of 22%. An economic evaluation of the four-lane, divided highway,
based on the best estimates, indicates that the marginal investment in four
lanes as compared with two lanes, is justified, with an ER of 19%, including
time savings.
(ii) The Puerto Ila-Doblones and Related Lateral Feeder Roads
32.       The Puerto Ila-Doblones road gives access to areas highly suitable
for agricultural production in the Pichincha and Manabi provinces. The area
of influence of the road extends from the existing Santo Domingo-Quevedo paved
road westward to Doblones (29 km), covering an area of approximately 64,000
ha, which is characterized by climatic and soil conditions that are favorable
for a wide range of crops as well as for livestock production. The area has
been defined taking into consideration the available land with good agricul-
tural potential and the improved access to be provided by the proposed roads.
This area is highly suitable for pastures, apt to sustain intensive beef
production, and for various cash crops such as oil palm, rubber, abaca,
platano, citrus, corn and cassava. At present, the extent and intensity of
cultivation and resulting agricultural production in the project area are well
below potential, due to a lack of basic transport and of public programs to
support agricultural development. Existing plantations are poorly kept.
Grazing lands are generally underutilized. Legalization of land ownership
is almost completed, with properties ranging from small farms to cooperatives
and medium as well as large private farms. Farm holdings larger than 100 ha



- xi -
constitute less than 5% of all farms and cover less than 20% of the area.
Most holdings in the project area are between 20 and 50 ha. The number of
farmer families is estimated at 1,300 with a total population in the area of
influence of the project of about 10,000.
33.       Quantifiable benefits from the proposed Puerto Ila-Doblones road
were calculated by using a producer surplus approach, which attempts to
measure the basic economic changes, particularly the net agricultural value
added, generated by the proposed road project, and complementary investments.
This agricultural producers surplus would, in fact, be generated by more
intense use of the land, and the opening of new potentially productive areas.
34.       The proposed road, including the required lateral feeder roads,
which accounts for 33% of project costs, is well justified, with an ER of 18%,
based on best estimates. Sensitivity analyses have been carried out on the
main parameters affecting the economic evaluation (costs and benefits), show-
ing that the ER would, even under adverse assumptions, still be acceptable.
Producers surplus benefits are expected to be reasonably distributed among the
rural population. Today, small holdings account for nearly 85% of total farm
units in the area of influence of the road, and experience with similar
neighboring areas suggests that these patterns are stable and would persist
after construction of the proposed road.
35.       The implementation of an agricultural development project in the
area of influence of the road would significantly increase the estimated
benefits of the road project, which were based on conservative assumptions of
social and economic development of the area. Furthermore, the bridging of
the Daule river would open up, to the west, large tracks of land for coloni-
zation. To the extent that the project is a prerequisite for these additional
benefits, the above economic return has been conservatively estimated.
36.       Benefits were not quantified for the preparation of the regional
secondary and feeder road program. This project component is clearly justified
in view of the fact that it will lead to the preparation of sound feeder road
programs and to a more efficient use of resources currently used for this
purpose.
37.       The proposed project, including the Duran-Boliche road, the Puerto
Ila-Doblones and related lateral feeder roads, is well justified with a
combined ER of 19%, based on best estimates. It would support the Government's
efforts in two areas of clear priority, i.e., the improvement of transport
infrastructure and the development of the country's agricultural potential.
In addition, the measures agreed to ensure services to farmers and an adequate
distribution of project benefits would provide experience in multi-sectoral
policy-making and implementation, which would be essential for the future
execution of rural development projects now in preparation.



- xii -
Risks
38.       Particular attention was given during project preparation to the
major sources of implementation problems encountered in past highway construc-
tion projects in Ecuador. The use of loan funds to be allocated to the only
two civil works components which, as of this time, still require additional
engineering--i.e., foundation of bridges for the Puerto Ila-Doblones road, and
location and alignment of associated lateral feeder roads--has been safeguarded
through conditions of disbursement discussed in paragraphs 21 and 22. The
estimated ER of investments in the Puerto Ila-Doblones road and associated
lateral feeder roads assumes that complementary investments in agricultural
development will be made in the area. Recent Bank experience in this region
of Ecuador has shown that spontaneous private investments have taken place
when adequate transport infrastructure became available. Nevertheless, assur-
ances were obtained concerning agricultural credit, extension services, land
tenure and distribution of project benefits, which are discussed in paragraph
23.
39.       The conditions for the proposed loan, listed in Chapter VIII of this
report, are considered adequate to ensure that the objectives of the project
would be achieved.



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
1.01      Ecuador's geographical configuration has been a determining factor
in the location of its population and economic activities, as well as in the
development of its transport network. Two principal mountain chains, the
western and eastern ranges of the Andes, run from north to south and divide
the country into three natural and distinct regions: the coastal region
(Costa), the mountain region (Sierra) and the Amazon region (Oriente). Trans-
port between these three regions is difficult. The principal land transport
flows take place along several corridors: (a) the country's most important
corridor links Quito, the capital city, with Guayaquil, the main port and
industrial center; (b) two north-south corridors extend from the seacoast and
the Colombian border to the Peruvian border -- one following the Central
valley of the Andean chains and serving Quito, and the other running along the
Costa, from the port city of Esmeraldas in the north, through Guayaquil, and
further south to Puerto Bolivar; and finally (c) the recently developed
corridor between the Oriente region and Esmeraldas, channelling mainly crude
oil transported by pipeline.
B.   The Transport System
(i) Highways
1.02      Ecuador's domestic transport is based essentially on roads for general
cargo and passengers, with petroleum products channelled by pipelines. In 1974,
total freight movements amounted to about 10.7 billion ton-km, of which 5.4 bil-
lion were carried by pipeline. Road transport accounts for nearly 95% of total
intercity freight transport and about 90% of total intercity public-service
passenger traffic. The highway subsector and its administration are dis-
cussed in full in Chapter II.
1.03      Given the relatively short hauling distances and the rugged terrain,
road transport is, in general, the most adequate mode. The country's public
truck and bus fleet grew rapidly over the last decade (para. 2.04) and so did
its share of the traffic. High demand and the absence of strong competition
from railroads stimulated development of intercity bus operations which, on
the whole, seem adequate, in terms of price, quality of services, and volumes
supplied. Intercity freight operations are also generally adequate. The
largely unregulated trucking industry competes actively for traffic, more
intensively so as a result of the existence of many "pirate" truckers (unreg-
istered, independent owner/operators, para. 2.05).
(ii) Shipping
1.04      Foreign and coastal shipping is handled through eight maritime ports
with widely varying natural, technical and operational characteristics --
Guayaquil, Puerto Bolivar, Manta, Esmeraldas, San Lorenzo, Caraques, and the
petroleum terminals of La Libertad in Salinas and Balao in Esmeraldas.
Guayaquil, which handled about 1.7 million tons in 1976, is the principal port



- 2 -
of the country, accounting for nearly 65% of the total non-petroleum traffic.
The second port, Puerto Bolivar, handled about 25% (800,000 tons) of that
total, and the remaining 10% was handled mainly by Manta and Esmeraldas
ports.
(iii)   Pipelines
1.05      A relatively old pipeline for refined petroleum products extends
from Duran, close to Guayaquil, to Quito (358 km), carrying an annual volume
of about 180,000 tons of various products, mainly premium gasoline. A crude
oil pipeline, built from 1970 to 1972, extends from the Oriente oil fields
at Lago Agrio to the Pacific port of Balao, near Esmeraldas (503 km), channel-
ling an annual volume of over 10 million tons. Smaller feeder lines connect
this pipeline at Lago Agrio with other oil fields, such as Shushufindi (16 km)
and Sacha (52 km).  Additional pipelines--one from Esmeraldas to Quito (259
km) for refined products and the other from Shushufindi to Quito (300 km) for
natural gas--are scheduled to be built under an Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB) loan approved in November 1976.
(iv) Aviation
1.06      The growth of civil aviation and domestic traffic in the last decade
has been rapid, with annual rates of about 15%. The extension of all-weather
roads has recently, however, curbed the growth of civil aviation, which is now
at an annual level of about 500,000 domestic passengers on all routes. Ecuador
has four major airlines offering services: Government-owned ECUATORIANA pro-
viding international services, and SAN, SAETA and Military Transports (TAME),
serving the domestic traffic. These airlines operate mainly on the Quito-
Guayaquil-Cuenca triangle that accounts for about 65% of all passenger move-
ments. Quito and Guayaquil are by far the most important airports, and the
only ones equipped to handle international traffic, now on the order of
300,000 passengers per year. Both airports have some operational limitations.
Until recently, only Guayaquil could handle 24-hour operations. Studies for
new airports at different locations both at Quito and Guayaquil are under
way.
(v) Railways
1.07      The rail network has a total length of 971 km.  The main line is
between Quito and Guayaquil, with branch lines south to Cuenca and northwest
to the port of San Lorenzo. Infrastructure is in poor condition. The system,
which incurred an annual deficit of about S/. 100 million over the last
decade, is heavily subsidized. Railway traffic has been steadily declining
due to competition from highway transport and deterioration of the railway
service. Freight traffic decreased from 82 million ton-km in 1966 to the
current level of less than 48 million ton-km in 1976; in the same period,
passenger traffic decreased from 78 million pass-km per year to 62 million
pass-km. The railway accounts for less than 2% of total passengers or freight
(not including pipelines).



-3-
C.   Recent Developments
1.08      Since the 1950's, Ecuador has undertaken a major effort to improve
and complete its trunk road system. Large areas, however, such as the Oriente
lowlands east of the Andes and most of the northwestern coastal region, remain
isolated. There is a continued need for secondary and agricultural feeder
roads.
1.09      Over the period 1966-1975, road construction received by far the
largest share of all transport infrastructure investments, accounting for
nearly 30% of all public investment. A further impetus for highway construc-
tion came, to a great extent, after 1971-1972, as a result of petroleum
exploration and exports, which enabled public investments to rise considerably.
During the same period, the Texaco-Gulf Consortium undertook large investments
in pipelines for the construction of the Lago Agrio-Esmeraldas link. Highways
and pipelines together accounted for over 90% of all fixed investments in
transport since 1966.
1.10      The Government also undertook to develop further the country's port
system, to plan a major expansion of the nation's air transport facilities
and to study a railway rehabilitation program. Improvements in the ports of
Bolivar and Esmeraldas are now under way. A major expansion of the port of
Guayaquil is being contracted, with financing provided under IBRD Loan 1255-EC.
The Bank has also been asked to participate in the expansion of the fishing
port at Manta.
D.  Planning, Coordination and Financing
1.11      The development of transport planning and administration has not
been commensurate with the rapid expansion of the country's system. While
principal responsibility rests with the Ministry of Public Works (MOP),
particularly in matters pertaining to land transport (highways and railways),
important transport responsibilities, including policy and investment planning,
are shared in varying degrees by four other ministries 1/, JUNAPLA and various
regional and local authorities. This fragmentation of functions and resources
has been a hindrance to effective planning and coordination and a serious
obstacle in the programming and preparation of projects.
1.12      JUNAPLA had defined general objectives for the sector and formulated
a set of policies for the National Economic Plan 1973-1977, but was not success-
ful in instituting centralized planning or improving coordination. In fact,
JUNAPLA was never in a position to control the various agencies involved with
the different transport modes and also lacked the necessary organizational
strength and staff.
1/   Ministry of Interior, road transport; Ministry of Defense, aviation,
ports, and shipping; Ministry of Natural Resources, pipelines and
feeder roads; and Ministry of Agriculture, feeder roads.



- 4 -
1.13      The absence of an agency responsible for transport planning resulted
in a number of important deficiencies; there is no homogeneous and consistent
body of sectoral statistics and there is no coherent pricing policy for the
sector as a whole (see fuel prices, para. 2.13). Project planning decisions
have been made without adequate coordination; an example in line is the
simultaneous but separate preparation of a Quito-Guayaquil expressway project
and the competing railway rehabilitation project. Furthermore, important
issues remain unresolved, e.g., the planning of infrastructure requirements
to link the Oriente with the Sierra; the establishment of clear priorities for
further development of the trunk and feeder road systems; the coordination of
development proposed for seaports; the definition of the future role of the
railway; and the definition of infrastructure and fleet requirements for the
development of air transport.
1.14      Government investment in transport infrastructure is made through
the various modal agencies. Because of the lack of uniform procedures for
budgetary and financial statements, it is difficult to establish an accurate
picture of total capital investment in the sector. An attempt has been
made, however, to reconstruct total sectoral expenditures, including invest-
ments, in Table 1.1.
1.15      Since 1973, Government expenditures have been stimulated by the
increasing revenues from petroleum exports; this affected capital investments
as well. The National Development Fund (FONADE) received a substantial
portion of revenues from oil exports for financing high priority development
projects, whereas the National Preinvestment Fund (FONAPRE) was set up
in 1973 to finance preparation of such projects. Improvement in project
preparation capacity is an important requisite to sustain the current pace of
public investments.
E.   Recommended Improvement and Development
1.16      In September 1974, a Bank mission visited Ecuador to study the
transport sector in depth. The report of that mission, completed in mid-1975,
concluded that: (a) expansion and improvement of the system would be necessary
to increase its efficiency and to accommodate the growing requirements of the
economy; and (b) the management and the development of the system was hindered
by serious institutional deficiencies.
1.17      The Bank's Transport Sector Mission, after reviewing future traffic
levels, including demand generated by investments in regional development and
in specific sectoral projects (notably agricultural, rural development, and
irrigation and colonization projects), concluded that the Government's objec-
tives in the next few years should address the following needs:
(a)  Highway Infrastructure -  the need to improve the trunk
road network, including integration of the Oriente, improve-
ment of north-south corridors, and access to major cities, in
particular Quito and Guayaquil, expansion of secondary and
feeder road systems, and improvement of road maintenance; and



- 5 -
(b) Other Modes - the improvement of seaport capacity and maritime
shipping, greater use of inland waterways, in particular in the
Oriente; the definition of the future role of the railway, and
expansion and improvement of air transport services.
1.18      The adoption of adequate policies and the planning of necessary
investments would require substantial improvements and streamlining of the
institutional framework for the management of the sector. The existing organ-
ization of MOP is not suitable for the efficient management even of the two
modes under its jurisdiction: highways and railways. The Government, in
recognition of this fact, contracted a study for the reorganization of MOP in
early 1974, and, after the diagnostic and design phase of the study, is now
implementing a reorganization scheduled to be completed in 1977. The reor-
ganized structure, calling for the creation of a Sub-Secretary of Transport,
is shown in Chart I.
1.19      Within the framework of the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1231-EC),
the Government agreed to take steps: first, to establish within MOP a unit to
be responsible for the planning and coordination of land transport (road and
rail); and second, to establish an agency with enlarged responsibilities for
all modes of transport. This two-stage approach was adopted as a practicable
formula, taking into account the difficulties to be overcome to alter the
present fragmented decision-making process for the sector. The status of
implementation of these measures is reviewed in paragraph 3.09.



- 6 -                    TABLE 1.1
ECUADOR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimates of Transport Sector Expenditures /
(1970-19 75)
(Millions of Current Sucres)
1970       1971           1972        1973         1974             1975
Highways/2              336.9       823.6          878.8    1,050.6       1,395.0         1,206.6
Railways                139.1       140.7          144.4       151.4  N. Available          183.3
Ports/3            N. Available    162.9           165.6       183.6        116.2      N. Available
14
Airports DAC-/   N. Available        90.0    N. Available    115.0           47.1           109.2
Pipelines/.5            350.0    1,600.0         1,300.0       254.5        248.5           248.5
/1   Unless othervise specified, including operational expenditures, investments,
and debt servicing.
/2   Excluding road transport industry.
/3   Excluding Esmeraldas, San Lorenzo, Salinas, Bahla de Caraquez, and Balao ports.
/4   Excluding airlines, taking into account only airport authorities and DAC.
/5   Including only investments excluding operational expenditures.
Source: Highways - MOP
Other modes - Junta Nacional de Planificacio'n
January 1977



- 7 -
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Highway Network
2.01      As may be expected in a country with terrain as varied as that in
Ecuador, highway development has been greatly influenced by geographical and
climatic conditions; these differ widely among the three major regions of the
country: the Costa, the Sierra and the Oriente. The highway network increased
by 70% between 1963 and 1976 to reach a total of 26,500 km (Table 2.1). Paved
roads, now totalling about 4,000 km, increased by 50% over the last six years --
this reflects efforts by the Government to expand the main road network. Of
the total, about 13,000 km come under the jurisdiction of MOP, representing
the trunk system and important secondary roads. These roads have been clas-
sified according to their standards in five different classes.
2.02      In spite of continued expansion and improvement, the main road net-
work is still not adequate to assure a satisfactory level of service, espe-
cially in view of the rapid growth of the demand for road transport. In
1974, MOP initiated an ambitious program to expand, upgrade and rehabilitate
the network. After a slow start, this program began to show results, parti-
cularly since early 1976 when a new administration took over MOP. Works are
currently in progress on close to 2,500 km of trunk roads, about 1,400 km of
feeder roads, and 2,300 meters of related bridge construction. In spite of
past efforts, particularly under Bank projects, maintenance of the network
remains a problem (para. 2.18).
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic and Regulation
2.03      A national transport survey in 1964, a highway master plan in 1973
and, more recently, the Quito-Guayaquil expressway feasibility study provided
useful information on road traffic; otherwise, information is scant and un-
reliable. Traffic growth over the network can best be estimated through
general indicators. Annual growth of diesel and gasoline consumption, shown
in Table 2.2, has been around 10% over the last ten years, which correlates
well with scattered available historic data on traffic growth. This impres-
sive growth is largely due to the economic expansion prompted by large scale
oil exploration starting in 1967 and subsequent exports starting in 1973.
2.04      Vehicle registration, another major indicator, is shown in Table 2.3.
The fleet more than doubled in the period 1970-1976, reaching 125,000 vehicles
in the latter year. The importance of the two major urban centers in the
country, Quito and Guayaquil, is shown by the fact that about 62% of the
total vehicle fleet is registered in its respective provinces (Pichincha and
Guayas). The undeveloped and sparsely populated Oriente region registers only
about 1% of all vehicles.



- 8 -
2.05      Road transport is regulated and administered by a variety of Govern-
ment agencies, including MOP, the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, and
the Interior Ministry, the latter supervising the National Transportation
Council which, in turn, is responsible for road transport regulation. Regu-
lations concerning trucking are too detailed, so much that, if rigidly enforced,
they would be an impediment to the development of a healthy industry. However,
since the Government has never acted with full force to implement them, truck-
ing, in effect, is largely unregulated. The existence of many unregistered
truckers (independent owner/operators) has contributed toward maintaining
strong competition. In contrast, passenger traffic is more effectively
regulated; intercity passenger tariffs are controlled, as are entry permits,
routings, and frequency of service. The technical assistance under the
ongoing Fourth Highway Project will assist in reviewing and updating road
transport regulations as necessary.
2.06      Usage of the highways is regulated by the "Ley de Caminos," speci-
fying, among other things, the allowable weights and dimensions of vehicles.
The maximum single axle load is set at 11 metric tons, which is satisfactory.
Some efforts have been made by MOP in the past to enforce the "Ley de Caminos".
Weighbridges were installed to control axle loads at four sites along major
trunk roads under the Consortium Highway Project (paras. 3.04 and 3.06), the
last one becoming operational in 1973. Adequately trained personnel, however,
are not available at the stations. Collection of data and sampling techniques
are deficient. In fact, several stations are not functioning. Overloading
of trucks has continued. To protect the considerable investment in highways,
the Bank has been pressing the Government to enforce axle load regulations.
The Government is preparing to take action to train weighing station staff,
to put stations into continuous operation, and to collect and process traffic
data. These measures, which will be supported by technical assistance under
Loan 1231-EC, should bring about substantial progress over the next year and
should enable the Government to comply with the related covenant of Loan
1231-EC by the end of 1978 at the latest. This covenant has been also included
as a covenant of the proposed loan.
C.   Highway Administration
2.07      DGOP administers all matters related to highways.  Several depart-
ments and regional districts function under DGOP. This organization has its
internal shortcomings, and MOP envisages several changes in DGOP, within the
framework of its overall reorganization (para. 1.18). Under the revised
structure shown in Chart I, a separate directorate will deal with each of the
following: highway planning and programming, design and studies, construction,
maintenance, geotechnical laboratory, and cost accounting.
2.08      MOP staff totals close to 4,000 people, of which about 400 work in
the Ministry, in Quito. Qualified engineering and technical staff are lacking
both in Quito and the districts, which is due, in large part, to the relatively
low salary scale of engineers. This has been particularly critical since the



- 9 -
early 1970s, when oil exploration and subsequent exports began to create well
paving technical jobs in the private sector. Shortage of qualified MOP staff
will be alleviated, at least in the short run, through on-the-job training and
direct support provided by the technical assistance included in the Fourth
Highway Project (paras. 3.09 to 3.11).
D.   Highway Planning
2.09      Highway planning is not a continuous process in Ecuador.  After con-
siderable expansion of infrastructure under the impetus of oil exploration that
began in 1967, the pressure mounted on MOP to plan action in the highway sub-
sector for supplementing overall development strategies. Convinced of the
importance of a comprehensive plan, MOP retained consultants TAMS (USA) under
the Consortium Highway Project (para. 3.04) to complete a highway master plan
by mid-1974. This plan served as a basis, in its early stage, for selection
of some eight road projects for detailed engineering and confirmation feasi-
bility study. One of the high priority roads is included in the Fourth
Highway Project (para. 3.15). Two other projects, a four-lane access road
to Guayaquil and a penetration road between Puerto Ila and Doblones, would
be included in the proposed project.
2.10      Planning for highways is the responsibility of the Directorate of
Planning and Programming under DGOP, but this Directorate operates without
experienced personnel. A review of its work during preparation of the
previous Bank highway project in 1975 indicated major deficiencies: traffic
data are not collected periodically; the highway master plan is not being up-
dated; and information concerning future demand for road transport is not
made available to MOP. The Directorate of Design and Studies under DGOP is
responsible for feasibility studies and engineering. Recent experience has
shown that this Directorate lacks sufficient capability to define adequately
the scope of pre-investment studies and to contract and supervise consultants.
The Government undertook, within the framework of the Fourth Highway Project)
to improve highway planning, particularly as regards traffic data collection
and evaluation and building up staff for pre-investment studies. Technical
assistance and institutional measures under the above project are now being
initiated (paras. 3.09 and 3.10).
E.   Highway Financing
2.11      Highway expenditures are financed through the general Government
budget under DGOP allocations. DGOP does not have financial autonomy; its
expenditures are part of the overall MOP budget. Expenditures for the period
1970-1976, including MOP's total operating budget, are shown in Table 2.4.
The level of total annual expenditures in 1976 is close to US$44 million
equivalent, based on figures for the first 10 months of the year. Recurrent
expenditures for highway maintenance, periodic improvements, administration
and supervision, including the total of MOP's operating budget, absorb about
40% of the overall MOP expenditures for highways. These expenditures, although
they have been increased over the years, are not adequate to meet the growing
maintenance requirements (para. 2.18).



- 10 -
2.12      Capital expenditures in 1975 amounted to about 60% of total MOP
expenditures and reached about US$30 million equivalent. Capital expenditures
reached a peak in 1974, both in terms of current value (about US$42 million),
and as a percentage of total MOP expenditures for highways (about 76%). Both
the amount and percentage declined after 1974 mainly due to inefficient
administration in the Ministry and slow and ineffective project preparation.
In 1975, the Ministry was unable to spend the total amount of funds budgeted
for that year. Capital investments for highways are financed from several
Government funds, including the Fondo Vial (using earmarked road user charges),
FONADE, FONAPRE (studies), the general budget and external sources.
2.13      Estimated contributions from road user charges are shown in Table
2.4. On the average, they cover current highway expenditures as well as
roughly one-third of infrastructure investments. The prices 1/ for locally
consumed gasoline and diesel oil are low in comparison with international
price levels. This situation may, over time, inflate the demand for road
transport and distort intermodal distribution of traffic and investment
requirements. A quick and easy solution to the problem is not possible -- any
solution would need to be considered carefully since it would affect an impor-
tant segment of the population. Equally important is the fact that, at this
time, there is no soundly based information on which to make rational recom-
mendations. The recent Bank economic report (No. 1382-EC, December 1, 1976,
para. 33), however, emphasized the costs of this pattern of domestic consump-
tion of petroleum products.
2.14      Import duties on vehicles and spare parts have been high and, until
1974, revenues from such duties constituted a substantial part of road user
charges; in 1973, for example, they made up 38% of the total, while fuel taxes,
which are directly related to the incidence of the use of the road network,
contributed 52%. The high import duties tend to discourage renewal of the
vehicle fleet, which does, in fact, comprise a high proportion of obsolete
equipment. Road user charges would be reviewed by the transport planning unit
to be set up within the framework of the ongoing Fourth Highway Project (para.
3.09).
F.   Highway Engineering and Project Preparation
2.15      The standards of existing highways vary considerbly in Ecuador,
according to regional and terrain conditions. Upon MOP's request, consultants
TAMS (para. 2.09) developed a highway manual containing design standards,
specifications, and standard conditions of contract. The documents were
approved by MOP in 1974 and published in 1976. Design standards are shown in
Table 2.5 and feeder road standards are shown in Table 2.6. Applied with
judgment, these standards are satisfactory. Their adaptation to specific
local conditions would be reviewed with technical assistance to be provided
under the Fourth Highway Project.
1/   These prices, at US$0.16 per gallon for regular gasoline, are among the
lowest in the world, and a comparison with international prices suggests
that they entailed an implicit subsidy of about US$440 million in total
during the 1972-1975 period.



- 11 -
2.16      Earlier, foreign consultants prepared the major part of pre-investment
studies and engineering of highway projects. More recently, however, foreign
consultants have been required by law to associate themselves with local
consultants. Although this is a positive measure to maximize the transfer of
technical know-how to local consultants, it should have been accompanied by
safeguards to maintain adequate quality standards. MOP has not been able to
supervise local consultants adequately. The Fourth Highway Project provides
technical assistance to strengthen and develop MOP's capability in this field
(para. 3.10). In the past, the role of the consultant retained for construc-
tion supervision has, on many occasions, been limited to quality control.
More recently, however, at the Bank's suggestion, MOP revised its practice so
that supervisory consultants would be responsible for overall job management,
representing MOP with full authority.
G.   Highway Construction
2.17      For the past ten years, a large part of the highway construction
effort in Ecuador, including that financed externally, has been awarded to
local contractors. Their performance, however, under the Highway Consortium
Project, for example, revealed shortcomings in technical expertise. The 1974
Bank transport sector mission identified a number of problems facing the
industry -- arising in part from the industry itself and in part from the
Government's treatment of the industry. The Government has agreed to review
thoroughly the status of the industry and its own related policy and practices
under the ongoing Fourth Highway Project (para. 3.12).
H.   Highway Maintenance
2.18      Highway maintenance has been performed through four regional divi-
sions of the Maintenance Directorate under DGOP. This structure was created
in 1970 on completion of a maintenance program that was financed under the
Highway Consortium Project. It has been reorganized recently by setting up
seven maintenance divisions, and it is better suited for efficient maintenance
operations. Periodic maintenance and emergency works are performed through
the four maintenance districts and force account, as well as by contract.
Routine maintenance of both paved and unpaved roads is carried out exclusively
by force account. A review of highway maintenance during the Bank sector
mission and subsequent appraisal of the previous highway project indicated
that several major deficiencies persist.  First, although MOP's maintenance
expenditures had been increased from 1971 through 1976 to cope with require-
ments of the principal network, the growing overall maintenance requirements
oblige MOP to spread available resources too thinly. Second, and more impor-
tant, management procedures and work techniques have to be improved in order
to ensure efficient use of maintenance resources. Workshops and garages also
require urgent improvements. An important element of technical assistance has
been included for highway maintenance in the ongoing Fourth Highway Project
(para. 3.11).



- 12 -
I.   Feeder Roads
2.19      Planning and construction of feeder roads require special treatment.
These projects must be properly integrated with agricultural development proj-
ects, particularly with such complementary aspects as extension services,
agricultural credit, and marketing. The need for feeder roads was emphasized
by a recent Bank Economic Mission (November 1976). The preparation of sound
feeder road projects requires careful coordination among a number of Government
agencies, such as the Ministry of Agriculture, the Instituto Ecuatoriano de
Reforma Agraria y Colonizacion (IERAC), the Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF),
the CEDEGE and MOP.
2.20      MOP at present is preparing engineering design for about 1,040 km of
feeder roads, of which some 280 km are fairly well advanced. These projects
have been prepared with little or no coordination with other Government
agencies. Such coordination is necessary to assess the scope and feasibility
necessary accompanying development measures. In view of the above, an element
of technical assistance has been included in the proposed project to improve
planning and preparation of feeder roads and to develop a specific program
suitable for possible future Bank financing (Chapter VII).



- 13 -
TABLE 2.1
ECUADOR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Network
(1963-1976)
(Kilometers)
Year           Paved           Gravel            Earth             Total
1963           ----- 8,413 ---------             7,211 /1        15,624
1970           2,850           8,150            11,300           22,300
1973           3,419           7,107            12,012           22,538
1976 /3        4,168          10,085            12,234 /2        26,487
1/ Seasonal earth roads.
2/ Of which 1,942 km all weather.
3/ Preliminary.
Source: Junta Nacional de Planificaci6n
January 1977



- 14 -
TABLE 2.2
ECUADOR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Fuel Consumption (1965-1975)
(millions of US Gallons)
Year            Gasoline             Diesel             Total
1965              89.8                 38.8             128.6
1966              93.2                 44.2             137.4
67             103.9                 50.2             154.1
68             114.3               59.0               173.3
69             122.1                62.9              185.0
70             134.0                73.0              207.0
71             150.2               85.5               235.7
72             155.6               88.8               244.4
73             173.2              105.6               278.8
74             198.5              119.4               317.9
75             218.6              119.5               338.1
Annual Rate of Growth
1965-1975 = 10.2% (Total for gasoline and diesel).
Source: Junta Nacional de Planificacion
January 1977



ECUADOR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet by Categories
(1951-1976)
'Passenger               Jeeps and         Medium        Heavy 6/
Year             Cars                    Pickups          Trucks        Trucks          Others           Total
1951 1/         -------7,261 1/          ----                310         4,479            -              12,050
1962 1/         ------22,566 1/          ----              1,259         7,656            -              31,481
1965 2/         -      27,147 1/         ----              1,515         9,210             -             37,896
1966 3/         -                        -                 -             -                 -             41,421
1967            14,151                   20,016            3,002        10,061              49           47,279
1968            14,719                   22,191            3,051        10,631              60           50,652
1969            16,403                   25,448            3,330        10,572              75           55,828
1970            17,876                   30,520            1,810        12,399             176           62,772
I-n
1971            20,186                   37,991            3,479        12,717              94           74,467
1972            22,254                   38,543            3,544        12,157           8,032 4/        84,530
1973            23,950                   49,833            3,286        13,724              92           90,885
1974            31,087                   61,725            3,140        16,009              28          111,989
1975            -                         -                -            -                  -            123,000 5/
1976            -                                                                                       125,000 5/
1/ Breakdown between passenger cars and other light vehicles not available.
2/ Categories shown were calculated from total assuming same breakdown as in 1962.
3/ Breakdown not available.
4/ Includes motorcycles and bicycles in Guayas Province.
5/ Preliminary figure, breakdown not available.
6/ This category includes buses.
Source: Instituto Nacional de Estadistica, Direccion General de Transito, Interior Ministry
January 1977



ECUADOR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Expenditures and Road Users' Contribution
(1970-1976)
(Million of Current Sucres)
A. Highway Expenditures        1970         1971         1972         1973         1974        1975         1976 1/
Operating Budget           24.0         23.0        38.1         49.9         44.4         53.9         57.4
Consultants               11.9          5.1         15.6         94.7         95.3         53.4        114.9
Highway Studies            10.6          3.5         6.3         15.0         33.3         23.9         14.0
Highway Construction    236.2         703.1        679.5        680.8        938.5        657.0        578.6
Highway Maintenance
and Improvements         84.2         82.6        121.0        186.3        256.8        387.3        367.8
Highway Administration
and Supervision           -            6.3         18.3         23.9         26.7         31.1         34.3
366.9       823.6        878.8      1,050.6      1,395.0      1,206.6      1,167.0
0'
B. Motor Vehicle Contributions
Vehicle Registration
and Licenses                                       15.0         14.2         27.3         41.7
Tolls                                               42.0         60.4         76.0         90.4
Import Duties on Vehicles                          360.0        300.0        911.5 2/    200.0 2/
Import Duties on Parts                              23.0         25.0         90.0 2/      20.0 2/
Gasoline Taxes                                     266.0        296.3        339.9        396.7
Diesel Taxes                                        44.4         52.7         59.7         64.5
Tire Taxes                                          14.0         15.0         14.6         10.0 1/
764.4       763.6      1,519.0        823.3 3/
1/ First ten months.
2/ Preliminary figures.
3/ Licensing of vehicle imports closed since 1975.
Source:  Expenditures:  Budgeting and Accounting Department, MOP
Contributions: Junta Nacional de Planificacion
January 1977



ECUADOR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MnP Highway Design Standard-1974
Class I             Class II            Class III          Class IV            Class V
F     U      M     F      U     M      F      U     M      F     U      M      F       U     M
F
Design Speed (km/hr)                 100   80    70    100   80    60         90   70    50    80    60    40    50         40    40
Min. Hor. Radius (m)                 350  210   160    350  210   115    280  160    80   210   115    50    80             50    50
Sight. Distance (m)                  160  110    90    160  110    75    140   90    60   110    75    45    80             50    50
(Slopping)
Maximum Grade (%)                      3    5      7       4    6      8       4    7      9     6      8    10      6       8    12
Width - travelled way (m)                  7.30               6.50                6.00                6.00                 4.00
- shoulders (m)               2.5  2.0   1.5    2.5  2.0   1.5    1.5  1.0   0.5                  -                   _
Bridge loading                         HS 20-44            HS 20-44            HS 20-44             HS 20-44             HS 20-44 or
HE 15-44
F - Flat Terrain
U - Undulating Terrain
M - Mountainous Terrain
Source: Highway Design Standards by MOP, 1974.
January 1977



- 18 -
Table 2.6
ECUADOR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MOP Feeder Road Design Standards
Max. Grade (%)              at altitudes of:
SWL   -1000 m          10
1000m -2000 m           9
2000m -3000 m           8
3000m -3500 m           7
Min. Design Speed (km/hr)                          35
Min. Hor. Curve (m)                                30
Roadway Width (m)           1st order               7.20
2nd order               5.20
Max. Cross Slope (%)        1st order               8.5
2nd order               8.5
Standard Cross Slope (%)                            4.0
Source: Specifications for Feeder Road Design by MOP, March 1975.
January 1977



- 19 -
III. PAST AND ONGOING BANK ASSISTANCE
TO THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   Past Assistance
3.01      In 1954, the Bank made its first of a series of four highway loans
to Ecuador to the Comite de Vialidad (US$8.5 million, Loan 94-EC), for con-
struction and improvement of about 500 km of trunk roads serving the coastal
Province of Guayas. Although a few sections could not be completed because
of a shortfall in project funds, the project as a whole was successful. It
played an important role in the development of the province, in particular
by supporting the vigorous expansion of banana production.
3.02      In 1957, the Bank made another loan to the Government of Ecuador
(US$4.5 million, Loan 176-EC) to assist in construction and improvement of
533 km of trunk roads. Three of the four project roads, totalling 377 km,
were substantially completed under this project, whereas the fourth road
(Chone-Santo Domingo, 156 km) was only 60% completed when, in 1962, all loan
funds were exhausted. Remaining civil works were eventually completed under
the first phase of the subsequent project. In addition, this project also
included a limited component for improvement of highway maintenance.
3.03      In 1962, the Government and the Bank began to prepare a new highway
project to complete construction undertaken under the two previous projects
(about 300 km), to continue and expand the nationwide highway maintenance
program, and to construct and improve four major trunk road sections totalling
about 500 km. Consultants were engaged early in 1962 to help prepare this
ambitious project. In view of its large financial requirements, USAID and
IDB joined the Bank and IDA in forming a consortium for the proposed project
in early 1963. Because of internal political developments, negotiations
could only take place in 1964.
3.04      The Consortium Highway Project had a final cost of US$69 million
equivalent, of which US$32 million equivalent were financed by external
sources. IBRD contributed US$9 million (under Loan 379-EC, signed May 26,
1964), IDA US$4 million, IDB US$7 million and USAID US$12 million. The
project provided for construction of 730 km of road, a five-year highway
maintenance program, and technical assistance for preparation of future
highway projects, including a Highway Master Plan. The completion of all
components of the Consortium Project took six years longer than expected at
appraisal. OLD is preparing a Performance Audit Report on the project (draft
issued January 27, 1977) based, inter alia, on LAC Dept. PCR Report (dated
April 26, 1976).
3.05      Both reports point to the fact that, in spite of delays and cost
overruns, road construction has been successfully completed; the roads have
contributed substantially to the economic expansion of the regions affected.
Appraisal estimates of economic returns were surpassed in all cases, due



- 20 -
mainly to higher-than-expected growth of traffic. The project produced a
Highway Master Plan and provided pre-investment studies for a number of high
priority road projects.
3.06      Improvement of highway maintenance fell somewhat short of expecta-
tion, in particular because of lack of continuity in middle and high echelons
of DGOP. The regulatory framework for control of axle load was established,
although with considerable delays, and several weight control stations were
built. Enforcement was not effective and will be strengthened under the
ongoing Fourth Highway Project (para. 3.11).
B.   The Fourth Highway Project
3.07      The Fourth Highway Project, financed under Loan 1231-EC, emerged
from the findings of the 1974 sector mission. The project was prepared
through 1975, signed May 24, 1976, and became effective on October 31, 1976.
Total project cost amounted to US$21 million. The Bank Loan of US$10.5
million covers estimated foreign exchange requirements. The main objective of
the project is to improve planning and management for the transport sector as
a whole as well as for the highway subsector. For this purpose, the project
includes a comprehensive technical assistance component. It also provides for
the upgrading of a high-priority road. Two other roads initially considered
under this project could not be included because their preparation was not
sufficiently advanced. These two sections are the main components of the
proposed Fifth Highway Project which, to a large extent, is a complement to
the Fourth Highway Project. The two projects would constitute a comprehensive
program to alleviate institutional weaknesses and to upgrade selected high-
priority road sections.
3.08      The Fourth Highway Project has made a relatively slow start.  This
is partly due to a five-month delay in fulfilling the condition for effective-
ness. The more basic reasons are the weakness of MOP and the relative complex-
ity of the technical assistance component of the project. MOP invited short-
listed consultants to submit proposals in early April, and a detailed schedule
(Table 3.1) and timetable for the initiation of various technical assistance
programs were discussed during negotiations. The Project Coordinator
(para. 3.13) is expected to take up his functions in June 1977. The various
technical assistance programs would be mobilized between July and September
1977. With such programs started, MOP would have adequate capacity to imple-
ment successfully the Fourth Highway Project as well as the additional road
construction and study proposed under the Fifth Highway Project. Specific
components of the project, related covenants, and the status of their imple-
mentation are briefly reviewed in the following paragraphs.
(i) Improvement of Planning at Sector and Subsector Levels
3.09      The project provides for a three-year program of institutional
measures and technical assistance to create and develop adequate capacity to
ensure the function of transport planning and coordination for all modes of
transport, while, in the beginning, emphasizing highways. This component
includes the setting up of systematic collection of traffic data and the



- 21 -
development and implementation of a program for enforcement of axle load
regulations. The accompanying institutional measures are defined in two
covenants calling for (a) the establishment, within one year (or another
agreed date), of a unit within MOP with responsibility for transport planning
and coordination; and (b) the establishment within two years of an agency with
enlarged responsibilities in transport, including programming of investments
and formulation of policies. The existing Directorate of Planning and Coordi-
nation will serve as a nucleus for the proposed unit under (a).  In view of
the initial delay in project implementation and the need to provide a ten-
month period for on-the-job training of staff assigned to the new unit, MOP
estimates that it will be in a position to comply with covenant (a) only by
May 1978, in lieu of May 1977. This new deadline is acceptable to the Bank
since it is linked with the schedule agreed during negotiations for the
mobilization of technical assistance.
(ii) Highway Engineering
3.10      The project includes a program to strengthen MOP's capacity in the
areas of programming and project preparation, including the supervision and
administration of pre-investment studies entrusted to consultants. The Loan
Agreement calls for establishment within MOP of a specific unit responsible
for these activities. The Directorate of Design and Studies under DGOP has
been designated as the unit responsible for this part of the project. This is
acceptable to the Bank. The technical assistance for this component of the
project would be mobilized by August 1977.
(iii) Highway Maintenance
3.11      This program will be conducted within the Maintenance Department of
DGOP. It includes two phases. Phase I, which is now being initiated by MOP,
would lead to recommendations for improvement of all major aspects of mainte-
nance operations: planning, budgeting and cost control, method and sequence
of maintenance activities, qualification of personnel and related training
requirements, equipment management, maintenance and renewal. Phase I would
also define a two-year (1978-1979) program for the district of Santo Domingo,
one of the country's four maintenance districts. This program would be imple-
mented under Phase II, which would lead to recommendations for extending
improvement to the other districts. Several covenants to the Loan Agreement
ensure that the above technical assistance and pilot program are properly
supervised and receive adequate support. They contain specific undertakings:
(a) to submit to the Bank for comments and consultation the program proposed
for the pilot district; (b) to ensure permanent and consistent enforcement
of the regulations concerning limitations on dimensions, axle loads and
weight of vehicles; and (c) to ensure adequate maintenance and repairs of
roads under MOP jurisdiction, adequate upkeep of equipment and provision of
spare parts and establishment of necessary workshops. These covenants are
included as covenants in the negotiated Loan Agreement for the proposed Fifth
Highway Project. The maintenance situation has been briefly reviewed in
paragraph 2.18. The level of expenditure planned by MOP for 1978 was reviewed
at the time of negotiations and would be broadly adequate given the present
maintenance capacity of MOP.



- 22 -
(iv) Improvement of the Local Construction Industry
3.12      This program will address problems of the local road construction
industry from two standpoints: (a) the structure and method of the industry
itself and (b) the handling of the industry by Government agencies. Tech-
nical assistance by individual consultants now being recruited by MOP will
initially be provided to DGOP's Construction Department and, in a second
phase, also to selected local contractors. In order to ensure the effective-
ness of this program, the Loan Agreement stipulates that, as of one year of
the date of the Agreement (i.e., starting May 24, 1977), no local contractors
would be permitted to take part in bidding invited by MOP for paved road con-
tracts unless such contractors have received technical assistance under the
above program. In view of the delay in contracting related consultant ser-
vices, MOP requested a postponement of this deadline until May 1978. This
was reviewed during negotiations on the basis of a detailed plan of action by
MOP, and it is acceptable.
(v) Project Management
3.13      In view of the relative complexity of the various programs included
under the project, an engineer with adequate administrative and management
experience will be attached to DGOP as Project Coordinator to expedite project
implementation, especially as regards technical assistance. The Project
Coordinator is expected to start by June 1977 and will also assist in the
implementation of the Proposed Fifth Highway Project.
(vi) Pre-Investment Study
3.14      The Fourth Highway Project also provides for a study on the area of
influence of the proposed new road between Puerto Ila and Garrapata (about 86
km).  The study was planned in two phases.  Phase I was to define this area's
agricultural potential and the investments required for its realization. It
was also conceived as serving to provide the basis for the economic evaluation
of a road construction project for the area. If the initial findings justified
it, Phase II of the study would prepare a development project for the area,
including a plan for additional physical infrastructure and other investments.
A team from the Ministry of Agriculture began to collect data on the area in
mid-1976 with a view to preparing the economic evaluation of the proposed road
construction investment, which was the basis of the Bank appraisal mission's
investigation of this segment. The Government has now selected consultants
to complete Phase I and to undertake Phase II of the study; contract negotia-
tions are under way. Because of the difficulties in obtaining sufficient
information about the entire project area, it was not possible to establish
its justification adequately. For that reason, the proposed Fifth Highway
Project includes provisions for the construction of only the eastern section
of the envisaged road (Puerto Ila-Doblones), as indicated in Chapter VI
(paras. 6.01-6.22) of this report. The remaining sections will be assessed
during the course of the aforementioned study and are expected to comprise the
basis of a development project which the Bank will consider financing in the
near future. The study is expected also to provide the material needed to



- 23 -
define and implement covenants regarding land ownership and project benefits
accruing from the proposed Fifth Highway Project (extension services and
agricultural credit requirements and a lateral feeder roads program (paras.
6.05 and 6.09-6.12)).
(vii) Road Improvement
3.15      The Fourth Highway Project includes civil works and related super-
vision for the upgrading of the Babahoya-Balzapampa road (49 km). Bids were
received on April 18, 1977 and are now being evaluated by MOP. It is expected
that works would start in July 1977. Ecuadorian consultant ASTEC is being
retained by MOP for supervision of construction under terms and contract condi-
tions reviewed during negotiations.



ECUADOR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance Elements
under Fourth Highway Project
Estimated Cost
Collaborating                                                            Forei2n           _Local
Items             Government Agencies                     Contracting     Man/Months        (USS Million)   (Sucres Millic
1.  Highway Maintenance      -*Directorate of Maint. (MOP)          Firm           Professional 120          1.3              12.5
-District of Santo Domingo (MOP)                      Technical 126
2.  Engineering Design and  -*Directorate of Studies (MOP)          Firm           Professional 210          1.2              12.5
Feasibility Studies      - Dept. of Computers (MOP)
- Laboratory (MOP)
3. 'Transport Planning       -*Directorate of Planning and          Firm           1st Stage Pro-            0.9              12.5
and Coordination           Coordinating (MOP)                                   fessional 90
- Directorate of Programing (MOP)                     2nd Stage Pro-
fessional 45               1/
4.  Domestic Road Con-       -*Directorate General of Public        Individuals                              0.1-
struction Industry         Works (MOP)                                         Professional
- Directorate of Construction (MOP)                    20-25
- Administrative & Finance
Directorate (MOP
3/                    4
5.  Rural Development        -*Ministry of Agriculture              Firm                  2/                 0.4              10.0
Study Puerto Ila-        - JUNAPLA                              (already
Chone                    - FONAPRE                              negotiating)
- Directorate of Planning and
Coordinating (MOP)
6.  Project Coordinator      -*Directorate General of Public         Individual    Professional 36           0.3              10.0
Works (MOP)
- Directorate of Planning and
Coordinating (MOP)
*Denotes agency directly responsible for supervising the consultant's work.
1/ Bank can only disburse after MOP took measures, specified in Section 3.02 of loan agreement (Loan 1231-EC), in
respect of bidding for paved contracts.
2/ Terms of Reference are being revised by Ministry of Agriculture with Bank assistance and on basis of outcome of
appraisal of proposed Highway V.                                                                                                m
3/ Of this foreign exchange, Bank finances 75%, and remaining 25% financed by FONAPRE.
Source: MOP
January 1977



- 25 -
IV. THE PROPOSED FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
A.   General Description
4.01      The proposed project would include:
(a) civil works and related supervision for the construction of
a four-lane paved highway (25 km) between Duran and Boliche;
(b) civil works and related supervision for the construction of
a development road between Puerto Ila and Doblones (29 km)
and for construction and improvement of about 75 km of
lateral feeder roads in the area of influence of the Puerto
Ila-Doblones road; and
(c) pre-investment and organizational studies for the preparation
of a regional secondary and feeder road program, principally
in the provinces of Guayas, Los Rios, and El Oro.
Implementation of the project is expected to take about three and one-half
years (mid 1977-end 1980). Detailed description and economic evaluation as
well as specific covenants concerning each of the project components are
provided in the following chapters. Common matters concerning implementation,
procurement, cost estimates, and financing are presented hereafter.
B.   Cost Estimates and Financing
4.02      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$38.1 million,
of which about US$17.5 million, representing the estimated foreign exchange
component, would be financed by the proposed Bank loan. The balance would be
financed by the Government. Some of the above-mentioned consulting services
could have been eligible for financing by the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP), but the Indicative Planning Figure for the relevant period
is fully committed and there are no funds available for this purpose in the
Special Fund. A summary of the project cost is given on the following page.
4.03      The estimated construction costs for the Duran-Boliche and Puerto
Ila-Doblones roads are based on detailed engineering and current unit prices
for similar works. The necessary supplementary engineering for the founda-
tions of bridges on the Puerto Ila-Doblones road is not expected to affect the
cost of this project by more than 3%, which would be well within the margin of
precision currently accepted for final estimates for road construction projects.
Possible reduction in the cost of the Puerto Ila-Doblones road component was
discussed at the time of negotiations (para. 6.03). The estimates for the
75 km of lateral feeder roads are based on average per km cost for similiar
works. The location, exact length, design standards and detailed cost esti-
mates for these feeder roads would be defined later (para. 6.05). Since
these roads concern a relatively small portion of the civil works component of



- 26 -
PROJECT COSTS
Project Components                Cost in Sucres (Millions)   Cost in US$ (Million Equiv.)  Bank
Local      Foreign   Total    Local    Foreign          Total
Civil Works
(a) Duran-Boliche (25 km)        192.5        192.5    385.0        7.7         7.7        15.4   48
(b) Puerto Ila-Doblones
roadworks (29 km)          77.5        52.5    130.0        3.1         2.1          5.2   48
major bridges (spans
132 & 100 m)              20.0        15.0      35.0       0.8         0.6         1.4   48
(c) Lateral Feeder Roads
(75 km)                  37.5        25.0      62.5       1.5         1.0         2.5   40
Sub Total                 327.5       285.0    612.5       13.1        11.4         24.5   47
Consultant Services
(d) Construction SPN of
(a) and (b) above             30.0        30.0      60.0       1.2          1.2         2.4
(e) Preparation of Feeder
Roads Program                 5.0        10.0      15.0       0.2          0.4         0.6
Sub Total                 35.0        40.0      75.0       1.4         1.6          3.0   53
Base Cost (up to mid-1977)        362.5       325.0    687.5       14.5        13.0        27.5
Contingencies
(f) Physical (10% of (a)
and (b)                       30.0        25.0      55.0        1.2         1.0         2.2
(g) Physical (20% of (c))           7.5         5.0      12.5       0.3         0.2         0.5
(h) Price Variation 1/           115.0         82.5    197.5        4.6         3.3         7.9
Sub-Total                152.5       112.5    265.0        6.1         4.5         10.6
TOTAL PROJECT            515.0       432.5    952.5       20.6        17.5         38.1   46
1/  Price escalation rates are as follows:
(a) Foreign Exchange Element
Civil Works:                       1977-1979'        9% p.a.
Civil Works:                       1979-1980         8% p.a.
Consulting services:               1977-1980        8% p.a.
(b)  Local Cost Element                 1977-1980        12% p.a.



- 27 -
the project, the uncertainty concerning their cost does not entail unaccept-
able risk. Cost estimates for consulting services are based on recent con-
tracts for similar services with Ecuadorian firms as well as joint venture of
Ecuadorian and foreign firms.
4.04      The foreign component of the civil works for the Duran-Boliche and
Puerto Ila-Doblones roads has been estimated at 47% on the average. It is
expected that construction of the Duran-Boliche four-lane divided highway
would be done by a joint venture of local and foreign contractors, and the
Puerto Ila-Doblones road and the lateral feeder roads, which are much simpler
tasks, are expected to be constructed entirely by local contractors. The
foreign exchange component of consultant services has been estimated at an
average of about 53% assuming that supervision of construction would be
contracted to local firms, whereas preparation of the regional secondary and
feeder roads program would be carried out by a blend of foreign and local
consultants. The cost per man-month for professionals would average US$5,200,
ranging, for different services, from US$2,000 to US$6,000. The technical
assistance component of the project would require 570 man-months of profes-
sional services, of which 450 would be for construction supervision and 120
for the regional secondary and feeder road program.
4.05      A contingency allowance of 10% has been included to allow for
increases in construction quantities for civil works. 1/ An allowance of 30%
of total project base costs plus physical contingencies has been allowed for
price variation for both civil works and consultant services, assuming domestic
and international inflation rates as shown in the bottom of the cost table on
the preceding page.
4.06      Disbursements of the loan would be made as follows:
(a) for civil works, 47% of total expenditures; and
(b) for construction supervision and preparation of the regional
secondary and feeder road program, 53% of total expenditures
or 100% of direct foreign exchange cost.
C.   Execution and Procurement
4.07      Within MOP, the DGOP would be responsible for execution of the
project. During negotiations, the Government agreed to ensure adeqate liaison
and coordination with other Government agencies such as MAG, IERAC, INERHI and
CEDEGE to assist MOP in the preparation of a regional secondary and feeder
road program, with respect to the study itself, as well as the institutional
and organizational aspects of the resulting investment program.
1/   This allowance is 20% for lateral feeder roads, which have not been
engineered.



- 28 -
4.08      Civil works for road construction and improvement totalling about
130 km would be carried out on the basis of unit price contracts awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines.
The character of feeder road works is not likely to attract international
bidders, and there would be adequate competition among local contractors for
these works. Consequently, invitations to bid for these works would not be
published abroad; publicity within Ecuador (including notice to Bank member
embassies) would be sufficient. For bidding purposes, the works would
be divided into lots of appropriate size, and firms would be allowed to bid
for any lot or combination of lots. Prequalification of firms in a manner
acceptable to the Bank would be required for all works under ICB procedures.
For procurement of 75 km of project feeder roads, post qualification would be
sufficient. Specific arrangements for the division of civil works into lots
were discussed and agreed at the time of negotiations. General terms and
conditions of civil works procurement, including, specifically, the proced-
ures for prequalification, bid and performance bonds and guarantees, the price
variation formula and the specific cost items to be covered by such formula
were also reviewed and agreed during negotiations.
4.09      The terms of reference for consultant services for construction
supervision were reviewed and agreed with the Government during negotiations.
The consultants to be selected under the project, as well as their terms and
conditions of employment, would be acceptable to the Bank.
4.10      The implementation period of the project would be about three and
one-half years. The Duran-Boliche Road would require about 24 months of dry
seasons over the period from the end of 1977 through 1980 -- dry seasons in
this coastal area normally begin in May and end in December. The Puerto
Ila-Doblones road and lateral feeder roads would take two to three years to
construct, with completion in 1980. On this assumption, the schedule of
disbursements of the loan is included in Table 4.1. The timetable for project
implementation is presented in Chart II.
Risks
4.11      Particular attention was given during project preparation to the
major sources of implementation problems encountered in past highway construc-
tion projects in Ecuador. The use of loan funds to be allocated to the only
two civil works components which, as of this time, still require additional
engineering--i.e., foundation of bridges for the Puerto Ila-Doblones road, and
location and alignment of associated lateral feeder roads--has been safeguarded
through conditions of disbursement discussed in paragraphs 6.04 and 6.05. The
estimated ER of investments in the Puerto Ila-Doblones road and associated
lateral feeder roads assumes that complementary investments in agricultural
development will be made in the area. Recent Bank experience in this region
of Ecuador has shown that spontaneous private investments have taken place
when adequate transport infrastructure became available. Nevertheless, assur-
ances were obtained concerning agricultural credit, extension services, land
tenure and distribution of project benefits, which are discussed in paragraphs
6.09 through 6.12.



- 29 -                        TABLE 4.1
ECUADOR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                          at end of Quarter
and Quarter Ending                                          (US$ Thousands)
1977/1978
September   1977                                                      -
December    1977                                                       50
March       1978                                                      750
June        1978                                                   2,450
1978/1979
September   1978                                                   4,000
December    1978                                                   5,200
March       1979                                                   5,400
June        1979                                                   6,400
1979/1980
September   1979                                                   9,400
December    1979                                                  11,400
March       1980                                                   12,000
June        1980                                                  12,800
1980/1981
September   1980                                                  15,500
December    1980                                                  17,500
Assumptions: - Bids for Duran-Boliche road received
November 1977, construction starts January 1973;
- Bids for Puerto Ila-Doblones road received
January 1978, construction starts March 1978;
- Feeder road construction starts June 1978.
Source: Appraisal Mission
January 1977



- 30 -
V. THE DURAN-BOLICHE ROAD
A.   Description
5.01      The Duran-Boliche road is one of three major access roads to
Guayaquil, and, for the purpose of this project, it can be considered as
terminating at Duran, on the opposite bank of the Guayas River (see Map).
Duran and Guayaquil are connected by a modern bridge 4.4-km long with four
lanes. Guayaquil is the largest urban center and seaport of Ecuador; it
handles some 80% of the country's total import tonnage and 50% of exports. 1/
Boliche, at the other end of the section, is at the junction of three main
highways: (a) to the east, the highway connecting Quito and Riobamba with
Guayaquil; (b) to the south, the Coastal Highway to Machala and, ultimately,
Peru; and (c) to the north, the highway to Milagro, center of an area where
a Bank-financed irrigation project is under way. About 4 km from Duran,
there is a junction with the main highway to Babahoyo and Santo Domingo
and the northern coastal region. A large part of the traffic to and from
Guayaquil is therefore channelled through this vital artery, which also
carries local traffic from neighboring small towns and villages.
5.02      The present two-lane road with its poor riding surface has inade-
quate capacity for the relatively high traffic volumes that, growing at
historic rates of over 10% per year, reached, in 1976, levels between 4,330
and 5,800 veh/day and is expected to carry over 10,000 veh/day in 1982 with
about 48% heavy vehicles. The existing road is clearly obsolete. It needs
constant and costly repairs due to structural deficiencies compounded by
periodic flooding.
B.   Preparation and Engineering
5.03      The road was identified as one of the highest priority improvement
projects in the Highway Master Plan. The 1974 Bank sector mission confirmed
the urgency of the project. Detailed engineering was contracted to local
consultants (Suelos y Concretos/Ecuador) in 1974, and, concurrently, a study
was undertaken by US consultants TAMS to confirm feasibility of the invest-
ments on the basis of preliminary engineering; feasibility was confirmed in
early 1975.
5.04      The proposed works would consist of constructing a four-lane
divided highway (25 km in length) between the Guayas bridge (slightly north
of Duran), and the crossroad of Boliche. The works would also include:
one grade-separated interchange, one at-grade intersection, and one underpass
under the approach span of the existing Guayas bridge. The interchange, 4 km
from Duran, would connect the project road with the existing road to Babahoyo.
The at-grade intersection would be at the Boliche road junction.
1I/ Excluding petroleum products.



- 31 -
5.05      A new improved alignment is proposed throughout the 25 km in order
to put the road on a higher, better-draining ground and to minimize the un-
desirable effects of expansive clays. The new alignment would bypass the
towns of Duran and Boliche. Design standards are shown in Table 2.5. Two
critical aspects which received particular attention during project prepara-
tion are: (a) the fact that the road crosses a flood plain and (b) the
approach to the Guayas bridge. Embankment elevation was designed to avoid
flooding. Rock fill would be provided as necessary on selected stretches to
ensure free drainage and stability under high water conditions. Special
communicating culverts would be provided to discharge flood waters. As
regards the approach to the Guayas bridge, the design provides an adequate
connection between the rural subdivision of Duran and the project road.
5.06      Final cost estimates, plans, specifications and bid documents were
reviewed during appraisal and, after subsequent minor design revisions, they
are now acceptable. Current cost estimates based on detailed engineering
result in an average cost equivalent of about US$615,000 per km, including
all structures and interchanges.
C.   Other Project Preparation Measures
5.07      MOP and the Bank have reviewed with particular attention two
specific steps toward project implementation which will require coordination
between MOP, which is responsible for the project, and the municipal and
provincial authorities responsible, respectively, for the rural subdivision of
Duran and the operation of the toll collection facility at the entrance of
the Guayas bridge. These two agreements were reviewed by a post appraisal
mission and revised during negotiations, as follows:
(a) MOP and the "Consejo Municipal de Guayaquil" have confirmed
their agreement concerning the design of the approach to the
Guayas bridge, the scope of related right-of-way acquisition,
including the specific properties to be affected thereby,
and arrangements for securing and financing such acquisition.
Construction of the new approach would also come under the
project.
(b) MOP and the "Concejo de la Provincia de Guayas" have confirmed
their agreement concerning the location and design for the Guayas
bridge toll collection facilities which would be relocated
under the project.
The above agreements are acceptable to the Bank.
D.   Project Impact
5.08      The Guayaquil metropolitan area will benefit from a less congested
and less costly transport access, which will contribute to the development of
its industry and enhance its role as Ecuador's leading port. Although some
additional urban traffic may be generated by the project (para. 5.11), it



- 32 -
would not have an adverse environmental impact on the area. Because the road
terminates on the east bank of the wide Guayas river estuary, which is rela-
tively distant from Guayaquil's Central Business District, and because of the
natural barrier provided by the Guayas estuary, it is not expected that any
significant urban development would take place in the existing low, rural
land adjacent to the proposed road. Some development is expected to take
place along the first 1.5 km through the "Parroquia Rural de Duran". The
planned development of the metropolitan area of Guayaquil, including this
section, is currently under study by a UNDP-financed Urban Development Plan-
ning team. This team produced a preliminary land use zoning and road access
plan for the entire area under study in November 1976. It confirms that
significant urban development would not take place in the immediate vicinity
of the proposed road alignment.
E.   Economic Evaluation
(i) General
5.09      The economic justification of the proposed highway is based on the
quantification of the following benefits:
(a) reduction of operating costs to road users;
(b) reduction of road maintenance costs; and
(c) reduction of road accidents.
(ii) Traffic
5.10      Existing traffic volumes on the Duran-Boliche highway and its con-
necting roads were established through traffic surveys conducted in 1974 by
the consultants TAMS-ASTEC and confirmation counts conducted by MOP in 1976.
Current traffic varies from 5,800 vehicles per day (48% heavy) between Duran
and the Babahoyo Junction to 4,330 vehicles per day (48% heavy) in the Babahoyo
Junction-Boliche section. Indicators of traffic growth trends, such as gaso-
line consumption, vehicle registration, population, and income were used
as a base for traffic projections. These indicators were compared with
projections made by consultants 1/ using a numerical model based on regional
economic parameters.
5.11      Estimates of total traffic used in the evaluation of the proposed
project vary - for 1982 - from 11,690 vehicles per day (AADT) on the Duran to
Babahoyo Junction section to 8,400 on the Babahoyo Junction-Boliche section.
The proposed project, through reduction in vehicle operating costs, would,
1/   Hydroservice-ASTEC, Quito-Guayaquil Expressway Study, 1976.



- 33 -
depending on the type of vehicle, generate a traffic increase of 7% to 13.5%
of normal traffic over the first three years after opening of the road. These
increases have been estimated assuming a price elasticity of demand between
generated traffic and reduction in vehicle operating costs of about -0.50 for
light vehicles and buses and -0.40 for trucks. Traffic was forecast for 20
years using, for different road sections, overall growth rates between 10.0%
and 9.0% p.a. through 1985, and 8.0% and 7.0% p.a. thereafter (Table 5.1).
Since this traffic, for the most part, originates at points scattered outside
Guayaquil's area of influence, it is considered long-distance traffic. On the
basis of the O&D Survey of 1975, and projections of existing traffic, the
consultants estimated that, by 1982, of the total traffic entering Guayaquil
coming from the project highway, only about 900 light vehicles per day could
be considered short-distance traffic from inside that area.
(iii) Benefits from the Project
5.12      Quantifiable benefits from the proposed highway construction include
the direct benefits derived by highway users--vehicle operating cost savings,
time savings and accident savings.
5.13      The new highway, with four paved lanes, adequate shoulders, shorter
length, reduced number of curves and intersections allowing higher average
speeds, would reduce vehicle operating costs significantly (estimated at about
20% for heavy vehicles, 15% for light). Estimates of vehicle operating costs
were prepared by the consultants based on de Weille, 1/ modified according to
their experience in Ecuador and using Ecuadorian prices as input. A summary
of the vehicle operating costs used for the project is shown in Table 5.2.
Vehicle operating cost savings accounted for about 55% of total quantifiable
benefits.
5.14      Benefits derived from reductions in travel time have been included
in the evaluation. They constitute one of the important reasons for improving
the existing road, which suffers from congestion and on which average speeds
are low. Passenger time savings accounted for about 35% of total quantifiable
benefits. The ER without time benefits is 14%. Time benefits were computed
on the basis of the average labor wage when travelling for business purposes.
Based on the consultants' 0&D surveys, about 40% of all passengers in buses,
and nearly 70% of all passengers in light vehicles (including pickup trucks),
would be travelling for business purposes.
5.15      Benefits derived from reductions of traffic accidents have also been
included in the evaluation. Although no reliable records of accident rates in
Ecuador are available, the observation of traffic flow and road conditions and
the analysis of reported accidents in the area indicate a relatively high level
1/   Quantification of Road User Savings, World Bank Occasional Paper No. 2,
1968.



- 34 -
of accidents per vehicle-km. Based on local observations and the reductions in
accident rates when upgrading from two-lane to a four-lane divided highway
observed in other countries, the consultants estimated an order-of-magnitude
rate of accident savings for the project, as well as average costs per acci-
dent. Reduction of accidents account for 3% of total quantifiable benefits.
5.16       In addition to road user savings, savings in road maintenance costs
were included in the evaluation, accounting for about 7% of total quantifiable
benefits. Actual MOP maintenance expenditures over the last five years on
this highway 1/ were used as a base for determining maintenance costs without
the proposed project. It was also assumed that the existing road would only
serve local traffic, and its maintenance requirements would be minimal.
Future maintenance requirements for the proposed project were determined
for normal conditions of a four-lane highway with traffic growing at 7% p.a.
In addition, an overlay has been assumed after 11 years of service.
(iv) Benefits Distribution
5.17      The benefits resulting from savings in vehicle operating costs and
reduced accidents are expected ultimately to be transferred, in large part,
to the users through a reduction in rates charged by truck and bus operators
of the highly competitive transport industry in Ecuador. This would have a
direct impact on economic production, since most of the traffic on this
highway 2/ is related to productive activities and trade. Additionally, the
users would benefit from improved quality of service (comfort, safety, punc-
tuality) and shorter travel time.
(v) Overall Economic Return
5.18      The proposed road is well justified, with an economic return (ER)
based on best estimates of 20%, including time benefits. Sensitivity analyses
have been carried out on the main parameters affecting the economic evalua-
tion (cost and benefits), showing that the ER would, even under adverse assump-
tions, still be acceptable (Table 5.3). Also, a sensitivity analysis was
carried out of the impact on the ER of diverting local traffic passengers from
light vehicles to buses. The results showed that full diversion would have
little effect--total benefits would be reduced by less than 5%.
(vi) Marginal Evaluation of Ancillary Facilities
5.19      An economic evaluation on the interchange at the junction with the
Babahoyo road was made separately. The results indicate that the marginal
investment in the proposed grade-separated interchange, in comparison with a
1/   Amounting to an average of S/ 180,000 per km per year.
2/   Including 70% of all occupants in light vehicles, according to the
consultants' O&D survey (para. 5.11).



- 35 -
controlled at-grade intersection, is well justified, with an ER of 30%.
Marginal benefits derived by highway users were calculated on the basis of an
analysis of velocity profiles for each vehicle type on all approaches to the
intersection. The analysis adapted the velocity profiles to adequate traffic
light cycles for the at-grade alternative. Quantifiable benefits included
marginal vehicle operating cost savings. An analysis of the First Year
Benefit (FYR), which is estimated at about 20, shows that the proposed inter-
change is well justified for immediate construction (Table 5.4).
5.20      An economic evaluation of the four-lane divided highway, based on
the best estimates, indicates that the marginal investment in four lanes as
compared with two lanes, is justified, with an ER of 19%, including time
savings. Marginal benefits derived by highway users were calculated based
on the estimated vehicle operating costs resulting from various traffic
density conditions (levels of service). 1/ As the levels of service decrease
with increased traffic, marginal vehicle operating costs increase. Estimates
of these costs were made at peak and off-peak hours. An analysis of the FYR
is estimated at about 10% (Table 5.4), which indicates that the four-lane
highway is justified for immediate construction. If only a two-lane facility
were built first, the addition of two more lanes within only five years
after completion of the first two would unnecessarily increase construction
costs and interfere with traffic and, hence, with the major road access to
Guayaquil. It is recommended, therefore, that construction of the full four-
lane divided highway be carried out immediately.
1/   These levels of service are a function of traffic volume and road capa-
city.



ECUADOR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Duran - Boliche Highway
Traffic Flows (AADT)
Length    Actual                Estimated 1982                Average Annual Growth
Section              Trafic       (Km)      1976                 Light                         1976-79 1980-85 1986-99
Total  Vehicles    Buses    Trucks
Duran - Babahoyo Junction  Normal           4       5,800    10,400      5,600      1,700      3,100
Generated                         1,290        760        220       310
Total                   5,800    11,690      6,360     1,920      3,410    10.2    10.0       8.0
Babahoyo Junction-Boliche  Normal          21       4,330      7,470     3,980      1,160      2,330
Generated                           930        540        150       240
Total                   4,330     8,400      4,520      1,310     2,570      9.5     9.0      7.0
Source: MOP Traffic Surveys, TAMS-ASTEC feasibility study, Hidroservice Quito-Guayaquil Study
and mission estimates.
January 1977
I-.



- 37                         TABLE 5.2
ECUADOR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Duran-Boliche Road
Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs/l
(Sucres/Km)
Type of Vehicle       Existing Road       Proposed Road        Savings
Light Vehicle            1.18                 1.03             0.15
Bus                      3.50                 2.97             0.53
Truck                    5.05                4.02              1.03
/1 Economic costs, including driver's salaries for buses and
trucks.
Source: ASTEC cost schedules, adjusted by the appraisal
mission
January 1977



ECUADOR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Results of Economic Evaluation: Duran-Boliche Road
Economic Eval.based on
Highway                        Length     Financial    Economic       Best Estimates 3/       Sensitivity Analysis (ER)
(km)       Cost 1/       Cost 2/      ER 4/        FYR 5/     Cost +15%  Benefits -25%
(S/million) (S/million)
Duran-Boliche                       25          437.3       354.3         20           14            18         16
1/  Based on November,1976 cost estimates, including 10% physical contingencies and project supervision and right
of way
2/ Financial cost net of taxes.
3/ Basis for best estimates: (i) annual traffic and growth rates per Table 4.1; (ii) Cost and benefits in November
1976 prices; (iii) project open to service in 1980; (iv) economic life of project, 20 years; (v) benefits include
savings in vehicle operating costs, including professional driver's salaries and road maintenance costs and
passenger time savings. Passenger time benefits accounted for about 35% of total quantifiable benefits. The
ER without time benefits is 14%. Time benefits were computed on basis of the average labor wage when travelling
for business purposes. Based on the consultants' 0 & D surveys, about 40% of all passengers on buses, and nearly
70% of all passengers on light vehicles (including pick-up trucks) would be travelling for business purposes.
4/ ER = Economic Return.
5/ FYR = First Year Return.
Source: Mission estimates
January 1977



ECUADOR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
DURAN-BOLICHE ROAD
Marginal Economic Evaluation of Interchange and Four-Lane Highway
Marginal 1/        Marginal 2/          Economic Evaluation                   Sensitivity
Project Component            Financial Cost     Economic Cost      Based on Best Estimates 3/              Analysis (ER)
(SI million)      (S/ million)          ER 4/         FYR 51          Cost +15%   Benefits -25,'
Babahoyo Junction Interchange          17.8                 14.4             30             20                27             25
Four-Lane, Divided Highway            115.5                 93.5             25             10                23             21
1/ Difference between full project and minimum project; costs based on Nlovember, 1976 estimates,
including physical contingencies and project supervision.
2/ FincLrcial cost net of taxes.
3/ Benefits include savings in vehicle operating costs, including professional driver's salaries
and passenger time savings, and for the four-lane highway analysis, road maintenance and
accident costs.
4/ Economic Return                                                                                                               H
5/ First Year Return
Source:   Mission Estimates
January 1977



- 40 -
VI. PUERTO ILA-DOBLONES ROAD
A.   Description
6.01      The proposed 29-km Puerto Ila-Doblones penetration road will give
access to a large fertile area, hitherto largely isolated and undeveloped,
west of the existing Santo Domingo-Quevedo highway. This road is expected
to produce substantial benefits by providing improved all-weather transport
service to those areas already under cultivation, thus facilitating their full
development, and by opening for development new agricultural and forested
areas.
6.02      The project area west of the Daule river (20 km from Puerto Ila)
is presently not accessible from Puerto Ila. There are some dirt tracks in
that part of the project's area east of the Daule river, but they are quite
inadequate to provide even basic transport services. They have not been
engineered and lack any provision for drainage. Their condition is from fair
to poor in the summer, and they become impassable during the long rainy
season. There is some private initiative to maintain them, but these are at
best emergency repairs to maintain precarious access. Inadequate transport
facilities are the main obstacle to the development of the good agricultural
potential of the area. The proposed project would eliminate this bottleneck.
6.03      The proposed works would consist of two elements, namely:  (a) the
Puerto Ila-Doblones penetration road (29 km), with two major bridges with
spans of 100 m and 132 m respectively over the Peripa river (9 km from Puerto
Ila) and over the Daule river (20 km from Puerto Ila); and (b) a network of
lateral feeder roads totalling about 75 km. The penetration road would be
designed to class III standards (Table 2.5) and would be surfaced with gravel.
The proposed standards are appropriate to ensure adequate year-round all-
weather services and allow for future stages of improvement, including eventual
paving. The average cost based on detailed engineering is about US$180,000
per km (excluding the cost of two major bridges), which reflects the rolling
terrain and the resulting relatively high quantities of earthworks and the
need to haul the gravel surface materials from the only available quarry near
the Puerto Ila end of the road. Possibilities of affecting cost reduction by
reducing the thickness of the surface course were discussed during negotiations,
and would be evaluated under engineering studies to be completed by MOP's
consultant within four months (para. 6.04). The lateral feeder roads would
conform to first and second order feeder road standards (Table 2.6), including
surfacing with select borrow material. The average cost of construction of
lateral feeder roads would be about US$33,000 per km based on rough per km
estimates for similar ongoing projects.
B.   Preparation and Engineering
6.04      The Puerto Ila-Doblones penetration road is one of ten high-priority
development roads identified in the Highway Master Plan. Preliminary engineer-
ing for the penetration road and bridges was subsequently undertaken by local



- 41 -
consultant Cimentaciones Limitadas, retained by MOP. Feasibility of the
investments was confirmed in a separate but simultaneous study by US consul-
tant TAMS in early 1975. Cimentaciones was retained by MOP in 1975 to complete
detailed engineering. The proposed works would consist of: (a) the Puerto
Ila-Doblones road (29 km), with two major bridges; and (b) a network of lateral
feeder roads totalling about 75 km. Final design work for the Puerto Ila-
Doblones road with two major bridges was incomplete at the time of appraisal,
but supplementary engineering carried out by MOP with the assistance of a
local consultant (ASTEC), following Bank recommendations, has sufficiently
refined the cost estimate for purposes of determining financial requirements.
Further soils studies for bridge foundations and possible subsequent design
revisions are necessary for the finalization of engineering and bidding docu-
ments. MOP has agreed to carry out such supplementary engineering starting
May 1977. The exact scope and implementation schedule of the necessary supple-
mentary soil studies and engineering, expected to take four months, were
reviewed and agreed during negotiations, together with the possible above-
mentioned revisions to reduce the thickness of the surface course. Their
completion and revision of engineering based on such studies, which are
acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement for civil works
of the Puerto Ila-Doblones road.
6.05      The lateral feeder roads together with other agricultural develop-
ment measures (para. 6.09) are a necessary complement to the proposed develop-
ment road. The location and approximate length of feeder roads required to
serve the project area have been estimated on the basis of a preliminary
survey. Another preparation, including detailed definition of alignment,
engineering, quantity takeoffs, contracting documents and cost estimates,
will be prepared under the Rural Development Study included in the Fourth
Highway Project (para. 3.14). In order to ensure a satisfactory prepara-
tion and timely execution of this project component, the Government under-
took to prepare, no later than December 31, 1977, a program of feeder roads to
be constructed in the project area, showing detailed location, length, design
standards, cost estimates, implementation schedules, etc. Adoption of such a
program, acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition for disbursement for
feeder road construction under the proposed loan.
C.   The Area of Influence
6.06      The Puerto Ila-Doblones road gives access to areas highly suitable
for agricultural production in the Pichincha and Manabi provinces. The area
of influence of the road extends from the existing Santo Domingo-Quevedo paved
road westward to Doblones. The northern limit runs parallel to the project
road, approximately 13 km to the north. The area further north is benefitting
from an IDB-financed colonization project at La Bramadora. The southern limit
runs about 9.5 km to the south of the proposed road. This rectangular area,
approximately 64,000 ha, is characterized by climatic and soil conditions
which are favorable for a wide range of crops as well as for livestock produc-
tion. The area has been defined taking into consideration the available land
with good agricultural potential and the improved access to be provided by the
proposed road and complementary lateral feeder roads.



- 42 -
6.07      At present, the extent and intensity of cultivation and resulting
agricultural production in the project area are well below potential. Esti-
mates of present land use within the project area indicate that about 25% are
at present covered by forest and by land without agricultural potential. Of
the remainder, some 48% are dedicated to perennial tree crops (including oil
palm, platanos, bananas, coffee, and cacao), 8% to annual crops, including
subsistence crops, and the remaining 18% to pastures (Table 6.1). Lack
of basic transport and of public programs to support agricultural development
account for the present low levels of productivity. Existing plantations
are poorly kept. Grazing lands are generally underutilized.
6.08      Legalization of land ownership is almost completed, with properties
ranging from small farms to cooperatives and medium as well as large private
farms. Farm holdings larger than 100 ha constitute less than 5% of all farms
and cover less than 20% of the area. The average holding size for the whole
project area is between 20 and 50 ha. The number of farmer families is
estimated at 1,300, with a total population in the area of influence of the
project of about 10,000.
D.   Specific Developmental Measures
6.09      In order to ensure that the anticipated increase in agricultural
production and the resulting producer surplus would, in fact, materialize
after the completion of the project, the Government would undertake specific
programs to provide extension services and to make agricultural credit avail-
able to local farmers in the area of influence of the road. The definition of
detailed plans for the implementation of the above programs and measures would
be based on the recommendations of the Rural Development Study (para. 3.14).
It is expected, in fact, that this study will set the stage for an agricultural
project for which Bank financing would be considered. However, the Government
obligations under the covenants of the proposed loan would be independent of
future Bank participation in agricultural programs for the project areas, as
follows:
6.10      As regards extension services, the Government gave assurances to the
Bank during negotiations that it would provide extension services to farmers
in the area of influence of the road starting in 1979, in accordance with a
program acceptable to the Bank, to be prepared no later than December 31,
1977, in light of the recommendations of the Rural Development Study financed
under Loan 1231-EC.
6.11      As regards agricultural credit, the Government gave assurances to
the Bank during negotiations that it would make credit available to local
farmers for complementary on-farm investments in accordance with arrange-
ments acceptable to the Bank, to be prepared not later than the end of 1977,
in light of the recommendations of the Rural Development Study financed under
Loan 1231-EC.
6.12      As regards the distribution of project benefits, the Government
gave assurances to the Bank that it would (a) review land tenure patterns in
the area of influence of the project in light of the conclusions of the Rural
Development Study financed under Loan 1231-EC, and (b) discuss with the Bank,



- 43 -
not later than the end of 1978, appropriate measures designed to ensure a
reasonably equitable distribution of the benefits of the project among farmers
within the project area.
E.   Economic Evaluation
(i) Project Benefits
6.13      Quantifiable benefits from the proposed highway construction were
calculated by using a producer surplus approach, which attempts to measure the
basic economic changes, particularly the net agricultural value added, gen-
erated by the proposed road project, and complementary investments. 1/ This
agricultural producers surplus (net value added) would, in fact, be generated
by more intense use of the land, and the opening of new potentially productive
areas. The area traversed by the highway project is highly suitable for agri-
cultural production. Rainfall and soil characteristics are particularly suit-
able for pastures, apt to sustain intensive beef production, and for various
cash crops such as oil palm, rubber, abaca, platano, citrus, corn and cassava.
6.14      The present evaluation is based on information and analysis prepared
by a team of researchers of the Ministry of Agriculture, assisted by individual
consultants (para. 3.14). The continuation of the Rural Development Study
would provide further information and recommendations for future land use. It
is anticipated that double cropping, and the introduction of highly productive
crops such as soya, will be recommended. Nevertheless, these eventual land
use patterns have not been considered, so as to establish a conservative
estimate of the economic project return. Assumptions concerning future land
use (Table 6.1) and crop yields (Table 6.2) reflect the best conservative
estimate of the area's potential. It was also assumed that productivity and
intensity of land use in the area would expand over the present levels in the
future, although at considerably lower rates, if the project is not implemented.
This assumption reflects past experience in areas adjacent to the project area
and is particularly significant for oil palm and livestock production.
6.15      It is estimated that a total of about 54,000 ha would be brought
under efficient cultivation by 1990 as a result of combined efforts in highway
and complementary agriculture investments.   It is estimated that the result-
ing growth of total production value would range from 7% to 10% p.a. through
a 20-year period after opening of the proposed road. These increases would
take place as some of the forest areas and fallow lands are brought under
cultivation, and unsuitable or unproductive crops are replaced by more appro-
priate ones.
6.16      Producer surplus benefits from crop land and pasture land would
be generated by various annual and perennial crops and beef production. They
were estimated by assuming that present land use trend patterns would persist.
1/   Following the methodology discussed in "The Economic Analysis of Rural
Roads Projects," World Bank Staff Working Paper No. 241.



- 44 -
The various crops under cultivation and their annual production for selected
years are shown in Table 6.3. These increasing quantities are expected to
supply regional and national markets, mainly in the urban centers of the
coastal region and around Quito. Producers surplus benefits for this produc-
tion have been measured in terms of farm gate prices and include the value of
increased local consumption.
6.17      The incremental surplus obtained from 11 crops and livestock is
estimated to be S/ 80 million in 1990, reaching S/ 200 million in 2000, of
which about 8% is generated by annual crops, 80% by perennial plantations, and
12% by beef production. A summary of these benefits for selected years is
shown in Table 6.4.
(ii) Project Costs
6.18      Estimated future production, and hence project benefits, depend on
the availability of adequate extension services in the area. Somewhat antic-
ipating the detailed recommendations of the Rural Development Study, the scope
and cost of extension services have been estimated on the basis of available
information and experience with similar projects. It is expected that, during
the first ten-year period, technical assistance would be more intensive than
thereafter, and it would include an agronomist, a veterinarian and a socio-
logist, associated with a number of technical staff. The full cost of this
assistance has been included in the economic evaluation of the project.
6.19      Total investments required to bring about this production are spread
over a 16-year period and are estimated to be on the order of SI 520 million.
Of this total, 35% is the investment required for the proposed penetration
road, 11% for feeder roads, 7% for technical assistance, and 47% for comple-
mentary investments in agriculture. Incremental agricultural investments,
including land clearing, preparation and leveling, fencing, housing, initial
investments in crops and animals, and development of plantations up to year
of production, amount to an annual average estimated at about S/ 20.0 million,
starting in 1980.
(iii) Economic Return and Benefits Distribution
6.20      The proposed project,including the lateral feeder roads, is well
justified, with an ER of 18%, based on best estimates. Sensitivity analyses
have been carried out on the main parameters affecting the economic evaluation
(costs and benefits), showing that the ER would, even under adverse assumptions,
still be acceptable. 1/ An economic evaluation of the Daule river bridge and
1/   Sensitivity analyses were carried out for the following variables:
(i) increase in road construction costs of +15%; (ii) reduction of over-
all project benefits of -25%; (iii) reduction of agricultural yields of
-25%; (iv) increases of agricultural production costs of +30%; (v) reduc-
tion in the farm gate prices by -30%; (vi) reduction in the areas dedi-
cated to the most important crops - African palm, coffee and cacao - of
-20%; and (viii) increases in technical assistance costs of +40%.



- 45 -
road section west of it was made separately. The results indicate that the
marginal investment in these works is justified, with an ER of 14% based on
best estimates. Marginal benefits generated by such were calculated from the
producers' surplus that would be obtained by farmers west of the Daule river;
this area comprises about 15% of the total area of influence of the project.
A sensitivity analysis of these marginal calculations has also been carried
out and the results are satisfactory (Table 6.5).
6.21      Producers' surplus benefits are expected to be reasonably distributed
among the rural population. Today, small holdings account for near 95% of
total farm units in the area of influence of the road, as shown in Table 6.6.
Experience with similar neighboring areas suggests that these patterns are
stable and would persist after construction of the proposed road. Land tenure
situation and related Government regulation concerning size of holdings would
be reviewed and adopted, as mentioned in paragraph 6.12.
6.22      The implementation of an agricultural development project in the
area of influence of the road (para. 3.14) would significantly increase the
estimated benefits of the road project, which were based on conservative
assumptions of social and economic development of the area. Furthermore, the
bridging of the Daule river would open up, to the west, large tracks of land
for colonization. To the extent that the project is a prerequisite to these
additional benefits, the economic return has been conservatively estimated.



- 46 -
TABLE 6.1
ECUADOR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Puerto Ila-Doblones Road
Estimate of Land Use in 1976 and in 1990
after Implementation of the Road Project
(Hectares)
Types of Activities                              1976 2/               1990 3/
Annual Crops
Rice                                          1,000
Corn                                          3,000                 4,000
Cassava                                         200                 1,500
Others 1/                                     1,200                 1,500
Sub-Total                      5,400                7,000
Perennial Crops
Cacao                                        15,000                 7,100
Coffee                                        5,700                 5,700
Oil palm                                      2,500                 7,000
Rubber                                          400                   900
Abaca                                           200                   800
Platano                                       4,000                 7,500
Banana                                        2,800                   500
Citrus                                          200                   600
Sub-Total                     30,800               30,100
Pastures                                       11,500                16,500
Total                         47,700               53,600
1/  Subsistence crops (on-farm consumption).
2/ Present situation ("before").
31 Year in which all land has been incorporated and planted to crops
as shown.  In the "Twith project" situation -- shown here -- this is
assumed to take place over a period of 10 years after road construction
has been completed.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and Mission Estimates
April 1977



- 47 -
TABLE 6.2
ECUADOR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Puerto Ila-Doblones Road
Estimated Present and Future Yields with and without the Project
(tons/ha)
Crop                                            Present           1990                2000
1976        w/o       with      w/o      with
Cacao (dry beans)                                  0.18        0.18       0.38    0.18       0.60
Coffee ("pergamino")                               0.20        0.20       0.60    0.20       1.00
Oilpalm (oil)                                      2.00        2.20       2.80    2.50       3.10
Rubber                                             0.455       0.60       0.90    0.90       1.30
Abaca                                              1.00        2.00       2.30    2.50       3.00
Platano                                            6.00        9.00      12.00   13.00      18.00
Banana                                             9.0        10.00      18.00   11.00      24.00
Citrus                                            10.0        12.00      16.00   13.00      20.00
Rice                                               0.40        0.60       1.00     -          -
Maize                                              0.80        1.20       2.00    1.60       3.00
Cassava                                            4.00        7.00       8.00    9.00      15.00
Meat (kg live weight)                              0.050       0.060      0.120   0.70       0.200
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and mission estimates.
April 1977



- 48 -                 TABLE 6.3
ECUADOR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Puerto Ila-Doblones Road
Estimate of the Additional Production Resulting from the
Road Project (tons)
Types of Activities                         1985 1/              1990 1/              2000 1/
Annual Crops
Rice                                      100                   -                    -
Corn                                      700                 2,000              4,800
Cassava                                 1,900                 6,600              8,900
Sub-total              2,700                 8,600              13,700
Perennial Crops
Cacao                                     200                   300              2,300
Coffee                                    500                 1,300              4,300
Citrus                                     -                  2,000              6,800
Platano                                 7,700                21,200             26,100
Oilpalm                                    -                    300              3,600
Rubber                                     -                    200                 500
Abaca                                      -                    300                 300
Banana                                  _                       -                6,900
Sub-total              8,400                25,600              50,800
Meat                                         300                   800               2,000
Total                 11,400                35,000              66,500
1/ The selected years 1985, 1990.and 2000 represent year 5, the project
year in which feeder roads have been constructed and credit and extension
services have been organized, 1990 an intermediate year, and year 20, the
year of maximum development, respectively.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and mission estimates.
April 1977



- 49 -
TABLE 6.4
ECUADOR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Puerto Ila - Doblones Road
Summary of Agricultural Producers Surplus 1/ for Selected Years
(S/ Millions)
Types of Activities                    1985           1990              2000 2/
Crops
Annual                                2.8            6.2               14.4
Perennial                            31.6           63.0              179.8
Sub-Total                       34.4           69.2              194.2
Livestock
Beef                                  3.9           10.0               24.9
TOTAL                           38.3           79.2              219.1
1/ Incremental net value added attributable to the highway project.
2/ The main products contributing were: coffee 31%, cacao 20%, oilpalm 19%,
meat 12%, platano 7%, and the remaining products 11%.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and Mission estimates.
April 1977



- 50 -                         TABLE 6.5
ECUADOR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Puerto Ila-Doblones Road
Results of Economic Evaluation
Daule River-
Puerto Ila-Doblones         Doblones
Length (Km)                                                  29                    4
Financial Cost 1/ (S/ m)                                    242.0                  58.4
Economic Cost 2/  (SI m)                                    196.0                  47.3
Economic Evaluation Based 3/ on Best
Estimates (ER) 4/                                                               14
Sensitivity Analysis (ER) 4/
(i) Road Cost +15%                                     16                    12
(ii) Overall Benefits -25%                              13                     9
(iii) Agricultural Inputs
- Yields -25%                                    13                     9
- Variable Production Costs +30%                 16                    12
- Farm Gate Prices -30%                          10                     6
- Crop Areas Reductions 5/
- African Palm                              17                    13
- Coffee                                    17                    13
- Cacao                                     16                    12
- TAS Costs 6/ + 40%                             17                    13
1/  Based on November, 1976 cost estimates, including 10% physical contingencies
and project supervision and right-of-way and about 75 km of lateral feeder roads.
2/  Financial cost net of taxes.
3/  Basis for best estimates: (i) Agricultural producers surplus per paras. 6.13 to
6.17 and Table 6.3; (ii) costs and benefits in November, 1976 prices; (iii) project
open to service in 1981.
4/  ER = Economic Return
5/  Reductions in the areas dedicated to the most important crops: african palm, coffee,
and cacao, by 20%.
6/  Technical Assistance Extension Services
Source: Mission estimates
April 1977



- 51 -
TABLE 6.6
ECUADOR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Puerto Ila-Doblones Road
1976 Land Holding Pattern in the Area of Influence of the Road and
Estimated Distribution of Producer Surplus Benefits
According to Farm Size
Description                  Small Holdings             Large Holdings
Average Size                      32 Ha                     140 Ha
General Average                              38 Ha
Number of Farms               1,200                          70
Percentage of Farms               95%                         5%
Producer's Surplus
Distribution                    80%                        20%
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and Mission estimates.
April 1977



- 52 -
VII. PREPARATION OF A REGIONAL SECONDARY AND FEEDER ROAD PROGRAM
7.01      The project would also include technical assistance for the prepara-
tion of a regional secondary and feeder road program mainly in the provinces
of Guayas, Los Rios, and El Oro, and for study of required institutional and
organizational arrangements. This project element would address important
improvements required in the transport and, to some extent, in the agricultural
sectors (paras. 2.19 and 2.20). As such, it would help prepare future projects
and add to the comprehensive program of institutional improvements already in
progress under the Fourth Highway Project. The necessary consulting services
would require 120 man-months of professional staff, about half of which should
normally be by foreigners.
7.02      The consultants should, more specifically:
(a) review existing arrangements for preparation and implementation
of feeder road projects and make recommendations for improve-
ments, particularly as regards coordination among the principal
Government institutions involved;
(b) review existing criteria and standards for selection and design
of feeder roads, and recommended changes, particularly as regards
a comprehensive manual for project selection;
(c) formulate and recommend a regional program for secondary and
feeder road construction and improvement in the provinces of Guayas,
Los Rios, and El Oro, which would be suitable for Bank financing;
and, as necessary,
(d) consider the application of labor-intensive construction
technologies and review their economic and technical
feasibility;
(e) carry out additional engineering design work to complete
preparation of the program recommended under (c) above.
7.03      Benefits were not quantified for this program.  This project compo-
nent is, however, considered justified in view of the fact that it would lead
to the preparation of sound feeder road programs and to a more efficient use
of resources currently allocated to this purpose, in particular through
expected institutional improvements in project identification and preparation.



- 53 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a) assistance to be provided to MOP by MAG, IERAC, INERHI, and CEDEGE
in the preparation of a regional secondary and feeder road program
(para. 4.07);
(b) the division into lots and the terms and conditions for civil
works procurement, including prequalification procedures and
inclusion of price variation formula in civil works contracts
(para. 4.08);
(c) the terms and conditions of the required consultant services for
construction supervision (para. 4.09); and
(d) preparation and presentation to the Bank of plans, design
specifications and cost estimates for required lateral feeder
roads in the Puerto Ila-Doblones area (para. 6.05).
8.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government on
the following:
(a)  provision by the Government of extension services to farmers
in the Puerto Ila-Doblones area, starting in 1979, in accor-
dance with a program acceptable to the Bank (para. 6.10);
(b) provision by the Government of credit to farmers in the Puerto
Ila-Doblones area of influence, on terms acceptable to the Bank,
(para. 6.11); and
(c) review by the Government of land tenure patterns in the Puerto
Ila-Doblones area of influence, and discussion with the Bank of
specific measures to correct undesirable distribution of benefits
(para. 6.12).
8.03      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that
completion of additional geotechnical studies and readjustment in the engineer-
ing design of the bridges and the granular surface course of the Puerto Ila-
Doblones road based on such studies, and acceptable to the Bank, would be
a condition of disbursement for civil works of the Puerto Ila-Doblones road.
The scope and implementation arrangements for such supplementary engineering
were also discussed and agreed during negotiations (para. 6.04).
8.04      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that
adoption of a package of lateral feeder roads (para. 8.01 (d), satisfactory to
the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement for civil works of such feeder
roads (para. 6.05).



- 54 -
8.05      The covenants of Loan 1231-EC concerning the enforcement of axle-
load regulations (para. 2.06) and the strengthening of highway maintenance
(para. 3.11) would also be covenants to the proposed loan.
8.06      Subject to obtaining satisfactory assurances and reaching agreement
on the above matters, the project provides a suitable basis for a loan of
US$17.5 million equivalent to the Republic of Ecuador. The loan would be for
a term of 17 years, including a three-and-one-half year grace period.
May 6, 1977



ECUADOR
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND COMMUNICATIONS - ORGANIZATION CHART
Minister
| Sub-Secretary   |                                                                                t   Sub-Secretary
|   Public Works    l                                                                              I   Transports
--- --- -- ---LegalDept.                                                                                               -             -
RodDrco General                                                 Director                                                    dmiisrectior   n                          Publicl
Council           Public Works                                Planning & Coordination                                     Administration                            Relations
Phsia        Planning &                       OanzationAdiitaon                         Prnel            SpieFnne
Planning   Economic         TransnorttrMetiod
nnn   Evaluations
.     . I   I  -------90--0"-             Iunits receiving
*              EI] l  .___.      _ | |technical assistance
I     undrloa  123-EC
Director                 Director             Director                   Director             Executunder loan 1231
Design & Studies         Construction         Road Maintenance           Programming        I Unit & Consultants I   ' -  *  to be set up                -  *     supervisory
I_L -   - -__                                               - - -_              under covenant                       function
-Highways              - Highway               - OPerations           -Programming &                                            of Loan 1231-EC
-Public Works            Supervision           -Routine                  Evaluation                                   ....... temporary for execution
-Soils & Materials     - Public Works            Maintenance &         -Training &                                              of I DB financed project
Supervision            Rehabilitation          Publications
- Equipment                                                                                                   World Bank-16900






ECUADOR
FIFrH HIGIHWAY PROJECT
Projet Ioplee-ttio- Schedule
Project               R-ep-oslbi
Compone-                   Ace-r                  1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   00   01   12   13   14   15   16   17   OR   19   20   21   22   23   24   25   26   27   SR   29   30   31   32   33   34   35   36   37   38  39    40   41
Duro-B.Iioha road
1.  -cal  for p-eq-1ifi-atio           8lop                K
2.  -prequalfi-ati-o                   MOP                      K
3.  -cal  foe bids                     HOP                          i
4.  -cod of cotrat                     MOP                                        0
5.  --oet-oti-n                        Contrator                                       x   o   1    0    0    0        t    0    C    2    0    0    0         1    0    0    0    C    0    0    0    0    I    K    K    K    0    0    0    0                 t    It    C    0    0
Puerto Ila-Dlbl.... rood
6.  -co1 Roe pr-qoalfi-ati-            MOP                      0
7.  -peeqoalico-tion                   MOP                               it
0.  -coi  Roe bids                     MOP                                    0
9.-cood of cotract                     MOP
10.  -cent-atieo                        Contrator                                           2   0    0    0    C    C    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    '8    0    0    0    0    0    K                  t    K    I    K    K    K    K    0    K    it    0    K    K 
Lateral Poed- roads
11.  -cal  Poe p-eqa ifloatla-          HOP                                                                                                         0
12.  -pMallcie                           OP                                                                                                               0
L3.  -cal  Rae bide                     MOP                                                                                                                     0
14.  -ae-d of cotrat                    MOP                                                                                                                                      It
15.  --oct-otiau                        Cootra-toe                                                                                                                                    0    K    K    K    I    I    I    I    K    K    K    K    K    K    I    K    K 
Techoical Assistanc Roe
Feader Road Proar-
16.  -pesp-r  dc-steot  for call
for proposals                  MOP, NAG             K   0   0
17.  -ecolcte proposals and 
aelst toMoto                    OP                                   o
18.  -i-ptIon report                    Co....ltaot                                 K   K   K   K    0    0
19.  -p-spas  -acoa                     Oo-alt-t                                                 K    21    0    0    0    0    0    0
20.  -coplotion ef feeder-uutc
rod p-ag-e                      MOP,MAG,IERAC                                                                        0    C    0    0    0 
21.  -copletoe-qoci-d                                                                                                                    0    C    0    0    0    0    0    0
eogleeeriogCoc-at-nt
Jo-oay 1977
Appraisal Rep-er






1BRD-11882R3
77 00                                      75100                                        73 00                     MAY 1977
8611.                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ECUADOR
| ;-X        9 o                                                             FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IESMEP  DAS                   ElESCAsp                L             4A                                             TRANSPORT NETWORK
~~~~~~~0 _i7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                                                            PROJ~,ECT SCARS
000                                                                                                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL                           0*00*~~~~I NC 1
Q Q X e)voSc X u yoEhChu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fmt <  POOVINCIAL CAPITALS
N   A   p                                                                       0      TORSOS
OnRoRriSi ~ OTOI C               [IM  E oo                                                                                                  _ __Gr I.__!_ '_  '.d  __
61'NI -jO          M  RZO                                                                                                                y0
//41~~~~~~~~~~~~~
111)10    A          T                         A                                                                                                                     : I  N
.8,00'-
:   \           5                                                      o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20  60  100    140  ,  I0 200                                                Oe
<      / CSI   I,CKILOMETERS '                                                                                                                    b
_   g                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~79 00'                       77 00                                      75 00                   BlDte5stEsc       
/07                                                                 N---                                             -- --- -- I



