FILE    COPY                             Document of                                   Tr 
The World Bank                  1                 L
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                    L. 
Report No. P-2071-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
FIFTH HIGHWAYS PROJECT
May 6, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank- authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Sucre (S/.)
US$1 = S/. 25
S/.1 = US$0.04
S/.1,000 = US$40.0
S/.1,000,000 = US$40,000.00
Fiscal Year: January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A FIFTH HIGHWAYS PROJECT
1..       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Ecuador for the equivalent of US$17.5 million to help finance
a fifth highways project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including
three and a half years of grace, with interest at 8.2% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Ecuador" (No. 1382-EC), based on the findings of an economic mission which
visited Ecuador in August/September 1976 and in March 1977, was distributed to
the Executive Directors on April 1, 1977. Annex I summarizes the main economic
and social indicators.
3.        Until the emergence of petroleum as a major source of export earnings
Ecuador depended mainly on agriculture. Its major exports were bananas,
coffee, cocoa and sugar. Non-traditional exports, even though they increased
rapidly during the 1960s, only represented a small fraction of total export
earnings. Ecuador's manufacturing sector has been dynamic, growing at an
average annual rate of 8.7% during 1965-75. It consists mainly of small
private firms in a great variety of industries. Petroleum exports began in
1972, and they now make up half of total exports. Nevertheless, petroleum
exports only average about US$75 per person -- about one-tenth the per capita
exports of Venezuela. Ecuador is the smallest exporter in OPEC. In spite of
petroleum exports, Ecuador is one of the poorest countries in Latin America,
with one of the fastest rates of population growth. Only Haiti, Bolivia,
Honduras and El Salvador have lower GNP per capita (1976 Bank Atlas figures).
Likewise, Ecuador is among the six Latin American and Caribbean countries with
the lowest protein consumption per head; the same is true for its consumption
of energy per head.
4.        The recent petroleum-boom has improved the country's balance-of-
payments and fiscal situations and has enabled the Government to expand
public investment substantially. Ecuador's longer run development prospects
have been greatly strengthened by the petroleum revenues. The main problem
of economic management in the years ahead will be to maintain a reasonable
balance between the country's petroleum output and exports, on the one hand,
and the absorptive capacity of the economy (and, particularly, of the public
sector), on the other. Until now this balance has been fairly well main-
tained, and the inflationay problems of 1974 and 1975 have come under better
control in 1976. The fiscal and balance-of-payments problems attending
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank/IFC authorization.



- 2 -
the decline in petroleum earnings of late 1974-75 due to changes in petroleum
pricing and pipeline disruptions, have also largely been resolved through a
combination of prudent fiscal and monetary policies and the resolution of
outstanding issues between the Government and private oil companies.
5.        Petroleum policies will have a decisive influence on the country's
growth prospects. The main problem is that crude reserves are now being
extracted by conventional methods faster than they are being replaced, owing
to the virtual absence of exploration and development activity. A resumption
of such activity on a substantial scale is warranted by the size of the in
situ reserves. The main responsibility for carrying out a petroleum develop-
ment program is CEPE's (the State Petroleum Corporation), which recently
acquired the assets of Gulf Oil and now controls 62.5% of the Texaco/CEPE
Consortium which produces all of Ecuador's petroleum exports. The Govern-
ment has recently decided to step up investment in petroleum exploration and
development, so as to increase production. To this effect, CEPE will receive
a larger share of petroleum revenue than in the recent past for investment,
and private petroleum enterprises will be encouraged to invest. These
policies could lead to an increase in petroleum production from about 66
million ton/year (1973-76 average) to about 86 million ton/year within two
years. Prospects for natural gas development in the Gulf of Guayaquil may be
good, and further exploration is warranted.
6.        Ecuador has enough fertile land to expand agricultural and livestock
output at reasonable cost. Over the years agriculture has been the most
important source of employment, and improvements in the standard of living of
the majority of lower income Ecuadorians will hinge on increased agricultural
production and efforts at incorporating farmers more fully into the market
economy. Prospects for industrial development are favorable and have been
enhanced by better availability of medium-term credit (due partly to the
introduction of more realistic interest rates in 1976) and by improvements in
physical infrastructure (transport, electricity power, water).
7.        While in the past Ecuador suffered from a lack of development
projects, project preparation has improved considerably in the public sector,
partly as a result of the creation of a National Preinvestment Fund (FONAPRE)
supported by petroleum revenues and external financing institutions. The
Government's record in the allocation of petroleum revenues is encouraging
since they have been largely devoted to economic and social development
projects. Out of 1976 petroleum exports of US$565 million (net of barter
arrangements with Venezuela), US$480 million accrued to the public sector.
The National Development Fund (FONADE) created to channel petroleum revenues
into social and economic development projects absorbed US$152 million, and
the next largest recipients were the Central Government, the armed forces,
the national power authority, and CEPE. The balance went mainly to the
National Housing Bank, the Ministries of Labor, Education and Health, as well
as the universities. The past allocation of petroleum revenues suggests that
the Government will continue to give priority to economic and social projects.



8.        Public investment has increased from 5-6% of GDP in the early 1970s
to 9% in 1976, while GDP was growing at a rapid rate. If petroleum production
rises from its 1976 level of 65.9 million barrels to about 90 million barrels
by the early 1980s, Ecuador should be able to command the financial resources
required for a further increase in public investment. The growth of public
investment, particularly in petroleum, electric energy, agriculture and rural
development, transport, industry, health and education, should encourage the
further development of the economy, particularly manufacturing, agriculture
and construction. Ecuador's public investment effort will require continuing
support from external financing institutions. Such assistance is also needed
to help finance the substantial balance of payments deficit which would
accompany higher levels of public investment.    It should include an appro-
priate blend of financial assistance from international institutions and of
borrowing at commercial terms from other external sources. This would enable
Ecuador to receive the external resources required to finance its investment
program while limiting the increase in the country's debt service ratio from
its 1976 level of near 7% to about 12% by the early 1980s.
9.        The prudent fiscal and monetary policies pursued during 1975 and
1976 have been reflected in a significant reduction in inflation and in a
substantial increase in foreign reserves (during 1976 these increased by
US$189 million to US$515 million, equivalent to nearly five months imports).
The 1977 budget confirms that the Government intends to continue to pursue
prudent fiscal and monetary policies, thus reinforcing Ecuador's credit-
worthiness for further lending on Bank terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
10.       Starting with the first loan in 1954, the Bank and IDA have made
eighteen loans and six credits to Ecuador totaling US$230.8 million, net
of cancellations. On March 31, 1977, the Bank and IDA held about US$184.4
million including about US$114.0 million not yet disbursed. IFC has made
six loans and investment commitments in Ecuador, two in a large textile
company, three in a development finance company, and one in a sugar mill,
amounting to US$9.4 million of which, as of March 31, 1977, US$3.1 million
has been repaid, sold, terminated or cancelled. IFC is currently examining
other investment prospects. Execution of Bank Group financed projects has, on
the whole, been satisfactory, even though it has not been free of difficulties
often caused by the insufficiency of the country's managerial and technical
resources--a constraint that still is a major obstacle for Ecuador's economic
and social development. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments'as of March 31, 1977 and notes on the exe-
cution of ongoing projects.
11.       Bank and IDA lending were originally concentrated in transportation
and power, where there were--and still are--substantial deficiencies to be
overcome. At the end of 1976, these two sectors accounted, respectively, for



- 4 -
about 42% and 7.3% of total past lending. Most of the lending for trans-
portation was to improve the road network of the country, although two
loans were made to help finance port facilities in Guayaquil. Lending for
power has been concentrated in improving generation and distribution facili-
ties in Quito. The first livestock development loan (FY67) marked the begin-
ning of a diversification of lending; since then, the Bank and IDA have made
seven more loans and credits for agriculture and fisheries, three loans to
support industrial development through development finance companies, one loan
and one credit for education, one loan for water supply, one loan for improved
seeds production and one loan to assist Ecuador in the preparation of rural
development projects. Bank/IDA assistance for the directly productive and
social sectors has grown to about 50.6% of total lending.
12.       External development financing has also been provided by IDB and AID
and, to a lesser extent, by other bilateral sources. External financing by
sector and by source through December 31, 1976 is summarized below:
Other
Bilateral
IBRD           IDA       IDB       US /1       Sources /1
Lending 1954-64        54.0           8.0      35.3        62.7         0.2 /2
Lending 1964-76       140.5          28.9     349.8        73.0        96.5 /3
Transport           44.0            -       65.1          -          0.8
Power                 -            6.8      92.7         6.2        67.2
Education            4.0           5.1       4.1         5.3          -
Health and
Sanitation        23.2           -        49.3        9.5          4.8
Agriculture and
Fisheries         15.3          17.0      64.6       29.1           -
Industry            54.0            -       53.8         7.8         8.7
Urban Development     -             -       14.4          -           -
Other                 -             -        5.8        15.1        15.0
194.5          36.9     385.1       135.7        96.7
/1    Includes official export credits.
/2    Statistics on lending during this period were probably incomplete.
/3    Through December 31, 1975 only.
IDB is the largest single lender, having extended most of its loans to Ecuador
from the Fund for Special Operations, which has normally carried a 2% interest
rate, a ten-year grace period, and repayment terms of up to 40 years. It is
likely that IDB will remain the major development lender in the immediate
future, although its terms have become less concessionary than in the past.



Meanwhile, no new AID commitments have been made since FY73. There were in
calendar year 1975 over US$205 million of new commitments of external finance,
including those from international institutions, suppliers, commercial banks
and some bilateral sources. Education, health and other socially oriented
activities, as well as agricultural development, have been receiving increas-
ing attention from the external lending agencies in recent years. IDB, AID and
the Bank Group have coordinated their efforts in these fields to assure the
most effective use of all available resources.
13.       Bank lending is aimed at supporting the Government priorities out-
lined in Part I above. This objective is to be met by emphasizing projects
that will help strengthen the institutional framework for development policy--
including project planning, preparation and implementation--in agriculture
and rural development, transportation and other high priority activities.
The Bank is undertaking institution-building efforts in these fields, which
should yield tangible benefits for Ecuador. Considering the extreme poverty
in which most of the Ecuadorian population still lives, the current Bank
program includes substantial support for integrated rural development projects
and important assistance for the development of the country's agricultural
potential. All projects programmed for this sector include sizable technical
assistance components, as a major part of the overall institution building
effort referred to above. Projects in the agricultural sector planned for the
next two years include an oil palm project, an irrigation project, an agricul-
tural credit project and two rural development projects.
14.       The proposed Fifth Highways Project is relevant to the above objec-
tives in several respects. The roads to be built--discussed in further detail
in Part IV of this Report--would improve the access of agricultural production
to Ecuador's major export center and two of the country's major consumption
markets. One of the two roads would also open to full production a potentially
important agricultural area, in which other projects are being prepared with
Bank assistance. Finally, a small technical assistance component will comple-
ment a major ongoing effort undertaken by the Bank in the transportation sector
under the Fourth Highways Project, approved during FY76.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN ECUADOR
Background
15.       Ecuador's geographical configuration, comprising three widely dif-
fering regions - the Costa, the Sierra and the Oriente (Amazon) - has been a
determining factor in the development of its economy and of its transport sys-
tem. The principal transport flows follow several corridors: (a) the coun-
try's most important corridor links Quito, the capital, to Guayaquil, the main
port and industrial center; (b,) two North-South corridors serve the Costa and
Sierra regions extending from the Colombian to the Peruvian borders; and
finally (c) the recently developed pipelines and road links between the Oriente
and the coast channel mainly crude oil for export. The highway network (see



- 6 -
map attached) developed largely after the Second World War, increasing con-
siderably since the 1960s and reaching a total of 26,500 km in 1976, of which
13,000 kin, including trunk roads and important secondary roads, are under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MOP).
iiiglhways
16.       Ecuador's domestic transport is based essentially on roads for gen-
eral cargo and passengers, with petroleum products channeled by pipelines. In
1974, total freight movements amounted to about 10.7 billion ton/km, of which
5.4 billion were carried by pipeline. Road transport accounts for nearly 95%
Of total intercity freight transport and about 90% of total intercity public-
service passenger traffic. Several indicators related to overall road traffic
suggest that road traffic has expanded at about 10% p.a. over the last decade.
17.       The importance of the two major urban centers of Quito and Guayaquil
is shown by the fact that about 62% of the total vehicle fleet is registered
in thie provinces of Pichincha and Guayas. The vehicle fleet more than doubled
in the period 1970-76, reaching 125,000 vehicles in 1976. The truck and bus
fleet grew rapidly during the last decade and so did its share of the traffic.
High demand and thie absence of strong competition from railroads stimulated
development of intercity bus operations which, on the whole, seem adequate, in
terms of price, quality of services, and volumes supplied. Inter-city freight
operations are also generally adequate. The largely unregulated trucking
industry competes actively for traffic.
18.       Road transport is regulated and administered by a variety of Govern-
ment agencies, including MOP, the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, and
the Interior Ministry. Passenger traffic is generally regulated, including
routing and tariffs. Regulations for trucking are less strictly implemented.
Overloading of trucks is still a problem in spite of attempts by MOP to improve
the situation. In the early 1970s, four weighing stations were installed on
trunk roads under an earlier Bank project, but shortage of adequately trained
personnel slowed down the establishment of effective control. The Covernment
is preparing to take acLlon under the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1231-EC,
1ay 1976) to establish effective control and enforcement of legal axle road
regulations. In view of the importance of this matter for the protection of
large road investments carried out over the last ten years, similar provisions
concerning the enforcement of axle load limits are incorporated in the pro-
posed loan. (Section 4.03 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement.)
19.       Since the 1950s, Ecuador has undertaken a major effort to improve
and complete its trunk road system. Over the period 1966-75, road construc-
tion received by far the largest share of all transport infrastructure invest-
ments, accounting for nearly 30% of all public investment. Large areas,
however, such as the sparsely populated Oriente lowlands east of the Andes
ani' most of the northwestern coastal region, remain isolated.    There is a
continued need for agricultural feeder and secondary roads.
20.       Within MOP, the Directorate General of Public Works (DCOP) is respon-
sible for higwhays. DGOP does not have enough qualified personnel at the pro-
fessional level. Traffic data are not available for planning and programming



- 7 -
purposes; the 1973 Highway Master Plan has not been updated yet; and coordi-
nation with other transport agencies is weak. Recent experience has shown
that MOP lacks sufficient capability to define adequately the scope of pre-
investment studies, and to contract and supervise consultants. The Government
undertook, within the framework of the Fourth Highway Project, to improve high-
way planning, particularly as regards traffic data collection and evaluation,
and to build up MOP's capacity for pre-investment studies. Technical assist-
ance and institutional measures under the above project are now being
initiated.
21.       Highway expenditures are financed through the general Government
budget, under DGOP allocations. Recurrent expenditures for highway mainte-
nance, periodic improvements, administration and supervision, including the
total of MOP's operating budget, absorb about 40% of the overall MOP expendi-
tures for highways. Capital expenditures in 1975 amounted to about 60% of
total MOP expenditures, reaching about US$30 million equivalent. Estimated
contributions from road user charges cover current highway expenditures as
well as roughly one-third of capital outlays. Retail prices for gasoline and
diesel oil are low in comparison with international levels. On the other
hand, high import duties tend to discourage renewal of the fleet. The need to
rationalize road user charges will be reviewed by the transport planning unit
to be set up within the framework of the ongoing Fourth Highway Project.
22.       A large part of the highway construction work in Ecuador, in-
cluding projects financed externally, has been awarded to local contractors.
To improve their performance, technical assistance is being initiated under
the ongoing Fourth Highway Project to review the road construction industry
and related Government policies and practices.
23.       Highway maintenance is performed through seven regional divisions
of the Maintenance Directorate under DGOP. In spite of earlier programs,
further improvement is still necessary. The level of MOP's overall mainte-
nance expenditures has been increased in recent years, and the current level
seems to be adequate for the trunk road network under MOP's jurisdiction.
However, management procedures and work techniques have to be improved in
order to ensure efficient use of available resources. Workshops and garages
also require urgent improvements. An important element of technical assist-
ance, now being initiated, has been included in the ongoing Fourth Highway
Project for highway maintenance. The covenants of Loan 1231-EC concerning
the strengthening of highway maintenance would also be covenants in the
proposed Loan Agreement. (Section 4.03 (a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment.)
24.       Planning and construction of feeder roads are closely related to
the agricultural sector and require coordination with agricultural development
programs for extension services, agricultural credit, improved marketing, etc.
Although feeder roads have received increasing attention in recent years as
the pressure increased for opening previously uncultivated land of high poten-
tial, the preparation of sound feeder road projects and accompanying develop-
ment programs has been inadequate because of poor coordination among the



- 8 -
various Government agencies involved. Therefore, following the recommendations
of the recent Bank economic mission (November 1976), an element of technical
assistance to MOP has been included in the proposed project to improve pl7anning
and preparation of feeder roads.
25.       Beginning with the first loan to Ecuador (FY54), the Bank and IDA
have lent US$97 million for transport, out of which US$50.5 million were
devoted to highways. The Bank has made four loans for this purpose, in FY54,
FY58, FY64 and FY76; the third of these loans was associated, in a consortium
project, with an IDA credit and loans from USAID and IDB. The first two loans
helped to finance the paving of about 1,100 km of roads, primarily in the
Guayas River basin, and others linking Guayaquil with the Sierra, and Quito
with the Northern coast. The third loan and its co-financing helped to carry
out parts of the Government's 1964-73 transportation investment program.
Both the second and third projects included highway maintenance programs
which however fell somewhat short of expectations, in particular because of
lack of continuity in the middle and high echelons of DGOP. The first three
projects contributed to the completion of the main road network in the Coast
agricultural area, while important links between this area, the Sierra and the
Northwest were also improved. The Bank's experience with these three projects
has been generally good, although the magnitude and complexity of the third
one required special coordination among the lending agencies and a very long
disbursement period.
26.       The Fourth Highway Project and the proposed Fifth Highway Project
emerged from a comprehensive review of the transport sector carried out in
1974. While originally conceived as a single project, it was later staged
into two projects, in order not to delay institutional improvements in the
transport sector until engineering for the Duran-Boliche road was completed.
The Bank loan for the Fourth Highway Project was approved on March 30, 1976
and became effective last October. The Fourth Highway Project aims to improve
planning and management for the transport sector as a whole, as well as for
the highway subsector, while providing for the upgrading of a high-priority
road. Last March, MOP invited consultant firms to submit proposals for the
various technical assistance programs included in the project; bids for
highway construction were opened on April 18 and are being evaluated. The
improved MOP planning and operating capabilities to be acquired from the
technical assistance provided under the project are expected to strengthen
MOP's ability to execute successfully both the Fourth and the proposed Fifth
Highway Projects.
Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
27.       In September 1974, a Bank mission visited Ecuador to study the
transport sector in depth. The mission concluded that: (a) although service
levels were generally adequate, upgrading of the system would be necessary to
increase its efficiency and to accommodate the growing requirements of the
economy; and (b) serious institutional deficiencies would have to be remedied
in the areas of pricing policies, coordination, planning, and project pre-
paration to allow the continued development of the system. Transport sector
investments in the next few years should address the following needs:



- 9 -
(a)  Highway Infrastructure - the need to improve the trunk road
network, including integration of the Oriente, improvement of
north-south corridors and access to major cities, in particu-
lar Quito and Guayaquil, expansion of secondary and feeder
road systems, and improvement of road maintenance; and
(b) Other Modes - the improvement of seaport capacity and maritime
shipping, greater use of inland waterways, in particular in
the Oriente; definition of the future role of the railway, and
expansion and improvement of air transport services.
28.       Because of the fragmentation of sector management and the fact that
the agencies involved do not have the adequate capacity to ensure the functions
of coordination and planning, the issues of intermodal planning for meeting
long-term demand for transport have been neglected. Within the framework
of the ongoing Fourth Highway Project, the Government agreed, in a first
stage, to establish within MOP an adequately staffed unit for planning and
coordination of land transport (road and rail); and, in a second stage, to
establish an appropriate agency with enlarged responsibilities for all modes.
After an initial delay, MOP has initiated recruitment of necessary technical
assistance which is a prerequisite for the above measures.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Description
29.       A Staff Project Report entitled "Fifth Highway Project - Ecuador"
(No. 1453b-EC) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Summary statemetnts oTI the proposed project and loan are contained in Annexes
III and IV to this Report. The proposedl project is a complement to the
ongoing Fourth Highway Project. It would include:
(a)  civil works and related supervision for the construction of a
four-lane paved highway (25 km) between Duran and Boliche;
(b)  civil works and related supervision for the construction of a
development road between Puerto Ila and Doblones (29 km)
and for the construction and improvement of about 75 km of
lateral feeder roads in the area of influence of the Puerto
Ila-Doblones road; and
(c) pre-investment and organizational studies for the prepara-
tion of a regional secondary and feeder road program,
principally in the provinces of Guayas, Los Rios and El Oro.
Implementation of the project is expected to take about three and one-half
years from mid-1977 to end-1980.



- 10 -
Duran-Boliche Road
30.       The Duran-Boliche road is one of three major access roads to
Guayaquil, the country's largest urban center and main seaport. The present
two-lane road with its poor riding surface has inadequate capacity for the
relatively high traffic volumes (at 5,800 V.P.D. with about 48% heavy
vehicles), carrying passengers, agricultural products for consumption and
export, and imported goods between the Costa and Sierra regions and the port
city of Guayaquil. It needs constant and costly repairs due to structural
deficiencies compounded by periodic flooding.
31.       The proposed works would consist of constructing a four-lane divided
highway (25 km in length) between the Guayas bridge (slightly north of Duran)
and the crossroad of Boliche. The works would also include one grade-separated
interchange, one at-grade intersection, and one underpass under the approach
span of the existing Guayas bridge at the Duran end of the road. Two critical
aspects received particular attention during project preparation: (i) the
fact that the road crosses a flood plain and (ii) the approach to the Guayas
Bridge.  Design standards and engineering and cost estimates have been reviewed
during appraisal and after subsequent minor design revisions they are accept-
able.
32.       MOP has taken two specific measures to remove potential sources
of delay in the implementation of civil works:
(a) MOP and the "Consejo Municipal de Guayaquil" have confirmed
their agreement concerning the design of the approach to the
Guayas bridge and the scope of related right-of-way acquisi-
tion, including the specific properties to be affected
thereby, and arrangements for securing and financing such
acquisition.
(b)  MOP and the "Consejo de la Provincia de Guayas" have con-
firmed their agreement concerning the location and design
for the new Guayas bridge toll collection facilities which
would be relocated under the project.
33.       Although some additional urban traffic would be generated by the
project, it would have no adverse environmental impact on the area. It is
not expected that any significant urban development would take place in the
existing low, rural land adjacent to the proposed road, although some develop-
ment is expected along the first 1.5 km. The alignment of the proposed road
would not incerfere with the planned development of the Guayaquil metropolitan
area (including Duran), which is currently under study by a UNDP-financed
Urban Development Planning team.
Puerto Ila-Doblones and Related Lateral Feeder Roads
34.       The proposed 29-km Puerto Ila-Doblones penetration road will give
access to a large fertile area hitherto largely isolated and undeveloped, west



of the existing Santo Domingo-Quevedo highway. This road is expected to pro-
duce substantial benefits by providing improved all-weather transport services
to those areas already under cultivation, thus facilitating their full develop-
ment, and by opening for development new agricultural and forested areas.
35.       The proposed works would consist of:   (a) the Puerto Ila-Doblones
road (29 km), with two major bridges, and (b) a network of lateral feeder
roads totaling about 75 km. Final design work for the Puerto Ila-Doblones
road was incomplete at the time of appraisal, but supplementary engineering
carried out by MOP with assistance of a local consultant (ASTEC), following
Bank recommendations, has sufficiently refined the cost estimate, for purposes
of determining financial requirements. Further soils studies for bridge
foundation and possible subsequent design revisions are still necessary for
the finalization of engineering and bidding documents. MOP has agreed to
carry out such supplementary engineering starting May 1977. The exact scope
and implementation schedule of the necessary supplementary soil studies and
engineering, which would take about four months, have been reviewed and agreed
during negotiations. The possibility of effecting cost reductions in the
surface course of the Puerto Ila-Doblones road has also been reviewed and
agreed at the time of negotiations. Completion of the above engineering and
design revisions would be a condition for disbursement of the proceeds of the
proposed loan allocated to finance the Puerto Ila-Doblones project component.
(Paragraph 4 (c) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement.)
36.       The location and approximate length of lateral feeder roads required
to serve the area of the Puerto Ila-Doblones road have been defined and esti-
mated on the basis of a preliminary survey. Detailed definition of alignment,
engineering, quantity takeoffs, contracting documents and cost estimates will
be prepared under the Rural Development Study financed under the ongoing
Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1231-EC). In order to ensure the proper prepara-
tion and timely execution of this project component, the Government will
prepare, not later than December 31, 1977, a program of feeder roads taking
into account the recommendations of the abovementioned study. Adoption of
such a program, acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition for disbursement
for feeder road construction under the proposed loan. (Paragraph 4 (b) of
Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement.)
37.       In order to help realize the potential increase in agricultural
production possible after the completion of the project, the Government agreed
(Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement), that it would:
(a) provide extension services to local farmers starting in
1979, in accordance with a program acceptable to the Bank,
to be prepared no later than December 31, 1977, in light
of the recommendations of the Rural Development Study
financed under Loan 1231-EC;
(b) make credit available to local farmers for complementary
on-farm investments in accordance with arrangements accept-
able to the Bank, to be prepared not later than the end of
1977, in light of the recommendations of the Rural Develop-
ment Study financed under Loan 1231-EC; and



- 12 -
(c) (i) review land tenure patterns in the area of influence of
the project taking into account the conclusions of the Rural
Development Study financed under Loan 1231-EC, and
(ii) discuss, not later than the end of 1978, appropriate
measures designed to ensure a reasonably equitable distribu-
tion of the benefits of the project among farmers within the
project area.
Cost Estimates and Financing
38.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$38.1 million,
of which about US$17.5 million, representing the estimated foreign exchange
component, would be financed by the proposed Bank loan. The balance would be
financed by the Government.
39.       The estimates of construction costs for the Duran-Boliche and Puerto
Ila-Doblones roads are based on detailed engineering and current prices for
similar works. The additional engineering discussed in paragraph 35 above is
not expected to result in substantial increases in these cost estimates. The
estimates for the 75 km of lateral feeder roads are based on average per km
costs for similar works. Cost estimates for consulting services are based on
recent contracts for similar services with Ecuadorian firms as well as joint
ventures of Ecuadorian and foreign firms.
PROJECT COSTS
Cost in US$
(Million Equivalent)
Local  Foreign    Total    % Bank
Civil Works
(a) Duran-Boliche (25 km)                      7.7     7.7      15.4
(b) Puerto Ila-Doblones                        3.9     2.7       6.6
(c) Lateral Feeder Roads (75 km)               1.5     1.0       2.5
Sub-total                              13.1    11.4     24.5       47
Consultant Services
(d) Construction supervision                   1.2     1.2       2.4
(e) Preparation of Feeder Road Program         0.2     0.4       0.6
Sub-total                               1.4     1.6      3.0       53
Base Cost (up to mid-1977)                    14.5    13.0      27.5
Contingencies                                  6.1     4.5      10.6
TOTAL PROJECT                          20.6    17.5      38.1      46



- 13 -
40.       The foreign exchange component of the civil works has been estimated
at 47% on the average. It is expected that construction of the Duran-Boliche
four-lane divided highway would be done by a joint venture of local and
foreign contractors, and the Puerto Ila-Doblones road and the lateral feeder
roads, which are of smaller scope, are expected to be constructed entirely by
local contractors. The foreign exchange component of consultant services has
been estimated at an average of about 53%, assuming that supervision of
construction (about 450 man-months of professional services) would be con-
tracted to local firms, whereas the preparation of the regional secondary and
feeder roads program (about 120 man-months of professional services) would be
carried out by a blend of foreign and local consultants. The cost per man/
month for professionals would average US$5,200 ranging, for different services,
from US$2,000 to US$6,000. A contingency allowance of 10% has been included
to allow for increases in construction quantities for civil works. 1/    An
allowance of about 30% of total project base costs has been allowed for price
variation for both civil works and consultant services.
Execution
41.       Within MOP, the DGOP would be responsible for execution of the
project. During negotiations, the Government has agreed to ensure adequate
liaison and coordination with other Government agencies, such as the Ministry
of Agriculture, the Land Reform and Settlement Institute (IERAC), Water
Resources Institute (INERHI), and the Guayas River Basin Development Commission
(CEDEGE),to assist MOP in the preparation of the regional secondary and feeder
road program.
Procurement and Disbursements
42.       Civil works for road construction and improvement totaling about
130 km would be carried out on the basis of unit price contracts awarded
after international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines. The works of the lateral feeder roads are not likely to attract
international bidders, and would generate adequate competition among local
contractors. Consequently, invitations to bid for these works would not be
published abroad; publicity within Ecuador (including notice to Bank member
countries' embassies) would be sufficient. For bidding purposes, the works
would be divided into lots of appropriate size, and firms prequalified in a
manner acceptable to the Bank would be allowed to bid for any lot or combi-
nation of lots. Specific arrangements for the division of civil works in
lots have been discussed and agreed at the time of negotiations. General
terms and conditions of civil works procurement including, specifically,
prequalification procedures, bid and performance bonds and guarantees, the
price variation formula and the specific cost items to be covered by such
formula, were also reviewed and agreed during negotiations.
1/ 20% for lateral feeder roads.



- 14 -
43.       Disbursements of the loan would be made as follows:
(a) for civil works, 47% of total expenditures; and
(b) for construction supervision and for the preparation of
the regional secondary and feeder road program, 53% of
total expenditures or 100% of the direct foreign
exchange cost.
The Bank would finance retroactively up to US$150,000 equivalent of expenditures
on consultants' services for the Duran-Boliche road to be incurred after May 1,
1977.
Economic Evaluation
(i) The Duran-Boliche Road
44.       The economic justification of the proposed Duran-Boliche highway is
based on benefits resulting from (a) reduction of vehicle operating costs;
(b) passenger time savings; (c) reduction of road maintenance costs; and,
(d) reduction of road accicdents. Present traffic volumes on the Duran-Boliche
highway vary from 5,800 to 4,330 vehicles per day and are among the highest in
the country. Heavy vehicles, which account for about 48% of the total traffic,
transport passengers and goods between production centers in the Costa and
Sierra and the port city of Guayaquil. A variety of agricultural products,
including bananas, rice, sugar and livestock, for local consumption and
export, as well as imported goods are carried on this highway. Vehicle
operating costs savings accounted for about 55% of total quantifiable benefits
for existing and projected traffic volumes. Savings in time is one of the
important reasons for improving the existing road, which suffers from con-
gestion and on which average speeds are low. Passenger time savings accounted
for about 35% of total quantifiable benefits, while reductions of road mainte-
nance costs and of accidents accounted for the remaining 10%. Benefits
derived from reduction of traffic accidents were based on local observations
and the reductions in accident rates when upgrading from two lanes to a four-
lane divided highway observed under similar conditions.
45.       The proposed road, which accounts for 56% of project costs, is well
justified, with an economic return (ER) based on best estimates of 20%,
including time benefits. The ER without time benefits is 14%. Sensitivity
analyses have been carried out on the main parameters affecting the economic
evaluation (cost and benefits), showing that the ER would, even under adverse
assumptions, still be acceptable. An economic evaluation on the interchange
at the junction with the Babahoyo road was made separately. The results
indicate that the marginal investment in the proposed grade-separated inter-
change in comparison with a controlled at-grade intersection is well justified,
with an ER of 22%. An economic evaluation of the four-lane, divided highway,
based on best estimates, indicates that the marginal investment in four lanes
as compared with two lanes, is justified, with an ER of 19%, including time
savings.



- 15 -
(ii) The Puerto Ila-Doblones Development Road and Related Lateral
Feeder Roads
46.       The Puerto Ila-Doblones road gives access to areas highly suitable
for agricultural production in the Pichincha and Manabi provinces. The area
of influence of the road extends from the existing Santo Domingo-Quevedo paved
road westward to Doblones (29 km), covering an area of approximately 64,000 ha,
which is characterized by climatic and soil conditions that are favorable for
a wide range of crops as well as for livestock production. The area has been
defined taking into consideration the available land with good agricultural
potential and the improved access to be provided by the proposed roads. This
area is highly suitable for pastures, apt to sustain intensive beef production,
and for various cash crops such as oil palm, rubber, abaca, platano, citrus,
corn and cassava. At present, the extent and intensity of cultivation and
resulting agricultural production in the project area are well below potential,
due to a lack of basic transport and of public programs to support agricul-
tural development. Existing plantations are poorly kept. Grazing lands are
generally underutilized. Legalization of land ownership is almost completed,
with properties ranging from small farms to cooperatives and medium as well as
large private farms. Farm holdings larger than 100 ha constitute less than 5%
of all farms and cover less than 20% of the area. Most holdings in the
project area are between 20 and 50 ha. The number of farmer families is
estimated at 1,300 with a total population in the area of influence of the
project of about 10,000.
47.       Quantifiable benefits- from the proposed Puerto Ila-Doblones road were
calculated by using a producer surplus approach, which attempts to measure the
basic economic changes, particularly the net agricultural value added, gener-
ated by the proposed road project and complementary investments. This agri-
cultural producer surplus would, in fact, be generated by more intense use of
the land, and the opening of new potentially productive areas.
48.       The proposed road, including the required lateral feeder roads,
which accounts for 33% of project costs, is well justified, with an ER of 18%,
based on best estimates. Sensitivity analyses have been carried out on the
main parameters affecting the economic evaluation (costs and benefits),
showing that the ER would, even under adverse assumptions, still be acceptable.
Producer surplus benefits are expected to be reasonably distributed among the
rural population. Today, small holdings account for nearly 85% of total farm
units in the area of influence of the road, and experience with similar
neighboring areas suggests that these patterns are stable and would persist
after construction of the proposed road.
49.       The implementation of an agricultural development project in the
area of influence of the road would significantly increase the estimated
benefits of the road project, which were based on conservative assumptions of
social and economic development of the area. Furthermore, the bridging of
the Daule river would open up, to the west, large tracts of land for coloni-
zation. To the extent that the project is a prerequisite for these additional
benefits, the above economic return has been conservatively estimated.



- 16 -
50.       Benefits were not quantified for the regional secondary and feeder
road program. This project component is clearly justified in view of the
fact that it will lead to the preparation of sound feeder road programs and
to a more efficient use of resources currently used for this purpose.
51.       The proposed project is well justified, with a combined economic
rate of return of 19%, based on best estimates. It would support the Govern-
ment's efforts in two areas of clear priority, i.e., the improvement of
transport infrastructure and the development of the country's agricultural
potential. In addition, the measures agreed to ensure services to farmers and
an adequate distribution of project benefits would provide experience in
multi-sectoral policy-making and implementation, which would be essential for
the future execution of rural development projects now in preparation.
Risks
52.       Particular attention was given during project preparation to the
major sources of implementation problems encountered in past highway con-
struction projects in Ecuador. The use of loan funds to be allocated to the
only two civil works components which, as of this time, still require addi-
tional engineering--i.e., foundation of bridges for the Puerto Ila-Doblones
road, and location and alignment of associated lateral feeder roads--has been
safeguarded through conditions of disbursement discussed in paragraphs 35 and
36. The estimated ER of investments in the Puerto Ila-Doblones road and
associated lateral feeder roads assumes that complementary investments in
agricultural development will be made in the area. Past Bank experience in
this region of Ecuador has shown that spontaneous private investments have
taken place when adequate transport infrastructure became available. Never-
theless, assurances were obtained concerning agricultural credit, extension
services, land tenure and distribution of project benefits, which are discussed
in paragraph 37.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Ecuador and the
Bank, the Report of the Committe provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of the draft resolution approving
the proposed loan, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
54.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex IV.
The completion of soil studies for bridge foundations in the Puerto Ila-
Doblones road and the required subsequent design revisions necessary for the
finalization of engineering and bidding documents, as well as the completion of
a lateral feeder road program for the area of influence of the same road,
acceptable to the Bank, would be conditions of disbursement of loan funds
respectively allocated for such project components.



- 17 -
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 6, 1977






~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~       .zj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ej~~~~~i- 
r  ~   10  VI  0 *  -.00.  t4.  4-  ...4V  CC  0.  ccc  ...  a.  000  Ccc9t  o   a~  .09  .     0
~~        4~~~l  -1-0   4 It  d NtCl         II                          --
I.)  t4~   - -.   .fr4I  VI -  44%           4e                     O -  P4 v04          -$                 ..  
Mn  4  fn 0 ~ ~ ~ ~~-                   NE- 
4?gj -1  -4Th               4      .:~~40 -v  M ..i
a'          C
41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
.31                                                                                       A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~tj -  i~  ~4.j



Pegs 2 of 4 pagee
alasom &tev    ae sated, data for 1960 rater to my yaer baeep"     1959 sod 1961, for 1970 haeem16         o    90,edfrMs teestti-tet               b.twaeot
1075 sod 1975.
4' Vameaele baa leame esleatd -o OR ebjeolov somtoY bcamma,a         of its 4XPOrfLam  An 0oasmic 4dewlopet b ..d cpu pStrolsa      e-P-t..
Raw&     __    LIg  gmaldieg aseedis te.diN )"gl     popedactoe;     /b  1950-62;     ICj 1962;     La   tsao        opta     aalaOI
Jul0 11 Eaiaig sawedic modian trIbe.; a 1962-70; IC Ratio of popoLetioOi s.der 11 aOd 65 god over to total labor force;
LI baowe 16ea ilmt.
)  US  C   3SUaU       LI Ratio of poealatiin caider IS sold 65 mod over to total labOr force;       tb   1972; ~       1969-71 avserage
L4  parceotga" of occupi&d bhouse   not wcessatd to public asort *tppliaa;       I*  1976.
AJI           1970    /a   1966;    jb Sxloding allitary porsconel in b,u-rk. end 274,661 nattonalt tbroad Of ehon          229.020 -r sctnowic.1ly Activel
I    logmj~.  1,200,000 seatly occupied inu Agricul ture;  /5  Including Midwives;    Id 1964-66;      1.  TOWa, urban and
nU                    Ls, l9S;      Lk  suolodiog Seudat Jnglo popnulation;       /t  1961-70;       ~ Ratio of population ,o,d*   15 and 65 and over to
total lmbafor"Sws;     la  ilrbOa only;     af  Inluditfng w_-_s_ g    e~ .
MM      IZA     LI tasladiMg ladies Jonsle PoPuolotIoa;       &  Ratlo of poplation undetir     so d 65 and ovr to total Labor forcs.
RIO, isno,sry 21, 1977
OUZXIIITIOS Oil SOCIAL IIIICATOh.l
LoW Arig (thm ha 21  ~ ~ ~        ~       ~       ~      ~       oplaio    9e   cringo.n- PopsIati-n divid.d by nonbor of Practicing
toa -otal ettf&te are   comprising land area en     nln WEEW tofe..                sale:I:! an  ias  r1ao     u..      tr.(d" or "cootifiod" noen         nd
"ae. - It rtacet -stlmAstA of agricltuitral aree ueed toporerl.    or             soailistY Per#onfo1 sillth   a   n  or   aelo.
Pdr.esaft"ty foer craps. pastorSa  "rkat 6 kltthse gado.- on    toi.               foolstion tee benitl bed -      otlltldvded by .nateir of honpit.1 bede
fellos.                                                     sysilahls in public~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S"  mod ptioat. Ransee r and epC.cIaiod hospital mod
GNP                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~roshbilLtotlo  etes  tiIue  no-sog b-o anadc sstablicIument. for
9Lg  1  Msg  iil-     P Pee cspste eamttet%. at currat warkot prices,              cUatodial and preontIvo tare
~ah.11i.(iliii.dbp.a a   fttovrOise  a.chowd a. ijorld BeadE Atlas 119)3-73 basis;  Pa   ala    cfoo      cafori   (1 o    aore     ets)-   optdldect
1960, 1970 AMd 1975 data.                                                            eqieeto        ltfood soplIs      attal      I   onr    perfu  cei, poartdsy
i to i                                             "RL~~~~~~~~~~~~yIabla SuppiIos coswribo dow..tlc yrod.ott.o, Imports lea. Ceporte,
_E A  0 -u                                        -~~~~~~~~~~~n changes  in etoeb; eat *uPPli .... eoldo -tioaI feed. .00 u,..tnI-
at  e  . 5   os   - ha ofJulY ftr.t;    if not  viii,tiesO Used in food P-o..tna end Lo0.... in dI.tri1buclon; tqitst
avarmis aN tue     -year stebtlasl ' 1960, 1970 and   975 d.ta.                      vet. etitonld b, PLAO b ...d non PhYLy1iltlcaL ..eed  for . nr,sa 1  tloity
P011"'INIRAI.Li'll'- POT GMM   kll -hid-Y.ar                     end health conold.rln, envir.oonatel tosp.osturo, body osights, ago end
eater10      t.acams) of total aRe,                                                   od   evl
ienletone   deamotl        s qu sare kra ofstn,l     - Coputed a    ebov   for       Phol caita epp     ofp-tein to1rs. par dmF) - P,otnin con,tenof par
agottrtee     landgrcnd                                                            ParlyIt .capit  .s .poPi of. foo   po  dy; nt aupp I  f boO  I. detto   as4
chow.; roquirmentb Nor all Countries oet.blieh.d by, USDA Etteosic,
~~*Lj~~~~~iiii1jn ~~~~~~Re ...rch Seroicee ptovide fo- a                                             itnioc  aloanao      60 grene of tot.l
Orod  biUr rte  ar dwu5sud  avrage - Aostel 10". birtha per thaoanesd         Protein per day, end 20 gran. of ntlol and pule p-ot.le, , which
or "ad-year pepolaia      aopa       rtlotit- averxage  endins in 196   aud          10 grane should be    nLoa1 protein; th.eeet.nd.rd. era l.ovr tItan thn..
1970, sod five-year average ending in. 1975 fee eat recent sataat.                  of 75 grean  of tot.1 protein end 23 gross of animal protls ao at
C%:rd=lh      gtaodrra thv"wAe. ev   grao  - hostl deaths par thousanod of Iod-         --.S.a for th. toold, propo..ed by FAD it the Thitd World P.od Oceo-y.
yerppletio; c-yeer arltlaattc avarefee, ending tat 1960 mad 1970 mod          par capltsla Protei  -upyfO        ia    n   pule. - Protein supply of food
flow-year average ending to 1975 for moa0t 3recat O$heta.                             eltQd    ro  enal     so   ule   it gtrm. pot d.y.
Inlai anialiy rte (I/ftu) - Annual deaths of Infatst Wndr no.ne ar of           Veath rute ( thot) a'.. 1-4 - AAnuas   death. per thoceend tn Rge gl..p
age per thotasen  live birtlea.                                                      l1.4yearset. Children ib Cis age grop; uon-ted a, so Indiator of
Llfe aoxogeancy at birthe Cyrs) - Averag a umber of years. Of lItf   cansinlog         eminotrLtIo..
at birth; usually fioe.y.ar enege       nding in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for
deosloping contrise.                                                               Education,
Oro. S to  ad   tlp5rfet    Average nueher of live daught.rs a -ftan will           ZS-uetd eoirttratio- - primar y echool - torol11-nt of .ll            s.e.4
haei In bin' eta    I rerdutloa parlod if hbe esperiunoa pte.ent ass-                                   -yrnaso  rl.psho-g  popctloti_ oldo    ebildr.. grd
specific fertility cwtool usually fite-yeat .recetss e.ding it, 1960,                6-11 yeate but edjuetod for diff.ront Length. of prl.ary ed-ctiot;
1970 and 1975 for dovatoping to..ntri.a.                                             for countrles vith -ni--re      od-ocoit ..  ...  nnt may tacood 1001
Fonul.timo grorth rta_e(%L - total - Conpo.nd Annuel arowth rate. of      iLd-          tone ease pupils are bnL.. -r obo- tbt cificiul -hbo        ag..
year pops ltion for 1950-0, Iq4-.70 and 1970-75.                                   Adttdschlpt ato-scndr                    tnol - C     toqtod as slo-s
Poe1*tlelo roe,th ra,te ii   -ttbma  - Cnmmoted like grwowt   rso. of total            sonry       dico      ruieccleas t ft00 yeus of upp-cod prinary
po Jltin  dffretdeiLtlo. of orba        arse  - say ffett toopars-             instruction; p-oidee. ge-erI,     ... ti ...l or et.ch-r training
bility of data "ong   ocutrlse.                                                      loetruCtion   for PUipls of 12 to 17 years of ago, -orr.spondatc.
Uirba  :;pulAlIOn (1 otf t2 tal)   otJo of urbao to total populatjon;                  course art generally -aludlod.
diffren  dsiauttse o  or-*areas  ay  Wafftt casprehllity of data           Years of scolinarovd.d (firet sod Tnudlve.                   otal yeare of
-wafg coutrittl.                                                                     schoolig    at seodr      1-e, ooc.tio...l instruction say bo Par-
As      "cue(ret          - ChiLdege (0-14 year.), socklng-age (15.64 year.),          tithy or tonpiatsly excL.dad.
'A      retired U65 yer. and near) a. Perceantages ef mid-year popualat ion.        Vocatoa     etlnat ('I of -oond ,)         tottc       inetltuti... Inelod.
AgAg ZgL..cgsi    - Rtais Of populstieo   under 15 and   5 end o,er to .hla,Idara                          rotrporn            blhoeaoidpn.tyo
thno   , o egee5troog       66.                                                      a  depat,t-ante of sectondary inotltctic-s
LI~AL~al~EiL.Ei!i    -Bstlo of populetio. under ii stu 65 and over            Adl      t    11rt       - Litorate adults (able to rend and write) 
to. lbs lbo    force in a16gr soup of 15.64 year.rer'W.pacntgo                                        IoaTdult population Igd 15 Year, nod -er.
FinLboLasnt         catr X'o1ti.             hu     Cuirulattlv, nasir of
accopt.ra of birth-control devica* tander anuapiosa of national fanily              osm
plahnlnIn  progra  alnec. Inception.                                               perona oar room (urban) - hosrage nmb.abr of per.fte Per roan in
Pasio eeown.ugtoese 1  offfi!"      ag)     Percenangee of   Ardead              occupied convantiona   deetlings in urban erae.; d-eLiog.      zezlodt
a  oefa chLuid-40arieg Agl              Wt*4ysr h  us. birth-control devls.a      noo-parmaeeant etr.ctoree and toocopled parts.
to a11 married womma, Lo  mEL   aa grop.                                           Ocpddealn           whot "PIe      v1t* (1) - Occtpimd co,oentlon,al
derllng  t  oka  sd rtur  m. 1   hu    Inside or out.lde piped
.alt. feallitia. am . prcentSg of all oCcupiad dellingo.
P.H011 M.   force        touOmically %.ttI,    parens,, inaladIng            Aooses to teactri.itv (1 of all avtailing.) -Cnotoa            d.ellings sith
&rAfre           n   AP      h.ei-ut excltfdlng ho,cewiv ., students, atc.           electricity In Mivlng quarte.ra. mePuccet of tbid      doelltege in orbat
defloitiso. in var iosu  ccutntirl. are not coepaueble                               and rural areas.
Z.601 12 I        LL_M      - A4geloultral labor force (in ftaming,          krldeln.onaedto elettrL,lcvty                 )   Ciooputad am ahoy   Nor
foc.tT        wfning  tu  fIqlni) .e pecentage of total labor forta.                 rald      llnsoly.
b- Inomplayed at. usually defned ae pereotua
dto aRe ebl.          IUgT0o l,aks aejob. 001 of .job "        a given day,                  in-AltP--                                   ..vt       o   -i     "4
rmelined punt of . job, aNd sakaing sack for a specified miniconu   period         1adIe rOtairer   (per. thou POP)-61tyoofraies                oradoea-
gent xeceeding une web; sy noat h* comparabla between coun.ire     doe to           ceates tgeSneseS public per thoutsand of populatIon; ..cludea onllten.ed
different daiutitonsa of "sompbped aNd motri. af date, e..g., eaploy-                receivers in tountrie. end in potr.     hen reglisration of   efito oute.a
fo t office tataticic, ample sruvepe, co"pul.ory unowployw"at Lneuranta          in sffect; data Nor tecnt years sy not he cooprbla oInce east
c0untrisa abolished Iliceenang.
1-   dIsIgItr   - Perceatags of p,vrinata  nooa (both in ae.h and.kind)         Peep,s tr         (e  hou cop) -P ....enger,* oasco...oon          tr  seal-
~aeeve(ybichit S,    Leltaet 201, poorsat 20L, and puor.t 401 of               to    a   hnegt persona; aetludee sboln., h.ar.ee and silitary
tlactirit  (behrr pr cap  - Anft  coIn...un,ptidn of indoctrial, on-
Dliui    e  oladonrh             -Prctaeofln           anebys        lttt                rol,pli        ad prtat       -eltrilety In kiloecatt ho-rs par capita;
101  nd poree  10  of and  ner. oct.         adowe      yvlhot                ganrerlly bsed on prodonti.n. dots, eithnot allowance for leot ..it.
grid. but allowing for Laporta mnd esports of abscirlI.ty.
Le:!ri.   (k/~   er !21- Per tapite Annual consoapti.e in  1lbograes
-Ppul.tiox divided bp nutb.r of practicing                 atisated ftndm,.titj PeoduOtion Pita net is.borts of neveprInt.
P11IacLaSqua      a    o     swenIal school at uonivaerity lasel.



Annex I
ECOM DEVELOPKW   DATA ~~~~~~~~Pags 3 of 4
(Amouzt. n   mllona of U.S. =577ara
A,ctua                        Projected                     1971i-   197671
Average _19/5                              1976                     9,       iS        19710            1975     1980
SATIONAL ACCOGET                  1970.72    -
At69  10-2      rie      ihnsRtsAeaeAnnual Grwath Ratea                                       As Percent of GDY
Owoas Domestic PrdLe              1.9        ,,u      *e..406                                          0.       6.5               100.0     94.8   94.4
Gains 1froTerms of                            136 (1 - ..J~  207 J0j                                  M                             -        5.2    5.6
meT          ..~    d         1,692     2,624    2,851                3.609                       11.6      6.1               100.0    100.0  100.0
IMport (mnel. Mrs)                  384       650      653                  775                      14.1       4.3                22.7    24.8    21.5
tKporst   "   (iwDort ca-acity)     296       586      699                  766                       18.6      2.3                17.5     22.3   21.2
Resource Gap                         W                                      - V                                                   -T.2      =24     T!
Oomsumtioo Expenditures           1.368     1,956    2.123                2,567                        9.3      4.8                80.9     74.5   71.2
Imesetmet        (incl. stocks)     410       732      682                1,051                       15.6     11.4                24.2     27.9   29.1
D.eatic Savings                     322       668      728                1,042                       20.0      9.4                19.0     25.5   28.8
Eation.   Sairg                     265       600      692                 1.109                      22.7     12.5                15.7     22.9   30.7
)KRCARDISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                         As Percent of Total
Diorta
Capital gooda                     108       467      425                  728                      44.2      14.4                34.7     40.9   39.0
Fuels & intermediate goods        162      572      646                   922                      37.1      9.3                52.1     50.1   49.4
goodD           ~~41      103      136                  216                       U.        2213.2                       9.0   11.6
M IME. ITorts (elf)  -MT  rIW7  r,7"          rw                        ~~~~38.4   11.5               100.0   F 100. o1600.
boorta
Primary products                  249       950    1,229                 1,681                      39.8      8.1                94.0     93.8   92.4
Ma~-oat.i'e.ed  odad16                      3       67                  139                      40.9      20.0                 6 0      6.2    7.6
YMlports (fob)                                                   T ~ 0  TW39.8                        89T7                        U7 
Merchand.ise Trade Indices                    Average 1970-72   100
Rcport Price Index                L00      Z3a       277                  337
Import Price Index                100      183       195                  248
Terms of Trade Index              100      130       142                  136
Exports Volume Index              100      198       236                  259
VAIJE AMDED BY SECTOR             Annual Data at 19 70- 72 Prices and Exchange Rates           Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of Total
Agriculture                       448      565       557                  657                       6.0       4.2                26.5    22.7    19.3
Industry and iining               431      709      727                 1,022                      13.2      8.7                 25.5    28.5    :1.0
Service                           812    1.214     1,360                1 727                      10.6      6.1                 48.02L  49L.  ..5.fl.7
517 ~~~~T~~IR  ~ ~ ~    ~   i10r.1                                -6.5               100.0    100.0  100.0
PUBLIC_FINANCE                                                                                                                      As Percent of CDP
(Centra Go3vernment)
Current Receipts                  205      432      478                   654                      20.5      8.1                 12.1    17.4    19.2
Curent    xcdiue                  181      299       328                  422                      13.4      6.5                 10.7    12.0    12.4
avings24                  133      150                  232                       53.4     11.5                 1.4      5.3    6.8
Other Public Sector                      -        -              -                      -                    -                    -       -       -
PUblic Sector Investment           83      212      241                   361                      26.4     10.6                 4.9      8.5    10.6
1977-81
CURRENT UcPMMITUJRE DETAILS                   Actual                  Est.                 DETAIL ON PIUBLIC SECTOR
As % Total Current Expend.)             1271*   1975                1976                 INVESTM{ENT PROGIR-AlI (n-ew commit-  US$ Kis,    1 of Total
Education                                23       26                   28                m-e-n to7
Other Social Services                     4        8                   9                 Social Sectors                        142,0           3,7
Agriculture                               2       10                   11                Agriculture                           407.3          10.7
Other Economic Services                  13       14                  15                 Industry                              354.1           9.4
Administration and Defense               24       32                  29                 Petroleum                             531.3          14.0
Other                                    34       10                   8                 Pow,er                                645.0          17.0
Total Current Expenditures              100      100                 100                 Transport 4 commsunications           472.0          12.4
________ ________ ________ ________ ________ ________ ________ ________ ________ O ther                  1  243   9      32.8
Total Expenditures Li379:                           TUC5
SELECTrED INDICATORS                                                   1971-                FINANiCING
1975
Average ICOR                                                          2-3                  Total Public Sector Investment
Import Elasticity                                                     1.34                   (Disbursements)                  4,069            IOOD
1brgirial Domestic Savings Rate                                       0.47                   Public Sector Savings             3 ,19 7          78J
Marginal Natlonal Savinkgs Rate                                       0.44                   Net External Borrowing              8 72           21.3
Ai Excludes US$505.7 million financial investment.
IAECR FORCF AJWD                               Total. Labor Force                                VaLlue- Added Per Worker (1975 -     Prices & Exc. Ratcr:
OUTPUT PER WORKER                 In P1'.l tons        of Total           1.982 -75        In U.S.1>rllars     i,. rce-nt utfTv7,7f j;
19 62       197    175                      Annual19597
19             1975            G~~~~~~~row~th RAte       9517
Agriculture                                 0.9         47.4                                     1,025                    48
Inductry                                    0.3        15.8                                     3.864                    181
ServIce                                     0.7        36.8                                      283132
Tota.l                           1.4        1.          00024                                    2,140                   100
not apli.rIcable      -nil or ieliv.1vlt.e
nct available         - leGs ttian half th.,
amnellnt uwi1t I-h'wn



BAIANCE OFP     ~       IMIrNAL ASSISTANCS AND DIET
(amouints in ;  ~Mel m  Si, U.S. dollars at. cirresit pr-ices 3
Actual                        Hetim*tod           Projected               Avg. Annual
Average                                1976                 1980                 Growth Rate
1970-72         1975                                                              1976-80
S*"K'JRT BLI,C! OF PAT?MTS
Exports (cine. NTFS)                                            296         1,073                 1,363                1,905                      0.7
tr~~~~',rts (~~~~~~ncl. r:i's) ~~~~~~~~384                  1.192                   2771.932                                     10.9
Pesoirce  elan_e kX-14)                                     -88          -119                     86                 -27
Net Factor Services                                             .4.4          -78                   -76                 -118                     11.6
Wo~rkers' Remittance                                                      - 
CurreYl   'rarsfers (net)                                        16           -29                    21                   2545
hi~.eon Cu~rr-nt Aceont                                     115          -16 8                _120
Privat,~ Direct Investment                                      110            41                    20                   40                     18.9
Official Capital GIrants                                          -              ---
Pu-blic WAT Loarns
Di sb-ia-ren-.-it                                              68           140                   298                 299 
R-P.es'-,c  a                                                   37           -44                   -67                -124                     16.6
Net D.sburserents                                            31             96                  231                  175                     -6.7
MtJ"r MQLT Loans
msbin~jrvneits                                                3.6          2.4                   3.0
-F.% -a:,,.a~ft3                                               3.4          5.3                   5.0-
ILt risb..rse1-,nts                                            0.2         -2.9                  -2.0                   -
C,ir,L.al  r-noact.ons n.e.i.                                   0.3        -23.8                   -91                  -16                      Z9 2           Actul174        l1975         19t7te
Ch~,-e in N'ei r1eserve                                         -27           58                  -189                  -79                                                        -U-
DEBT 6 DEBT SERVICE
r~A2k!  ANo TrAIN CORM~ITMrs                                                                                        Public Debt Out. & Diabr.       302       328        324         430          660
Ofl~icl%l Grants & 5Rant-like               1972          1973         1974         1975                          Tinterest on Plublic Debt        10        15         17          17           25
Repayments on public Debt        27        31         77          32           67
?~~1!c KZ,:t Lc3ru                                                                                               Tot-al Pablic Debt Service        37       46          94         49            92
M71:                            ~     ~     ~~~~~- 20     23            4                           Other Debt Servico (not)          .
nA                              ~      ~     ~      ~~~~7  6  -          -                          Total Debt Service (not)          *..
(",t,er                         ~~~~-         3             -4
0trrr ?~tAlaterel                          11           33            86           33                        Burden on Export Exrrdnp()
rG:,i emm2 .r  a                           36            8             3           67
Suppliers                                   5            19            1           10                          Public Debt Service             10.1       7.3        7.6        4.6          6.8
'~..Tnititutions                   54            21           18           87                          Total Debt Service                 ..
~~v, r.,    ~1-                                                          -TDS+Di.rect invest. Inc.                                    ..
-v  c Loan.s n.e. i.                       -            -            --
7- 'tL ?j.Vi :  iLe kr177~..                114           1-08-       7T            70                         Average Ter-ms of Publi    Debt
AC tud alDet Olutstardiing on Dec. 3'i, 1975                     Int. as % Prior Year D)y,D       4.4      4.9        5.2         5.3          5.8
SX~~~~~~~..L  ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Di7mD,ne             O.LPercent                                            Amwrt. as % Prior Year WD&D     11.9     10.2       23.5         9.9         15.6
28 4                          6.6                       IM~D Debt Out. & Disbursed
Other %Itilat.eral                                      59.8                        13.9                         "   as % Public Debt O&D        11.4      10.9       11.5        10.0          8.2
er-e-t.s                               11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9.8       2 7.9                            as % Public Debt Service    12.2      10.9        6.4        12.0          6.7
59.9                         13.9
iacin r.titutiorns                              105.6                         24.6                       IDA 1)3bt Out. & Disbursed
2 .3                         0.5                        "  as % Public Debt O4fl          3.9      5.4        6.6         6.6          4.9
?'ftic  ni~bts r,.e.i                                   10.8                         2.5                        n   as % Public Debt Service       -         - 
T:,'a2  Public V.&LT Debt                             429.5                        100-.0
Other M&LT7 Debts
3hiort-twmr'  Debt (d.isb. onl.y)
rt aDplicable                                                       e  staff estirmte
rnoot avai-.ble                                                                                                                                                                                            a i  rngiil
not available aeperately                                             -   leas than half the
buit in.cluded in total                                                  smallest unit shown                                                                                                                -
April 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as at March 31, 1977)
Loan or                                                 --------US$ million---------
Credit    Fiscal                                        Amount   (less cancellations)
Number     Year       Borrower         Purpose           Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
9 loans and 3 credits fully disbursed                    65.5      9.1          -
124       1968     Ecuador          Education              -     5.1         0.8
555       1968     Ecuador          Fisheries            4.6        -        1.0
222       1970     Ecuador          Agriculture            -     10.0        3.4
286       1972     Ecuador          Power                  -     6.8         1.0
930       1973     Ecuador          DFC                 20.0        -        4.1
425       1973     Ecuador          Irrigation             -     5.5         1.3
1030       1974     Empresa          Water Supply        23.2       -        22.6
Municipal de
Agua Potable
de Guayaquil
1157       1975     Ecuador          Education            4.0        -        3.8
1229       1976     Ecuador          Seeds                3.0       -         3.0
1230       1976     Ecuador          Technical            4.0        -        4.0
Assistance
1231       1976     Ecuador          Highways            10.5       -        10.5
1255       1976     Guayaquil        Ports               33.5        -       32.5
Port Authority
1359 '>    1977     Ecuador          DFC                 26.0       -        26.0
Total                                        194.3     36.5      114.0
of which has been repaid                    46.1     0.3
Total now outstanding                        148.2     36.2
Amount sold                         1.8
of which has been repaid          1.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b            148.2    36.2
Total undisbursed                            107.5     6.5       114.0
/a   Not yet effective.
lb   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at March 31, 1977)
Fiscal Year                                       Type of        Amount in US$ Million
Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1966 & 1972   La Internacional, S.A.               Textiles        3.7     0.3     4.0
1969          Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo, S.A.
1973 & 1975   Compania Financiera (COFIEC)         DFC               -     0.4     0.4
1976          Sociedad Agricola e Industrial       Sugar Mill      5.0       -     5.0
San Carlos, S.A.
Total gross commitments                             8.7      0.7     9.4
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                            2.6     0.5      3.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                   6.1      0.2     6.3
Total undisbursed                                   5.0        -     5.0



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Credit No. 124-EC - Education Prolect: US$5.1 million Credit of June 27, 1968;
Effective Date: August 30, 1968; Closing Date December 1,
1976.
The project is behind schedule because of recurrent difficulties in
the staffing and direction of the project unit, and because of shortages in
counterpart funds. The bulk of the project schools are now in operation al-
though substantial work still remains to be completed on foundation and roof
structures, and on the installation of services. The Association has deferred
action on a possible extension of the Closing Date pending the Government's
preparation of a detailed program for satisfactory completion of all project
schools.
Loan No. 555-EC - Fisheries Project; US$5.3 million Loan of September 5, 1968;
Effective Date: September 4, 1969; Closing Date: May 1,
1977
This project had a slow start owing mainly to institutional problems
and less than anticipated demand for the fishing vessels included in the
project. A feasibility study, financed under this loan, recommended the
construction of fishing harbor and industrial facilities at two locations.
The Bank has agreed to finance the detailed design of facilities at Manta.
Additional facilities would be considered by the Bank depending on the
findings of additional marketing studies, also to be financed out of this
loan. An extension of the Closing Date is currently being discussed with the
Ministry of Natural Resources.
Credit No. 222-EC - Third Livestock Development Project; US$10 million
Credit of December 10, 1970; Effective Date: September 30,
1971, Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The credit is now fully committed. The main objectives of the
project are being met, and the demand for investments for subloans for beef
and dairy development is good but additional time is required in order to have
the participating banks complete the processing of sub-loan disbursements and
comply with the Credit Agreement's accounting covenants. The Closing Date was
extended to June 30, 1977 for this reason.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknessess in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Credit No. 286-EC - Third Power Project; US$6.8 million Credit of February 15,
1972; Effective Date: December 15, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
The major part of the project has been completed satisfactorily. The
remaining item--two substations--should be finished by the end of 1977. The
beneficiary, Empresa Electrica de Quito, has increased tariffs twice recently;
approved new organizational statutes; contracted an asset revaluation study;
and obtained a settlement of the outstanding debts of the Municipality of
Quito. On the basis of these actions, the Association agreed to extend the
Closing Date in order to complete the project.
Credit 425-EC - Milagro Irrigation Project; US$5.5 million Credit of August 17,
1973; Effective Date: January 17, 1974; Closing Date:
August 13, 1979.
Progress during the past years was good; disbursements are ahead of
schedule. Almost all of the irrigation and drainage canals have been completed;
most of the heavy equipment has been delivered. The on-farm development work
has been delayed by difficulties in preparing land titles.
Loan 930-EC - Second Development Finance Companies Project; US$20.0 million
Loan of August 17, 1973; Effective Dates: COFIEC February 27,
1974; CFN March 4, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project is proceeding according to schedule, and the loan is now
entirely committed.
Loan 1030-EC - Guayaquil and Guayas Province Water Supply Project; US$23.2
million Loan of July 23, 1974, Effective Date: January 29,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Disbursements have been slow, owing to construction delays and
changes in management and engineering consultants. Government intervention
has partly rectified the situation with a tariff increase and other remedial
measures. However, long-term financial problems have yet to be solved. The
procurement practices of the Water Supply Company have caused the emergence of
some difficulties which have been resolved recently.
Loan 1157-EC - Vocational Training Project; US$4.0 million Loan of September 3,
1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily with some tech-
nical and financial difficulties. Design work for the Guayaquil and Quito
centers may be interrupted, however, because of the failure to complete site
surveys and tests.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan 1229-EC - Seeds Project; US$3 million Loan of May 24, 1976; Effective
Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The national seeds council and project unit are established, and the
project director has been appointed. Candidates have been identified for the
two consultants positions. Procurement is now underway on the equipping of the
seed processing plant to be built on the coast, and similar activity is
scheduled to begin soon for the related civil works.
Loan 1230-EC - Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date:  October 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project has been proceeding slowly with the establishment of the
national rural development planning unit and appointment of its local staff,
in addition to the hiring of the first expert. Candidates for other positions
have recently been identified and agreed upon. The preparation of the project
in Tungurahua province is underway, and a team of consultants will shortly
initiate work on the Guayas Basin project.
Loan 1231-EC - Fourth Highways Project; US$10.5 million Loan of MSay 24, 1976;
Effective Date: October 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
Bids for the civil works component of the project have been opened
on April 18 and are being evaluated. Consultants were invited in March 1977
to submit proposals for the various technical assistance programs included in
the project. MOP is interviewing candidates for the position of overall
coordinator. Consultants to carry out an agricultural development study, to
be financed under this loan, have been selected.
Loan 1255-EC - Second Guayaquil Port Project; US$33.5 million Loan of May 24,
1975; Effective Date: March 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
After complex and protracted negotiations, the main civil works con-
tract was signed on February 11, 1977. Some critical engineering aspects will
require additional design work but, in the meantime, dredging has already
started. Cofinancing arrangements for US$10 million with a private inter-
national bank were concluded on March 11, 1977.






ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
ECUADOR
FIFTH HIGHWAYS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              The Republic of Ecuador.
Amount:                Various currencies equivalent to US$17.5 million.
Terms:                 Repayable in 17 years, including three and a half years
of grace, at 8.2% per annum.
Project Description:   (a)  Civil works and related supervision for the con-
struction of a four-lane paved highway (25 km)
between Duran and Boliche;
(b) Civil works and related supervision for the con-
struction of a development road between Puerto Ila
and Doblones (29 km) and for the construction and
improvement of about 75 km of lateral feeder roads
in the area of influence of the Puerto Ila-Doblones
road; and
(c) Pre-investment and organizational studies for the
preparation of a regional secondary and feeder road
program.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Estimated Cost:
Local Foreign Total
(US$ million equivalent)
I. Civil Works
(a) Duran-Boliche (25 km)                        7.7     7.7     15.4
(b) Puerto Ila-Doblones                          3.9     2.7      6.6
(c) Lateral Feeder Roads (75 km)                 1.5     1.0      2.5
Sub-total                                 13.1    11.4     24.5
II.  Consultants' Services
(a) Civil Works Supervision                      1.2     1.2      2.4
(b) Secondary and Feeder Road Program            0.2     0.4      0.6
Sub-total                                  1.4     1.6      3.0
Base Cost (up to mid-1977)                      14.5     13.0    27.5
III.  Contingencies                                    6.1      4.5    10.6
TOTAL PROJECT                             20.6    17.5     38.1
Financing Plan:        The proposed US$17.5 million Bank loan would finance
the presently estimated foreign exchange component of
the project's total cost (about 46%). The balance
would be financed by the Government.
Estimated
Disbursements:                         --In US$ million equivalent--
FY78    FY79      FY80    FY81
Annual            2.45    3.95      6.40    4.70
Cumulative        2.45    6.40     12.80   17.50
Procurement:           Road construction and improvement contracts to be
awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding, in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines.
Consultants:           Internationally recruited consultants to be retained
for civil works supervision and to render technical
assistance for Part (c) of the above project. The cost
per man/month for an estimated aggregate of 570 man/
months of professional services would average US$5,200.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Economic Rate
.of Return:         19%.
Staff
Project Report:     No. 1453b-EC, dated May 6, 1977



ANNEX IV
Page 1
ECUADOR
FIFTH HIGHWAYS PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Preparation Missions: February and July 1976
(b)  Preparation:  By Government, with Bank and consultants' assistance.
(c) Appraisal Mission: October-November 1976
(d) Post-Appraisal Mission: February 1977
(e) Negotiations: April 18-22, 1977
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: October 1977
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
(a) enforcement of axle load limits and adequate maintenance
of paved and gravel roads under MOP's jurisdiction
(paras. 18 and 23);
(b) Completion of engineering and bidding documents for Puerto
Ila-Doblones road as a condition of disbursement of loan
proceeds allocated to finance such road (para. 35);
(c) preparation and presentation to the Bank of plans, design
specifications and cost estimates for required lateral
feeder roads in the Puerto Ila-Doblones area as a condition
of disbursement of loan proceeds allocated to finance such
roads (para. 36);
(d) provision by the Government of extension services
to farmers in the Puerto Ila-Doblones area, starting
in 1979, in accordance with a program acceptable to
the Bank (para. 37);
(e) provision by the Government of credit to farmers in the
Puerto Ila-Doblones area of influence, on terms acceptable
to the Bank (para. 37);
(f) review by the Government of land tenure patterns in the
Puerto Ila-Doblones road area of influence, and discussion
with the Bank of appropriate measures designed to ensure a
reasonably equitable distribution of project benefits
(para. 37); and
(g) liaison with, and assistance from, designated Government
agencies in the preparation and future implementation of a
regional secondary and feeder road program (para. 41).



I8R D-11882 R3
8 f0 0 O '                7 9 t0 0 '               1   0 0 '                 7 5 i 0 0'                7 3 '0 O       M A Y   1 9 17
ECUADOR
"W.0 JV\- x fOFIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Om....s \y<}>L                                41                          TRANSPORT NETWORK
0,00                                                                   I C-IIAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Xr;  {-                /   XssSulin^             > t       ,<<      :~~~~~~~~S*tIsaIV  1  TTOVISAIAL CAPITALS
4.SIXUm  V 2 R3dRU F '.' l  IAV dAYSE  /            S
:ttAVS f                                                                                 _~~~~~~~~~~~~RIS
-6~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 00 -9_- 1.bndd W u.= onl.
81000O-                   7V 00~~NNraRjIR           77;09                     75 00   301dll(.n               N-           i
400  ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'0
G..V.  11 ~ ~ ~ ~ ACA  CI AP                                     \Ij*S5.
P l.  E  R (II
ii                                                                    SOUTH---~z1o
R                                                                                      ~~
-410                                                                                                                     4 060  cea
C.~~~~~~~                                       I~TR
A00                                                                                   STA CASIROASS AAS.R AS ISIS lIlAC -SA AOl~~~H
4100  --   7000                     7700                      7500          LASSAARTASNSIAA0RISIRS~~~~~~p 10  14  18  20



