DocLumf of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4286-LSO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 8.0 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOR THE
LESOTHO HIGHLANDS WATER ENGINEERING PROJECT
November 18, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =            Maloti (M)l/
US$                             H 2.00
Ml                 =            USS 0.50
ACRONTYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB      African Development Bank
BLS       Botswana, Lesotho, Swaziland
CIN       Center for Inteenational Migration, Fed. Rep. of Germany
cms       cubicmeter
cms/sec   cubicmeter per second
DWA       Department of Water Affairs, Republic of South Africa
EC        European Communities
EDF       European Development Fund
EIB       European Investment Bank
ESCOM     Electricity Supply Commission, Republic of South Africa
FRG       Federal Republic of Germany
GOL       Government of Lesotho
GCh       Gigawatt hours
JPTC      Joint Permanent Technical Commission
KW        Kilowatt
LEC       Lesotho Electricity Corporation
LHDA      Lesotho Highlands Development Authority
LHWS      Lesotho Highlands Water Scheme
Mw        Megawatt
NORAD     Norwegian Agency for Development
ODA       Overseas Development Administration, UK
OVTS      Orange-Vaal Transfer System
RSA       Republic of South Africa
SACU      Southern Africa Customs Union
SIDA      Swedish International Development Authority
SWAPO     South West Africa Peoples Organizatior
TCTA      Trans-Caledon Tunnel Authority
toe      -tons of oil equivalent
UK        United Kingdom
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
UNESCO    United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
US AID    United States Agency for International Deve'lopment
WEMMIN    Ministry of Water, Energy and Mining, Kingdom of Lesotho
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
/ Maloti are at par and circulate alongside South Africa's rand.



FOR OMFFCIAL UySE ONLY
(i,
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
LESOTHO HIGHLANDS WATER ENGINEERING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Kingdom of Lesotho
Beneficiary:            Lesotho Highlands Development Authority (LHDA)
Amount:                 SDR 8.0 million (US$9.75 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard
Onlending Terms:        The proceeds of the credit would be passed to LHDA
as Government's equity contribution.
Project Description:   The project is the engineering phase of a scheme to
transfer the waters of the Senqu (Orange) River for
sale to South Africa, and to generate hydro-
electricity to meet Lesotho's power needs. It would
comprise the following main components: preparation
of engineering designs and bidding documents for the
water transfer and hydro-power components, and for
advance infrastructure; geotechnical investigations;
technical assistance for LHDA for project execution
and supervision and for securing financing for Phase
IA construction project; staff training for LHDA;
technical assistance for Lesotho Government's
representation on the Joint Permanent Technical
Commission (JPTC); environmental and
resettlement/compensation studies; and investment
planning and electricity tariff studies for Lesotho
Electricity Corporation (LEC), and a power
generation planning study.
Benefits and Risk:      With the implementation of the envisaged Lesotho
Highlands Water Scheme, for which the proposed
engineering project would finance the necessary
engineering, Lesotho would obtain considerable
benefits through royalties earned from the export of
water. These royalties would be channelled to
development projects. The risks of the engineering
project concentrate first on the timely appointment
of consultants and recruitment of LHDA staff. Close
monitoring should expedite project implementation.
Coordination among the water transfer and the
hydropower design consultants should ensure timely
completion of their tasks. Design review by panels
of experts and additional geological investigations
should reduce remaining uncertainties. The current
unsettled political conditions in Southern Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
represent significant political risks for the successful
implementation of the project. However, the high degree of
cooperatlon during the feasibility study phase and the
commitment sbown by the two governments in negotiating a
comprehensive water treaty make the risks acceptable at this
stage. Extensive studies to date have identified no major
environmental or resettlement issues. Proposed project
activities should allow timely identification of measures to
minimize adverse impact on the local population and the
environment.
Estimated Project Costs:
Local     Foreign       Total
-US$ Million Equivalent
Geotechnical Investigations
-Water Transfer incl. Dam                     0.85        4.13         4.98
-Hydropower Component                         0.38        1.83         2.21
-Delivery Tunnel                              0.11        2.18         2.29
Subtotal                                  1.34       8.14         9.48
Engineering Design
-Water Transfer incl. Dam                     0.58        4.24         4.82
-Hydropower Component                         1.08        4.60         5.68
-Delivery Tunnel                              0.13        2.54        2.67
-Access Roads inel. Infrastructure            0.13        1.01         1.14
Subtotal                                 1.92      12.39        14.31
Technical Assistance                          2.35        8.84        11.19
Operating Expenses                            4.13        0.26        4.39
Vehicles/Equipment                            0.03        0.31        0.34
Training                                      0.00        0.42        0.42
Special Studies                               0.35       0.94         1.29
Services by Government Agencies               0.65       0.08         0.73
Subtotal                                  7.51      10.85        18.36
Physical Contingencies                        1.25        3.50        4.75
Price Contingencies                           1.46        2.95        4.41
Subtotal                                 2.71       6.45         9.16
Total Project Costs 1/                       13.48       37.83       51.31
1/  Taxes included in project costs are negligible as most items would not
be subject to taxation. Figures may not add due to rounding.



(iii)
Financing Plan                                Local      Foreign        Total
--US$ million Equivalent--
IDA                                            2.58         7.17         9.75
Government of Lesotho                          3.01         0.20         3.21
European Developuent Fund 2|                   2.97         7.19        10.16
European Investment Bank                       0.82         2.22         3.04
UNDP                                           0.18         0.76         0.94
ODA                                            0.27         1.19         1.46
USAID                                          0.05         0.36         0.41
CDM, Fed. Rep. of Germany                      0.00         0.58         0.58
Republic of South Africa                       3.60        18.16        21.76
Total                                   13.48       37.83        51.31
-
Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credit
-------(US$ millions)---
IDA Fiscal Year                FY87      FY88      FY89       FY90     FY91
Annual                         0.59       3.42     3.42       2.03      0.29
Cumulative                     0.59      4.01      7.43       9.46      9.75
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:  None
Map: IBRD 18957
2/Out of which US$9.50 million equivalent has been confirmed.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CrEDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOR A LESOTHO HIGHLANDS WATER ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for SDR 8.0 million (US$ 9.75 million equivalent), on
standard terms, to the Kingdom of Lesotho to help finance a Lesotho
Highlands Water Engineering Project. The proceeds of the credit would be
passed to the Lesotho Highlands Development Authority as equity
contribution. Parallel co-financing totalling US$ 38.35 million equivalent
would be provided by: the European Development Fund (EDF), the European
Investment Bank (EIB), the United Kingdom (UK), USAID, the Federal Republic
of Germany (FRG), UNDP and the Republic of South Africa (RSA). The Lesotho
Government would contribute the equivalent of US$ 3.21 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent Economic Memorandum on Lesotho (No. 4415-LSO) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in October 1983. Country data are
presented in Annex I.
3.        Lesotho is a small country completely surrounded by the Republic
of South Africa with which it must co-exist, notwithstanding ideological
differences. It is mountainous and, other than its people and abundant
water, it possesses few natural resources. About 12 percent of its
30,400 sq km is suitable for crop farming, but only 0.4 percent has high
potential. Crop production is a low-yield, high-risk occupation, due to
poor land quality, a harsh climate, and to the existence of alternative
sources of income for those who live on the land - employment in South
Africa or receipt of remittances from relatives working there. Livestock
raising is the country's principal agricultural activity, but overstocking
and inadequate herd management have led to overgrazing, widespread soil
erosion and limited production. Nonetheless, agriculture is stil1 an
important sector of the domestic economy, providing employment and
contributing partially to income of up to 70 percent of the popularion.
Development of a modern industrial sector has been limited by the small
size of the domestic market; the necessity of importing nearly all raw
materials and intermediate goods; the proximity of the highly
industrialized South African econmy, which supplies Lesotho with most of
the goods and services it requires; and a shortage of skilled
entrepreneurial, managerial and technical manpower. Presently,
manufacturing contributes little more than six percent of value added in
the economy.



-2-
4.  -    The most significant characteristic of Lesotho's economy is its
heavy dependence on South Africa where more than 95 percent of its imports
originate, as does most of its foreign investment. Its only outlets to the
sea are via South Africa's transport facilities and ports. About 45
percent of the male labor force is employed in South Africa (mainly in
mining); remittances of migrant workers constitute over 50 percent of
Lesotho's GN; and over 65 percent of government revenues are derived from
receipts of duties and taxes collected by the Southern Africa Customs Union
(SACU) on behalf of the member countries (Lesotho, Botswana, South Africa,
and Swaziland). In addition, Lesotho is a member of the Common (formerly
Rand) Monetary Area which, while guaranteeing payment of Lesotho's foreign
financial commitments, limits its use of monetary policy instruments. On
balance, however, given Lesotho's size, location and resource constraints,
the gains from membership in the Customs Union and the Monetary Area
outweigh the costs associated with the limitations on policy instruments.
5.        Despite constraints to its development, Lesotho's economy grew
rapidly in the 1970s. Real GDP rose by about seven percent per annum
during the mid-to-late 1970s, and as a result of increasing employment and
wages for Basotho in South Africa, real GNP expanded by about nine percent
per annum. The gains in domestic output were the result primarily of large
increases in public investment and in the provision of government
services. Tourism and mining also contributed significantly to economic
growth, the former owing to an increasing number of visitors from South
Africa and the latter resulting from the opening of a new diamond mine
(which has since closed down). The industrial and agricultural sectors, on
the other hand, have expanded only modestly since the mid-1970s.
6.        Since 1980, however, the factors which made the higher growth
rates possible have weakened considerably. Export values have stagnated in
nominal terms and by 1985 had fallen in real terms to about half the 1980
total. This slowdown in resource inflows, coupled with the Government's
expansionary fiscal policy in the early 1980s, had an adverse effect on
Lesotho's balance of payments. The budget deficit widened continuously,
reaching over nine percent of GDP in 1981/82. Imports grew sharply,
doubling the 1978 level by 1981, and have continued to grow slowly since
then. Despite a moderate growth of migrant workers' remittances -- the
major source of foreign exchange earnings - the current account deficit
rose from US$24 million in 1979 to US$49 million in 1981. Much of the
deficit was financed by short-term loans which led to a sharp rise in debt
service payments.
7.        Recognizing the seriousness of the fiscal/balance of payments
crisis, the Government instituted an austerity program in 1982. It
tightened financial controls, froze wages and employment in the civil
service and cut back the capital budget. In December 1982, it introduced a
sales tax to boost domestic reverLues. Succeeding budgets increased sales
and liquor taxes, instituted a withholding tax on interest earnings, and
placed some emphasis on cost recovery measures. A tax has also been
imposed on imported livestock.



-3-
8.        As a result of these efforts and a significant increase in
Customs Union receipts, resulting irom a change in the revenue-sharing
formula, both the fiscal situation and the balance of payments improved by
1984. The overall budget deficit was reduced to two to three percent of
GNP in 1983/84 and 1984/85. The balance of payments current account
deficit declined from US$49 million in 1981 to US$6 million in 1983, and
recorded a surplus of US$19 million in 1985. The improvements in financial
management were not, however, without cost, as these actions contributed to
slower real GDP growth (1.2 percent per annum) during 1981-85. GNP growth
averaged 4.6 percent per annum over the same period but has also slowed in
recent years due to slower real increases in mining wages.
9.        Lesotho's economic prospects are at best uncertain.  Indeed
Lesotho has already begun to face the difficult budgetary situation likely
to persist throughout the remainder of the decade. The Government's
1985/86 budget deficit reached five percent of GNP, with the deficit in
1986/87 budgetted at 6.7 percent of GNP. While slower than projected
implementation will most likely result in a somewhat smaller deficit, this
still gives rise to concern. For the future, receipts from the Customs
Union are not expected to increase as in the past, as a result of low
growth of imports and possible reduction by the RSA in the compensatory
payment under SACU. The real level of external development assistance for
projects other than the Highlands Water project will most likely not grow
given competing demands and the country's limited absorptive capacity.
While Lesotho may benefit somewhat from enterprises wishing to locate
outside South Africa, no significant direct foreign investment is foreseen,
given limited potential in agriculture, industry and mining, and the
uncertain political climate. At the same time, the outlook for Basotho
employment in South Africa is bleak. Basotho employment in South African
mines declined from about 129,000 in 1977 to 118,00) in 1985. This
downward trend is likely to continue given South Africa's policy of
increasing employment of domestic labor, possible reduction in demand for
mining products resulting from economic sanctions against the RSA,
continued depressed prices for metals and increased mechanization of the
mines, thus lowering the demand for unskilled, and hence new recruits, from
Lesotho.
10.       Although Lesotho's prospects for growth and development are
limited by natural constraints, as well as unfavorable external factors,
limited opportunities do exist for improving the economy. The high risks
and relatively low returns associated with crop agriculture push most young
men into the towns or the mines, leaving agriculture in the hands of women
and older men who have generally viewed it as a subsistence activity.
However, a small but growing number of Basotho are becoming more
commercially-oriented farmers. Research results have shown that there is
good potential for diversifying output to include production of high-value
horticultural crops for import-substitution and export purposes. Further
research is needed, as is strengthening of horticultural extension and
marketing services. With soil erosion and degradation of the land and
vegetative cover remaining problems, Lesotho must begin to address the
issue of overstocking. A recent Bank review of the agricultural sector
recommends a number of actions which could be taken to improve land
management, reduce overgrazing and commercialize livestock production.



-4-
11.       The industrial sector will increase its contribution to income
and employment generation as Lesotho is able to attract enterprises which
can compete with South African production and expand their reach beyond the
small domestic market to the SACU area and, to a lesser extent, markets
outside the region. The prospects which exist in this sector will be
explored in a Bank-supported study commencing before the end of 1986. The
Bank Group is assisting, or planning to assist, the following areas: land
use planning and soil conservation efforts; rehabilitation of the highway
and rural road network; upgrading services and strengthening institutional
development in the urban sector; improvement of basic education and
technical and vocational training; and delivery of basic health and family
planing services. By far the most promising financial prospect for Lesotho
is the exploitation of its abundant water resources through construction of
the necessary infrastructure which would allow the sale of water to South
Africa. Revenues gained thereby would need to be channelled to investments
in other sectors in order to gain maximum development impact.
12.       An immediate concern is improving economic management and public
sector finances. This will require strengthening mechanisms for
expenditure planning and control, and diversifying and increasing
revenues.  A major problem has been the inadequate link betwesn recurrent
and capital budgeting. Particularly in upcoming times of constrained
fiscal resources, the Government must begin to prioritize its goals and
objectives as a means of Identifying and allocating the scarce resources to
priority budgetary programs. The Government must also improve its
development planning machinery by strengthening institutional capabilities
and providing better training. The absence of an effective planning
capability within the Government has in the past led to decisions on major
investment projects which are uneconomic and inconsistent with declared
economic policy objectives. Notable examples are the original conception
of the highly subsidized Food Self-Sufficiency Program (through subsidies
have recently been reduced substantially) and the new international
airport.
13.       As one of the least developed domestic economies in the world,
with limited medium-term potential for generating domestic revenues,
Lesotho depends almost entirely on external assistance to finance its
development program. Grants, mainly from bilateral sources, constitute
about 60 percent of total external capital assistance, and the balance
consists primarily of loaus on soft terms. IDA is the largest single
source of multilateral assistance. As of the beginninig of 1986, of the
US$167 million total external public debt, disbursed and outstanding, US$59
million (35 percent) were IDA credits. In 1985, service payments on IDA
credits equalled about three percent of Lesotho' s total Pervice payments on
medium- and long-term debt. Currently, Lesotho's debt service as a percent
of exports of goods and services stands at three percent.
PART II -- BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LESOTHO
14.       The Bank Group's first operation in Lesotho -- a US$4.1 million
credit for a highway construction project - was approved in 1966, a few
months before the country (then known as Basutoland) became an independent



-5-
kingdom. To-date, IDA has made 15 credits, totalling US$94.0 million,
which have financed four projects in highways, two in agriculture, four in
education, two in industrial development and one each in water supply,
urban development, and health and population. In addition, the Bank acted
as executing agency for UNDP-financed technical assistance for
strengthening the Government's development planning organization and for
assisting the Government to supervise preparation of the proposed Lesotho
Highlands Water Project. Also, IDA is supervising an agricultural
marketing and credit project on behalf of the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD). IFC has made one investment of US$330,000
in a quarrying operation. Summary statements on IDA credits and IFC
investments are provided in Annex II.
15.       Lesotho's performance in implementing IDA-assisted projects has
been generally satisfactory. Most projects, particularly those in the
education and highways sectors, which constitute the bulk of the Bank
Group's portfolio in Lesotho, have been implemented efficiently. Projects
in agriculture, however, have encountered serious problems due to
ineffective coordination within the Government, delays in appointing
project staff, budgetary constraints and inapropriate policies and
strategies. The Government has instituted measures to resolve the budget
crisis by tightening financial manigement in the public sector (paras. 7
and 8). Also, in IDA-assisted projects, technical assistance is being
provided and local staff trained to strengthen project implementing
agencies and also, where appropriate, "revolving funds- are being
established to obviate the need for prefinancing by the Government of local
expenditures financed by IDA.
16.       The principal focus of the Bank's assistance strategy is
to: strengthen the Government's capacity for effective economic planning
and development adminstration to improve policy formulation and effective
implementation of development programs and projects; assist in the
exploitation of domestic resources with promising development potential;
assist in the improvement of policy environment for agricultural
development that will lead to increased crop and livestock productivity;
improve manpower development and training, including improved and expanded
delivery of basic health services and implementation of population control
measures; and strengthen public sector institutions, including improving
cost-effectiveness of guvernment services. The Bank's assistance for
improving economic management and development adminstration is provided
mainly through the economic and sector work program, while the lending
program is dominated by the Highands Water Project, by far the most
promising development prospect for Lesotho. Other lending operations aim
to: improve the management and conservation of agricultural
resources expand production and employment opportunities in the industrial
sector; and improve basic education services and expand technical and
vocational training.



-6-
PART III - THE WATER AND ENERGY SECTORS
Introduction
17.       The proposed project would cover the detailed design stage of the
first construction phase of the Lesotho Highlands Water Scheme (LHWS).
This multipurpose scheme would allow, through a system of dams and tunnels,
the export of large quantities of water and the generation of hydropower
for local use. As the available water resources far exceed all projected
local water demands, no major issues arise in the water sector. Bowever,
the proposed generation of hydropower to satisfy local power demand raises
a number of issues which require an analysis of the energy sector,
including the major sector institution, the Lesotho Electricity Corporation
(LEC).
Water Resources
18.      Water is the only natural resource in relative abundance in
Lesotho. From the lowlands in the west (1500 - 1700 m above sea level),
the land rises to the foothills in the central area (1700 - 2000 m above
sea level) and finally to the Maluti Mountains in the east, which continue
into the Drakensberg Mountains in the Republic of South Africa (RSA). This
topography strongly influences the distribution of rainfall, which amounts
to 800 mm per year in the western part of the country and up to 1200 mm in
the eastern part. Interannual variations in rainfall are considerable,
resulting in periods of drought and flooding. The rainfall, very heavy at
times, occurs mostly in the Southern Hemispbere spring (September to
December) and, together with snowfalls, replenishes the water resources
estimated at 5,500 million cms per year or 175 cms/sec. Due to topographic
and surface conditions, practically all run-off enters the Senqu River
(Orange River in RSA) and its tributaries, the Malibamatso, the Senqunyana
and the Mohokare (Caledon in RSA) which originate in the Maluti Mountains.
Frequent heavy downpours create serious soil erosion on the bare slopes,
and this is one of Lesotho's major environmental problems.
19.      Water quality is generally good throughout the year. However,
surface water sources for urban water supplies require treatment because of
high turbidity and the possibility of fecal pollution. Total water
consumption accounts for about 0.7 cms/sec, or less than 1 percent of
available resources. About 27 percent of the population (about 280,000, or
20 percent of the rural population and 120,000, or 65 percent of the urban
population) have access to safe water supply, and the remainder draw water
from unprotected sources. The Government plans to increase the coverage of
piped water systems to 100 percent in the urban areas and to about 70
percent in the rural areas by year 2000. Thus, piped water supplies are
estimated to triple by year 2000 but overall water demand is unlikely to
exceed 1.5 cms/sec. Irrigated agriculture is limited because the country's
topography restricts the irrigable area to about 16,000 ha. Allowing for
increased water consumption resulting from normal population growth and
additional use for industry and irrigation, available water resources,
therefore, far exceed future requirements and water not used in Lesotho is
"lost' downstream.



20.       The growing water deficit in South Africa's industrial hub
between Pretoria and Witwatersrand, whose main source of supply is the Vaal
River basin, with its main dam and storage reservoir at Vereeniging,
provides an opportunity for the profitable exploitation of Lesotho's water
resources. Supply in that area is projected to fall short of requirements
by 1995.
21.       RSA could cover the expected water supply shortage from sources
within its territory. A proposed scheme, the Orange-Vaal Transfer System
(OVTS) would pump water from the same river (dowustream in the Orange Free
State Province) over long distances and high lifts, making it expensive to
construct and operate and operationally vulnerable. RSA, therefore,
approached Lesotho with a proposal to study a water transfer scheme which
would divert the same waters from within Lesotho to the Vaal system by
gravity.
Sector Institutions
22.       Water and energy affairs in Lesotho are the responsibility of the
Ministry of Water, Energy and Mining (WEMMIN). Its Water and Sewerage
Branch is in charge of implementing and operating urban water supply
systems in Maseru, the country's capital, as well as in district centers.
Water systems in the rural areas are constructed and operated by the
Village Water Supply Section of the Ministry of Cooperatives and Rural
Development.  In an effort to strengthen the institutional set-up, the
Government is in the process of changing the Water and Sewerage Branch from
a ministerial department to a statutory corporation.
23.       The unique size, purpose and multisectoral approach of the
Lesotho Highlands Water Scheme (LHWS) effectively takes this project
outside the functions of the existing water sector institutions. A
separate institution, the Lesotho Highlands Development Authority (LHDA),
has been established (para. 62) to handle all aspects of LHWS. However,
the hydroelectric generation component requires a much closer link with the
existing electric power utilities institutions.
Bank/Country Goals and Lending Strategy in the Water Sector
24.       The Government of Lesotho's (GOL) objective in developing its
water resources has been to provide safe drinking water to urbanized areas
and larger rural centers. Irrigated agriculture and hydropower generation
are also being explored. While the feasib4lity of diverting the surplus
Senqu River water to the industrial areas of RSA has been studied for some
time, the economic, financial and technical feasibility on such a major
scale has been fully assessed only recently.
25.       A water supply project supported by an IDA credit of US$6
million, approved in 1979, financed the construction of piped water systems
in seven small towns, and will, by 1990, serve about 50,000 inhabitants.
This project, which also strengthened the Water and Sewerage Branch, was
successfully completed in 1985. The Bank was also the executing agency for
UNDP-financed consultants who supervised the feasibility studies for LHWS
on behalf of GOL.



-8-
26.       Except for the Lesotho Highlands Water Scheme, the Association
has not planned to support other projects is the sector. However, Lesotho
continues to obtain funding for the sector from other multilateral and
bilateral donors.
The Energy Sector
Energy Resources
27.       Lesotho's energy resources are extremely limited, as are its
options for reducing its dependence on RSA for energy supply. Interfuel
substitution possibilities are almost nonexistent and, apart from potential
hydropower, the energy resource endowment is poor. Lesotho has been
virtually treeless for several decades and reforestation, which could
provide an indigenous fuel source, is difficult because of the rough
terrain and poor soil and climatic conditions. Primary fuel needs are met
by local vegetation and agricultural residues and are increasingly
supplemented by imported wood, coal, petroleum and electricity. An energy
assessment was carried out in 1984 under the UNDP/Bank program, and its
principal conclusion was that, notwithstanding limited options, Lesotho
could benefit from external assistance for energy sector institution
building and improved forestry sector management to achieve self-reliance
in fuelwood.
28.       With respect to commercial energy resources, some petroleum
exploration has been undertaken, but available data do not encourage
further exploration. The existing coal and peat deposits cannot be
exploited economically. Development of hydropower is the only promising
possibility. Generation of hydropower in conjunction with the operation of
the proposed LHWS could be an important step towards the utilization of
this resource.  The overall hydrogeneration potential of the LHWS is about
2,000 GWh, of which about 450 GWh could be developed in the initial phase
to be engineered under the proposed project. Future phases could
substantially increase the generation of power.
29.       A number of mini-hydro sites have been surveyed and two projects
are currently being implemented with Norwegian Government assistance, one
with an installed capacity of 180 KW, the other with 1.9 MW. As costs of
mini-hydros are generally high and seasonal run-offs restrict their
continuous operation, the effective contribution to overall energy supply
is very small. A feasibility study for a large-scale hydro scheme at
Oxbow, with an installed capacity of 54 MW producing yearly 162 GWh, is
about to be undertaken with the assistance of tbe African Development Bank
(AfDB).
Energy Sector Objectives
30.       Government objectives in the energy sector are concerned with
providing energy supplies by improving the availability of fuel in rural
areas through woodlot and improved woodstove projects.  There has also been
a long-standing interest to find a practical way to develop the country's
hydropower. GOL also plans to extend the power transmission networkl to
make electricity available in rural areas. However, high costs and low



-9-
projccted revenues hinder the prospects of this objective. The feasibility
and priorities of undertaking network extensions, as well as of increasing
the power generation capacity in Lesotho, would be determined on the basis
of studies included in the proposed engineering project. Strengthening the
financial operations and planning capability of LEC is of high priority.
Agreement was reached with the Government during negotiations that (i) an
investment planning and tariff study for LEC, under terms of reference
acceptable to the Association, would be initiated within six months of the
effectiveness of the EDF Loan Agreement and completed 18 months thereafter;
and (ii) not later than three months after the completion of this study, a
power generation study would be started and completed within six months
under terms of reference acceptable to the Association. The findings of
these studies, which would be financed by EDF, and the implementation and
timing of proposed actions would be submitted to the Association for its
review and comments. It was also agreed that investments in the power
sector would be carried out in accordance with an investment program based
on the recommendations of the aforementioned studies.
Commercial Energy Demand and Supply
31.       Reliable supply and demand data are limited to commercial forms
of energy, including imported fuelwood, and indicate that, at about 0.1 toe
p.a. per capita, commercial energy consumption in Lesotho is among the
lowest in the world. Domestic energy consumption (including private cars)
represented 55 percent of total commercial energy of 146,200 toe, in 1981.
Industry used only seven percent of all energy, because of the limited size
of the sector, the commercial and government sectors used 29 percent
(including fuel consumption by cars) and agriculture about six percent
(including diesel use in tractors). Aviation accounts for about one
percent of total commercial energy, while losses make up the remaining two
percent.
32.       Demand for commercial energy (petroleum, electricity and coal) is
expected to grow at about five percent p.a. through 1995, with the
following composition by fuel type:
Recorded              Projected
Growth                 Growth
(toe) Z of    p.a.    (toe)  % of   p.a.   (toe)  % of
1981  Total   in Z    1984   Total  in X   1995   Total
Petroleum        65.4    45    6.7       79.4    48      5.3  140.1    50
Electricity      29.3    20    0.6       29.8    18      7.0   62.6    22
Coal.            49.1    35    3.5       54.4    34      3.6   80.2    28
Total         143.8   100    4.4    163.6   100        5.1  282.9   100
Renewable Energy
33.       Because of the acute need for improved access to energy in the
rural areas, emphasis has been placed on increasing the supply of renewable



-LO -
energy. Several bilateral and international organizations are assisting
with projects which include: (i) the Woodlot Project (ODA) and
reforestation projects (SIDA), (ii) the Renewable Energy Technology Project
(USAID), with emphasis on woodatove improvements and dissemination, (iii)
two mini-hydro plants (NORAD), and (iv) a biogas and solar demonstration
project (UNESCO/UNDP). A request has also been made to the Government of
Finland for assistance in the woodfuel sector.
Energy Pricing
34.       Although prices of petroleum products and electricity are set
by GOL, they are very much dependent on prices in RSA, the source of
Lesotho's energy imports. An inter-state oil committee of Botswana,
Lesotho and Swaziland (the BLS countries) further monitors procurement,
allocation, pricing and conservation of petroleum in the three countries.
35.       As some 85 percent of Lesotho's electricity is supplied by the
Electricity Supply Commission (ESCOM) of RSA, electricity prices in Lesotho
depend on the cost of supply from ESCOM.   Lesotho, therefore, benefits
from the ESCOM tariffs, which are among the lowest in the world because
most of RSA's electricity generation is from low-cost coal. Despite rising
labor costs, ESCOM's real price of electricity has remained relatively
constant in the past and should continue to do so as greater use is made of
reject coal (middlings) resulting from the export of high grade coal and as
mining productivity continues to increase. Operational improvements at
ESCOM's generating stations, expected as an outcome of a recent extensive
assessment of ESCOM's operations, should, together with future energy
conservation in industry, reduce the rate of generation expansion and,
hence, financial costs arising from load growth. Furthermore,
restructuring of the tariff by increasing peak rates should delay additions
to the generation capacity. Electricity prices should therefore rise in
real terms only when productivity improvements cease and conservation
measures are exhausted. As ESCOM supply tariffs are based on average
financial costs, in accordance with South African Government's policy,
tariffs should increase at a lower rate than if marginal cost pricing
principles were applied.
36.       ESCOM sells electricity to LEC on the same basis as to other bulk
consumers in the Orange Free State Province of RSA. The tariff combines a
demand or capacity-related charge with an energy charge, a normal feature
for this type of supply. Starting in 1975, ESCOM increased its tariff with
inflation (presently at about 16 percent). GOL has been reluctant,
however, to raise LEC tariffs simultaneously, with the result that LEC's
financial performance has deteriorated to its present unsatisfactory level
(para. 42). GOL recognizes, nevertheless, the need for overhauling
LEC'stariff by introducing peak load pricing. The tariff study to be done
as part of the investment planning study (para. 30) will develop a strategy
for improving LEC's financial position.



Energy Sector Organization
Energy Planning
37.       WEMNIN is responsible for the production and distribution of all
forms of energy, including electricity. The Department of Energy, which
was receutly established, is in charge of energy planning, policy
formulation and data collection and analysis. Priorities of the
department' s work program include an urban energy use survey, the
evaluation of interfuel substitution and conservation technologies,
particularly in the field of renewable energy, and the execution of an
electricity tariff study. Key issues that the department will address
include access to and affordability of different types of fuels.
Electric Power
38.       LEC, a parastatal corporation under the jurisdiction of WENKIN,
is responsible for the public supply of electricity throughout the
country. About 85 percent of all electricity consumed in Lesotho is
supplied by ESCOM, and the rest is generated by small diesel stations in
three centers operated by LEC. LEC will also operate the two mini-hydro
stations under construction at Semonkong and Mantsonyane in Maseru and
Thaba-Tseka Districts,respectively.  Most of LEC's management team are new
to their positions and, with the exception of the Managing Director and the
Planning Engineer, are expatriates. Despite extensive technical assistance
in the past, LEC's overall performance has deteriorated significantly in
the past few years because of management changes, costs of system
expansion, and the reluctance of GOL to raise tariffs in line with ESCOM
price increases (para. 36).
Lesotho Electricit, Corporation (LEC)
39.       LEC's operations are concentrated in Maseru where 8,800
customers, representirg 80 percent of its total clientele, take about 70
percent of the total load. With the exception of Maseru, load densities
are low; hence costs are high. Substandard transmission lines, built in
the past with the aim of reducing investment costs, are gradually being
replaced to reduce high transmission losses. These losses increased from
seven percent in the early 1970s to 13 percent in 1984.
40.       Demand growth has been flat for the past three years, in contrast
to previous growth rates of 8-10 percent p.a. In 1984/85 (year ending
March 31), the total maximum demand from ESCOM was 30.9 MW, compared with
30.0 MW in 1982/83 and 29.9 NW in 1983/84. Total sales declined, however,
from 110 Glih in 1983/84 to 103 GWh in 1984/85 due to the recession in the
economy.
41.       New customers have to pay most of the extension cost before being
connected to the system and this has been a deterrent to load growth. As a
result, access to electricity is limited to about two percent of the total
population, despite the fact that many households could connect to existing
distribution facilities if arrangements were made for payment of the
connection charges in installments.  The LEC investment planning study



- 12 -
(para. 30) would also investigate methods to reduce the cost of house
connections. Lower connection charges, linked with payment over time,
should stimulate load growth. Increased economic activity as a result of
the construction of LHWS is also expected to stimulate electricity sales
and an average growth rate of seven percent p.a. may be reached.
42.       LEC's financial performance has deteriorated steadily from
FY1980. LEC realized a net profit of Maloti 1.0 million (US $0.5 million)
on sales of Maloti 4.6 million (US $2.3 million) in 1980 but had a net loss
of nearly Maloti 0.5 million (US $0.25 million) on sales of Maloti 7.6
million (US $3.8 million) in FY1984. Although provisional results for
FY1985 show some improvement, LEC continues to operate at a slight loss.
This deteriorating performance was caused by inadequate tariff increases in
the face of ESCOM tariff increases, greater debt service payments for loans
denominated in foreign currencies due to the devaluation of the Maloti, and
low-margin extensions to rural areas.
43.       Customer capital contributions for system expansion amount to
about 70 percent of total cost, an increase from 44 percent in 1980.
Long-term debt accounted for 27 percent of capital in 1980, 14 percent in
1985, and will'rise as more loans are obtained to finance the expansioin
program. However, future debt financing will be considered only if LEC's
revenues meet operating and maintenance expenses, as well as debt service,
and finance a portion of its annual investment program.
44.       LEC's future investment requirements for transmission and
distribution expansion will, according to preliminary indicative estimates,
amount to about Maloti 40 million (US $20 million) over the years 1986 to
1990. About half of this would be for rural electrification. In the
1991-1996 period, another Haloti 52 million (US $26 million) would be
required, with 80 percent for rural electrification. These levels of
investment should increase the total number of connections to about 25,000
by 1996, serving about 7 percent of the total population. However, no
financing for these investments has been identified. The power sector
investment planning study to be carried out under the proposed project
would assist LEC in determining the viability and priority of components of
its investment program, as well as outline a financing strategy (para. 30).
The Lesotho Highlands Water Scheme (LHWS)
Background
45.       The idea to divert large quantities of the waters of the Senqu
River, from the natural south-westwardly flow north to the Johannesburg
area in the RSA, has long been an engineer's dream. The feasibility of
exporting these waters was first studied in the 1950s. It was again
studied in the 1960s (under a UNDP-financed project executed by the Bank),
before the current studies started early in the 1980s. The scheme became
progressively larger as the water requirements in South Africa grew. The
earlier studies did not result in a project because agreement could not be
reached between the two governments on payment for water exports.



- 13 -
46.        The present project studies began in 1978, when the Lesotho and
South African governments appointed a joint technical committee to further
study a possible water conveyance scheme. The resulting feasibility report
(1979) recommended construction of a 35 cubic meters per second (cms/sec)
water transfer scheme, later increased to 70 cms/sec, requiring the phased
construction of four dams and about 100 km of water transfer tunnels. The
project included a hydropower generation component.
47.        Following the review of the preliminary feasibility study, the
two governments agreed on the preparation of a more detailed project layout
and on the scope of another, more detailed, feasibility study. The cost of
this feasibility study was shared by the two governments, and the study
itself was carried out by two consulting groups engaged by the respective
governments but working as a joint operation. Stage 1 of this study
started in August 1983 and was completed in December of the same year.
Lesotho's funding was made available through a grant from EDF. UNDP
financing, with the Bank as executing agency, provided a technical
assistance team to supervise execution of the studies on behalf of the
Government of Lesotho.
48.       The main objectives of the Stage 1 study were to: (i) identify
the layout for more detailed study in Stage 2; (ii) confirm that
environmental and socio-economic aspects were solvable; (iii) confirm that
there were no legal obstacles to project implementation; and (iv) confirm
that the advantages of the cost differential of a water transfer scheme
built in Lesotho, compared to an alternative built in RSA, could be
determined and would be sufficiently attractive to both governments. The
studies further measured the quantities of water available for transfer,
located and dimensioned the dams, tunnels and hydropower facilities, and
prepared cost estimates.
49.       The Stage 1 studies identified an optimum project layout and
concluded that there were no unsolvable environmental, socio-economic or
legal difficulties. The two governments then agreed in 1984 to go ahead
with Stage 2 of the feasibility studies and to increase the eventual
quantity of water to be exported to 70 cms/sec. The proposed project
layout foresees the construction of four dams for water storage (initially
at Katse, and later on at Mohale, Mashai and Tsoelike), water transfer
works with an ultimate delivery capacity of 70 cms/sec, including about 100
km of tunnels, and a hydropower plant (see map and Annex IV for detailed
project description). The Stage 2 feasibility studies were completed in
April 1986.
Water Treaty, Domestic Legislation
50.       The basic agreement between the two countries to proceed with the
implementation of the project is the  Treaty 'r the Lesotho Highlands Water
Project between the Government of the Kingdom of Lesotho and the Government
of the Republic of South Africa. The Treaty, which was signed on October
24, 1986, covers the rights and obligations of each party and lays down the
quantities of water to be delivered, the cost sharing provisions, and the
scope and calculation of benefit (royalty) payments. It further sets out
the principles for financing, constructing, operating and maintaining the



- 14 -
system. The Treaty provides that South Africa will be responsible for all
the costs of that part of LHWS related to the delivery of water to South
Africa, covering the cost of implementing, operating and maintaining the
scheme. In addition, South Africa will provide loan guarantees if required
by lenders. Thus, Lesotho will assume virtually no financial obligation
for the water transfer component. However, Lesotho will be solely
reponsible for financing the hydropower component. As a net benefit to
Lesotho, the Treaty provides for payment by RSA of a "royalty" (paras. 68
and 69). The Treaty also provides for the establishment of a number of
institututions -- described in paras. 62-65 - which will be responsible
for implementing the project.
Detailed Features of LHWS
51.       LHWS would be executed in several phases, of which Phase 1A is
scheduled to begin in 1990. Phase 1A would provide a continuous supply to
RSA of some 17cms/sec of water from the Katse reservoir. It would include
a transfer tunnel to a hydropower complex (whose generating capacity will
be determined under the engineering project), a tailpond, and a delivery
tunnel for discharge into the Ash River in RSA. The water would then flow
into the Vaal Dam, the main reservoir on the system supplying the
Johannesburg-Pretoria area. Phase 1. would provide a further 10 cms/sec by
coanstructing a dam at Mohale and a 32-km tunnel transferring water from the
Mohale reservior into the Katse reservoir.
52.       Phase 2 would add a further 36 cms/sec by construction of a dam
at Mashai whence, according to present design concepts, the water would be
pumped to the Katse reservoir, requiring the construction of a 20-km
transfer tunnel and a pumping station. A second transfer tunnel and a
second delivery tunnel, parallel to the ones constructed under Phase 1A,
would also be constructed. The hydropower installation could also be
enlarged. Phase 3 would add 6 cms/s.c by the addition of the Tsoelike
reservoir, pumping arrangements and a 10-km tunnel to the Mashai reservoir.
53.       With the implementat4on of the whole LHWS, a total of 70 cms/sec
water would eventually be diverted to RSA. This corresponds to the
long-term regulated average yield of the catchment area, and represents
about 40 percent of the total estimated yield of the Senqu/Orange River
basin of 175 cms/sec. Present use of these waters by Lesotho and all other
riparians amounts to about 1,500 million cms per year, which corresponds to
47 ems/sec, thus leaving a generous margin -- about 60 cms/sec -- for
future use in Lesotho or downstream.
54.       Additional hydrological studies to be completed by mid-1988 are
presently being carried out to confirm the yield of the catchment areas.
In the worst case, a 10 percent to 15 percent smaller yield could be
expected. This would be compensated for by initially advancing future
construction phases and later by tapping additional catchment areas. The
impact on Phase 1 may not exceed three percent (2-3 cms/sec) and would
require advancing Phase 2 by six months.



- 15 -
International Water Rights
55.       The Senqu/Orange River, which originates in Lesotho, is an
international waterway. It flows through the Republic of South Africa and
forms the bo'indary between South Africa and Namibia (South-West Africa)
before reaching the Atlantic Ocean. Riparian states are, therefore, RSA
and Namibia. As RSA would be a beneficiary of LIWS, Lesotho notified only
Namibia of the proposed scheme. The United Nations Council for Namibia,
the governing body mandated under General Assembly Resolution No. 2248
(S-V) of May 19, 1967, informed the Government of Lesotho in 1985 that it
had no objection to the scheme. Before notifying the Council, the
Government had informed the Association that Lesotho had consulted the
South-West Africa People's Organization (SWAPO) which had not objected to
the scheme. The unallocated margin of 60 cms/sec (see para. 53) of the
Senqu/Orange River should be sufficient to meet future water requirements
of Lesotho and Namibia which are estimated not to exceed 8 cms/sec and 6
cms/sec respectively. Moreover, Treaty provisions foresee maintaining a
minimum required flow in the Senqu/Orange River downstream of LHWS. The
implementation of LHWS should not, therefore, jeopardize future water-based
developments in Lesotho or Namibia.
Implementation of Phase 1A
56.       The major water storage and transfer components of Phase 1A of
LEWS would be:
(i)  Katse dam:  155m high of either rockfill or concrete arch type
with an active storage capacity of 1,245 million cms;
(ii)  Transfer tunnel:  48-km long and 4-m diameter, with an average
flow capacity of 28 cms/sec (to allow addition of the Stage 1B
flows); and
(iii)  Delivery tunnel:  34-km long and 4-m diameter with an average
flow capacity of 28 cms/sec to accomodate Phases LA and 1B.
57.       The hydropwer component of this phase of the project would
consist of a power generating plant whose final installed capacity and
layout will be determined on the basis of studies to be conducted under the
engineering project.
58.       The construction contracts for the major elements will be let on
the basis of international competitive bidding, limited by such eligibility
requirements as the eventual financing institutions may impose.
Construction of the 48-km transfer tunnel may be bid in three slices and
the delivery tunnel in two packages interfacing at the Lesotho/South Africa
border. Upgrading of 60 km of existing roads and construction of 140 km of
access roads must precede the major construction of the Katse dam and the
transfer tunnel. These roads will take at least two years to construct in
difficult terrain and separate financing for this crucial pre-construction
infrastructure will be required.



- 16 -
59.       While the Dronosed engineering project will finwice detailed
enqineering, includinz preparation of bidding documents and bid evaluation,
preparation of detailed working drawings and construction supervision will
be financed under the constructinn project.  Although it is likelv, and
preferable, that the consultants who work under the enginE!ering project
would continue throughout the construction phase, this will have to be
resolved at the time of appraisal of Phase IA.
60.       Once the access roads are built (scheduled for 1990),
construction of Phase IA will follow and is programmed for completion five
years later. This is based on conservative assumptions on tunnel work in a
predictable geology which would permit completion and water delivery by
1995. However, general experience with projects of this type and size and
possible delavs in access road construction indicate that completion of the
construction of the dams and tunnels could be delayed by a year or more.
Therefore, price contingencies were calculated on the basis that project
construction would start a year later and take a year longer than currently
programmed.
61.       The cost of Phase IA Is currently estimated at US S1.2 billion,
including physical and price contingencies. This amount is only
preliminary as the hydropower component has still to he costed on the basis
of the selected layout (paras. 70/72). Interest during construction, as
well as other financing charges, is not included.
Lesotho Highlands Development Authority (LEDA)
62.       The Treatv provides for the establishment -- under Lesotho law --
of the Lesotho Highlands Development Authority (LHDA) which wlll be in
charge of the execution of the engineering project, construction of
subsequent phases and operation and maintenance of LHWS, including the
power generation component. LHDA was established by an Order of His
Majesty King Moshoeshoe II, which was published as Order No. 23 in the
Government Gazette on November 14, 1986.
63.       The Board of Directors of LHDA comprises seven members, with the
Principal Secretary of the Ministry of Water, Energy and Mining as its
chairman, and the Chief Executive of LHDA as an ex-officio member. The
remaining five members will be appointed by the Minister of Water, Energy
and Mining for their expertise in managerial, technical and financial
matters. The Chief Executive, appointed by the Minister, will be
responsible for executing the Authority's policies and its day-to-day
operations. The Board's powers and functions include approval of
contracts, tender documents and maior design parameters, as well as
financing arrangements, budgets, implementation plans, operation and
maintenance schedules, and appointment of auditors.
Joint Permanent Technical Commission (JPTC)
64.       The Treaty also provides for the establishment of the  Joint
Permanent Technical Commission (JPTC) with equal representation of three
delegates each from Lesotho and RSA. Its main responsibility is to monitor



- 17 -
the implementation and operation of the project in all matters related to
the delivery of water to RSA. JPTC is the instrument by which RSA's
interests are safeguarded by ensuring that the project is efficiently
implemented and operated; that the funds for which RSA is responsible under
the Treaty are properly expended by LHDA; and that the agreed quantities of
water are delivered to RSA according to the established time schedule,
Establishment of JPTC became effective on the signing of the Treaty.
Trans-Caledon Tunnel Authority (TCTA)
65.       The Department of Water Affairs (DWA) of RSA will be responsible
for implementing the water delivery works within RSA, including
construction of the water delivery tunnel. These functions will be
exercised by the Trans-Caledon Tunnel Authority (TCTA) whose establishment
is also provided for under the Treaty. TCTA will be set up under the RSA
Water Act which has been amended for this purpose.
SACU Payments
66.        Lesotho is a member, together with Botswana, Swaziland (the BLS
countries) and RSA of the Southern Africa Customs Union (SACU). All
imports into the SACU area are subject to import duties which go into a
common revenue pool administered by RSA. Payments to each of the BLS
countries are determined by a formula which determines each country's share
in proportion to its share of total imports and the production of excisable
goods, enhanced by a factor of 1.42. All payments are received two years
after they are generated.
67.       A modification to the customs union agreement introduced in 1978
provides that each BLS country receive at least 17 percent of the value of
its imports and its production of excisable goods. As Lesotho's share in
the common pool has been between five percent and seven percent, the 17
percent margin now applies, with a two-year delay. SACU rebates accruing
to Lesotho from the water transfer component of LHWS are expected to be
significant (US$ 84 million or M 168 million in 1983 prices). These
rebates are accounted for in calculating the royalty (para. 69).
Royalties
68.       The major benefit that Lesotho would receive from LHWS is the
royalty to be paid by RSA. These payments will be determined by sharing
the cost savings accruing to RSA by constructing the LHWS instead of the
more costly OVTS (para. 21).
69.       The basis for sharing the savings, which are estimated at about
US$0.9 billion (M 1.8 billion) in 1983 prices, is established under the
Treaty. It allocates to Lesotho 56 percent of the cost savings. Lesotho
would receive a continuous flow of royaltLies proportional to the volume of
water delivered, starting in 1995, with an initial amount of US$10 million
(M 20 million) in 1983 prices, increasing to US$60 million (M 120 million)
by 2020. The royalty consists of the savings in investment costs on the



18 -
basis of a 50-year annuity discounted at six percent, and savings in
operation, pumping and maintenance colts, calculated per cubic meter of
water delivered by discounting the savings and scheduled water deliveries
at six percent. All royalty payments would be adjusted for inflation and
the portion relating to pumping costs, for increases in electricity
tariffs.  The royalty would be a net benefit to Lesotho as the cost of
exporting the water would be paid in full by 'outh Africa (para. 50).
The Hydropower Component
70.       The Lesotho Government attaches high priority to utilizing the
energy of the reservoired water of LHWS for the generation of hydroelectric
power. This has resulted in making the LHWS a multipurpose scheme with the
combined objective of selling water to RSA and generating electric energy
to meet Lesotho's electricity needs, thereby providing a measure of
independence from RSA. The Association has consistently worked toward the
identification of an economically viable hydro-power component. The
feasibility study developed the optimum layout of a peak power generating
plant (initially with an installed capacity of 75 KW) designed to meet
projected peak power requirements of Lesotho while base power requirements
would continue to be imported from RSA.
71.       Following appraisal of the engineering project, another
hydropower layout was identified which would generate base energy for the
Lesotho grid and might provide a higher rate of return. The peak power
configuration would require construction of two balancing reservoirs with
a power plant. This would permit peak power generation while at the same
time maintaining a constant water flow out of tle tailpond reservoir to
RSA. The base power configuration would require construction of only a
tailpond reservoir as the 48-km water transfer tunnel would form the
headrace. This alternative, while confirmed to be technically possible,
needs to be investigated in more detail. At the current state of
preparation, parameters identifying the economic viability of an optimum
hydro-power component are insufficiently defined to arrive at a final
conclusion.
72.       Agreement has, therefore, been reached with GOL that the two
hydropower alternatives referred to above be studied further to determine
the optimal solution that would be selected for final design under the
engineering project. The appraisal, including economic evaluation, of this
solution would form part of the appraisal of Phase 1A, which would then
allow the Bank to define its position regarding support for the hydropower
component. Furthermore, in order to reduce the risk of delaying
construction of the water transfer component - because of uncertainty
about raising funding for the hydropower component -- the designs of Phase
1A would include a contingency plan that would permit construction of the
hydro-power component at a later stage without interfering with the
continuous delivery of water in accordance with Treaty provisions.



- 19 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
73.       The proposed project was identified in 1982 when the feasibility
study was commissioned. Subsequently, the Government of Lesotho formally
requested Bank assistance in carrying out the project. The Project was
appraised in October 1985 and the Credit negotiated in Washington, D.C., in
May 1986.  The delegation of Lesotho was led by Mr. A.M. Monyake, Principal
Secretary, Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs. Further processing
of the project was held up by delayed completion of negotiation and signing
of the Treaty.
Project Objectives and Description
74.       The proposed project would be the preliminary phase of the most
significant operation in the Government's effort to broaden the country's
base for development by exporting water. The project's objective is to
develop Phase IA of LHWS from the feasibility stage to construction. It
would (i) refine optimization of the hydropower component and develop
detailed designs; (ii) undertake further geological investigations;
(iii) prepare bid documents and evaluate bids; (iv) provide technical
assistance and training for establishing and developing LHDA; and
(v) assist LHDA in securing financing for the construction of Phase 1A.
Rationale for Participation by the Association
75.       The main reason for the Association's participation in the
engineering project is the conviction that the implementation of LHWS is in
the best economic interests of Lesotho, and that the Association's advice
in the preparation and design of the project would help Lesotho derive
maximum benefits from the scheme. The lead role played by the Association
- at the request of GOL - and its financial commitment have facilitated
securing the necessary financing for the project. Also, the Association
would assist in ensuring that environmental, as well as resettlement
aspects, are adequately covered during the construction phases. Finally,
because of the trust and confidence it enjoys from both parties to the
project, the Association is better placed than other donors to facilitate
successful project development and implementation, while safeguarding
Lesotho's interests and promoting the widest possible international
cooperation in the scheme.
Project Details
76.       The project would include the following major elements (see also
Annex IV).
(a) Optimization Studies. Assessment of hydropower options for
selecting the optimum layout, to be followed by the detailed design of the
selected configuration of the hydropower scheme. This will include the
technical and economic optimimization of all elements of the proposed
hydropower component to ensure that the layout of the water transfer scheme
will permit the addition of hydropower generation at a later stage if
necessary (para. 72).



- 20 -
(h) Geotechnical Investigations, Preparation of Designs and Bidding
Documents. Carrying out of geotechnical investigations and preparation of
detailed designs and bid documents for (1) all elements of the water
transfer component (Katse dam, transfer tunnel, and delivery tunnel), (ii)
the hydropower complex, and (iii) infrastructure works in Lesotho. Design
of infrastructure improvements in RSA and improvements of the Ash River in
RSA would be the responsibility of various South African authorities,
coordinated through the Department of Water Affairs.
(c)  Technical Assistance and Training for LHDA.  LHDA would receive
direct technical assistance arranged under agreements with consulting
firms, individuals and bilateral agencies, enabling it to direct and
supervise project execution. This technical assistance would encompass
engineering, finance, accounting and administration, including personnel
matters, and would also cover environmental and resettlement aspects.
While most of the technical assistance personnel would be employed directly
by LHDA, there would be a self-contained provision for the review of
designs by a panel of internatinnal experts, and also for insurance review
and for mobilizing financing. As initially, most of the expert personnel
would be recruited externally, there would be a long-term training program
initiated under the proiect to increase employment opportunities for
Basotho.
(d) Technical Assistance for JPTC. Additional technical assistance
would be provided to enable GOL to be adequately represented on the JPTC
(para. 64). The assistance would consist of a specialist fully experienced
in matters relating to the operation of large-scale water resource schemes.
(e) Studies - Special studies relating to environmental and
resettlement aspects would be included under the project. These studies
relate to inventoring cultural assets, wildlife and plants, and proposing
protective measures. Particular importance would be given to the
elaboration of a resettlement plan as part of a regional development plan.
Current estimates indicate that the implementation of Phase IA could result
in the resettlement of about 700 families.
(f) LEC Development Planning and Tariff Study and Power Generation
Planning Study. Given LEC's precarious financial position and the need for
extending its distribution system, a development planning and tariff study
would be carried out to provide the necessary information for determining
the scope and cost of a system expanslon program; outline further technical
assistance and training requirements; and provide the basis for agreeing on
an action Plan for improving LEC's operations and tariffs. A power
generation planning study would outline the strategy for future investments
in power generating capacity.
(g)  LHDA Operations Expenses.  As LHDA will not have its own revenuies
to cover its operating expenses during the design phase, the proposed
proiect would include provision for these expenses.
(h) Equipment/Vehicles. The project would include the purchase of
office equipment, including data processing equipment, and vehicles.



- 21 -
Arrangements for Consultant Services
77.       Consultants to be financed by the Association for the technical
assistance components and the design of a component of the water transfer
facilities, corresponding to about half of the design services, would be
selected in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. The shortlist prepared
by GOL for the technical assistance consultants and the consultants for the
water transfer design component are satisfactory to the Association.
Consultants financed from other .aurces will be recruited in accordance
with the respective financing agencies' requirements. The RSA-financed
consultants for the water transfer component, who will be contracted by
LHDA, are familiar with the project (they participated in the feasibility
study) and will provide valuable continuity. The consortium will be beaded
by Niham Shand, a firm long associated with the Lesotho Highlands Water
Scheme, supported by specialized assistance from outside sources. The
Association-financed water transfer consultants would be selected on the
basis of their initial responses to the terms of reference covering the
water transfer design. The selected consultants would then, together with
Niham Shand, submit a joint proposal and come to a formalized cooperative
arrangement in the form of a joint venture or a consortium. The
Association would be satisfied with such an arrangement.
Project Cost and Financing
78.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$51.3 million,
comprising US$37.8 million (or 74 percent) in foreign costs and US$13.5
million (or 26 percent) in local costs, including taxes and duties. Cost
estimates are based on estimates prepared by the feasibility study consul-
tants and the GOL study supervisor. They were reviewed by the RSA study
supervisor and the appraisal mission and appear reasonable. Physical
contingencies, which total about US$4.8 million, are about 11 percent of
the base costs and include 10 percent of the base cost of studies and tech-
nical assistance, and 15 percent for geotechnical investigations. Price
contingencies, amounting to US$4.4 million, which are 10 percent of base
costs (end 1986) were calculated assuming a five percent annual escalation
rate for foreign costs and eight percent thereafter for Maloti costs.
79.       Funding for the engineering project would come from the sources
listed below. The proposed IDA Credit of US$9.75 million would finance
about 19 percent of total cost, including about 19 percent of local cost.
Allocation of IDA Credit (including all contingencies)
(US $million equivalent)
Component                                 Local    Foreign   Total
(i) Part of design of Water
Transfer Component                     0.73      1.97      2.70
(ii) Technical Assistance
Engineering                            1.54      3.31      4.85
(iii) Technical Assistance
Finance Water Transfer                 0.27      1.53      1.80
(iv) Review Panel                           0.04      0.26      0.30
(v) Training                               0.00      0.10      0.10
Total                                  2.58      7.17      9.75



- 22 -
Further funding of US$3.21 million equivalent would come from the
Government of Lesotho, US$10.1 million equivalent from EDF, of which
US$9.5 million has heen confirmed, US$3.04 million equivalent from EIB,
US$0.94 million equivalent from UNDP, US$1.46 million equivalent from ODA,
US$0.41 million from USAID, US$0.58 million equivalent from CDM and
US$21.76 million equivalent from RSA. External financing would cover about
94 percent of total cost. Annex V provides information on the components
to be financed by each of the funding agencies. The execution of the EDF
Loan Agreement and the EIB Loan Agreement would he conditions of credit
effectiveness.
80.       Confirmation has been received from RSA that financing is
avallable for (i) starting the design of the water transfer components,
(ii) design of the access roads in Lesotho and related geotechnical
investigations and that subsequent funding will be made available in time,
and (iii) that funds are available within RSA for designing infrastructure
Improvements within RSA, as well as for the design of the Ash River
improvements.
81.       The proceeds of the proposed IDA Credit would be passed on hy GOL
to LHDA as an equity contribution.
Proiect Execution
82.       In order to begin optimlzation and design work by May 1987, as
currently planned, consultant selection should take place during the first
quarter of 1987. Shortlists of the engineering consultants to be financed
by the Association have been established by the Government of Lesotho and
are acceptable to the Association. Contract negotiations would take place
during the first quarter of 1987. RSA has already proposed to GOL the
consultants to be funded by RSA (para. 77). Consultant selection for the
components to be financed by EIWF iz currently underway.
83.       The consultants to provide technical assistance to LHDA should be
available no later than the start of work by the design consultants.
Individual recruitment of experts, either directly by LHDA, or by aid
agencies, would coincide with the arrival of the technical assistance team
and the start of work of the design consultants. Consultants for the
special studies would be recruited by LHDA so that most of the studies
could begin as scheduled. A detailed Proiect execution schedule, which
establishes target dates for tasks and dates for recruitment of consultants
by position, was agreed upon at negotiations. The project is scheduled fnr
completion by February 28, 1990.
Audit
84.       LRDA's forerunner, the Lesotho Highlands Water Project Unit
in the Ministry of Water, Energy and Mining, was Dot subiect to external
audit because it was a government department.  During negotiations,
agreement was reached that: (i) LHDA's accounts would be audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; and (ii) the audit
reports would he sumitted to the Association within four months of the end
of the fiscal year.



- 13 -
85.       Agreement was further reached that, in carrying out their
assignment, the auditors would: (i) ensure that actual costs and
disbursements with regard to the project have been properly recorded in the
project's progress reports; and (ii) certify the correctness of the amounts
associated with the operation of the Special Account (para. 88).
Procurement
86.       Consultants' services to be financed out of the Credit would be
procured in accordance with Bank guidelines (para. 77).
Disbursement
87.       The proposed credit would be disbursed to cover:
(1) Consultants Services, Technical Assistance
100 percent of costs of consulting services for studies and
technical assistance (SDR7.13 million);
(2) Training
100 percent of total costs for overseas training (SDR 0.08
million);
(3)  Refunding of Project Preparation Advance
(SDR 0.09 million)
(4) Unallocated (SDR 0.70 million)
88.       In order to expedite disbursements, a Special Account in US
dollars, with an initial deposit of US$0.9 million, representing an average
of three months expenditures, would be established in the Central Bank of
Lesotho on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All IDA
eligible expenditures would be prefinanced from the Special Account, unless
otherwise previously agreed to by the Association. Withdrawal applications
for replenishment of the Special Account would have a minimum value of
US$225,000 equivalent. All reimbursements of expenditures against
contracts for consultants' services valued at less than US$20,000
equivalent would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Relevant documentation would be retained by LHDA and be open to review by
the Association. Reimbursement of expenditures related to training would
be made against a training program approved by the Association. All other
payments relating to contracts over US$20,000 equivalent would be made
against full documentation. The annual audit (para. 84) would also cover
tne operation of the Special Account and statements of expenditure. Since
the project covers the engineering and design phase of a subsequent
construction project, the estimated disbursements (Annex VI) were not
derived from existing disbursement profiles but from other similar
projects. To allow sufficient time for submission of final invoices, a
closing date of December 31, 1990 is proposed.



24 -
Monitoring
89.        Dates for critical actions of the project implementation
schedule were agreed upon during negotiations, and these will be compiled
and updated in quarterly reports to monitor progress. Agreement was
further reached that within six months of project completion, LHDA would
prepare and submit to the Association a project completion report on the
basis of an outline to be mutually agreed upon.
Environmental and Resettlement Issues
Environmental Impact
90.        The relevant studies carried out during the feasibility studies
did not identify any major environmental issues as the landscape and river
systems are already severely degraded. Climatic conditions and the nature
of the reservoirs should prevent the introduction and spread of vector
diseases such as schistosomiasis and malaria. Serious erosion and
overgrazing now exists and may be exacerbated by the project. Watershed
and range management restoration measures will, as part of the regional
development plan, help to ameliorate these problems.
91.        Additional environmental studies will be carried out under the
engineering project. These include:
(i) an epidemiological survey and an outline of precautionary
measures to confirm that the project will not create conditions
which would allow the spread of vector or water-borne diseases;
(ii) a wildlife and botanical survey to determine whether rare or
unusual vegetation or wildlife could be adversely affected by the
project and what protective measures should be taken; and
(iii) a heritage conservation survey to identify any significant
archeological resources which may be affected by the project and
outline feasible preservation measures.
Other studies concerning environmental issues, such as range management,
irrigation, soil conservation and fishery development would form part of
the regional development plan.  Specia'ists would review, under the
proposed project, all environmental aspects, including recommended actions.
Impact of LEWS on the Local Population
92.        Prior to the beginning of the initial phase of construction of
LHWS (Phase IA), fewer than 100 households would be affected by loss of
arable and grazing land required for the construction of access roads and
work camps. Thereafter, the reservoir to be constructed at Katse would
flood, over the years 1994 to 1996, an estimated 600 ha of arable and 2,915
ha of grazing land. Preliminary estimates show that a maximum of 700
households, representing one third of the area's population, would lose
arable land; all of the 2,100 households would be affected by the loss of
communal grazing land; and about 15 households would lose their dwellings.



- 25 -
The second phase of the project (Phase 1B) would, by year 2000, inundate
about 1,000 ha of arable land, about 1,500 ha of grazing land, effecting an
estimated 870 households. About 85 of those households would also lose
their dwellings. Detailed surveys to be carried out under the proposed
project would determine the exact number of households affected.
I
93.        Compensating those who would lose their arable land is a
pressing issue as only 13 percent (400,000 ha) of Lesotho's land is
suitable for farming and much of this consists of soils of depleted
fertility and agronomic properties. No arable land is available for
compensation in the vicinity of the project area. However, the possibility
of land being made available for resettlement further away from the project
area will be investigated during the proposed project. Resettlement is
further complicated by the increasing investment in livestock, with
stocking rates already far beyond the carrying capacity of the land. The
Social and Environmental Unit to be established within LHDA will carry out
the necessary surveys and investigations.
94.        The tasks of the Social and Environmental Unit will be to:
(1) outline a viable resettlement program;
(ii) design a compensation program for property losses and inundation
of arable land;
(iii) draw up a regional development plan for the population adversely
affected by loss of winter grazing land; and
(iv) develop a program for mitigating adverse environmental impacts.
The objective of the compensation policy and regional development plan
would be to ensure that the affected population is given the opportunity to
be economically self-sustaining within the shortest time possible or, at
the very least, ensure that living standards match those enjoyed before
resettlement. In preparing the regional development plan, programs would
be developed for improving range management, soil conservation, and crop
and livestock production. Also, the potential for developing a fishing
industry, agro-forestry and small-scale enterprises would be studied. The
scope for enhancing overall living conditions would be assisted by
constructing water supply systems, health clinics, schools and feeder
roads.
Justification and Benefits
95.        The implementation of the project has potentially far-reaching
implications for Lesotho's economy. It would be by far the largest
development project in Lesotho (estimated to cost about three times the
country's GNP). The project would convert a resource, which at present has
no comparable alternative use, into an export commodity which would earn
the country much-needed income for investment in other sectors.



- 26 -
96.        The exact level of revenues payable to Lesotho in the form of
royalties will be determined by the quantities of water delivered.
Preliminary calculations indicate that these royalties could exceed the
value of all Lesotho's trading exports at present. As RSA would pay for
all costs associated with constructing, operating and maiutaining the water
transfer component and guarantee and amortize associated loans (para. 50),
and the royalty payments would be additional to those cost-related
payments, a rate of return cannot be calculated and would be infinite. The
construction phases, which would last into the next century, would provide
significant domestic employment opportunities. Construction of access
roads should open up areas difficult to access at present. The activities
associated with the construction phases should bring about additional
economic development in the project area.
Risks
97.       The implementation of the engineering project will concentrate
first on the recruitment of consultants and LHDA staff. Close monitoring
of the early steps in recruitment and adherence to the Implementation
schedule rhould expedite project initiation. However, given the number of
institutions involved in project financing, it is possible that some
elements of the project will slip. Close coordination early in the design
of the hydropower and water transfer components should ensure timely
completion of the two major design tasks. Risks associated with the
development of designs will be minimized through reviews by a panel of
international experts. Addieional geological investigations should reduce
the remaining uncertainities.
98.       Transition into the construction phase contains considerable
uncertainties, since bidding can proceed only when (i) access road
construction is sufficiently advanced; and (ii) financing for Phase 1A is
secured so that tendering can proceed. This risk, therefore, is associated
with raising financing for the access roads and thereafter, for Phase IA.
The provision of financial advisory services to LHDA would minimize this
risk.
99.       Financing for the hydropower component may be more difficult to
raise as Lesotho would be solely responsible for financing this component.
The water project, therefore, would be designed to allow the addition of
hydropower at a later date without interfering with water deliveries
(para. 72).
100.      The technical risks appear to be manageable and somewhat below
normal for works of this type and magnitude. The engineering is being
carefully executed and the geological and hydrological factors are
reasonably predictable and favorable. Base costs and physical
contingencies, therefore, do not present unusual uncertainties.
101.       The location, topography and design of the project, as developed
so far, give reason to believe that no major environmental and resettlement
issues will evolve. The planned census and regional development plan
should facilitate the identification of satisfactory solutions and measures
to be taken in time to avoid adverse impacts on the local population.



- 27 -
102.      The current unsettled political conditions in the sub-region
inevitably represent signifieant political risks for the successful
implementatton of the project. However, the high degree of cooperation
whieb manifested Itself throughout the feasibility study period (even at
the tties of biRh political tension) and the coamitment shown by botb
goWeraments during the negotiations of the Treaty are justifiable reaus
for optimism and make these risks acceptable at this stage.
PART v -  (N
103.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Arttcles of Agreement of the Association and recomend that it be approved
by the Executive Directors.
Barber Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
November 18, 1986



- 28 -
= 1
1- I of 2
qpiada: 1.52 -1114X (td-19115)
GlP per caita in 1984: US530
-m - E    U
Mit                                                    Sam of GDP at Ih*et Pdrae (Z)
Glion US$)                AQsxt (koth lat (2)                  (a aw     pr )
TIletor                  at currot priem
1983/84          1980/81 1961/82 1982/83  1983/84    1974/75    1980/81       1983/84
National Acfkmr
(o. alit1c Prmact a/          454.5              4.5    -1.2      0.5      -0.5      10D.0      100.0        10D.0
A4irae                       94.3               ..      ..       ..        ..       37.8       23.1        26.6
TlMs%sy                      25.7               ..      ..       .. -                7.7       13.2         7.2
Serviom                     234.5                   ..           ..                 54.5       63.7        66.1
Oxmumt.ion                    930.3              9.6     9.5      2.2       6.3      165.9      186.7       204.7
GM= 1ninot                    147.0              1.3   -1.8    -4.3        -7.5       17.5       36.2        32.3
sorts of GWS                   53.5             -L2   -2X.l  -17.5    -11.7           14.4       16.0        11.8
Iqprt of QUS                  660.2              5.6    12.8     4.1       -0.1       93.4      1384        145.3
(ba.  htmial Pmluct           934.9              5.9     6.2      8.7      L23
Goe         Fin
Gt1  GDverre        1984/85
(Mt fIon)       Z of QIP
Owreit Rcmeipts (nir. gramct)            234.4           25.1
cirsnt E      eulituea                   161.4          17.3
nareat knmt  urplus/leficit               73.0            7.8
Capital E xlltre                          92.0            9.8
Overafl lefidt                           -19.0           -2.0
Fawidg of tDe leficd
Fxtemal BorrmdW                         X0.0            2.1
Domestic Borrmlia                       -1.0            0.1
fbuy, Cleflt an Frices
1961       1982      1983      1984      1985
Im' and Qisi-Ibt                          124.8     159.0     300.5     225.4     266.4
But (kait to Gov't (net)                  25.2      62.3       74.3      64.8      45.6
Blak Crelit to the Private Sector         38.4      49.6       49.9      62.9      76.6
Ibtjy ad Qjai-bn1ey as Z of CDP            38.5     44.7       51.8      49.6
Catmmr Price  alex (1980/81-lOD)         109.5     130.4     143.2     163.7     191.5
hxual Puertag  dme in
Conmmr Price Inldi                       9.5      19.1       9.8      14.3       17.0
Bft Credit to    rment                    ..     147.0      19.3    -12.8    -29.6
Bank Omdit to Private Sector             ..       29.2       0.6      26.1      21.8
a/Cmwitg expesau at fato cot. Sector.l deflators not available.
April 1986



- 29 -
ARMC I
1Pe 2 of 2
TIM    PA==I AM~ CAPITA FUN
BlALANM OF PAS,
198D   1981   1982    1983   tE)IIIE15 1982
Ofl.Uim 15$)                                US$ MLmu 1    z
Ebspor  of goods & servise   360.2  383.4  431.0   486.5  1Xaxx                      15.3    39.1
of biAh: Merdw:id   f.o.b  59.9   51.2   37.5    23.2  Wbol                          4.7    12.0
Tqports of SDods & ervid    484.3  522.4  513.3   566.6 LIir                         4.7    12.0
of wkldh:   rdmIee f.o.b. 426.6  4580   451.4   500.7  Odm0                         14.4    36.8
Met framfers                 81.7   65.4   41.3    59.0  Total                       39.1   100.0
Ozrzt ac== belance          -42.4  -73.6  -41.0   -21.1
EMM         EU, IDB  31, 1964
Private direct Invtmet        4.5    4.8    3.9       4.5
Offical pat aid              30.8   24.1    9.2       9.0                             US1$ aLfim
M & LT ILoo  (net)            31.1   31.4   25.2    23.4
Official                   31.1   31.4   25.2    23.4
privae                      -       -      -        -    PubUe Dabt 1 mi. g       _mrtns    134.3
SDrt-ToE loomis (net)        30.0   21.4  -11.0       3.8  NIb-uaragmal Private *-bt
Errors ami QOiussom          -9.9   -4.4   22.2       7.0  Total Qatsndkg & 11bised    MY
Cise  In  Perv              -44.1   -3.7   -85   -26.5
i- - fncease)                                            Debt Service Ratios for 193 1/
Tnternatioal reservs         49.4   46.2   47.1    73.1                                        %
of wbic GadM                -       -      -        -
lesnes as mmtbs ipirts        1.2    1.1    1.1       1.6
198D   1981   1982    1983
MeRaxIUM Itin                                               1.blUc Debt incl. 8irated          1.1
Oerrant A/C Balaice % of GNP  -7.8  -11.4   -5.2    -2.3  NIx             Private Debt
Total Out taifrg & 1dabursed       1.1
Rates of ExdW                                               ID/DMA  tsding as of Sept. 30, 1986 (US$ HLIm)
M   im
USAhloti    WOkiW=5$                               Qztstaxinig and Disbasi              -      63.4
1980    1.2854       0.7788                               UIisbulzri                           -      30.1
1981    i.1491       0.8775                                Oitstaming mTl. UriKshirsed                 93.5
1982    0.9245        1.0858                                                                           -
1983    0.8991       1.1141
1964    0.6954        1.4753
1985    0.4564       2.2287
.. not auvailable
1/ Total debt service as percent of exports of gpOds at services                                EAISA
April 1986



- 30 -
ANNEX Ir
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LESOTHO
A. STATENENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as at September 30, 1986)
Amount (less cancella-
tions, terminations)
US$ Million
Credit       Year      Borrower      Purpose                  Credit      Undisbursed
Nine credits are fully disbursed                              45.62
985-LSO      1980      Lesotho       Second LNDC               4.00           2.00
1036-LSO     1980      Lesotho       Urban Development        6.00            1.64
1148-LSO     1981      Lesotho       Third Education         10.00            1.61
1481-LSO     1985      Lesotho       Fourth Highway          15.20            9.67
1512-LSO    1985       Lesotho       Fourth Education        10.00           11.07
1585-LSO     1985      Lesotho       Health and Population    3.50            4.10
Total                                          94.32           30.09
of which has been repaid             0.95
Total now held by IDA               93.37
of which undisbursed                30.09
Notes:      The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at September 30, 1986
Investment                                                       (US$ Million)
No.             Year       Type of Business           Loan        Equity       Total
405-LSO            1978       Lesotho Quality
Aggregate (PTY) Ltd.      299,000      31,000    330,000
Total Gross Commitments  299,000       31,000    330,000
Less: Cancellations,
terminations,
repayments and
sales             299,000       31,000    330,000
Total now held by IFC       -0-          -0-        -0-



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
LESOTHO HIGHLANDS WATER ENGINEERING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.        Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Start of feasibility studies          August 1983
(b) Date of first formal Borrowers's
request for IDA assistance            July 1983
(c)  Pre-appraial mission                  September 1985
(d)  Appraisal mission                  : October 1985
(e)  Post-appraisal mission             : March and October 1986
(f)  Negotiations                          May 1986
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness      : March 1987
II.       Special IDA Implementation Action:
Establishment of a Special Account (para. 100).
III.      Special Conditions:
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness
Ci) Confirmation of EDF and EIB financing (para. 79)
(b)  Other Conditions
(i)   LEC to carry out investment planning and tariff study
(para. 30);
(ii)  LEC's future investments to be in accordance with
investment program in agreement with findings of
investment planning and tariff study (para. 30).



-33 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
LESOTHO HIGHLANDS WATER ENGINEERING PROJECT
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The proposed engineering project consists of the following
components:
(i) Design Services
(a)  Optimization of the hydropower component by first assessing and
comparing a peak power configuration with a base energy plant,
selecting the optimum layout;
(b)  Geotechnical investigations, including all exploratory
Investigations in the field, materials testing (field and
laboratory tests) and reports;
(c)  Detailed engineering designs, including preparation of bid
drawings and tender documents, special design studies and model
testing as required, surveying and mapping, and assistance in
tender evaluation and contract award;
of the following components of the Phase IA construction project 1/:
(a)  The Hydropower Component
(b)  Katse Dam (central core rockfill embankment dam or concrete
arch dam, with a maximum height of 155 m, crest length of 530 m
and active reservoir storage capacity of 1,245 million m3),
including all ancillary structures and diversion works;
tc)  Transfer Tunnel (Katse to hydropower complex, about 48 km long,
diameter about 4 m), including the terminal structures;
(d)  Delivery Tunnel (Tail pond of hydropower complex to Ash River
Outlet, about 34 km long, diameter about 4 m), including the
terminal structures and .yphon type crossings at the Ngoajane,
Caledon and Little Caledon rivers;
l/Design of infrastructure improvements in RSA and improvement of the
Ash River outlet (also in RSA) would be the responsibility of South African
agencies.



-34 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
(e) Lesotho Infrastructure, comprising the upgrading of 60 km
existing roads and construction of 142 km new access roads and
two camps with air-strips and the provision of necessary service
facilities (power and water supply, waste disposal).
(ii) Technica] Assistance, Training
(a) For the developoment and operation of the Lesotho Highlands
Development Authority (LHDA);
-    Providing technical assistance to LHDA  in the field of
engineering;
-    Providing financial advisory services for securing financing
for the Phase IA construction project;
Directly hire expatriate staff in the field of
finance/accounting, computing, resettlement/rural
development, environment, roads/infrastructure;
-    Special expert assignements (Panel of Experts for
dam/tunnel/hydraulic designs and operation, experts for
establishing LHDA's cost control and accounting systems,
insurance);
(b) Training, including:
-    in-service training programs, and
-    scholarships for tralning/studying at overseas training
centers, vocational schools and universities.
(c)  -    technical assistance to the Government of Lesotho (GOL)
representation on the Joint Permanent Technical Commission
(JPTC).
(iii) Procurement of Goods and Services, including:
-    office equipment and furnishing (telex, copiers, computers, word
processors, and other office equipment);
-    vehicles (10 cars, 4 mini-buses and 6 four-wheel drive
vebicles);
-    services provided to LHDA by various government authorities
(Roads Branch, Lesotho Electricity Corporation, Lands and Survey,
etc.).



-35 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
(iv) Consultency Services for special studies, including:
(a)  Environmental studies (health, archeology, ecology and wild-life
conservation);
(b) Resertlement studies and related regional development studies,
including census;
(c)  Investment Planning and Tariff Study of the Lesotho Electricity
Corpooration.
(d) Power Genera:ing Planning Study.
(v) Operating expenses during the Pngineering project phase:
(a) for LHDA, including:
-    payroll;
-    rental of office space; and
-    miscellaneous operating expenses.
(b)  fnr the Joint Permanent Technical Committee (JPTC), GOL's share
of operating expenses, includine payroll.



-36 -                                           ANNEX V
KINGDOM OF LTE:SOTHO
Lesotho Highlands Water Engineering Project
Summary Table of Components and Funding Agencies
:         I                                                                           I
ITDtal in                       --------------- --------               nt  in 1 SS
IUS Dailu=--  =   ouAmmntc in  US S million  equivalent    ==:==='l: illion equivalent'
WNPUNENT            million :      -------------------   Foreign   Local  I
1IDA : OL    EDF  OEID UNrP ICI ODA  USAID: RSA
Hydrpowr                    a-------
Aeotechn.                             I     I a                a
Investigat.                    3.04 1           1       13.04 1     1     1                       2.43     0.61 1
-Design                    1   7.00L        1    17.00                     I                       5.60      1.40
:-----4         :    .       .     :     .     :     I     I       : -a--           -
Subtotal     10.04       :    1                                I                 9.03     2.011
ater Transfer                                            I :
t   chn.~~~~                                            ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IU U i I  I
Investigat.                    6.81                 I              1                    6.B1      5.45     1.36
-Design                         2.70 2.70                1                                         2.16      0.54
-Design                    1   3.30         I            1     O       t      :        13.30       2.64     0.66
1-----:  '    :    .     I     I     :    :      :      1-------   --I a    I  U 
Subtotal     12.811                                                             10.25     2.56
Deliverz Tunnel                                                      ,     *    I
tKwItechn.II
Investiqat.               1   3.22           1                      I                 13.22       2.59     0.64
-Design                         3.29:                                            : 1     3.29:    2.63      0.661
Subtotal      6.511            I      1      I     I                             5.21     1.301
Access Roads                                     :                   :                 :
-Design                    1 1.36I                                                       1.36      1.09     0.27
!         *     *     S      I     I     *     I     U     I       *                  S
Infrastructure             :         :      a    t       a    :      :     :    :      I      I
laprovuuents in RSA
-Design                         0.80        1                        1        I     1   0.90       0.80     0.00
:-     --:      a----.    -:---I                1-:--            -:  -             --
Deign Services  Subtotal       31.52 12.70 10.00  7.00 :3.04 10.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 11.78       25.38     6.14
LHDA                                              I               I        I       I       I
Technical Assistance         
-Engineering                    4.8514.85        1                                                 3.8      0.97:
-Finance Mater Transi.     1   1.9  11.0         I                   a1.44    0.36
-Finance Hydropowser            0.40 1      1    1 0.40              I                             0.32     0.09
-kcounting                      0.951            1       I     1            0.951      1           0.76    0.19
-kcounting Interim Assist..   0.05         10.05 1       1     1                              1   0.04      0.01
Review Panel                   C0.30 10.30               1                 1    1             1   0.24      0.06
lndiv. Experts                  2.05       :                   :0.94 10.58 10.27 10.26 1           1.64     0.41 1
Training                        O.49 10.10 1    1                          10.24 10.15             0.49     0.00 1
Vehicles                   1   0.271             1 0.271       1     1     1                   :   0.22     0.05
Office Equipment                0.19        1    I : 0.1,:     :     Ia                            0.15     0.04
Operating Expenses              3.82        11.91                    1                   2.01      0.76     3.06 1
Services by SOL hAthorit.       0.93        10.93 1                        I     I                 0.19     0.74
Subtotal     16.10 17.05 12.79 1O.U 0  0.00 10.94 10.5B 11.46 1041   2.01      10.13     5.97 
SPECIAL STUDIES            a                      I            a              I I
LEC Investmt/Tariff Study       0.48        :      0.48                          1                 0.38     0.10 1
Resttl. Environst. Studies:    1.00 1          1   1.00        1     1     1 I         1 I         0.80     0.201
Asessut. of Constr.        I         :      :    .       I     :     .
Impact                    :   0.09:        :    :0.09:        :     :     1    :      :       *   0.07     0.02:
Subtotal 1    1.57 :0.00 10.00 11.57 1i0.00 10.00  0.00 10.00  0.00 1 0.00 1   1.26       0.31 1
JPTC                       I         :      I     I      I     I     :     I     :     :       I                  :
Operating Expenses         1   2.12:        10.421 0.73 1      1     :     :        1   0.97 1   1.59       0.53
Overall Total     51.31 19.75 :3.21 110.16 13.04 10.94 :0.59 11.46 10.41 '21.76 1  38.35    12.96 1
Totals may not add due to roumding
13-Nov-86



- 37 -
ANNEX VI
K INGDOM OF LE:SOTHO
Lesotho Highlands Water Engineering Project
Forecast Disbursements of Credit
(in million US*)
Sesester                                      baount                           Percentaqe
Fiscal Year                        per Seester  Cusulative            per Semster  Cuwlative
1(1987                                    0.10      0.10                       1.0      1.0
1111987                                   0.49      0.59                       5.0      6.0
111989                                     1.71     2.30                      17.5     23.5
I1/1998                                    1.71     4.01                      17.5     41.0
I11989                                     1.71     5.72                      17.5     5B.5
11989                                    1.71     7.43                      17.5     76.0
111990                                    1.54      8.97                      16.0     92.0
11/1990                                   0.49      9.46                      5.0      97.0
1/1991                                    0.29      9.75                       3.0    100.0
9.75      .75                     100.0    100.0
November 1986



KINGDOM OF LESOTIHO
LESOTHO HIGHLANDS WATER ENG1NEERING PROJECT
Impenwntaton Schedule
AX Al SEP OCT MN CIC MAIMF IMA ANI MAYIW AXd IA WGSI OCI NIdNC Md FIMR IMAY M I? AXd IA IdjVN OCt M0  C MNd   W NM MY MAPi AN, AU AMP C .- MC Jil i
WAT[RTRV0(EPCCXA<ON   __L
w~~~~~~~ -a --cE                                        --.  --- --- T--
EN9MENlh ~ ~       ~ SIDE                         -  ---11_l    ---  -- 1- ---   _- _a__
Coolcal hVESNtns                                  - - - - -                         -
Oahift'x I               d                        a a  -      Am
a - a a a a .wigw10
INFT?MIMCU4# LESOflO
D61.gn--                                   aaa                     
MWWBPAMI FEPRTS
'Iv
thufd
9(StTtFhENNT SROFS                            a.                         a   a a. a     .         . a   .                                               
ICO*AO.C AMSSIMNIaaaaaaa
TQVANG-aaaaaa- .aaaaaaaaaa                                                                               a aa aaaaaaaaa-a
tic stUO                                                 a-i4a                  
IWPWffswot ngsee    Ptmigc



KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
LESOTHO HIGHLANDS WATER ENGINEERING PROJECT
OrganIzatIon Sthucure
(Engineeng Phse)
|m E  dC DClrm
Prriel 'dX                                                                     _
TIft                      %t                                          FI a             PucwI t R-  I Itfliw I 
ChW Dwign                               kotnickm          -R630tbri.*/           Officer      
EnVo                Ergliver           Enghder            Envt 
Land Lall                     _     Oo
_ unEnI/Geolech   _ ,           _u                       _   ltud Dev 
WoMcn-30237



- 40 -                                CHART 3
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
LESOTr4o FGHLANDS WAER PROJECT
Schmai kr
,~~~~~~sA TfI               TLELII
wo~~~~~~~ =aG              lMff pi  _x-   I   S PH
IOSOUDIHAM_              L      2      _I6
e ~     ~~~~~ ! 05        g I   40A
-     Cl    ~~~ ~ ~~~279  01   43
4VRO POWER COMPLX
Wdo    _   t  _  b ~~~~TAILPONRESEWOS            W tt iPha A
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, - IAt
:x*Ph= I
WAIN -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MISG 
SOMA^ 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R~tE
L  53.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                     6
L  Uo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PiL                         2i
43A                                      _
\    b                          "~~~~~~~~~~MAKw
Pi      U
PHASE IA-
AS    1250 .
n  ~         ,,,       n 5A
pi\\ is                                         MASHJ-  0L
FSL~   /08                                          PASE ii
AWS   930N                                                1      IdA
h~-4 [  50   
E18       / T    \                      /           ^940->T5 3I 
uowxt ~  ~                                                                 P  AfASE iff 
I 1   1B 025
AS~  ~ ACmtWm       0      tO       1   610/
ZROEI                                                      _PI 1
v tX,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SL    I 5
AS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A Alowhi\   ?
E)    Hto$UT( D49 Now\



ANGOLA  ' ZAMBIA   *.                    l/
i       ZIMI ABWE(   ,t
NAMIBIA   i                .     j    \      ;
r  BOTSWANA  P-- Y
jlW   ixJv      ~IsS14ZLbANCI j--
(,%,LESOTHO 
.-,,:tWs,(    I .                   , '* 
4wfAtrJ  .-SOUTH  AFRICA  -        /AINIAN  0C44
2r7                                ro Clocolan    >
279-
8~~~~~
Mazeno
Moriia
PHASE 1A
ACTIVE    TOTAL    DI
DAM       FSL   MOtP  YIELD   STORAGF  STOgAGE  HEr_
"mml  muFl'    .I/,     bpt?       1r        m
Kom       2040   1980    15.9     1245      1l1O      155
TUNNELS        LENGTH  DIAMETER
TYoJ.a"    *u_.  48.2      * 05
DwIi.wy T,nn.I   34.3      4.03
PHASE 1 8
ACTIVE    TOTAL
DAbl     FSL    MOL    YIELD   STORAGE  STORAGE
m"N     mda    m'/s       hu2       6n         m
MDSld.  2083.5  2010      9.8      1015      n23        -
TUNNEL          LENGTH      C1I.METEf
M0o11i.4"        31.5           3.4
Trends Turlmi
'Fog Supply, L.1s
Milll Opwmgil tewl
!  ,m  I                 -  - s, ,Ie



IBRD  18957
'             ~~~ ~~2'8-  tO B thihsh                  R,w amtT4    ntr fall            2b
F_ I   vJPeTunlIA_S -P
, ~~~~~Fourlbui 
SOUTH  AFRICA
J ,$a-~~~~~~~~~~~Buifie                      ,       dl P.
...'                                                             (   \    or\)\
e  rPelia  1/ -\_   t V                  1 ~~~~~~~Tronsfor 7urnse   |q
^  - \  . R"Ph_ IA cd It                0 L-erserp -                                 9
lo-Terce
jy    Mopotengu                                         Stot. n
feyoteyoneng~~~Plat II \eoghn                                                         5 ;
I                     -fiIlcMYI '(
oneng        emnkn
KAt^TSE RierPir      9
kt      P ,IotIong?
-                     b~~~~~~~~itrcwaion                             '7                  ; 
AMOHAIE Ro     \     Tunrl. Ph-a                      I       N       E                1
ARorno             A,         ^                  phm                        )            /\
Thabo _Tse                            ROSe
r-  .- -  S , -  '   P-mpg              RALWAtYtionS
1h.-                        9.                          -            cta                     S                          c
PhNTRNTINAe   UNARE
L    ~ LJ             S      e     5 noa .-e,  ISehlab-thebe
D"t           E             rZ            ~~~~~~~~~~~~TSOEUKE Rvwrvor          ,-*1       J
155                                 '                   it.  WUU
KILOMET_RSf--0L E      S         0 T H   0
6     /             /                  ~~HIGHLANDS WATER PROJECT
t~~~~~  >  _,/ ~~~~~~~~PROPOSED FACIUTIES
MILE    ADS'            203
t .    Moorosi  \     t!              ~~~~~~~DAMSIRESERVOIRS    NEW ROADS   BE UPGRADED   TUNNELS
_ J < h l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - ~~~~PHASE I
M ly- -- - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PHASE 11
-II   -                                    j                D  - -                                                 PHASE 111
Q  ,_.   -~-~   TRANSMISSION LINE ROUTES    132 kV SUEMSTATIONS
*                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS
t             r                 _     _ t                    |  I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILWAYS
^ _,,,,,,0,,,,,,,_* ~~RIVERS
>      <                  __ >,,                           @    bt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATIONAL CAPITAL
cfi                                          I- NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
_S~~~~~~ILMTR _p |
||  .                             _ _                       ~~~~~~ ~ ~~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~MILES 0  10  20  30
:                  ~~~~~~~2r                                                               ?
MAY 1986



i



