OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS1
CREDIT NUMBER 1747 LSO
Development Credit Agreement
(Lesotho Highlands Water Engineering Project)
between
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated          6, 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1747 LSO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                     , 1986,
between KINGDOM OF LESOTHO (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the European
Investment Bank (EIR) a loan (the EIB Loan) in an amount
equivalent to   three  million  five  hundred  thousand   dollars
($3,500,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and EIB;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the European
Development Fund (EDF) a loan (the EDF Loan) in an amount
equivalent  to   nine  million  five  hundred   thousand  dollars
($9,500,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EDF Loan Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and EDF;
(D) the Bcrrower intends to contract, in addition to the
EIB and EDF Loans, from other cofinanciers, loans and grants
in  foreign exchange   amounting,   in  the  aggregate,  to   the
equivalent of twenty-five million one hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($25,150,000) to finance the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the Eoregoing, to extend a development credit to the
Borrower on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Treaty" means the Treaty between the Borrower and the
Republic of South Africa on the Lesotho Highlands Water Project,
dated October 24, 1986;
(b) "LHDA" means the Lesothio Highlands Development Autho-
rity, established by the Borrower on October 24, 1986, pursuant
to Order No. 23 of 1986, of the Borrower;
(c) "JPTC" means the Joint Permanent Technical Commission,
established pursuant to Article 9 of the Treaty;
(d) "LEC" means the Lesotho Electricity Corporation, a
parastatal corporation, established by the Borrower pursuant to
the Borrower's Electricity Act No. 7 of 1969;
(e) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(f) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated May 16, 1986, and
June 3, 1986, between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eight million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 8,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit -nay be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 3 -
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in U.S. dollars a special account, in the name
and for the benefit of LHDA, in the Central Bank of Lesotho on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account, or shall be cancelled.
(b) The come..itment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.


﻿Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1997, and ending November 15,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 2006, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out Parts C and D.2 of
the Project through its Ministry of Water, Energy and Mining, and
cause LHDA to carry out Parts A and B of the Project, and LEC to
carry out Part D.1 of the Project, all with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall transfer the proceeds of the Credit
to LHDA as an equity contribution, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association.
Section  3.02.   (a)  For  the  purposes   of  carrying  out
Parts A.1 (b) and (c), B.1 (a) and B.1 (d) of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause LHDA to employ consultants and experts whose
selection, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment  shall  be  satisfactory   to  the  Association.  Such
consultants and experts shall be selected in accordance with the
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency", published
by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall cause LHDA to make available to such
consultants all information relevant to the Project.


﻿- 5 -
(c) The Borrower shall cause LHDA to furnish promptly to
the Association copies of the documents prepared by the consul-
tants for the Project, including reports and drafts thereof,
plans, designs, specifications, work schedules and estimates
of costs, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(d) The Borrower shall cause LHDA, during the Project, to
exchange views from time to time with the Association on the
recommendations and other conclusions contained in the documents
referred to in the preceding paragraph.
(e) For the purpose of carrying out the other Parts of the
Project, the Borrower shall itself, or shall cause LHDA and LEC,
respectively, to: (i) employ qualified and experienced corsul-
tants on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association copies of all
reports prepared by the consultants for the Project and afford
the Association an opportunity to comment on such reports; and
(iii) upon completion of the work of such consultants, furnish to
the Association such final reports for its review and comment.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause LHDA to carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07
and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of
Parts A and B of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause LEC (i) to commence, not later than six months
after the date of effectiveness of the EDF Loan Agreement, the
preparation of the study under Part D.1 of the Project under
terms of reference acceptable to the Association; (ii) to
complete the study within 18 months thereafter; and (iii) to
submit the findings of the study to the Association for its
review and comments;
(b) (i)   commence, not later than three months after the
completion of the abovementioned study, the preparation of the
study under Part D.2 of the Project under terms of reference
acceptable to the Association; (ii) complete the study within
six months thereafter; and (iii) submit the findings of the study
to the Association for its review and comments; and


﻿- 6 -
(c) implement the recommendations of said studies, taking
into account the Association's comments, in accordance with a
timetable acceptable to the Borrower and Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause LHDA to maintain
records and accounts, adequate to reflect, in accordance with
sound  accounting   practices,  the   operations  and   financial
condition of LHDA.
(b) The Borrower shall cause LHDA to:
(i) have   its   accounts   and  financial   statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and the Special Account
for each fiscal year, audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts, financial statements of
LHDA and the audit thereof and said records as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account are made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause LHDA to:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;


﻿- 7 -
(ii) retain, until one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last disbursement from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause LHDA to:
(a) carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management, assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(b) at all times, operate and maintain its plants, ma-
chinery, equipmentand other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
technical practices.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall undertake investments in
the power sector in accordance with an investment program based
on the recommendations of the studies referred to in Part D of
the Project.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant tu Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) The   Treaty   shall  have   been   amended,  suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to make it improbable that
the Project can be carried out or to affect materially and
adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under the Agreement.
(b) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or isestablish-
ment of LHDA or for the suspension of its operations.
(c) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor; or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.


﻿- 9 -
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in subparagraph (c) (i) (B) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso of subparagraph (c) (ii) of that Section
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the EDF Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and EDF, and all conditions precedent to the effee-
tiveness of the EDF Loan Agreement (other than the effectiveness
of this Agreement) have been duly fulfilled; and
(b) the EIB Loan Agreement has been duly executed on behalf
of the Borrower and EIB.
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 395
Maseru 100
Lesotho


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINMIN                             4367
Maseru
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
8y I/ kV Aje AJ
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCEA"TON
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          E.penditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Consultants'              7,130,000         100%
services under
Parts A.1 (b) and
(c) and B.1 (a)
of the Project
(2) Overseas                     80,000         100%
training
(3) Refunding of                 90,000         Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(4) Unallocated                 700,000
TOTAL       8,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
the design and preparation of the initial phase of the Lesotho
Highlands Water Scheme and to support the institutional arrange-
ments related thereto.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A.   Project Preparation:
1.   Optimization studies, geotechnical investigations, detailed
engineering, preparation of tender documents and evaluation of
bids for the construction of:
(a) a hydropower complex;
(b) the Katse Dam, including all ancillary structures and
diversion works; and
(c) the   transfer tunnel from Katse     to  the hydropower
complex, including the terminal structures.
2.   Detailed   engineering   for  infrastructure   improvements,
including upgrading of existing roads and bridges, and construc-
tion of new access roads and bridges.
3.   Studies on the environmental aspects (health, archeology,
ecology and wildlife conservation) of the Lesotho Highlands Water
Scheme.
4.   Resettlement  and   related  regional  development  studies,
including relevant censuses.
Part B.   Lesotho Highlands Develoment Authority:
1.   Strengthening of LHDA through:
(a) the provision of consultants' services in the fields
of   engineering,   finance,   accounting,   insurance,
resettlement, environment and administration;


﻿- 13 -
(b) the acquisition of office furniture, equipment and
vehicles;
(c) the provision of support services by various government
authorities;
(d) the development and operation of an in-service training
program, including provision of overseas scholarships;
and
(e) the provision of funds for its operating expenses.
2.   Establishment of a panel of experts to advise on dam,
tunnel and hydraulic design and safety aspects.
Part C.   Technical Assistance
Support of the Borrower's representation in JPTC.
Part D.   Studies:
1.   An investment planning and tariff study for the Lesotho
Electricity Corporation.
2.   A power generation planning study.
The Project is expected to be completed by February 28,
1989.
In  addition  and  parallel   to  the  Project  preparation
activities under Part A of the Project, geotechnical investiga-
tions, detailed engineering, preparation of tender documents and
evaluation of bids for the construction of the delivery tunnel
from the tail pond of the hydropower complex to the Ash River
outlet, including the terminal structures and syphon-type
crossings under various rivers, will be carried out and financed
by agencies of the Republic of South Africa pursuant to the
Treaty.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Catego-ies" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required [or
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories, in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to $900,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received satisfactory evidence
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as
the Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests,
the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be
required to replenish the Special Account, not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the


﻿- 15 -
Association  from   the  Credit Account, under    the  respective
eligible Categories and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request
for such deposit, furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reason-
ably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)  the  total  unwithdrawn   amount  of  the   Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the
amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section  5.02  of  the  General   Conditions  with
respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall he made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.


﻿- 16 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
any expenditure; or in any amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justi-
fied. No further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or
refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


