Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 19731-RO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$11.0 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
December 15, 1999
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 24, 1999)
Currency Unit = Lei
15,475 =US$ 1
US$ = 0.000 1
FISCAL YEAR
January I -  December 311
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAFS                    Academy of Agricultural and Forest Sciences
AKIS                    Agricultural Knowledge and Information System
ANCA                    National Agricultural Advisory Agency
AREB                    Applied Research and Extension Board
ASAL                    Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
CGS                     Competitive Grant Scheme
ERR                     Economic Rate of Return
EU                      European Union
EU-PHARE                European Union Development Agency
FMS                     Financial Management System
FRR                     Financial Rate of Return
GDP                     Gross Domestic Product
LACI                    Loan Administration Change Initiative
MAF                     Ministry of Agriculture and Food
M&E                     Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF                     Ministry of Finance
MRT                     Ministry of Research and Technology
NARI                    National Agricultural Research Institutes
NARS                    National Agricultural Research System
NGO                     Non-Governmental Organization
NPV                     Net Present Value
OECD                    Organization for Economic Cooperation and. Development
PIP                     Project Implementation Plan
PMU                     Project Management Unit
PSC                     Project Steering Committee
TA                      Technical Assistance
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Andrew N4. Vorkink
Sector Manager/Director:   Joseph R. Goldberg
Task Team Leader:    Kundhavi Kadiresan



ROMANIA
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                   Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     9
3. Benefits and target population                                                    9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    10
D. Project Rationale
l. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                         13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      14
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                         14
2. Financial                                                                        14
3. Technical                                                                        16
4. Institutional                                                                    16
5. Social                                                                           16
6. Environmental assessment                                                         16
7. Participatory approach                                                           17
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   18
2. Critical risks                                                                   18
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   20



G. Main conditions
I. Effectiveness conditions                                                           20
2. Other                                                                              20
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         20
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        21
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         22
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   27
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        28
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          30
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   31
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      32
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    42
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                      43
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 44
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           46
MAP(S)
Not Applicable



ROMANIA
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: December 15, 1999                           Team Leader: Kundhavi Kadiresan
Country Manager/Director: Andrew N. Vorkink       Sector Manager/Director: Joseph R. Goldberg
Project ID: P043882                               Sector(s): AE - Agricultural Extension, AR - Research
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): RURAL DEVELOPMENT; PUBLIC
SECTOR; PRIVATE SECTOR
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
I Loan         C: Credit       D Grant         El Guarantee    El Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 11.0
Proposed Terms: El To be defined  Cl Multicurrency 1 Single currency
Cl Standard Variable Cl Fixed       Z LIBOR-based
Grace period (years): 5                               Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee:                                       Service charge: %
Financing Ptap:    SourKe                                   L4al          F n             Tti,
Govemment                                                      3.86            0.00          3.86
IBRD                                                           2.47            8.53         11.00
IDA
OTHER                                                          2.96            0.00          2.96
Total:                                                         9.28            8.53         17.82
Borrower: ROMANIA
Responsible agency:
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FOOD
Other Agency(ies):
Estimated disbursements t Bank FYIUS$M):
FY nul   200 .- 202             :2003         20 4
Annual     1.0           3.5         4.5         2.0
Cumulative     1.0          4.5          9.0        11.0
Project implementation period: 2000-2004
Expected effectiveness date: 05/01/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
00 CPF- .. 091998



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project has two objectives: (a) increase agricultural productivity, sustainability and income by
providing immediately needed technology, information and training for private farmers and
agro-processors; and (b) improve efficiency, cost effectiveness and client relevance in the management of
research and extension. Towards this, the project will:
(a)    Support a number of priority extension and applied research activities that will quickly
transfer existing proven technology to private farmers and agro-processors;
(b)    Develop an applied research and extension program through a Competitive Grant Scheme
(CGS) that is responsive to the needs of a market economy and test a combination of
approaches for upgrading agricultural extension;
(c)    Build capacity within public and private sector institutions and amongst farmers to
formulate, implement and monitor the research and extension services programs; and
(d)    Develop an action plan for reforming the agricultural research, extension and education
system to be supported by investments in a possible larger project in the next phase.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: R97-99/1                        Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/03/97
The project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assiistance Strategy which identifies agriculture
as one of the priority sectors on grounds of good prospects for a supply response and of progress in private
sector developmnent. Key elements of the agricultural strategy include policy changes to liberalize prices,
trade and markets which are being addressed through an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan. These
policy changes will be followed up with improvement in the sector's infrastructure which would include
upgrading of marketing and port capacity, establishment of ingproved collateral mechanism, development of
an effective and sustainable agricultural research and extension network and development of a rural finance
system. The proposed project would promote essential public and private services to support the
development of research and extension services for private farmners. Improvement of services to farmers
has been identified as having high priority in the Bank's sector studies.
- 2-



2. AMain sector issues and Government strategy:
Agriculture is a major contributor to Romania's economy, accounting for 20% of GDP and about
35% of the total employment in the country. Romania has about 14.8 million ha of good agricultural land.
Despite a rich natural resource base, Romania's agricultural production has been well below its potential.
Average yields of major crops like wheat, barley, and sugarbeets have suffered. Since 1990, productivity
of livestock in Romania has lagged behind that in Western Europe. The gap largely reflects differences due
to non-availability of inputs, differences in technology and economic incentives. This will require not only
the right policy framework, which is being addressed through the Bank's Agricultural Structural
Adjustment Loan, but also improved support services to farmers. There is an urgent need for the
generation, acquisition and dissemination of appropriate agricultural technology which will improve
agriculture output and its quality.
Until 1990, agricultural land in Romania was farmed largely by state or collective farms.
Following the abrupt change to a market economy, about 8.5 million ha are now farned by about 3.6
million private farmers, about half of whom are members of some 16,000 family associations and 4,000
agricultural societies. These farmers have little experience in operating their own farms or in making their
own agricultural decisions and therefore need technical and economic knowledge and information. The
transition from a centrally planned to a market economy has created new conditions and challenges for the
agricultural sector, including agricultural research and extension services which now require fundamental
adjustment from the pre-reform system. The existing research and extension system is inadequate to meet
the new challenges of the emerging economy.
During the 1960s, Romania made substantial investments in institutions for agricultural research.
In 1997 there were 22 Central Research Institutes, 98 regional stations and 5 agricultural universities with
varying responsibility for agricultural research. Since the mid-1970s there has been little new investment in
agricultural research. The agricultural research system suffers from: an emphasis on basic science over
applied research; emphasis on farm output over efficient farm production; narrowly focused scientists; lack
of client orientation; professional isolation; public sector dominance; financial sustainability; and little
accountability to beneficiaries.
In the past, technology was transferred direct from research institutes to managers and technicians
employed by the state and collective farms. There were no extension or advisory services for private
farmers. Today, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF) has assigned to 41 judets several thousand
agriculturists with specialized technical skills, but limited diagnostic, farm management and extension skills
relevant to assessing and serving the needs of private farmers. These staff have limited economic training to
assess what support would yield the highest benefits, and lack experience working in a client-responsive
environment. The emerging private sector increasingly recognizes the importance of providing credible
advice as part of good business practice but has limited experience in delivery. The farming population is
not adequately prepared to mobilize itself to formulate priority needs and to commit to individual and
collective action for improved resource management.
Government strategy for the agriculture sector is aimed at transforming existing farming
households into profitable farm enterprises. Development of agricultural support services, and involving
the private sector in providing research and extension services to meet the needs of the private farmers, are
central to the strategy.
With the emergence of a private farming sector, agricultural research must be reoriented towards
the technology needs of private producers. Although Romania has pioneered excellent work in basic
agricultural science, there has been limited focus on adaptive research relevant to emerging private farmers.
-3 -



There is therefore an urgent need to adapt existing proven technology to support private farmers.
Furthermore, advice and information to farmers is unstructured and rarely tailored to private farmer needs.
The role of agricultural extension therefore needs to be rationalized and developed within a framework
where the roles of the public and private sectors in technology dissemination are clearly defined.
Given the current severe budgetary limitations for both research and extension, the two aspects of
agricultural knowledge, research and extension, need to be developed in parallel so that they are closely
linked and financially sustainable. The sector is likely to face fundamental institutional change in the long
term, resulting in a reduction in the number of research institutes and a considerably smaller public
extension service. Funding levels for public extension may remain static, but implementation will
increasingly be carried out by farmer organizations in partnership with private sector operators, with an
increasing focus on client responsiveness.
Romania's accession to EU has implications for the organization and management of agricultural
research and extension. In the OECD countries, a large and increasing share of agricultural research and
extension is managed through private input companies and farmer organizations. Farmers and processing
industries in Romania are building capacity to enter and compete in EU markets and must gain access to
knowledge, skills and technologies. Only then will Romanian agriculture be competitive and efficient. The
project's focus -on private farms, including small farms, is critical because this group urgently requires
appropriate technologies and information to adopt agricultural practices that are profitable and do not
adversely affect the environment. The project would also build institutional and human capacity to
undertake relevant research and extension activities to empower new farmers to meet the agricultural and
environmental standards required by the EU. The extension and research activities proposed in the project,
which will provide new technology and knowledge to the farming and agro-business community, will
complement the EU's Special Accession Program for Agriculture and Rural Development (SAPARD) that
is aimed towards developing a competitive and self-sustaining rural sector. The SAPARD provides
annually Euros 150 million in grants, a large part of it is for investment in agriculture and improvements in
rural infrastructure.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic clioices:
Romania's agricultural research, extension and educational system faces six major challenges:
(a) to re-orient the system to make it serve private agriculture based on market principles; (b) to adopt
socio-economic, ecological, and business criteria in planning, priority setting, monitoring and evaluating
agriculture knowledge system; (c) to restructure, selectively rehabilitate, decentralize and consolidate the
system to make it efficient, effective and financially sustainable; (cl) to develop and strengthen the linkages
between researchers and users, and among research, extension and training activities; and (e) to facilitate
increased investment in agricultural knowledge and information system (AKIS), both public and private.
Reforming Romania's agricultural research, extension and education system will require
fundamental changes in decision making, priority setting, incentive: systems, cost effectiveness, potential
revenue generation through cost recovery and accountability to stakeholders. These changes are long term
and would require 10-15 years to achieve. As a first step, there is a need to selectively support the research
and extension system to serve private agriculture with already available technology and information. This
is expected to bring increased productivity of crop and livestock, increased profitability through better farm
management and collective bargaining for inputs and markets, and increased sustainability through more
ecologically-sound technologies and practices. At the same time, it is important to assist the Government in
a longer term action plan to reform the agricultural knowledge system. Thus, the project has a two pronged
approach: (i) support targeted, priority activities in research and extension that will provide immediate
benefit to farmers and agro-processors which will serve as a catalyst to jump start the reform process; and
- 4 -



(ii) provide assistance in developing an action plan to reform AKIS that could be supported through
investments in the next phase.
The proposed project constitutes a first phase in a long-term program to reform Romanian
agricultural research, education and extension to respond better to newly emerging realities and
opportunities. The project will fund a Competitive Grant Scheme (CGS) that is responsive to the needs of
farmers and agro-processors; test a number of locally formulated projects to design, select, fund and deliver
extension programs; and build capacity to create farner confidence in research and extension systems,
learn from pilot experiences and feed experience gained into the reform process. The CGS should not be
been seen as a replacement for core funding of the research complex. However, it will encourage
reallocation of limited budgetary funds to relevant and effective institutions.
The CGS will encourage:
*   a non-political and transparent process with participation by users of research and extension in setting
the priorities for research and extension and in deciding the resource allocation;
*   increased emphasis on cost effectiveness;
*   shift from basic to applied research;
-   resource commitments based on monitorable outcomes;
*   cooperative research/extension by multidisciplinary teams;
3   selectivity in research/extension programs;
e equitable access to research/extension funds for research institutions, extension agencies, universities,
private industry and NGOs; and
*   linkage with global research/extension community and private sector.
The project will design and deliver extension to private farmers and agro-processors. Such
support will include farm management skills, organization and mobilization of small farmers for input
supply, mechanization and marketing, and low or reduced cost options for small farmers in crop and animal
production and on-farm processing. The project will also help formulate, select, test and monitor ways of
extension new to Romania. The delivery mechanisms tested would include: (i) farmer to farmer extension;
(ii) private-public partnerships; and (iii) mass media. A number of extension proposals have already been
developed by farmer groups, non-government organizations and industry associations. The extension
contracts will explore ways to shift the cost of some advisory services from government to users, input
suppliers and marketing organizations, and will also develop linkages among agriculture sector institutions
that will increase the accountability and relevance of advisory services to farmers.
The Government, with encouragement of EU-PHARE, recently formalized the National
Agricultural Advisory Agency (ANCA, Ordinance dt. November 1998), a governmental agency responsible
for agriculture advisory services. Considering the budgetary constraints and the increasing role of the
private sector in the provision of extension services, Government has recognized the need to keep ANCA
small. ANCA brings together about 1,300 technical staff, mostly at communal level, who were previously
employed in State and collective farms. The organization will be largely decentralized with judet level staff
- 5-



being responsible for the planning and provision of extension services based on a needs assessment done on
a periodic basis with farmers. Government has plans to privatize ANCA in future. In recognition of these
significant steps taken by the Government, the proposed project will support the extension programs of
ANCA. First, ANCA and its judet and communa level offices can compete for funds from the CGS to
finance their extension plan developed for their respective areas. In addition, the project's institutional
building component will support ANCA in carrying out many innovative programs, including a rapid
impact program, rural radio program, and preparation and distribution of farm management handbooks.
A strategic review of the AKIS in Romania has been completed with EU PHARE funding.
The next step is to develop a well focused action plan for the AK1IS. The project will support the
formulation of such a plan based on the broad strategy developed by the strategic review. Support for
developing an action plan and capacity to reform the Romanian A.KIS would be in the form of technical
assistance (TA) and training. Jointly with all stakeholders, the plan will develop the framework for a
financially sustainable structure for agricultural research, extension and education suitable to Romanian
conditions which will lead to an investment plan to support the reforms. The action plan is expected to
attract donor funds. The proposed project and the preparation of the action plan are the initial steps to set
the stage for more substantial restructuring and development of research and extension in Romania.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will have two components: (i) Applied Research and Extension, and (ii) Institution
Building. The first component would support by means of a Comnpetitive Grant Scheme (CGS) applied
agricultural research and extension on priority problems facing private farmers and agro-processors. The
second component would include assistance to administer the CGS, support to ANCA to deliver rapid
impact extension programs, develop a rural radio program, and develop and distribute farm management
handbooks, and formulate an Action Plan for AKIS, technical assistance (TA) and training, and support for
PMU to implement the project.
The CGS will support the Applied Research and Extension component. The purpose of the CGS
would be to ensure a closer association between research scientisllextension specialists and the needs of the
newly emerging private farmer in setting priorities for research/extension and in fornulating and evaluating
research and extension proposals. The CGS will be open to all and will extend the range of research and
extension grant participants to include universities, NGOs, private industry and extension services. The
project will provide funds based on pre-determined criteria on priority needs of farmers and agroprocessors
that have been identified as farm management; marketing; and efficient input use/low cost options for
production and processing. The criteria for evaluation of research proposals would include farm utility,
qualifications and experience of researchers, plans for transfer of technology and environmental impact.
For approved research proposals, grant funds will be provided for laboratory and field equipment,
materials, vehicles, office equipment, computers, travel costs, short term training, field labor, fuel and
supplies.
The CGS for extension will support private and public sector agencies that meet the urgent
extension needs of farmers. It will also test delivery channels suc]1 as farmer to farmer extension,
private-public partnerships, and mass media. For extension contracts, the criteria for selection would
include rapid and quantifiable impact, number of beneficiaries, private sector participation, institutional
capacity, sustainability, replicability and environmental benefits. The project funds will assist in the
- 6-



demonstration exercises, equipment, training materials, etc. incurred by the primary agencies responsible
for providing the extension services.
A Manual that outlines the operational details of CGS has been developed. The proposals for
grants for research and extension services will be solicited and evaluated in accordance with the principles
and procedures in the Manual.
The project will also build national capacity to deliver extension messages and conduct applied
research that will have rapid impact among large number of farmers. There will be support to ANCA to
develop a rural radio program and to develop and distribute farm management handbooks. There will be
training of researchers and extension specialists and limited TA for capacity building, project
implementation and in developing an action plan for future restructuring of the research and extension
services.
-7 -



t:00X   ;' ompoen                   Secltollro;0!    ' ~t     io lac~              a
(1) APPLIED RESEARCH AND                                          0.0                  0.0
EXTENSION PROGRAM: Fund a
Competitive Grant Scheme (CGS)
managed by the Agricultural Services
Board (ASB). Set up working
procedures of the scheme; define
priority areas of research and
extension; establish criteria, solicit
proposals; screen proposals and
allocate funding to those selected;
monitor progress and promote the
technology transfer of the results.
a) Applied Research - CGS         AR - Research       7.43       41.7      4.46      40.5
b) Extension - CGS                AE - Agricultural   7.43       41.7      4.46      40.5
Extension
Assuming combination Research /
Extension grants as well.
0.0                 0.0
(2) INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT                                          0.0                  0.0
Admninister the CGS, implement the                                 0.0                  0.0
rapid impact program, develop a rural
radio program, develop and distribute
farm management handbooks, develop
and deliver an action plan for AKIS,
provide TA and training.
a) Implementation of the CGS      Other Agriculture   0.68        3.8      0.50        4.5
b) ANCA Related Programs - Rapid   Other Agriculture  0.90        5.1      0.47        4.3
Impact leaflets, Farmer's Handbook,
and Mass Communications
c) AKIS Action Program            Other Agriculture   0.19        1.1      0.17        1.5
d) Project Management Unit        Other Agriculture   1.19        6.7      0.94        8.5
(includes project TA and training)                l
Total Project Costs                   17.82      100.0     11.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                    17.82      100.0     11.00     100.0
For further details see Annexes 3 and 5.
-8 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would support Government's commitment to improve the efficiency and cost
effectiveness of agricultural research and extension to meet the needs of the private farming sector. The
CGS will provide real life experience which can feed into the institutional reforms for research, extension
and training in Romania over the coming years. The role of the government in research and extension will
remain important but may change significantly from a staff-intensive supply driven structure to one that
sets policy and program priorities, acts as a contractor/facilitator of research and extension services on
behalf of farmers, and develops a nationwide learning capacity to benefit from pilot projects, applying the
lessons learned by mainstreaming successful experiences. The CGS will help promote a transparent
structure and management of agricultural research and extension and develop greater accountability to
clients. It will assist research institutions in priority setting, decentralize research and extension
management and forge closer relationships between researchers, farmers, and extension workers. The
organizational and mobilizing capacity of farmer and commodity organizations will be strengthened and the
private sector will be contracted to provide selected services.
3. Benefits and target population:
Private farmers and agro-processors will be the main beneficiaries. Extension will provide benefits
of several types. In the first instance, farmers in the project areas will receive business and technical advice
and benefit through improvements in productivity, profitability, and sustainability. The project will also
provide opportunities for both commercialization and privatization of agricultural extension services. The
competitive selection of extension proposals will encourage greater efficiency and improved quality of
services extended to clients, while the collaborative nature would bring beneficial synergistic and multiplier
effects by networking through the whole of the AKIS rather than through organizations working in
isolation.
The applied research results will lead to increased profitability, improved living standards in rural
areas and greater likelihood of farmers being able to improve their farms and businesses. In the crop
sector, outcomes will include improved production efficiency through low input use and better farm
mnanagement. In the livestock sector, outcomes will include better animal nutrition, management and health
and effective use of organic wastes. In both there will be improvements in product quality, with production
aimed more at meeting specific market needs and export standards.
The direct involvement of farmers in the priority setting exercise and in the allocation of resources
of the CGS (through their farmer representatives in the ASB) will also strengthen the way in which real
needs are serviced and contribute to mobilization and organization of farmer groups, resulting in a more
powerful articulation of demand. Farmer to farmer diffusion through the rural communities will be
enhanced.
The fact that both research and extension contracts are being selected and funded in response to
farmers' needs will result in greater ownership and relevance and increases in effectiveness and efficiency
of the whole system of generation, transfer, and utilization of agricultural technology and information.
Economic returns from investment in applied agricultural research (coupled with effective
technology transfer) can be very high, especially when starting from a relatively low technological base.
The involvement of a wider range of people, especially farmers, in adaptive agricultural research will
increase the practical relevance of the national research program. Importantly, the establishment of a CGS
as described, and the development of people at all levels with experience of running such a scheme, will
have long term benefits.
9g



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Executing Agency: MAF
Project Coordination: The MAF will have primary responsibility for the project. A Project
Management Unit (PMU) in MAF will oversee overall project execution. It will have a technical team and
an administrative team. The CGS will be managed by an Agricultural Services Board (ASB) established
under the project. The ASB will be supported by a Secretariat which will be the technical team in the
PMU. ANCA, will be responsible for implementing the major programs under the institutional building
component. A Project Steering Committee (PSC), comprised of representatives from the Ministry of
Finance, MAF, ANCA and the ASB, will provide overall policy and operational guidance for the project.
The PSC chaired by the MAF will provide necessary oversight and coordination and approve annual
programs and budgets, leaving endorsement of individual research and extension proposals for project
funding to the ASB based on established criteria.
The administrative team in the PMU will report directly to the PSC and be responsible for overall
project coordination and imnplementation of training and TA. The administrative team in the PMU will
undertake procurement of goods and services, accounting and financial management, monitoring and
evaluation, with inputs from ASB secretariat and ANCA on technical matters. It will also assist
participating research, extension and farmer organizations in implementing the research and extension
contracts. The administrative team in the PMU will prepare annual work plans and define the actions
needed to ensure timely project implementation, prepare quarterly reports for the PSC and the World Bank,
and organize meetings. The PMU will be headed by a Project Director and would include specialists in
financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, and support staff. The PMU will operate
in association with the ASB secretariat.
The ASB will be an ad hoc body with representation from the research, extension and farming
community (majority from the private sector) that will meet whenever needed (3-4 times a year), on
decisions regarding the use of the competitive research and extension grant program. The members of ASB
will not be permanent salaried staff but will be paid an honorarium for attending the ASB meetings. The
Secretariat of the ASB (which will be the technical team in the PMU) will be a technical group comprising
three specialists, one each for research, extension and economic/sociological aspects, responsible for
inviting and screening research and extension proposals. The secretariat staff will be qualified and
experienced MAF staff reassigned from other departments including ANCA. The ANCA staff in Bucharest
and in the judet will be responsible for implementation of the rapid impact program, the farm management
handbook and the radio program. Since the ANCA-led activities in the project are small, less than $1.25
million, the procurement, accounting and financial management of the ANCA related project activities will
also be managed by the administrative team in the PMU.
Financial Management
The financial management arrangements of the project have been assessed as satisfactory to the
Bank. Annex 6 outlines the accounting and financial management system that will be used for the proposed
project. MAF's existing institutional capacity in the area of accounting and financial management is
indeed limited. The government, therefore, proposes to equip PMU with modem computer equipment,
upgraded accounting software, and trained staff. This will ensure not only efficient accounting and
management of project funds but also help MAF to build necessary institutional capacity to run the
project-assisted activities on a sustained basis, i.e., even after the PMU is closed upon completion of the
- 10-



project. The key elements of the project's accounting and financial management with implementation
details and action plans are provided in the PIP.
The government reviewed and confirmed during negotiations its agreement to the draft CGS
Manual and the Project Accounting and Financial Management outlined in the PAD/PIP, including the
Bank loan disbursement and flow of funds mechanisms, internal controls, audit and reporting requirements.
The government has appointed the core staff for the PMU including a director and three professional staff
for project accounting and financial management, procurement and monitoring and evaluation, with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank.
Training of PMU staff in financial and procurement procedures will be completed by project
effectiveness. Government will open a Special Account (in US dollars) for managing withdrawals and
disbursements under the Bank loan, and a local currency project account to receive government counterpart
contribution. The government will require MOF and MAF to sign a Subsidiary Agreement; introduce
internal control procedures; and appoint an independent auditor. Formats for the annual audited financial
statements and the Project Management Reports (PMRs) have been developed and agreed with the
government during negotiations.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements:
A well-designed monitoring and evaluation system will be critical for ensuring the project's timely
and successful implementation, and enhancing its impact by a systematic analysis of lessons learned and
their effective dissemination. There will be three types of M&E in the project: (1) monitoring through
quarterly and progress reports prepared by the PMU, based on input provided by ASB and ANCA; (2)
evaluation of the CGS funded programs to be undertaken by the ASB in conjunction with outside agencies;
and (3) ex-post evaluation of the overall project by an outside agency (agricultural universities, economic
institutes, local and foreign). The overall project evaluation will assess if project-assisted activities
achieved intended results in terms of technology development, dissemination, and adaptation; actual and
potential impact on farm incomes; institutional capacity development; human resource development; etc.
The ex-post evaluation will be a critical input in mainstreaming successful extension messages and delivery
mechanisms and in designing future initiatives for strengthening and reforming research and extension
systems.
A foreign expert would assist the PMU during Year 1 to design a simple management information
system for M&E, reporting formats for each component, including targeted annual performance objectives
and monitoring indicators using Annex I details as the basis. Quarterly reports will cover progress in
physical implementation, the use of project funds and the project impact. Quarterly reports will be
consolidated by the PMU and submitted to the Bank. These progress reports will also include an
implementation plan and work program for the six months following the reporting period.
A mid-term review will be carried out to assess overall progress. Lessons learned with
recommendations for any improvements would be made and the project design would be adjusted, if
needed. The MAF/PMU will also complete an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) with inputs from
the Bank.
- 11 -



D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The Government initially proposed a large investment project involving provision of equipment and
inputs to research institutes, and training and dissemination materials to district and commune level staff to
provide extension services to farmers. However, it was quickly agreed that such investments needed to be
accompanied by major institutional and policy reforms. It was then decided to parallel the ongoing
Strategic Review of the Romranian AKIS with a modest project to respond quickly to farmers' immediate
needs through a small operation featuring the competitive grant scheme and selected institutional
strengthening. Consideration was given to developing two LILs -- one for research and one for extension --
and was rejected as this approach would not build strong linkages between the two. A LIL combining both
research and extension was too small for Romania to have a meaningful impact. The proposed project will
demonstrate to policy makers and practitioners new ways of responding to and servicing the research and
extension needs of farmers involving both the private and public sectors. The experiences gained from this
initiative, together with an agreed action plan, would be instrumental in reforming the agricultural research,
extension and training systems. It was also considered to combine the GEF supported Agricultural
Pollution Control Project, now under preparation, with the ASSP because of the complementarities between
the two. This again was not possible since the GEF project would include activities relating to Poldar
restoration which may not fall within the overall objectives of the ASSP. Further, the preparation of the
GEF project has only started and its processing time table does not fit within the timetable planned for
launch of the ASSP.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
'I Latest Supervision
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Ag. Sector Adj. Loan (ASAL)       World Bank                   In progress       U
Private Farmer and Enterprise    World Bank                     Complete         S
Support Project
Other development agencies
Strategic Review of AKIS          EU-Phare 1998
ECU 0.5 million
Establish National Extension Service   EU-Phare 1995-96
Project                           ECU 1.7 million
Development of National Extension    EU-Phare 1997-98
Service Project                   ECU 2.0 million
EU Integration Project (Agriculture)   EU-Phare 1997-98
Demonstration Farms Project       EU-Phare                    ---
ECU 1.0 million
Agribusiness Consultancy          EU-Phare 1995-96
Farm Producer Organizations       German bilateral
Institutional Strengthening of Private   Dutch bilateral
Agriculture
- 12-



Agricultural Extension and Business    British KHF
Management Training Project
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Previous experience of agricultural support service projects aimed at developing private farming
sector in Central and Eastern European countries and in other regions has shown that such projects must be
focused on private farmer needs, facilitate fanmer participation in decision making and implementation, and
have attainable objectives and targets particularly in terms of sustainability. CGS funding has proved
effective in improving client orientation and the productivity of research, as well as reforming
supply-driven, centralized research management, prevalent in many transition economies.
The project design team consulted with and incorporated ideas from members of similar projects in
the region and across the Bank as well, as stakeholders in the country including government officials,
researchers, practitioners and farmers. Lessons learned from Bank-supported CGS in other countries are:
(a) there must be strong commitment from the government and the managing organization to the
concepts of the CGS;
(b) although the number of proposals received for evaluation may be small initially, there is an
increase over time as applicants and grant recipients become more aware of the benefits of
participation;
(c) CGS need to be designed after extensive consultation with potential participants ensuring
awareness, a feeling of ownership and enthusiastic participation;
(d) in the initial stages, applicants may face problems in completing application forms, and it may be
necessary to allow for a learning period and to provide some instruction;
(e) CGS quality gradually improves as experience and awareness of the value of accurately articulated
proposals for successful competition become accepted;
(f) transparency in operations and decision-making is essential to remove suspicion that grants are
destined only for a favored few in research and development and that applications are not being fairly
assessed; and
(g) decision makers should avoid any suspicion of a conflict of interest by absenting themselves from
the decision making process for any proposals with which they are personally associated or which
involve their institutions.
These lessons were taken into account when designing the CGS for the proposed project and in developing
the Manual to guide in the implementation of the scheme.
- 13-



4. Indications of borrower comiitinent and ownership:
The Government of Romania intends to improve the performance and efficiency of agricultural
support services. Support of the World Bank in this endeavor has been requested. A Strategic Review of
AKIS in Romania has been undertaken at the request of the government with EU-Phare support. There is
considerable interest in the competitive grant scheme that would fund research and extension. Farmers,
government staff, and the private sector have already participated in developing concrete proposals for
CGS funding. A detailed Implementation Manual has already been developed for the CGS with input from
all stakeholders. The MAF has issued a Ministerial Order to formr the Agricultural Services Board; the
Chairperson and Board members have been selected. The Board has had meetings already to discuss and
finalize the work associated with the CGS, including approval of the Manual for the CGS, identifying peer
reviewers, and requesting proposals from the research and extension community that would be interested to
participate in the CGS. The MAF has appointed key staff of the PMU so that project implementation will
be smooth and effective. Ministry of Finance has provided assurance that public sector agencies (research
institutes and others) that successfully bid for proposals from the CGS will be supported with adequate
counterpart funds.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Assistance from other donors in research and advisory services has been mostly ad hoc, short-term
and fragmented, focusing on a host of beneficiaries, ranging from universities, media, commodity
organizations, processors and the recently organized ANCA. Donor support has also been provided to
small private farmer groups to organize themselves to strengthen their collective bargaining in terms of
inputs, outputs and services needs. The recently established ANCA is faced with staffing problems
including a lack of farm mnanagement expertise, poor credibility arnong farmers and severe budgetary
constraints. Meanwhile, the needs of the private farming sector for appropriate advice and technologies are
not being adequately met. Therefore, the project's provision of funding opportunities through the CGS is
timely. The project's institutional building component would provide selected training and support for
ANCA operations. The Bank's support will help stakeholders develop a vision for their future AKIS,
formulate a realistic action plan, and try out, and learn from, a series of modest research and extension
projects.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = %
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Predicting and quantifying econornic costs and benefits ex-ante of research and extension activities is
problematic. See explanation below for not attempting a financial and economic analysis in this project.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR = %
Ex-post analysis of agricultural research and extension in most countries reveals high returns to
these investments, ranging between 40-75%. For public sector agricultural research, average returns were
48% for developed countries and 80% for developing countries. Similarly, for agricultural extension, the
average returns were 63% for developed countries and 50% for developing countries. In Romania, with the
new private farmers starting at such a low production and productivity base, the returns to the transfer of
technology and information are likely to be high.
-14 -



The range of benefits likely to be realized by testing altemative technologies and methods and
promoting their replication and adaptation would be diverse. New farming methods could lower
production costs, increase output efficiency; produce more profitable crops and livestock; improve
product quality; reduce capital expenditures on machinery, irrigation equipment and buildings; reduce crop
and livestock losses; make better use of available land, labor and other resources; and improve environment
and sustainability of production systems.
Ex-ante quantification of benefits of research and extension investments (rates of return) is usually
not undertaken in many countries since it is difficult, if not impossible to anticipate precisely the outcome
of these activities. Even large surveys give spurious results. This is mainly due to constraints in terms of
non-availability of reliable technical and economic data on different variables including farmer adoption
rates, and difficulties in linking cause (costs) and effect (outcomes). Whatever parameters one includes
would be questionable. Social and environmental benefits of research and extension projects are
particularly difficult to be expressed in monetary terms.
The Competitive Grant Scheme (CGS) will be implemented using a set of rigorous criteria and
indicators already established. These criteria and indicators will assess proposed investment priorities (in
sector development), client relevance, and cost-effectiveness in terms of providing inmmediately needed
technology, infornation and training which are critical to increase agricultural productivity, sustainability
and incomes.
Since the conventional FRR/ERR analysis will not be done for purposes of investment
decision-making in the CGS, the project's M&E system has been designed to ensure that the proposals
funded by the CGS in applied research and extension are implemented in a cost-effective and efficient
manner.
Fiscal Impact:
The CGS will shift current emphasis on national agricultural research institutes (NARI) and
government extension agency (ANCA) to strengthening national research systems, broadly defined to
include agriculture research institutes, universities, private sector, farmer organizations and NGOs. The
pluralistic institutional structure implicit in the CGS operation may gradually reduce the dependence on
public funding of research and extension institutions by bringing about diversification of funding support,
and improve the overall efficiency of public funding of research and extension activities. If the project is
successful in enhancing the confidence of farmers and other stakeholders in research and extension
institutions as providers of new technologies, information and training, it should make possible government
funding being supplemented by beneficiary funding. The CGS will improve the efficiency and cost
effectiveness of the investments in the research and extension system. However, it should be pointed out
that CGS builds on but does not replace the need for support for research and development in national
agricultural research institutes. Because of budget constraints the national system will inevitably be
trimmed to core functions. The CGS will be a mechanism for enhancing the performance of this
streamlined service.
The project will also encourage greater efficiency and a more focused approach by the emerging
ANCA, the national extension service. Efficient capacity in new institutions will be developed. The
confidence of farmers and other stakeholders in these institutions as providers of new technologies,
information and training should make it possible for Government to gradually reduce its role.
-15-



3. Technical:
In interviews with farmers, researchers and extension workers conducted during project
preparation revealed that majority of private farmers would benefit from advice and technology in the fields
of farm planning and management, organization and networking, integrated cropping systems, low input
use, and low cost options of crop and animal production. These priorities will be important criteria for
selection of research and extension proposals. In addition, an invent.ory check will be carried out of
"on-the-shelf- technology" to identify relevant technologies that are fully developed and have been adopted
in certain areas but not yet promoted across the country.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
MAF will be the primary agency responsible for the project.
b. Project management:
The CGS will be managed by an Agricultural Services Board (ASB or "Board") with
representation from government, universities, farmers and agribusinesses. The 13-member Board, which
has already been established by a Ministerial Order, includes one member respectively from MOF, MAF,
the Academy of Agricultural and Forest Sciences (AAFS), the research institutes from the National
Agricultural Research System (NARS), the Agricultural Universities, the Agentia Nationala de Consultanta
Agricola (ANCA), four members of the private fanming sector (including a small farmer representative),
and one member each of the private agro-processing industry and input suppliers. The ASB Chairperson
would be a non-governmental person nominated by MAY and approved by the Board members. The
composition and functioning of the Board have been designed with a view to ensure greater independence in
its operation and decision making. The Board would decide on the criteria and selection of proposals for
both research and extension contracts, which is hoped will ensure the strong integration between research
and extension.
MAF has recruited new administrative and technical staff in PMU at higher salaries to attract
better qualified and experienced people, using Government Ordinance No. 52. Since this is the first
agriculture investment project that would be implemented by MAF in the post communist era, there is
bound to be a learning period to fully understand the procurement, cisbursement and financial management
procedures. Special hands-on training would be needed for project staff in the early project period. Some
of this training is expected to begin even before project effectiveness. ANCA's involvement in project
management has to be carefully built-in, without making it a dominant player (resulting in conflict of
interest), since it will be competing with other agencies for grant funds from the CGS.
5. Social:
Farming in Romania has changed suddenly from large-scale collective farms to small-scale private
farms. Now, more than 3.5 million small-scale farmers find themselves faced with the challenges of
supporting themselves and their families from their farms. They need a range of support services,
particularly knowledge of appropriate techniques to help them make good fanming decisions. The project
would help extension carry the messages of research rapidly to farners, conduct on-farm demonstrations,
and adapt state-farm techniques to smnall farms. Improvement in fain production would have direct
positive impact on the social welfare of farm communities.
6. Environmental assessment:              Environment Category: C
It is anticipated that the project would contribute to a more sustainable and environmentally
responsible use of agricultural resources.
- 16-



Efficient use of farm inputs has been identified as one of the priority areas of research and
extension needs of farmers and agro-processors. Some of the CGS funds would be directed to research and
extension contracts to address this concern of farmers and agro-processors and would over time contribute
to a reduction of nutrient runoff from the crop sector. Proposals already developed involve Integrated Pest
Management and soil conservation which would help in the cost effective and sustainable use of chemicals
in farming. In the livestock sector, the project is expected to support interesting and innovative research
and extension proposals relating to the use of organic wastes. In the implementation of the CGS, a major
component of the project, positive environmental benefits would be one of the major criteria for award of
CGS grant funds.
Research proposals which imply any adverse environrnental effects will not be funded. In fact,
because of the nature of the work likely to be funded, there should be long-term environmental, welfare and
health and safety benefits. The project will support environmentally-friendly and socially sensitive
agricultural practices.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
A participatory needs assessment was carried out as part of project preparation, involving
stakeholders, using rapid rural appraisal and participatory rural appraisal techniques. This helped to
identify the needs of the private farmers. The nominal group technique was used as a means to arrive at a
consensus and prioritizing farming needs. In addition, key informant interviews of representatives of the
public and private sectors were used to gather views on alternative approaches to research and extension
services.
The primary project beneficiaries would be private farmers, i.e. individual producers
(smallholders) that produce a surplus for sale, members of family associations and fonral associations,
agro-processors, and contractors for research and extension proposals. The preparation team met with a
number of private farmers, agro-processors, and potential contractors of extension and research to find out
their views and concerns regarding agricultural research, advice and information, to ensure that adequate
mechanisms are built in the project design. Several extension proposals have been prepared by various
agencies which confirm their demand and interest.
A priority setting exercise for research and extension was undertaken with the stakeholders to
understand and rank the immediate needs of farmers and agro-processors.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Agricultural supply industry, seed industry, food processors, and the government. The preparation
team has consulted extensively with representative stakeholders in the design of the project. All are keen to
improve the impact of research and extension.
- 17-



F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project will aim at reorienting the agricultural knowledge and information system to a demand
driven service, supported and eventually partially financed by beneficiaries. The extension contracts will
provide opportunities for both commercialization and privatization of agricultural extension services.
However, all this will take time and cannot be realized during the life of this project. In the absence of any
prior experience, it is also unclear if the initiatives being promoted in the project will indeed be sustainable.
Thus, the project will be an effort to test and, if proven successful, demonstrate to the Govermment the
opportunities available and the justifications for continuing the effort with budgetary resources. If
Government can be convinced that reform is beneficial the Bank should follow-up with a larger support
program that will build on the activities promoted in this project.
The CGS will receive funds from the Bank loan and from contribution by government and
sponsors, including the private sector. Using the institutional structures and procedures developed under
the project Government would be able to continue the scheme from its budgetary sources. Alternative
sources of funding will also be explored for CGS to ensure longer tenn sustainability in an austere
budgetary climnate, reducing reliance on central/project budgets and thereby matching more closely the
means and needs of private farmers. Some of the extension contracts will explore possibilities of cost
recovery. It is expected that the demand driven initiatives would pave the way for beneficiaries being more
willing to contribute to these activities.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
_Risk                  Rs        a        Risk fMinimizati Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Competitive Grant Scheme (CGS) will       S         Careful selection of representatives in
not be managed in a professional                   the ASB and staff of the Secretariat;
manner to meet the needs of the private            training to relevant CGS, PMU,
farmers and agro-processors                         governiment officials and contractors;
award of grants based on the priorities
established involving all stakeholders.
Transparency in the working of the
CGS has been emphasized. A CGS
Manual has been prepared to guide the
project team.
From Components to Outputs
APPLIED RESEARCH
* Lack of complementary funding for       S         MOF has given assurance that salaries
researchers salaries                                for researchers who are approved grant
funds would be covered by the
Government budget
* Ministry of Research and Technology    M           Negotiations with MRT/AAFS
(MRT)/AAFS responsible for all public               confirmed co-operation for the
sector research funding and could object            establishment of the CGS
to the CGS operating outside their
control.
-18-



* Potential contractors do not respond     N          Research and extension agents are
to invitations to tender for                         starved of funds. Therefore, interest in
research/extension projects                          CGS is great. However, there will be
widespread publicity giving clear
objectives and requirements of the
scheme. Also, organizers of scheme
pro-active in contacting and
encouraging suitable research and
extension contractors
* Inability to identify farmers of the     M          Farmers organizations contacted to
right caliber and with time to devote to             produce short list of potential members;
the CGS                                              Honorarium paid to Board members;
Already competition for Board positions
* Favoritism in providing                  S          Provision of independent peer
research/extension grants                            reviewers, training to ASB members
EXTENSION SERVICES
* Lack of experience among                 S          Provision of training in advisory and
contractors in providing extension                   technical skills built into contracts
services to private farmers
* Inability of contractors to identify     M          Ensure all altemative mechanisms are
and draw on sufficient sources of                    explored early in the life of each
funding to be sustainable before Bank                contract so that they are sustainable in
funding ceases                                       the longer term; Government assurance
to continue with counterpart funding
(after Loan closing) the activities that
were approved by the CGS during the
period of the project
* Lack of suitable business and            N          Considerable stock of research
technical information and advice of                  material exists which if re-evaluated
direct relevance to farmer clients                   could be immediately used by farmers.
Also strong linkages will be established
between the research and extension
programs supported by the project.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
* Quality of existing staff in PMU may     S         MAF has recruited better qualified staff
not be adequate to maintain a proper                 at higher salaries using the new
financial management system and                      Ordinance No. 52; Hands-on training
procurement in the project                           to staff in PMU is envisaged even
before project start
*ANCA, which is a new agency, will         S         ANCA assisted activities is kept at a
have difficulties in implementing it's               manageable level in the project; TA
components                                           support will be provided in early project
period; large part of material production
work is contracted to private sector
Overall Risk Rating                        S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 19-



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*     Govermment to appoint an independent auditor according to TORs and procurement
procedures acceptable to the Bank;
*     Govermment to open a Special Account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, and
a local currency project account to receive govennment counterpart contribution;
*     MOF and MAF to sign Subsidiary Agreement; and
The PMU to have an operational financial management system acceptable to the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The ASB/PMU will carry out the CGS in accordance with the requirements in the
Operational Manual.
The members and the President of the ASB will serve their term and any replacement of
the members under exceptional circumstances will require the Bank's approval.
MAF will maintain the PMU with resources, composition and under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank until completion of the project.
MAF will maintain the Project Steering Committee (PS C) until completion of the project,
with terms of reference and composition satisfactory to the Bank.
The PMU will establish and maintain a financial management system in accordance with
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank.
H. Readiness for Implementation
I 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
C 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
E 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) provides comprehensive infornation on project components, their
implementation arrangements, and the project procurement plan and financial management. An
Operational Manual for CGS and a Guidelines for the Financial Management System have been developed.
- 20 -



The first batch of research and extension proposals will be ready before project start.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
0 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommnended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
undav Ka resa                  /}osep R. Goldberg                 Andrew N. Vorkink
ean Vader                       Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
- 21 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ROMANIA: AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To improve the agricultural   1. I Development and adoption 1. I Bibliography of research  Research and extension
research and extension     of number of innovative    results                    activities are successfully
services to increase the  technologies in agriculture.                           completed
productivity, profitability, and                      1.2 Inventory of new
sustainability of private  1.2 Increase in farm      technologies                Policy and economic
farmers and agro-processors  productivity and profits.                           environment supports the use
1.3 Survey of private farmers  of the new technology
1.3 Programs supported help  and agro-processors on the
in the efficient use of chemical use of results and technologies
inputs and improve the use of
organic wastes.            1.4 On-site verification and
reports
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To provide immediately     1.1 Existing on- the-shelf    PMU reports/supervision  Organizations will be
needed technology,         technology is transferred to   reports                motivated to submit relevant
information and training to   farmers and agro-processors                        proposals
private farmers and        1.2 A number of innovative   PMU reports/supervision  Private farmers are able to
agro-processors           technologies and promotional reports                  identify and prioritize their
materials produced, relevant                          research/extension needs and
on-farm research and                                 to assess results
demonstration established
Improve efficiency, cost   2.1 A Competitive Grant    Names of appointees, lists of  MAF budget constraints do
effectiveness and client   Scheme (CGS) that will     meetings held, working     not hamper progress
relevance in the management support relevant research and  procedures issued
of research and extension.    extension program managed                          Government will accept the
by an Agricultural Services                           lessons learned from the
Board (ASB) with farmer                               project and main stream them
representatives and private
sector is operational,
procedures for scheme laid
down.
2.2 Wide membership of the  Periodic PMU reports/
stakeholders in management  Supervision reports
of ASB.
2.3 Involve a wide range of  Periodic PMU reports/
public and private sector  Supervision reports
organizations to compete for
research and extension
contract funds.
- 22 -



2.4 Achieve more           PMU Records of CGS funds
collaborative work among    awarded
research and extension
services providers
2.5 Contracts funded meet the Annual reports that link
private farmer and         contracts funded to the
agro-processors needs      priorities established /Records
determined through a priority of funds awarded
setting exercise.
2.6 Time taken to disseminate Management records
research findings reduced.
2.7 Farmers receive an     Reports of surveys of private
improved service           farmers
- 23 -



Ky Petf*nia' nee
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
CGS administration is fully   ASB established         Periodic PMU reports       Farmer Organizations, private
operational                Secretariat to ASB is effective Supervision reports   sector will identify suitable
farmers for board membership
Research/extension activities                         Periodic PMU reports and    from different regions
from priority topics selected   Results and reports for these  Supervision reports
for support               projects, produced within 4                            Sufficient acceptable bids are
years                                                 received to utilize the WB
Selected extension approaches                         Review by M&E Evaluation   funds available
tested                    Lessons learned from        Consultant, Mid Term review
extension approaches lead to                          CGS operates in a professional
Capacity in the public/private main streaming the successful                     manner without outside
sector and among farmers to  ones                                               interference
formulate, implement and                             iPeriodic PMU reports and
monitor research and       Sufficient number of quality  supervision reports
extension program         proposals from various
strengthened              |participants both public and
private
ANCA has new information to Simple and user friendly  Periodic PMU reports and   Qualified and capable ANCA
disseminate to farmers    materials for Rapid Impact   supervision reports       staff
program and Farm
Management Handbook
produced
ANCA's planned contribution Annual ANCA workplan      Periodic PMU and supervision Detailed and good Terms of
to the AKIS in Romania is   discussions and workshops    reports                 Reference for the Workshop;
clarified to help solicit support                                                Active participation of the
from Government/donors to                                                        stakeholders
ANCA's future work program
- 24 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          nd. lcators        Monitoring & Evaluation i  Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         !(from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
Applied Research and      US$ 14,860,000                                        Refer to Institutional
Extension Component:                                                           'Strengthening - CGS
Administration below.
Proposals evaluated and                              Peer Review Reports, Board   Secretariat is independent and
contracts awarded                                    Presentation and Decision    follows a professional code.
lists, and Secretariat CGS    iExperienced and efficient
Application Registration list. personnel are appointed in the
:ASB, Secretariat and the
PMU.
APPLIED RESEARCH         7,430,000                 PMU and ASB reports
EXTENSION                7,430,000                 PMU and ASB reports
Institutional Strengthening: 2,950,000
CGS ADMINISTRATION   680,000                        Periodic Project Management Continued Government
- ASB and its                                  Reports from the PMU       support for the program
Secretariat is established and
begins work
I Effective coordination and    Adequate incentives exist for
- Technical assistance                         cooperation among the various timely component
for the management of the                            project related institutions    implementation
CGS including Peer Reviewer
Fee                       1,190,000                                                           .
PROJECT
MANAGEMENT UNIT                                      PMU reports
(PMU)
- PMU is established
and functional                                      !PMU reports
- Specialized training:
Young Scientists Program,
Mass Media Communications,
and Extension Staff Exchange
Program                                              PMU reports
- TA for PMU, ASB,
AKIS Action Plan and ANCA
Works
ANCA RELATED             900,000                    PMU reports/ANCA reports  i Assumptions for providing
PROGRAMS                                                                        inputs:
- Rapid Impact Program                           PMU reports/ANCA reports.  * WB funds sufficient
- Farmer's Handbooks                           Actual production of Rapid  * Service providers can
Impact Briefs, Farmer's   increasingly provide own
- Mass                                         Handbooks, and Radio       resources
Communications Program                               Programs                    * Progress in farm
:management and technical
aspects can be sustained
- 25 -



AKIS ACTION PLAN         194,000                   PMU reports               Greater farmer recognition of
- TA to develop a                                                       the value of information and
research and extension action                                                advice
plan
-Workshops and Studies
-Production of Plan                           Production Results
- 26-



Annex 2: Project Description
ROMANIA: AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$14.86 million
Applied Research and Extension Component: This component would include a Competitive
Grant Scheme (CGS) that will support applied agricultural research and extension services on priority
problems facing private fanners and promote private and private/public partnerships in research and
extension services by encouraging widespread participation and competition. It would involve the
following:
(a)    Establish an Agricultural Services Board (ASB), and its Secretariat;
(b)    Set priorities for research and extension services to be supported by the CGS;
(c)    Request proposals for research and extension service providers both from the private and
public
sector;
(d)    Evaluate the proposals with the help of peer reviewers and ASB decides the proposals to
be awarded
grants;
(e)    Execute and monitor research and extension contracts; and
(f)    Monitoring and Impact Evaluation.
(The operational details of the CGS is outlined in the Manual for the Competitive Grant Scheme)
Project Component 2 - US$2.95 million
Institution Building: This component consists of support to the project agencies to carry out the
following
activities:
(a)    Assistance to ASB to administer the Competitive Grant Scheme;
(b)    Develop and deliver extension messages that will have a rapid impact among large number
of farmers          and build capacity in ANCA;
(c)    Develop and distribute farmn management handbooks;
(d)    Support a mass media radio program;
(e)    Formulation of an action plan for AKIS on the basis of the strategic review of the AKIS
that has been       prepared;
(f)    TA and training, and
(g)    Support for PMU to implement project.
The Implementation details of Components 1 and 2 are outlined in the Project Implementation Plan.
- 27 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ROMANIA: AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Romania
Agricultural Support Services Project
Components Project Cost Summiary
%  %Total
(Leu Million)              (USS Million)        Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign      Total Local  Foreign   Total Exchange   Costs
A. Research & Extension Program /a
1. CGS: Applied Research Program     52,506     52,506   105,013   3.39      3.39    6.78         50       42
2. CGS: Extension Program            52,506     52,506   105,013   3.39      3.39    6.78         50       42
Subtotal Research & Extension Program       105,013    105,013   210,025   6.78      6.78   13.55         50       84
B. Institutional Support Program
1. ANCA Related Programs              8,226      3,716    11,942   0.53      0.24    0.77         31        5
2. Implementation of the CGS          6,936      2,480     9,416   0.45      0.16    0.61         26        4
3. Project Management Unit            9,680      6,692    16,372   0.62      0.43    1.06         41        7
4. AKIS Action Program                  600      1,958     2,558   0.04      0.13    0.17         77        1
Subtotal Institutional SupDort Program       25,443     14,845    40,288   1.64      0.96    2.60         37       16
Total BASELINE COSTS                            130,456    119,858   250,313   8.42      7.73   16.15         48      100
Physical Contingencies                6,997      6,724    13,721   0.45      0.43    0.89         49         l
Price Contingencies                   6,421      5,689    12,110  0.41       0.37    0.78         47 1
Total PROJECT COSTS                             143,874    132,271   276,144   9.28      8.53   17.82         48      110
/a The Costab tables assumes an even break-down of grants between research and extension. However, many proposals are expected to
have a combinabon of both research and extension elements.
PADtables, sumcom
- 28-



Romania
Agricultural Support Services Project
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
% % Total
(Leu Million) \a             (USS Million)        Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign     Total    Local  Foreign   Total Exchange   Costs
1. Investment Costs
A. CGS: Research and Extension
Contracts                      105,172    105,172   210,344     6.79     6.79   13.57         50       84
B. Fumiture                       335         37       372      0.02     0.00    0.02         10       0
C. Equipment and Matenals         975        928      1,903     0.06     0.06    0.12         49        1
D. Technical Assistance          4,278      6,324    10,602     0.28     0.41    0.68         60       4
E. Technical Services - Production
lb                               4,801      1,283     6,084     0.31     0.08    0.39         21        2
F. Seminars, Study and
Workshops                        3,166       617      3,783     0.20      0.04    0.24        16        2
G. Training                      1,114      5,075     6,189     0.07     0.33    0.40         82       2
H. Vehicles                       198        422       620      0.01     0.03    0.04         68       0
Total Investment Costs              120,039    119,858   239,897     7.74      7.73   15.48        50       96
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremenatal Staff costs /c   8,208        -       8,208     0.53      -      0.53          0        3
B. Annual Audits                  620         -        620      0.04      -      0.04          0       0
D. Local Travel related expenses  434         -        434      0.03      -      0.03          0        0
E. Vehicle 0 & M                  186         -        186      0.01      -      0.01          0        0
;F. Office O & M                  969         -        969      0.06      -      0.06          0        0
Total Recurrent Costs                10,417        -      10,417     0.67      -      0.67          0        4
Total BASELINE COSTS                     130,456    119,858   250,313     8.42      7.73   16.15         48     100
Physical Contingencies           6,997      6,724    13,721     0.45     0.43    0.89         49        5
Price Contingencies              6,421      5,689    12,110     0.41     0.37    0.78         47        5
Total PROJECT COSTS                      143,874    132,271   276,144     9.28      8.53   17.82         48     110
\a Based on a exchange rate of 15,5000 Lei / 1 US$
\b For Production of ANCA related programs and AKIS Action Plan (bi-annually)
\c Per Ordinance #52. Based on Gross Wages.
PADtables, sumea
- 29 -



Annex 4
ROMANIA: AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Predicting and quantifying economic costs and benefits ex-ante of research and extension activities is
problematic. See explanation in Summary Project Analysis Section.
- 30 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ROMANIA: AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Romania
Agricultural Support Services Project
Expenditure Totals by Years -- Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ Million)
Totals Including Contingencies           Totals Including Contingencies
Implemenation Period           -     Post Project Onerational Period   Grand
00     01       02      03     Total       04      05    06    07    Total    Total
Total Investment Costs    5.88    6.69    3.92    0.59    17.09 -                                         17.09
Total Recurrent Costs     0.17    0.18    0.19    0.19      0.73      0.19   0.19   0.19   0.19     0.77   1.50
Total Costs               6.05    6.87    4.11    0.78    17.82  .   0.19   0.19   0.19   0.19      0.77  18.58
E Excludes Peer Review Costs.
Source: PADtables.xis, eayrt & Annex5a
Financing Sources    % of Total Project Costs
Implemenation Period                 Post Promect Operational Period
00     01       02      03     Total i     04     05    06    07    Total
IBRD                21.0%   23.8%   14.2%    2.7%   61.7%          0%    0%    0%    0%          0%
GOR                   7.3%    8.3%    5.0%    1.0%   21.6%   . 100%  100%  100%  100%    100%
Research Grantees   2.8%    3.2%    1.9%    0.4%    8.3%           0%    0%    0%    0%          0%
Extension Grantees   2.8%    3.2%    1.9%    0.4%    8.3%_         0%    0%    0%    0%        . 0%
Total %             33.9%   38.5%   23.0%    4.4%    100% 1...  25%   25%   25%   25%1  100%
Millions               00      01      02      03       Total
IBRD                  3.73    4.24    2.54    0.48   11.00.
GOR                   1.31    1.48    0.89    0.17    3.85
Research Grantees    0.50    0.57    0.34    0.07    1.48
Extension Grantees   0.50    0.57    0.34    0.07    1.48
Total                 2.05    2.65    0.95    0.03   17.82.
/PADtables/Annex5a expenditure by PY
- 31 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ROMANIA: AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERV'ICES PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
PROCUREMENT
The procurement of goods will be done in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999. Consulting Services and training would be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers., January 1997, revised September
1997 and January 1999.
The PMU will be responsible for procurement and a local full-time procurement specialist familiar
with the Bank procurement requirement has been recruited. Information regarding procurement
administration will be collected and recorded and quarterly reports will be sent to the Bank. These reports
will indicate: (i) status of procurement; (ii) an updated procurement plan; and (iii) compliance with
aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement. A General Procurement Notice will be published in
the United Nations 'Development Business' December 1999 issue.
Research and Extension Grant
The Competitive Grant Scheme (CGS) that funds the research and extension activities of the
research and extension community from the public and private sector form the main element of the project.
The CGS, administered by an Agricultural Services Board (ASB), wi.ll award research and extension grant
(estimated to range between $5,000-$250,000 based on an initial assessment of the likely size of proposals
that would need grant assistance) to successful applicants of the grant. The Secretariat of the ASB will
solicit research and extension proposals. The ASB will establish broadly the priority areas of research and
extension services, the procedures for applying for the grant, and the criteria for review of proposals. All
qualified private and public sector research, extension and fanning specialists/organizations will be eligible
to submit proposals to the ASB which will be reviewed with the assistance of peer reviewers. Funds will
be approved for projects based on pre-determined criteria outlined in the CGS Manual and will be directly
disbursed to the successful applicants.
In exceptional situations, if for one specific scope of work and same quality of proposal there are
more than one competing agencies, the following principles will guide procurement:
(a)    Government-owned universities, research institutes and extension agencies that do not demonstrate
independence and do not operate under commercial law will not compete with private sector. However,
they may be subconsultant to private sector firms.
(b)   If one or more government-owned universities, research institutes and extension agencies are able
to provide the same services of equal quality, the following procedures may be applied:
- 32 -



(i)    Single-Source Selection when the case meets the criteria for this method of selection as set
out in paras 3.8 to 3.1 1 of the Consultant Guidelines.
(ii)    Quality-Based Selection (QBS) when more than one of these institutions qualifies to
execute the assignment and the assignment meets the criteria set out in the Consultant Guidelines (para
3.2).
(iii)   Selection Based on Qualifications when more than one of these institutions are uniquely
qualified to execute the assignment and the assignment meets the criteria set out in the Consultant
Guidelines (para 3.7).
(c)    Government-owned universities, research institutes and extension agencies under the direct control
of the borrower shall be excluded from provision of services.
For research agreements, the grant will finance mainly the operating expenses, materials, field
labor, fuel and supplies, project related over head costs and some expenses for capital items such as
laboratory equipment, field equipment for small plots, vehicles, computers, technical bibliographic material
and office equipment. For the extension agreements, the grant will finance items such as field
demonstrations, leaflets, booklets, training, overhead costs, and some office equipment and vehicles.
Procurement under the CGS will be done by the successful grant applicants through competitive procedures
requiring as a minimum obtaining of three offers from three different suppliers/contractors and their
thresholds would be same as described under Goods and Services.
Applicants, who are awarded the research and extension grants will carry out their own
procurement as the items procured will vary significantly among the agreements depending on the nature of
their work. It may be difficult to package items in terms of economy and efficiency since the items needed
are quite small and needed at different times and at different places in the country. Also, it is expected that
most of the grant agreements will use project funds to finance their operating costs of research and
extension services.
The PMU will be responsible for supervising the technical and administrative aspects respectively
of the contracted research and extension services. In order to ensure transparency, the successful CGS
applicants will be required to keep all quotations, receipts and invoices of their procurement requests for
inspection by PMU supervisors. For the implementation of CGS, a detailed Manual has been prepared by
MAF which has been reviewed and agreed by the Bank.
The grants will be disbursed in tranches, and second and subsequent disbursements will require
approvals by the technical team and the administrative team in the PMU based on physical implementation
progress report and financial records.
Goods
The goods to be financed in the project will include furniture, vehicles, and office equipment
required during early project start for the Project Management Unit and the Secretariat that administers the
Competitive Grant Scheme. Other items include equipment and material such as desktop publishing
software, audio and video equipment, for ANCA to carry out its extension related work at different periods
in the project. Furniture, equipment, and vehicles, estimated to cost less $50,000 per contract, will be
procured through national shopping. Equipment packages, which will consist mainly of office computers,
fax machines, copiers and ANCA extension related material, are shown in aggregate amounts in the
footnotes of the procurement arrangement table below.
- 33 -



Technical Services
Technical services include printing of ANCA extension material for the Rapid Impact Program and
Farm Handbooks, and production of ANCA Annual Work Plan and Agricultural Knowledge Information
Sharing (AKIS) strategy. Contracts under $50,000 will be procured through National Shopping and for
contracts less than $100,000 through International Shopping. (See aggregates in the footnotes to the
procurement table).
Consultant Services
The Consultants for Technical Assistance (both local and foreign) and training will be selected
using the selection process for individual consultants. The project also includes data collection work for the
Rapid Impact Program and Farm Management Handbook. The related research, travel, per diem and
miscellaneous expenses of the government and non-government employees for such data collection and
workshops will be financed under the loan. The consultancy firm for carrying out the project audits will be
selected under the CQ method. Finally, the ASB members and peer reviewers for the CGS will be selected
as individual experts.
Training
Overseas training for Young Scientist Program, Extension Staff Exchange Program and Mass
Media Communications Program and project implementation related training will be carried out according
to a training plan, which the Borrower will revise semi-annually and submit it to the Bank for approval
prior to implementation.
Recurrent Costs
The incremental recurrent costs associated with the project includes incremental gross salaries
(PMU -- 3 technical and 4 administrative staff); O&M costs of office and vehicles of the PMU; their per
diem cost for field travel; and supplies.
Institutional Capacity building in Procurement
An assessment of MAF/PMU capacity to implement project procurement in accordance with the
criteria outlined in Annex 3 of LACI Implementation Handbook was completed. This review addressed
the legal aspects, procurement cycle management, organization and functions of the procurement unit in the
PMU, support and control systems, record keeping, and staffing. The review assessed the risks
(institutional, political, procedural etc.) that may negatively affect the ability of the agency to carry out
procurement processes and has rated it a high risk country. Therefore, the prior review thresholds
recornmended are those applicable to a high risk country. In collaboration with MAF/PMU, an action plan
to address deficiencies has been prepared to strengthen PMU capacity to administer procurement in an
effective and transparent way as part of sound governance and good project management. This includes:
(a) selection of a qualified procurement specialist in the PMU with experience in external donor assisted
projects; (b) train procurement and PMU staff on the World Bank procurement procedures; (c) conduct a
comprehensive procurement training for all project related staff as part: of the project launch workshop; and
(d) use of Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. The Bank will monitor procurement activities, contract
management and record keeping during periodic supervision missions. The Bank procurement specialist
will not only conduct ex-post reviews but will also provide guidance and support to the PMU in carrying
out the procurement plan.
-34 -



Procurement Methods Table A
Romania
Agricultural Support Services Project
Proturement Arrangements
(USS Million)
Procurement Method                   _
Other
(See
ICB     MCB         footnoteal        N.B.F.       Total
1. COS Grant Agreements
1.1 Applied Research and
Extension Grant Agreements              -                      14.89         0.00      14.89
(8.94)                  (8.94)
2. Goods
2.1 Furniture. Vehicles, Equipment
and Materials                           -         -             0.21         0.00       0.21
(0.10)                  (0.10)
3. Tachnical Services
3.1 Technical Services - Print
Production                              -         -             0.46         000        0.46
(0.10)                  (0.10)
4. Consultant Services
4.1 Technical Assistance                -         -             0.75         0.00       0.75
(0.75)                  (0.75)
4.2 Training                            -         -             0.50         0.00       0.50
(0.50)                  (0.50)
4.3 Data Collection and
Workshops                                                       0.28         0.00       0.28
(0.21)                  (0.21)
S. Recurrent Costa
5.1 Recurrent Costs                                             0.67         0.06  h    0.73
_  0411      0.00       (0,411
Total                                                                  17.76          0.06      17.82
'11.00)       0.00      t10
Note: Figures (in parenthesis) are the respective amounts financed by World Bank
a Research and Extension Grant Agreements - Procurement will be based on the Competitive Grant Scheme
selection process. ($8.94 million)
b Goods - Procured through National Shopping ($100,000), of which Funiture is $300, Vehicles Is S29.100,
and Equipment/Materials isS69,600.
c Technical Services: IS contracts ($75,000) and NS contracts ($25,000).
d Technical Assistance (individuals USso.75 million). Technical Assistance Includes: Peer Review Contracts
($205,500-lnd), local and foreign specialists to assist in the PMU/Secrelariat for Monitoring and Evaluation
($75,000-lnd); local and foreign specialists under the PMU Applied Research/Extension Specialists ($183,600.
Ind), Overall Operational Specialists (S22,900-Ind), Financial Systems Specialist ($11.500-Ind), Local
Procurement Specialist ($6,700-nd), Monitoring & Evaluation Specialists (S33,900-lnd); AKIS Action Planning
specialists ($162.000.Ind); as well as ANCA's work plans and programs ($44,700-lnd). All TA specialists, local
and foreign, will be contracted from the private sector and thus, not Government staff.
a Training includes: 3 International training programs administered by the PMU ($250,000). ANCA Radio
Program training ($190,000), CGS related training ($50,000), and PMU/Secretariat training (S10.000).
f Date Collection and Workshops includes: ANCA research/data collection for farm management handbook
program and Rapid Impact program and workshops ($111,000); and AKIS Development and Annual Review
Workshops ($110,000).
g Recurrent Costs - Includes gross incremental salaries for PMU (3) and Secretariat (4) (IND - (104,000
+86,000), PMU/Secretariat local travel, O&M costs of the offices and vehicles for the PMU and Secretariat
(175.000); and Audit ($46,900-CQ).
h Recurrent Costs - Includes ASB honorium and expenditure related taxes paid directly by the GOR.
Procure2/procurement promth
- 35-



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
The Bank will review the first batch of research and extension proposals approved by the ASB
under the CGS procedures. Any proposal that does not correspond to the eligible criteria established in the
CGS Operational Manual will be subject to special consideration and prior review of the Bank.
All consultancy contracts in excess of $100,000 for firms and $20,000 for individuals will be
subject to Bank prior review procedures. Moreover, the Bank will review, regardless of value, terms of
reference, experience and terms of employment of all consultants. All other contracts will be subject to
ex-post review by the Bank on a random basis. The first international and national shopping contracts will
also be subject to World Bank prior review.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$ Million equivalent)
Contract Value                  Contracts Subject to
Threshold     Procurement        Prior Review
Expenditure Category           (US$ thousands)     Method         (US$ millions)
Goods / Technical Services          <50              NS                0.05
Technical Services                  <100             IS                0.08
Consultant Services                 <100            CQ                0,047a
>20            IND                0.41
Incremental Recurrent Costs         N/A
The audit contract is subject to Bank's prior review.
- 36 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The allocation of loan proceeds is given in Table C, which also indicates the fimancing for the
various categories of expenses. The project will be executed over a period of four years when the loan
amount of $11.0 million will be disbursed. The proposed closing date for the project will be December 31,
2004. Disbursement in the early project period is expected to be based on the Bank's existing Statement of
Expenditure (SOE) method. The government is new to PMR-based disbursement procedures. The use of
this disbursement procedure will, however, require that the PMU in the MAF establish a sound financial
management and reporting system, the key elements of which are outlined in the Project Implementation
Plan.
DISBURSEMENT
Table C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Loan Coverage      % of Expenditures
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$ Million  to be Financied
Applied Research & Extension Grants under
Part A of the Proaect                              8.00 75.0%
Goods under Part B of the Project                  0.10 100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 80% of local
expenditures for other
items orocured locally.
Consultant's Services and training under Part
B of the Proiect                                   1.28          100%
Technical Services for print production                      100% of foreign
0.08       exenditures.
Incremental Operating Costs                               100% (except for locally
0.38   Droduced goods - 85%)
EUnallocated                                       1.16 1
Total                                             11.00           64%
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The following disbursements will be supported by full documentation: (a) goods with a contract
value of US$50,000 equivalent per contract or more; (b) services with a contract value of US$100,000 or
more for consulting firms, and US$20,000 or more for individual consultants. All other disbursements will
be made on the basis of State of Expenditures (SOEs) against eligible expenditures. Supporting
documentation for SOEs will be retained by the Borrower and made available to the Bank during
supervision.
Special account:
The PMU will open and maintain a Special Account with an acceptable commercial bank in
Romania on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The PMU will mnanage the SA and the authorized
allocation of it will be $500,000. At the start of the project, the initial deposit will be limited to $350,000
and the remaining portion of the authorized allocated after cumulative disbursements reach a level of $2
million. Withdrawal applications for the replenishments of the SA should be sent to the Bank on a monthly
basis, or when the balance of the SA is equal to about half of the initial deposit or the authorized allocation,
whichever comes first. The SA will be audited annually by independent auditors and the audit report
submitted to the Bank for review and approval within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
- 37 -



Agncultural Support Services Project
Table D. Procurement Information
=    __         _  _  _      . _ _    _  _             ._ __ _  ~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of
loan amount
Other  subject to prior
Goods                ICB      NCB        IS           NS      Minor Works   methods review
G<=50,000
Procurement                               ($100,000)
thresholds: individual              TS<=100,000 TS<=50,000
and (aggregate)  N.A     N.A.    ($75.000)    (25.000)      N.A.
$125,000
Prior Review   N.A.   N.A.      75.000      50.000        N.A.                   62.5%
Consultants         QCBS    QBS          LCS    Qualifications Single Source Individuals
Procurement
method thresholds   N.A    N.A       N.A.      ($47.000)      None    ($780.993_
$67,000
Prior Review   N.A.   N.A        N.A.     ($47.000)       N.A.     ($20Q000)     5.2%
Procurement Process. A procurement specialist will be included in supervision missions to carry
Expost Review out ex -ost review, and her.his findings wil be included in the mission's re ort.
- 38 -



The capacity of the PMU, which will implement the project, has been assessed. Based on the analysis compiled in the
Attachment 2 of this assessment, the result is that Romania is a high risk country from the public procurement point of
view. The country's procurement legislation exists but lacks harmony and consistency. It has been determnined that the
PMU, is not fully staffed and well equipped, and does not have experience in Bank's project, procurement procedures and
practices. The folloving is recommended to build PMU capacity to undertake procurement:
(a) The project would initially focus on training and providing technical assistance in the areas of procurement and World
bank procedures. PS and the MAF staff shall be provided with training during the project launch workshop and other
training organized by the World bank and other intemational institutions from time to time.
(b) Training shall also include the preparation of bidding documents for each type of procurement method proposed in
the loan agreement. PMU/MAF will follow the WB Standard Bidding Documents, procedures, guidelines and any other
agreed procedures.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country  Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of
Procurement Strategy Paper status: On-going      the first year ready by negotiations
Yes X    No
Estimated date of    Indicate if there is procurement
Estimated date of           publication of General   subject to mandatory SPN in  Domestic Preference for
Project Launch Workshop     Procurement Notice   Development Business      Goods, if applicable
3/5/1999                    1/15/1999            Yes         No X          Yes    No X
Yes                                     Advance          Yes
Retroactive financing    No X    Exolain:                     procurement     No X       Explain:
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
The PMU will establish a computer based monitorinc system.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing:
..- .  -
Name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project:
Naushad Khan, Senior Procurement Specialist, Ext: x32699
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement:
The resident mission does not have a qualified procurement staff; however, the project officer assigned to this project
would play an important role of the monitorng of the procurement process and intermediary between the headquarters
and the PMU.
PROJECT ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
Role of Project Management Unit (PMU). The PMU, besides coordinating project implementation, will
be responsible for maintaining the project's accounting and financial management system. Among other
things, PMU will manage project expenditures; carry out and/or oversee procurement of goods and services
financed by the project; and monitor compliance with the Loan Agreement between the Bank and the
government, and the Subsidiary Agreement between MOF and MAF. The PMU will maintain necessary
financial records and administer control procedures over project accounts and finances, acceptable to the
Bank.
Project Accounting and Financial Management System. MAF's existing institutional capacity in the
- 39-



area of project accounting and financial management is limited. Its Finance Department performs
traditional functions: it prepares annual budget proposals and ensures that MAF expenditures are made
consistent with budgetary approvals. MAF's accounting system is only partially automated and is not
designed to maintain accounts consistent with international accotmting standards. MAF, therefore,
proposes to equip the PMU with modem computer equipment, upgraded accounting software, and trained
staff to ensure that project funds are managed efficiently.
CGS Manual and Accounting and Financial Management Guidelines. The CGS Manual and the
Financial Management guidelines outlined in the PIP were finalized during negotiations. Key elements of
the project accounting and financial management system are shown in the PIP.
MAF has recruited new staff, with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, for the
positions of PMU director, financial management specialist and procurement specialist, and three technical
specialists who form the Secretariat for the ASB.
Adequate provision has been made in the project cost for PMU training, staff training, and other
administrative expenditures for ensuring effective project implementation including project accounting,
financial management and audit aspects.
Accounting Software. During pre-appraisal of the project, accounting software packages suitable
for the project were reviewed. The fnal decision on the selection of the software will be taken by PMU/
Bank prior to Board on the basis of an ongoing evaluation of similar software packages available in the
market. The selected accounting software must be capable of producing various financial reports
including trial balance, statement of cash flows, general journal, general ledger (in summary and in detail),
chart of accounts, income statements and balance sheet, and PMRs, suitably supplemented by MS-WORD
and EXCEL software. The evaluation will determine that the selected software conforms to these
requirements.
Disbursement and Funds Flow Mechanism. The Bank loan will be initially disbursed under the
Bank's traditional Statement of Expenditure (SOE) method, with the option of moving to the Project
Management Reports (PMR-based) disbursement method, by mutual agreement between the government
and the Bank. This will allow PMU staff necessary time to get familiar with the project's monitoring
aspects, and be able to effectively use PMR-based disbursement procedures. An indicative PMR format is
presented in the Project Implementation Plan; this format was reviewed and updated during negotiations.
The project's disbursement and funds flow mechanism are shown in the PIP.
A Special Account will be opened and managed by PMU at a commercial bank acceptable to the
Bank. The Bank loan will be disbursed mainly into this special account. The Bank loan will also be
disbursed directly to the Borrower (MOF) or to suppliers of works, goods and services or to a commercial
bank against World Bank special commitments. The PMU will maintain a separate bank accounts (in local
currency) to receive and mnanage government counterpart contribution.
Internal Controls. The primary oversight on the project's accounting and financial management
will be provided by PSC which will be chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and Food and comprise of
representatives of MOF, ASB and ANCA. MAF's Finance Department has a mandatory responsibility to
verify that PMU (among other MAF units) adheres to checks of accuracy, completeness and authorization
of individual transactions. This is supplemented by COA's oversight function, which it does for and on
behalf of the Parliament. The PIP provides an indicative framework for operational procedures and controls
that will be exercised by PMU with regard to financial and procurement transactions.
- 40 -



Audit Arrangements. Independent auditore acceptable to the Bank will perform external audits
annually in accordance with International Standards on Auditing. The scope of the audit will include fi
nancial statements of the Project as maintained by the PMU and the use of the CGS grants by beneficiaries.
MAF will recruit an independent auditor based on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, as shown in
the PIP. The independent auditor will be appointed as a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan. The
government will appoint the auditor for an indefinite term of office subject to annual confrmation by PSC.
The audit cost will be financed by the Bank loan. The TOR for the independent auditor is included in the
PIP.
As the grant proposals in applied research and extension received by the CGS will receive a
through scrutiny by ASB and its secretariat, the potential risk of misuse of grant funds is minimal.
However, the audit of the use of the CGS grants by the beneficiaries will be included within the scope of
the annual audit of the project.
Reporting Requirements. In addition to the submission of annual audited financial statements,
the PMU will produce full quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) beginning approximately six
months after project effectiveness in formats acceptable to the Bank. The indicative formats for the PMR
have been included in the PIP.
- 41 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ROMANIA: AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Pro   t1    'u''l'e'9'l65<0qf'                   'P 0023''59egi''7ij ''t'#g   A  S ifii''
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  18
First Bank mission (identification)     04/20/98                   04/20/98
Appraisal mission departure             09/16/99                    09/16/99
Negotiations                            11/01/99                    11/29/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness           05/15/2000
Prepared by:
Kundhavi Kadiresan
Preparation assistance:
Thomas Ward and Gail Lee
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
|; Name                                     Spe,alit
Kundhavi Kadiresan               Economist and Project TTL
John Hayward                      Quality Assurance
Aly Abu-Akeel                     Counsel
Kenneth Miller                   Disbursements
Jitendra Srivastava               Competitive Grant Scheme/Agricultural Research
Willem Zijp                      Extension
Doina Rachita                     Romania Agriculture Sector
Ranjan Ganguli                   Financial Management
Naushad Khan                      Procurement
Bogdan Constantinescu            Financial Management
Anthony Pritchard (Consultant)   Competitive Grant Scheme and Priority Setting
Ramesh Deshpande (Consultant)     Financial Management/ Economic Analysis
Garry Smith (Consultant)         Research/Extension/Project Costing
Dan Pomohaci (Consultant)        Romania Ag. Sector
Thomas Ward (Consultant)          Project Costs and Documentation Layout
Dana Dobrescu                     Project Implementation
E. Gail Lee                       Project Documentation
-42 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ROMANIA: AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Details on Project Components
Project Costs
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Plan
Disbursement Plan
Project Implementation Schedule
Organizational Chart
Financial Management System
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Applied Research - A. Pritchard
Extension - G. Smith
Financial Management - R. Deshpande
Financial and Economic Analysis - R. Deshpande
C. Other
*Including electronic files
-43-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ROMANIA: AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions        disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                     Purpose                               IBRD        IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 41
RO-PE-39251    1999 GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA    PIBL                                     25.00       0.00        0.00      25.00     0.00      o.0o
RO-PE-4920D    1999 GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA    SOCIAL DEVELOP. FUND                     10.00       0.00        0.00      10.00      1.80     0.00
RO-PE-58284    1999 GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA    CULTURAL HERITAGE                         5.00       0.00        0.00       4.96     0.46      0.00
RO-PE-64853    1999 GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA    PSAL                                    300.00       0.00        0.00     300.00     0.00      0.00
RO-PE-34213    1998 ROMANIA                     GENERALCADASTRE                       25.50       0.00        0.00      24.82     0.82      0.00
RO-PE-44614    1998 GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA    SCHOOLS REHABIUTATI                      70.00       0.00        0.00      69.69     14.79      0.00
RO-PE-55495    1998 GENERAL INSPECTORATOF CO  CHILD WELFARE REFORM                     5.00       0.00        0.00       4.80      1.10     0.00
RO-PE-8788     1998 GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA    TELECOMMUNICATION                        30.00       0.00        0.00      28.52      7.52     0.00
RO-PE-39250    1997 ROMANIA                     SECOND ROADS                         150.00       0.00        0.00      98.25    -14.25     0.00
RO-PE-8778     1997 ROMANIA                     BUCHARESTWATERSUPP                    25.00       0.00        0.00      16.00     11.99     0.00
RO-PE-8793     1997 SNCFR                       HIGHER EDUCATION                      50.00       0.00        0.00      42.55    42.55      5.55
RO-PE-36013    1996 RENEL                       RAILWAY                              120.00       0.00        0.00      81.10     51.11     0.00
RO-PE-8794     1996 GOVT. OF ROMANIA            POWER SECTOR REHAB.                  110.00       0.00        0.00     101.88     99.89     0.00
RO-PE-8776     1995 Government ot Romania       EMPLOY. & SOC. PROTE                  55.40       0.00        0.00      46.16     37.58     0.00
RO-PE-8774     1994                            INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPME                  175.00       0.00        0.00     111.74    111.74    95.24
RO-PE-8777     1994                             PETROLEUM SECTOR REH                 175.60       0.00        0.00     103.95    103.96     0.00
Total:   1,331.50       0.00       0.00    1,069.42    471.06    100.79
Active        Closed
Projects       Projects        Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):       282.91       3,551.38        3,834.29
of which has been repaid:        0.00       2,329.95       2,329.95
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:    1,381.50         1,385.62       2,767.12
Amount sold:         0.00          19.78           19.78
of which repaid:        0.00          19.78          19.78
Total Undisbursed:    1,069.42          152.02       1,221.44
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
-44-



ROMANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1 -Jul- 1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval        Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1992               Alcatel                         0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1994/98            Romlease                        3.96    0.00    0.75      0.00    3.96    0.00     0.75    0.00
1996               Danube Fund                     0.00     0.00    2.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      1.20    0.00
1997               Efes Brewery                   11.87    5.00    0.00      8.00    11.87    3.76    0.00    8.00
1997               Mobil Rom                      40.00    10.00    0.00   160.00   38.00   10.00     0.00  152.00
1997               Rambox                          1.87    0.00     2.00     0.00    1.87    0.00     2.00    0.00
1998               Banc Post                       0.00    10.00    0.00     0.00    0.00   10.00     0.00    0.00
1998               Demir Romania                   5.00    0.00     3.20     0.00    1.00    0.00     2.55    0.00
1998               FCR Fund                        0.00    0.00    10.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    10.00    0.00
1998               Garanta                         0.00     0.00    0.20     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.20    0.00
1998               Bilstein Compa                  2.71     0.00    0.00     2.71    2.71     0.00    0.00    2.71
1998               Small Bus. Loan                 5.00    0.00    0.02      0.00    2.00    0.00     0.02    0.00
Total Portfolio:        70.41    25.00    18.17   170.71   61.41    23.76    16.72  162.71
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
- 45 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ROMANIA: AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Europe 6    Lower-                                           9'9'99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Central   middl. 
Romania        Asia  Incmom         Development diamond'
1998
Population, mid-year (rnillions.i                        22.5       473        9D8                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                      13f9      2190       1,jio                    e
G1NP (Atlas method, USS billions)                        31.3      1.039     1,557
Average annual growth, 1992-98
PopurlMon(%)                                             -0.2        0.1        1       GNP           7                    Gross
Labor force (S5,f 0);                                    -2,3    9                     : 0.6 ; 1 per                      primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avallable, 1992982)                                   capita                         enrollment
Poverty (% of poputation belowstionaol poverty line)      30
Urban population (% oftotfa population)                   57      7 68          56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          69         69         6      |
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births):                 22         23         3S6
Chif4 mainutrntion I% of children undet 6)                            .          .               Access to sate water
Access to sate water (% oftpopulation)                    96          .,        7i
Illiteracy (% of population ags 15i)                       3          4         14
Groyx primaryenrollment (%6ofschool-agopopulalion)        97        100        703              Romania
Male                                                    97        t01         fO!             Lower-middle-income group
Femaie                                                  97         99        toll
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1967       1997       199tt
EconiomIc ratio.s
GDP (USS billions)                                -      38.1       32.1      39.2
Gross domestic investment/GOP                  39.8      31.8       21.5      17:1                      Trade
Exports of goods and services.GDP                 ..    26.6        29.7      25.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                               40.6       14.5       9,2
Gross national savings/GOP                    . .        40         15.2       9.5
Current account balancelGDP                       ,,      5.4       -6.7      -7.0      Domestic   F       4          Investment
Interest payments/tDP                             ,       1.3        1.5       1.4      Savings          .
Total debUGDP                                    ..    17.3         30.7      25.6
Total debt servicelexports                      1.0      21.9       18,1      22.8
Present value of debtlGOP                         .         .       26,4
Present value of debtlexporfs                     ..       ..       91.4                              ndebtedness
1977-a7  1989-98      19917      1999   1989i3
(average annual growlh)
GOP                                    3.1     -2.3      -6.6       -7.5      -4.             -Romania
GNP per capita                         2.5     -2.2      -6.5       -8.1         I I    I      -  Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services           :       2.5       2.1        2.5       2.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       199T       1998      Growth rates of output and investment I%)
(% of GOP)
Agriculture                                      ..    14.2         19.6      16.4      "lo
Industry                                                 57.2       44.6      40.1         .
Manutacturing                                   ..       ..       30.5      29.9
Services                                                 26.6       35.9      43.4      10
Private consumption                               ..    50.5        75.4      76.1             93   94   95  9n   97  9x
General government consumption                    ..      8.9       10.1      14.7                 -GDI)         -'-GDP
Imports of goods and services                    ..    17.8         36.7      34.2
1977-87  1988-98       1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%O
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                      ..       0.6        2.2      -9.5      20
Industry                                         ..    -3.2         -7.7     -10.1
Menutacturino                                   ..       ..       -4.9     -11.4 -1.    0
Services                                          .       3.5      -11.0      -4.5
Private consumption                               ..      0.4       -6.2      -3.3
General government consumption                    ..      3.5      -10.6      14.1    .r-
Gross domestic investment                        ..    -7.6        -14.3     -30.0             93   94      5     0     7    8
Imports of goods and services                     ..      2.1       -4.        5.2                 -Exp.rt.s         eImpnrts
Gross national product                          3.1      -2.5       -6.7      -8.3
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 46 -



Romania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                        3 
(% change)
Consumer prices                                   ..      0.9      154.8      59.1     200
Implicit GDP deflator                           -5.9      6.1      146.7 46.6
100
Government finance
(% of GDP, inciudes current grants)                                                      o
Current revenue                                   ..    50.4        30.4      34.3              93    94    95    96   97    98
Current budget balance                            ..    31.6         1.1       0.4               -     GOP deflator   *C PI
Overall surplusideficit                           ..    15.2        -3.6      -4.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                 1977     1987       1997      1998       Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                               ..  10,491       8,431     8,302     12,000
Common metals and articles                       ..       ..     1,556     1,583
Mineral products                                ..       ..        638       508      s.000
Manufactures                                    ..   7,570       5,139     5,238
Total imports (cif)                               ..   8,313      11,280    11,838      ,00_
Food                                             ..     111        426       523      3.000
Fuel and energy                                 ..   4,722       2,408     1,687
Capital goods                                   .,   2,101       2,975     3,206         0
92   93  94   95   96  97   98
Export price index (1995=100)                     ..       77        87
Import price index (1995=100)                     ..       95       105         E.p.,Ets                        MImportl
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         ..       82        82
3ALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UIS$ millions)                                1977     1987       1997      1998       Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 7,357   11,261       9,955     9,519        tf
Imports of goods and services                 7,529    8,828      12,349    12,798
Resource balance                               -172    2,433      -2,394    -3,279
Net income                                     -132      -390      -322       -392
Net current transfers                             ..    0   579  753    1.11                                         11
Current account balance                        -304    2,043      -2,137    -2,918      3
Financing items (net)                           -30   -1,002       3,802     2,075       I
Changes in net reserves                         334   -1,041      -1,665       843
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            ..       ..    4,671       3,789
Conversion rate (DEC, locaJfUSS)                  ..    22.2    7,787.7   8.875.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998       Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS
(llS$ millions)                                                                         millions
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            756    6,580       9,832     9,832      millons)
IBRO                                          288    2,039       1,392     1,443                G: 1.189       A: 1.443
IDA                                             0         0          0         0
Total debt service                               76    2,493       1,844     2,246     |                                  539
IBRD                                           17      373         99       150                                       C.S39
IDA                                             0         0         0          0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                        D: 661
Official grants                                 0         0       108
Official creditors                            154      -430       598       -185
Private creditors                               0   -1,023       1,059      362          F: 4,262                     1 71B
Foreign direct investment                       0        0       1,224     2,040
Portfolio equity                                0        0        883        130
World Bank program
Commitments                                   237         0       620         66     A . IBRD                       E - Bilat.rt
Disbursements                                 145        0        399       153      B IDA      D- Oth.n -vult.lut.r.I   F.  P-ter
Principal repayments                            0      215         29        68      C - I- Shart4e,m
Net flows                                     145      -215       371        84
Interest payments                              17      158         70        81
Net transfers                                 128      -373       301          3
Development Economics                                                                                                       919/99
- 47 -



