                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 36554

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-45330)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 11.0 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                               ROMANIA

                                                FOR AN

                          AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT




                                              June 22, 2006




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective May 24, 2006)

                             Currency Unit = US$
                                 RON 2.77 = US$ 1
                                 US$ 0.36 = RON 1

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1    December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AKIS   Agricultural Knowledge and Information System
ANCA  National Agency for Agricultural Consulting
  ASB Agricultural Services Board
 CAS  Country Assistance Strategy
 CGS  Competitive Grant Scheme
 ERR  Economic Rate of Return
   EU European Union
  FRR Financial Rate of Return
  IAC International Agricultural Center
MAFRD Ministry of Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development
MAKIS Modernizing Agricultural Knowledge and Information Systems
 NGO  Non Governmental Organisations
 NPV  Net Present Value
 OJCA County Centers for Agricultural Consulting
 PAD  Project Appraisal Document
 PMU  Project Management Unit
USAID United States Agency for International Development
USDA  United States Department for Agriculture
 VAT  Value Added Tax
  YSP Young Scientists Program



                           Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                         Country Director      Anand K. Seth
                          Sector Manager       Benoit Blarel
                       Task Team Leader        Doina Petrescu

                                          ROMANIA
                            Agricultural Support Services Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25
Annex 8. Summary of ICR prepared by the MAFRD                                    26

Project ID: P043882                                                  Project Name: Agricultural Support Services Project
Team Leader: Doina Petrescu                                          TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 23, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Agricultural Support Services Project                    L/C/TF Number: SCL-45330
   Country/Department: ROMANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (81%); Central government administration (19%)
                  Theme: Rural markets (P); Rural policies and institutions (P); Rural services and infrastructure (S);
                            Infrastructure services for private sector development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/20/1998                                     Effective: 05/15/2000                08/24/2000
     Appraisal: 10/08/1999                                         MTR: 12/10/2002                  11/18/2002
      Approval: 01/27/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          ROMANIA/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE; ROMANIA/FORESTS AND
                                           RURAL DEVELOPMENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Anand K. Seth                                  Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager/Director:        Benoit Blarel                                  Joseph R. Goldberg
Team Leader at ICR:             Doina Petrescu                                 Kundhavi Kadiresan
ICR Primary Author:             Nicolas Gergely



2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
         The project had two objectives: (a) to provide immediately needed technology, information and
training for private farmers and agro-processors; and (b) to improve efficiency, cost effectiveness and client
relevance in the management of research and extension.

Towards this, the project had to: (a) Support a number of priority extension and applied research activities
that will quickly transfer existing proven technology to private farmers and agro-processors; (b) Develop
an applied research and extension program through a Competitive Grant Scheme (CGS) responsive to the
needs of a market economy and test a combination of approaches for upgrading agricultural extension; (c)
Build capacity within public and private sector institutions and among farmers to formulate, implement and
monitor the research and extension services programs; and (d) Develop an action plan for reforming the
agricultural research, extension and education system to be supported by investments in a possible larger
project in the next phase.

Following the shift from centrally planned to market economy and the dismantling of large state and
collective farms, Romanian agriculture was characterized by a large number of new private farmers
(mostly small farmers) in high need of technical and economic advice to react to market challenges and
improve their performance in terms of productivity and quality. Meanwhile, the research system, previously
exclusively focused on the needs of state farms, could not meet the needs of private farmers, nor transfer
the available technology to them, in the absence of an efficient extension system. The objectives of the
project corresponded therefore to an urgent need, and appear as fully justified. It is worth noting that the
Project did not aim at achieving during its lifetime the necessary reforms of the agricultural research and
extension system, but was viewed as a first step in a long term process towards this end. The relevance of
the objectives was further enhanced when Romania's accession to EU was decided, as the need to adapt the
productivity and quality of the Romanian agriculture to EU standards became all the more important.

These objectives were consistent with the CAS, which had identified agriculture as a priority area on the
ground of good prospects for a supply response, and with the Government policy for the agricultural sector,
which aimed at transforming existing farming households into profitable farm enterprises.

3.2 Revised Objective:
 The original objectives were maintained throughout the life of the project.

3.3 Original Components:

The project comprises two components:

(i)      Applied Research and Extension: this component ($14.86 M) funded a Competitive Grant Scheme
(CGS) for applied research and extension sub-projects (154 sub-projects implemented), selected by an
Agricultural Services Board created under ASSP.
(ii)     Institutional Support: this component ($2.96 M) included the following: assistance to administer
the CGS; support to the National Agency for Agricultural Consulting (ANCA) to deliver rapid impact
programs, launch a rural radio program, and develop and distribute farm management handbooks;
assistance to formulate an Action Plan for the reform of the Agricultural Knowledge and Information
System (AKIS); and support for the PMU to implement the project, support that included technical
assistance and training.
3.4 Revised Components:
There has been no revision of the initial components, but minor reallocation of funds took place in


                                                     - 2 -

component 2 at the request of MAFRD, in order to (a) extend, because of its success, the Young Scientists
Program (YSP), and (b) respond to a specific request of MAFRD for technical assistance on policy-making
and sector agricultural policies.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry was satisfactory. The project was not subject to QAG assessment. The project design
and objectives provided an adequate and well balanced strategy to remedy in the short term the deficiencies
of the research and extension system and, in the longer term, to prepare for an in-depth restructuring of the
system. It was relevant for Government priorities and objectives. A number of institutional and
organizational potential risks have been adequately identified during appraisal (non professional
management of the CGS, favoritism in provision of grants, lack of availability of competent management
staff, lack of experience of contractors, difficulties for ANCA to implement its activities) although most of
them except, to some extent, the last one, did not concretize, or were successfully handled during
implementation.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Project objectives are considered satisfactorily achieved.

Objective 1 (provide immediately needed technology, information and training for private farmers and
agro-processors) has been very satisfactorily achieved:
·        a large number of technologies or technological sequences have been disseminated (228 existing
on-the-shelf technologies and 85 new technologies), mainly through CGS (but also through the ANCA
rapid impact program) for a wide variety of crops where the technological gap was important (dairy
production, livestock management, field crops, horticulture, crop diversification and organic production)
·        the number of direct beneficiaries ( i.e. those who attended workshops, on-field demonstrations
and/or training sessions) exceeded substantially the original target, and the rate of adoption of the
disseminated technologies is estimated to be very high, as the proposed technologies were simple and cost
effective, and as most sub-projects targeted, implicitly or explicitly, progressive farmers, whose demand
for improved technologies was very high. The spillover effect on indirect beneficiaries is more difficult to
assess at the time of the ICR, as the process is still going on, but there are indications, in particular through
the impact assessment study, that many beneficiaries contributed actively to disseminate the new
technologies in their farming community.
·        The analysis shows that the technologies disseminated are highly profitable for farmers, and
sustainable. These technologies have also contributed to improve the quality of supply for upstream
agro-processors, in particular in the dairy subsector.

Objective 2 (improve efficiency, cost effectiveness, and client relevance in the management of research
and extension). can be assessed as satisfactory, based on the indicators identified in the PAD:
·        The Agricultural Service Board created under the Project to monitor the CGS has functioned in a
satisfactory manner, with the active participation of stakeholder representatives. The identified risks of
malfunctioning have been successfully mitigated. The ASB has been able to set up relevant priorities, and
to select sub-projects accordingly. It has proved its efficiency as a management tool to prioritize research
and extension investments, and will become a permanent body under MAFRD through the new MAKIS
Project.
·        Through the CGS, private consultants, farmers associations and agro-processors have been able to
access funds and compete with public institutes, thus improving the cost efficiency and client relevance of



                                                        - 3 -

research and extension. Public institutions and private associations have also, through the CGS,
considerably increased their capacity to design, prepare and implement projects, as evidenced by the
increasing quality of sub-projects.
·        Also, cooperation between research institutes and associations of farmers or agro-processors,
which was nonexistent in the previous situation, was successfully introduced through the CGS
·        The Project has contributed to reduce the time taken to disseminate research findings both through
dissemination of the on-the-shelf available technologies, and through establishing partnerships between
researchers and farmers.

The Project has successfully tested an innovative management approach to research and extension, and
prepared a comprehensive plan for further reforming the Agricultural Knowledge and Information System
(AKIS). It has also strongly contributed to develop cooperation between public and private actors in
research and extension, and to link public institutes with stakeholders, thus improving their effectiveness,
cost efficiency and client relevance. It has been less successful in improving the operation of the public
extension agency (ANCA), as this would have probably implied structural reforms which were beyond the
scope of the Project, but it has set the conditions for a sustainable and more fundamental reform of the
Agricultural Knowledge and Information System.


4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1 ­ Competitive Grant Scheme for Applied Research & Extension( $14.49 millions at
completion; rated highly satisfactory)

The Competitive Grant Scheme (CGS) has been implemented from the start based on a rigorous set of
criteria and indicators that were set out in the Operational Manual and which have been modified and
adjusted as experience was gained. A total of seven calls for proposals were organized, the first one in
June 1999 and the final one in November 2004. In the course of the seven calls, some 2575 initial
proposals were received. Following screening by the CGS Secretariat for quality and responsiveness to
established priorities, successful recipients were invited to submit full project proposals, which were also
pre-screened by the Secretariat and then forwarded to local peer reviewers for evaluation, prior to
submission to the Agricultural Services Board (ASB) for final selection. A total of 329 proposals were
fully evaluated, and 154 sub-projects were approved by the ASB for financing. Out of these, 149 were
successfully implemented, and only 5 (i. e. 3%) were considered unsatisfactory during implementation; 3 of
them were cancelled .

The start of the scheme was slower than expected, as the first disbursements took place only in September,
2001, i. e. more than one year after the project became effective. This was due to lack of experience in
procurement and financial management procedures of the initial project team, as well as of MAFRD. This
initial delay, followed by a slow disbursement rate in the following two years, was responsible for the need
to extend the project by one year. Remarkable progress was however made during the last years by the new
PMU team, which was finally able to carry out the sub-projects and fully disburse the funds under this
component by the closing date of the project.

The sub-projects covered a wide range of technologies, and could be broadly grouped as follows in terms of
main focus: (i) improvement of milk production & quality sub-projects(27% of total cost) - financing cattle
reproduction by artificial insemination and embryo-transfer, setting up of milk collecting centers, setting up
of associations of milk producers, activities aimed at improving the cattle welfare; (ii) improvement of
cropping practices for field crops sub-projects(14%) - financing extension of new genotypes of winter
wheat, soybean and maize; (iii) horticulture sub-projects(7%) - financing implementation of management



                                                      - 4 -

techniques for strawberry farms, modernized onion growing technology, promotion of new vegetable
hybrids or varities; (iv) fruits and wineyards sub-projects (7%) - financing dissemination of orchards and
vineyards technologies aimed at improving the quality of some varieties ; (v) pastures sub-projects(2%) -
financing activities aimed at optimizing pastures exploitation and maintenance to improve the quality of the
resulting forages; (vi) crop diversification sub-projects (14%) - financing dissemination of technologies
related to forestry, silkworms, ostriches, sheep, quails, mushrooms, medicinal and aromatic plants; (vii)
integrated development sub-projects (15%) - focused on farm management, production and products
marketing, agribusiness; (viii) organic farming sub-projects (7%) - promoting organic vegetable and field
crop agricultural technologies; (ix) farm management & information systems sub-projects (6%) -
promoting the advantages of the associative forms in accessing funds; and (x) others (1%) - financing
activities aimed at preventing the soil erosion. The implementation period for the sub-projects has averaged
3 years, but decreased rapidly in the last tranches. A large majority of sub-projects concerned transfer of
available technologies, as ¾ of projects had extension components only, while the remainder combined
applied research and extension activities.

The grant scheme was successful in generating partnerships between public sector and private sectors
operators, as 334 public agencies and 227 private organizations (farmers' associations, NGOs, commercial
companies) were involved in such partnerships for the implementation of the 154 sub-projects. It is also
worth noting that 58% of the grant funds had been awarded to private organizations. The scheme has also
contributed to establish links with agro-processing and marketing companies, as 23 sub-projects were
implemented by such companies or in partnership with them (among which 15 in the milk production
sector).

The progress of the grants has been closely monitored by the PMU. The monitoring system has been useful
in identifying the problem projects, in leading to rapid corrective measures, and in the activity planning of
the PMU. As a result of close monitoring by the PMU, the status of the portfolio improved markedly from
the third tranche onwards. Furthermore, the ASB and Secretariat worked diligently to ensure that only
good quality proposals were approved for grants and that lessons learned in previous tranches were applied
in the subsequent call for bids. They also worked closely with Bank supervision missions and updated the
CGS manual on two occasions.

According to the project monitoring data base (fed by information received form sub-projects), 58,000
farmers have benefited, through the 154 sub-projects, from training courses averaging 2,5 days. This
figure can be taken as a proxy for the number of farmers directly benefiting from the CGS. The grants also
financed 3,000 demonstration days for 36,000 farmers on 1,700 demonstration fields, and 745 local
workshops for 50,000 participants. The grant beneficiaries published also about 1,000 brochures and
leaflets with print-runs of 700,000, as well as 680 press and journal articles. One third of sub-grants made
radio and/or TV broadcasts and, in addition, the PMU published two brochures (4,000 copies in total)
presenting the results of 20 CGS sub-projects, and also an impact analysis (200 copies on DVDs) on a
sample of 30 sub-projects.

The number of farmers having adopted at least a part of the technologies proposed is reported by the
implementation reports of the sub-projects at 46,000, which gives an average adoption ratio of nearly 80%.
Further evidence of a high adoption rate was brought, for instance through discussions with dairy plants,
which confirm a noticeable improvement in the quality of milk in areas where milk quality improvement
projects took place; the same evidence was brought for potato seeds projects.


It can be concluded that the CGS program fully met its objectives, changed attitudes to research funding



                                                     - 5 -

and built capacity within the research institutes and universities, stimulated new partnerships between
research institutes, universities, extension agents and farmers, as well as between the public and private
sector agencies, and promoted farmers' associations. The mainstreaming of the CGS under the MAKIS
project provides an opportunity to sustain these achievements.

Component 2 ­ Institutional Support ($3.12 million at completion; rated satisfactory)

This component included a number of technical assistance and training programs, 3 specific programs for
improving ANCA's and County Offices for Agricultural Consulting (OJCAs) capacities, and providing
assistance to the management of the GCS, and to ASB.

ANCA Related Programs:

Rapid Impact Program: This program assisted ANCA in improving its capacity to transfer rapid impact
and on-the shelf available technologies. The program started in 2000, and included the following steps: (a)
assessment of farmers needs by ANCA in 3 pilot counties (36 topics were selected); (b) preparation of
extension materials and testing through seminars with farmers in the pilot counties; (c) editing and
distribution of the final version of brochures and leaflets; (d) identification of 50 additional topics,
preparation, testing and editing of the corresponding brochures and leaflets. Altogether, brochures covering
86 different technologies were published with a total printing of 410,000 copies. Also, an electronic data
base comprising available technologies was built up within ANCA, as an additional activity recommended
by the mid-term review, incorporating information collected from a variety of sources, including
universities, research institutes, and the results of CGS sub-projects.

The quality of the information disseminated was assessed as satisfactory during a final assessment
workshop, and it was reported that farmers had put the information to good use. ANCA substantially
increased its information basis to be transferred to farmers, and improved its ability to design written
information materials corresponding to the needs of small farmers.

Rural Radio and Mass Media Program: This program produced and broadcasted agricultural radio
programs, and trained ANCA in mass media communication techniques.                 The program included the
following activities: (a) training sessions for ANCA communicators, staff of the selected radio stations
and OJCA personnel; (b) purchase of air time (not included at appraisal, but added at the mid-term review)
from local radios from 7 counties for a 6 months period (300 broadcasts in total).

The results of these activities were analyzed during a final assessment workshop, and it was concluded that
radio broadcasts were a useful tool to pass on specific messages to farmers (for instance, on the proper
time to apply pesticides). Although it took a considerable time to implement the program, due to several
managerial and procurement delays, it contributed to improve the communication skills of ANCA and
OJCA personnel. It has been reported that radio broadcasting was continued in some counties after
termination of the air-time contract, through alternative ways of financing (advertising). A contract has also
been recently signed by ANCA with the national radio station for regular agricultural information
programs.

Farm Management Handbook: This program made available to small and medium scale farmers a
practical guide to take the best resource allocation decisions on their farms. It included the following steps:
(a) an identification of the topics to be studied was conducted in 8 counties by a team of specialists (in year
2000); (b) a draft version of the handbook was prepared by consultants, and reviewed by the World Bank
(October, 2003); (c) the draft handbook was then tested in 9 counties, and a workshop organized to finalize


                                                       - 6 -

it (in April, 2004); (d) the final version was printed in January, 2005, which shows an implementation
delay substantially longer than originally expected.

The final assessment workshop recognized the scientific quality of the handbook, but noted that, because of
its complexity, it would probably be of more benefit to larger farmers, particularly for the financial
information therein, and to the training of students and advisory staff in farm management techniques.
2,500 copies have been printed and distributed throughout the ANCA network but there has been only
limited uptake by farmers.

AKIS Action Plan:

Under this activity, the project provided local and international technical assistance for a wide-ranging
review of the Agricultural Knowledge and Information System (AKIS) that provided the basis on which the
project for modernizing the system (MAKIS) was prepared and evaluated by the World Bank. The
elaboration process included several steps: (a) assessment of the present situation (by national consultants);
(b) setting up of an AKIS Steering Committee (in 2002), with representatives from concerned Ministries
and scientific bodies; (c) organization of seminars, meetings with stakeholders and study tours; (d)
organization of a national workshop, drafting of the action plan and discussion with the active participation
of stakeholders. Beside its contribution to the analysis of strengths and weaknesses of the existing system,
this project activity enhanced, through technical assistance, study tours and workshops, the awareness of
stakeholders on best practices, and facilitated, through the participatory approach it promoted, the reaching
of a consensus on the broad objectives of the new MAKIS project.

TA and Training:

Young Scientists: The program developed the knowledge of young Romanian researchers in agriculture
and food safety issues, through fellowships in foreign countries. The first scholarship program at the Iowa
State University, co-funded with USAID, started in 2003 for 20 participants. The program was extended in
2004 to 14 more participants, for scholarships in Iowa (for crops, pigs and farm management) and
Wisconsin (for dairy and cattle) Universities. The candidates were selected through a rigorous process. The
program can be considered very successful, taking into account the influential positions acquired by many
applicants upon their return to Romania, and because it led the way to the creation of a new scholarship
program financed by USAID, the "Norman Borlaug International Science and Technology Fellows
Program" - in September 2004.

In addition, because of the good feedback received under Young Scientists Program, the project financed
three other training programs (not identified at appraisal):

a.       Extension staff exchange: The Scottish Agricultural Colleges (SAC) co-financed a program
through which a total of 20 ANCA/OJCA and MAFRD extension personnel were able to spend one month
observing extension methods with SAC staff on Scottish farms. The project also provided training for four
ANCA staff over six months at the Lille Agricultural Higher Institute in France; this training included farm
enterprise accounting, farm management and agricultural journalism.
b.       Training for Young Agricultural Specialists: With co-financing from the Netherlands, twelve
young agricultural specialists from MAFRD, Universities, Research Institutes, Private Sector and OJCAs,
were trained at the International Agricultural Center (IAC), Wageningen. The training developed skills for
research and extension specialists to provide support for agri-business.
c.       Economic Policies & Strategies: With co-financing from the Netherlands as well, training was
provided to ten agricultural specialists from the MAFRD and the Agricultural Economics Research


                                                     - 7 -

Institute for participatory policy-making and agricultural sector policies.
Support to PMU and assistance to ASB
The PMU and the ASB Technical Secretariat managed the grant scheme in a very cost effective and
efficient manner. The administration cost of the scheme was below 10% of the total amount of the
sub-projects. A very effective monitoring and information management system was set up.

Overall rating of Component 2
The Institutional support component provided all outputs expected at appraisal, and exceeded the
expectations as far as training activities are concerned. Although it undoubtedly improved the capacity of
ANCA/OJCA staff to apply a demand driven approach in extension and to improve their communication
skills, the assistance brought through the component was not sufficient to significantly improve the
performance of the whole institution, which would have required restructuring measures beyond the scope
of the project. The implementation of the component is therefore globally rated as satisfactory, though a
number of activities can be considered as highly satisfactory.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
As noted in the PAD, an overall economic analysis to determine the Net Present value (NPV) and the
Economic Rate of Return (IRR) is very difficult for an applied research and extension project, especially
when including a competitive grant scheme and an institutional support component. An overall economic
analysis was however done at completion for the whole project, by scaling up the benefits of the CGS
sample for which a detailed analysis was done, and by subtracting total project costs. The resulting ERR is
103%. This is an under-estimation of the true project ERR, since it does not take into account the spillover
effects and second-round benefits of individual CGS sub-projects, as well as benefits from the institutional
strengthening component.

An economic and financial analysis of the CGS component was also done at completion, on the basis of the
detailed economic impact analysis for a sample of 30 sub-projects. A specific analysis was made for each
of the 6 main types of sub-projects, depending on the type of crops or activities concerned: milk production,
field crops, horticultural crops, fruit crops and vineyards, diversification projects, integrated development
projects. The benefits are related to increased productivity, increased prices due to improved quality, and
lower production costs due to more efficient practices, for all farmers actively participating in the selected
sub-projects.

The ERRs for different types of sub-projects in the sample vary between a minimum of 46% for
diversification projects, which need more extension work than others, and a maximum of over 200% for
dairy projects, which have a very rapid impact and represent the main category of sub-projects. When
weighted by the relative weight of each project type in the overall portfolio, the average ERR for
sub-projects is estimated at 126 %. These results are highly satisfactory, when compared to usual economic
rates of return for applied research and extension projects. The sensitivity analysis (based on the switching
value method) shows that the ERR of sub-projects would remain superior to 10% even with a price fall of
45%, which is very unlikely.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return was estimated for the GCS component. Such an estimate was not attempted at
appraisal, but could be performed at completion, on the basis of the sample analysis and methodology
described above for ERR calculation. The financial rate of return (FRR) of sub-projects ranges from a
minimum of 34% for diversification sub-projects to 195% for dairy sub-projects. When weighted by the



                                                     - 8 -

relative weight of each type of sub-projects in the portfolio, the average FRR amounts to 111%.

At the farmer's level, the adoption of the technologies disseminated by the sub-projects has resulted,
according to the survey made in the sample, in an average 62% increase of income for the considered crop
(with incremental income per farm ranging from $190 to $900/year). The sensitivity analysis (based on the
switching value method) shows that the FRR of sub-projects would remain superior to 10% even with a
price fall of 43 % in the worst case. Such a decline in price is very unlikely.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
At the Ministry level, the project provided also valuable assistance to MAFRD for the design of a more
efficient extension and research system, and contributed, through technical assistance and training, to
enhance the capacity of the Ministry to monitor and coordinate the system. It also had a positive impact on
Universities, Agricultural Research Institutes and, to a lesser extent, ANCA and OJCAs, as it allowed them
to establish links with farmers' associations and agro-processors, and increased their ability of knowledge
transfer. These achievements were the first steps towards reforming the research system, which will be
undertaken more broadly in the new MAKIS project and will address institutional constraints, which were
beyond the objective of this first project.

 The project has also contributed, through the CGS component, to promote farmers' associations,, which
are crucial, in the Romanian context, for the integration of small farmers into a market oriented agriculture,
in particular, to allow them to better market their products, and group their efforts for procurement of
inputs and equipment. Through the CGS sub-projects, more than 350 of such associations were created or
strengthened, but some will still need additional support to gain full sustainability. Finally, the project
contributed also to increase the role and the capacity of NGOs in applied research and agricultural
extension activities, as 20 NGOs were responsible for implementation of sub-projects. Altogether, the
project resulted in a substantial improvement in the capacity of both private and public sector in the field of
applied research and agricultural extension. It also improved the ability to write good quality project
proposals and thus succeed in securing competitive funds from other sources. The institutional
development impact is therefore rated "substantial".

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
No factors with adverse effects on the project could be identified. On the contrary, the objective of
accession into the EU, which was decided during the implementation of the project, had a very positive
impact, as it increased the awareness of Government, public and private institutions and farmers of the
urgent need to improve the performance of the agricultural knowledge and information system as a whole.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project was affected by the two Government changes that took place during implementation, and
resulted, in both cases, in delays, due to the time required for the new ministerial team to get familiar with
the project concept and procedures. In both cases, however, the new teams brought rapidly their full
support to the project.

Another adverse factor, common to most projects in Romania, was represented by the budget restrictions
which took place occasionally, and resulted in implementation delays for a number of CGS sub-projects. In
spite of these restrictions, all sub-projects could be completed by the closing date of the project (end of
2005), although, for 30 of them, the final sub-project implementation report is still due at the time of the
ICR mission (February, 2006).


                                                     - 9 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The decision, taken in 2000 and reverted only in 2005, to place OJCAs under the authority of the Ministry
of Interior and Public Administration, while the ANCA head office remained under MAFRD, resulted in a
disruption of the links within the public extension agency, and weakened the capacity of the agency to
benefit from the project. Also, low budgets of the research institutes weakened their capacity to apply for
grants under the CGS program, because their staff was underpaid and often not motivated, and because
they faced difficulties with the required co-financing.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at US$17.82 million, of which 62% financed by the Bank,
22% by the Government, and 16% by the entities implementing the sub-projects and by parallel financing
from USAID. At project completion, the final total cost is US$17.61 million. The cost at completion is
99% of the appraisal estimate (see annex 2). The cost of the component B at completion is slightly higher
than at appraisal, due to a minor reallocation to finance additional training programs. While the amount of
the Bank loan is disbursed 99% at completion, the cost actually borne by the Government is only 94% of
the amount estimated at appraisal, mainly due to a reduction in salary taxes (see annex 2). The contribution
of the entities implementing the CGS, set at a minimum of 20% of the total value of the sub-projects at
appraisal and in the operation manual, reached 25% at completion, showing their commitment to the
scheme. The Young Scientists Programme (included in component B) received a higher parallel financing
from USAID than expected at appraisal.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Regarding the first development objective of the Project, the technologies disseminated through the CGS
component are sustainable, because (a) they are simple, low-cost technologies, which require exclusively
inputs (seeds, plant nutrients and animal medications) and services (artificial insemination, quality controls)
available in the country, and (b) they provide high rates of return and substantial incremental net incomes.
It is therefore highly unlikely that farmers will revert to their previous practices. The only possible
uncertainty is the promotion and certification of organic farming, the long term sustainability of which will
depend on the competitive advantage of Romania versus other EU member states, where organic farming is
often heavily subsidized. This risk is however limited, considering the small weight of organic farming
sub-projects in the total portfolio (7%). By contributing to the building up and strengthening of NGOs and
farmers' associations, the Project has also enhanced the ability of farmers to maintain and further promote
the disseminated technologies, as this will enable increased exchanges of experience and accelerate
spillovers.

The project was targeted at poor, subsistence small farmers, which are unlikely to be sustainable within the
context of accession to EU. Very small farms will probably not survive long, because of competitive
pressures and new sanitary EU requirements. Field surveys show however that, although not initially
targeted, farmers who attended most regularly the training and demonstration sessions organized through
the CGS program, and who drew the highest benefits from the project, were medium size or progressive
farmers, who have the best chances to adapt to the new future context.

As regards the second objective, the sustainability of the improvements brought by the Project in the
efficiency, cost effectiveness and client relevance of the management of research and extension will depend,
as far as public institutions are concerned, on their ability to capitalize upon the experience gained through
the Project. They will be strongly supported to do so by the new MAKIS project, which has been designed
to expand activities initiated under ASSP, and to support agricultural research institutions and advisory


                                                     - 10 -

systems.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The MAKIS project will, in particular, assist Research Institutes and ANCA to undertake, with the full
support of the Government, the structural reforms which are necessary for them to fully achieve the
efficiency, effectiveness and client relevance objective. The participatory and demand driven approach to
applied research initiated by ASSP through the competitive grant mechanism will be continued under
MAKIS, which will gradually mainstream CGS as one of the core activities of MAFRD.                      The
sustainability of the Project's achievements can therefore be rated as "highly likely".


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's overall performance in the identification, preparation assistance, and appraisal of the project is
rated satisfactory. The preparation process was adequately performed in a reasonable time, leading to a
well designed project addressing Government priorities as outlined in the CAS.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance was satisfactory. In the course of implementation, the Bank
conducted 9 supervision missions (almost two per year) and a mid term review. The mid term review did
not result in the restructuring of the project components. In general, the composition of the Bank missions
in term of appropriate skill mix, expertise, and staff continuity was assured, with consultants mobilized for
specific areas when needed. The project implementation progress was carefully monitored by the
supervision team, and was recorded in the Implementation Status Reports (ISR). The supervision mission
ratings for achievement of the project's development objective and implementation progress have all been
satisfactory, with the exception of unsatisfactory ratings for project monitoring/evaluation in 2002, for
procurement delays in late 2003 and for project management early in the project's life. The Bank showed
flexibility and reacted promptly to the requests of the implementing agency. The Bank was supportive to
the project management, and intervened every time it was necessary, for instance to draw the attention of
the implementing agency when changes were needed in the project team, to draw the attention of ANCA on
delays in the implementation of their sub-components, and to explain the project concept to new Ministry
officials in order to gain their support after changes in Government

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation was satisfactory. The Government was highly committed to the
project, and was proactive in the preparation process. In particular, it was able to get financial support
from USAID to start project activities before disbursements were made possible on the Bank loan. All
institutional arrangements of the project were in place and operational before the project was approved by
the Board.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of the Government during implementation is rated satisfactory. Overall, the Government
was committed and supportive, notwithstanding the above mentioned financial constraints and the two
Government changes.


                                                     - 11 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The overall performance of the implementing agency is rated satisfactory. Despite its lack of previous
experience with World Bank projects, MAFRD provided a dedicated coordination and oversight of the
project, and reacted adequately to the slow start of PMU activities by replacing the key management staff.

Throughout the project life a satisfactory financial management system has been maintained. The PMU
has respected the relevant loan financial covenants, by submitting to the WB quarterly financial monitoring
reports and annual audit reports. All audit reports have been submitted timely and all the audit opinions
have been clean. Overall, the financial management capacity built throughout the ASSP has been
successfully transferred and scaled up in the new project, MAKIS, with the systems, procedures and
staffing satisfactorily used as part of the new project's institutional arrangements. The final audit report for
ASSP will be submitted to the WB by June 30, 2006. The auditors have been appointed and have started
the audit work. The PMU will also submit, by May 15, 2006, the final set of financial monitoring reports.

Throughout the project life procurement management was done at satisfactorily level. The Borrower
maintained a good procurement monitoring system and, as most of contracts were below prior review
threshold, was able to implement project at efficient level and with good quality. There were no deviations
from the Guidelines requirements noticed during post-review.

Like in case of financial management, capacity built throughout the ASSP has been successfully
transferred and scaled up for MAKIS, with the systems, procedures and staffing satisfactorily used as part
of the new project's institutional arrangements.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The project has demonstrated the high response from farmers to innovative technologies corresponding to
their needs. It has also demonstrated the high response from farmers associations and Research Institutes to
partnership opportunities, and the beneficial impact of such partnerships on efficiency and client relevance
of agricultural research and extension.

It has shown that a strong commitment from Government is a crucial success factor for a reform of the
agricultural research and extension system. It has also confirmed that, in order to become fully responsive
to the demand for new technologies, the agricultural research and extension system needs institutional
strengthening and an in-depth restructuring.

As regards management of agricultural research and extension projects, it has shown that a Project
Management Unit (PMU) contributes to the success of such projects in Romania, provided it is deeply
integrated within the Ministry as the implementing agency. The PMU facilitated a close monitoring of
activities, linkages with the private sector, and an inter-ministerial approach. It has finally confirmed the
importance of a well designed monitoring and evaluation system, which should be set up at an early stage
of the project.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:



                                                     - 12 -

See Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:

USAID

Since 2002, the Young Scientist Program (YSP), co-funded by USAID and USDA, has provided academic
scholarships to more than 30 young Romanian scientists. Through hands-on learning, participants in the
month-long training program gained exposure to the latest scientific developments in various areas of
agriculture, including food safety, biotechnology, livestock genetics, dairy feed and forage, resource
management, agriculture marketing, and international trade and policy. Upon return to Romania, each
participant was required to give a presentation at his/ her home academy or institution. The knowledge
gained prepared the participants to respond promptly to the challenges faced by Romanian agriculture and
to equip them with the tools they need to become leaders
in their professions.
Due to the achievements of the YSP program, USDA expanded the model from a strictly Romanian
initiative into the world-wide Norman Borlaug International Fellowship program, and has agreed to
continue the program even after the planned USAID phase-out from Romania. Thus, the YSP program
will remain as a US Government assistance legacy.
The partnership among USAID, USDA, the World Bank, and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forests and
Rural Development proved to be a model of strong donor coordination.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                     - 13 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Existing on-the-shelf technology is            30                               228
transferred to farmers and agro-processors
A number of innovative technologies and        200                              85 new technologies
promotional materials produced, relevant                                        1671 demonstration sites established
on-farm research and demonstration
established
Wide participation from the public and private 2,000                            2,575 applicationd received for the CGS
sector for research and extension contracts
Number of collaborative work between public 120                                 Public-private partnerships between 227
and private sector agencies                                                     private implementers and 334 public
                                                                                institutions
Number of collaborative work among             80                               154
research and extension service providers
Number of farmers and agro-processors that 7,000                                50,000
have benefited from the research and
extension activities
ASB has representation from the various        13                               13
stakeholders


Output Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of research and extension contracts 150                                  154
funded
Rapid impact program: number of extension      20                               63
messages disseminated by ANCA
TA contracts                                   30                               74
Peer review work completed for CGS             500                              500
projects
Local training for: PMU staff, CGS             6 man-months                     48.3
applicants, ASB members, peer reviewers
Overseas training: Young scientist program;    5 man-months                     36
mass media; extension staff exchange
Farm management handbook produced and          1                                1
distributed
Radio programs developed and released          30                               300
Workshops completed                            25                               27
AKIS Action Plan developed                     1                                1

1End of project




                                                             - 14 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
2. Goods                               0.00               0.00               0.21             0.00              0.21
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.10)           (0.00)             (0.10)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00               0.46             0.00              0.46
Technical Services                    (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.10)           (0.00)             (0.10)
4. Consultant Services                 0.00               0.00               1.53             0.00              1.53
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (1.46)           (0.00)             (1.46)
5. CGS Grants                          0.00               0.00              14.89             0.00              14.89
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (8.94)           (0.00)             (8.94)
6. Recurrent Costs                     0.00               0.00               0.67             0.06              0.73
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.41)           (0.00)             (0.41)
   Total                               0.00               0.00              17.76             0.06              17.82
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (11.01)           (0.00)            (11.01)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                               0.00               0.00              0.27             0.00              0.27
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.22)            (0.00)           (0.22)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              0.09             0.13              0.22
Technical Services                    (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.08)            (0.00)           (0.08)
4. Consultant Services                 0.00               0.00              1.53             0.00              1.53
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.34)            (0.00)           (1.34)
5. CGS Grants                          0.00               0.00             11.53             2.96             14.49
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (8.64)            (0.00)           (8.64)
6. Recurrent Costs                     0.00               0.00              1.10             0.00              1.10
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.62)            (0.00)           (0.62)
   Total                               0.00               0.00             14.52             3.09             17.61
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)           (10.90)            (0.00)           (10.90)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



                                                      - 15 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    Percentage of Appraisal
        Component             Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                           Bank     Govt.       CoF.    Bank       Govt.       CoF.  Bank   Govt.   CoF.
1. Applied Research and    8.92     2.98        2.96     8.60       2.90       3.00  96.4    97.3   101.4
Extension
2. Institution Building
                           2.08     0.88        0.00     2.30       0.70       0.10  110.6   79.5    0.0




                                                 - 16 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic costs and benefits:

 As noted in the PAD, an overall economic analysis to determine the Net Present Value (NPV)
and the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is very difficult to perform for an applied research and
extension project, especially when including a competitive grant scheme and an institutional
support component.

A detailed economic and financial analysis of sub-projects financed under the CGS (which
represents 82% of the project cost) was done based on estimated benefits and number of
participating farmers. An impact analysis has been undertaken by the PMU for a sample of 30
completed sub-projects (out of a total of 154 sub-projects), representative in terms of types of
projects and regional distribution. For this analysis, sub-projects have been classified into nine
groups corresponding to homogeneous types of interventions, in terms of disseminated
technologies, impacted crops or expected outcomes: improvement of dairy production and quality
(1); improvement of cropping practices for field crops (2), horticulture (3), fruit tree crops and
vineyards (4), pastures (5); diversification sub-projects (6); integrated development sub-projects
(7); organic farming development sub-projects (8); and farm management and information
systems sub-projects (9). Out of these nine groups, 6 groups, corresponding to 84% of the
portfolio, could be analyzed in terms of costs and benefits. The results of this analysis are based
on the average of sub-projects for the considered group in the sample. Each group in the sample
includes 3 sub-projects, except the fruit tree improvement group, which is represented by only one
project.

The is no significant distortion between "income/value added/gross margin" at financial and
economic valuation since the implicit taxation of tradable inputs is compensated by the implicit
subsidization on the output side. Economic costs of inputs differ however from financial costs,
due to a 19% VAT applied on purchased seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, and services. Based on a
standard breakdown between project costs liable or not to VAT, the economic cost of
sub-projects is estimated to be 89% of financial costs.

The benefits consist, depending on the type of projects, of increased product prices (due to
improved quality and/or improved marketing method), increased production (due to improved
productivity or introduction of new crops), and/or lower production costs (due to more cost
efficient cropping practices). The calculation of benefits is based on the number of farmers directly
participating in the sub-project (through training, visits to demonstration plots, workshops), and
does not take into consideration the spill-over effect of disseminated technologies, which could
not be assessed for most projects. Nor does it take into consideration the benefits derived from
the strengthening or building up of farmers' associations (better marketing conditions, grouped
procurement of inputs), which can only be assessed in the longer term. The final economic impact
is therefore likely to be substantially higher than shown through this analysis.




                                                  - 17 -

The economic results are summarized in the table below:




  Sub-project type    Relative Number of          Average characteristics of sub-projects in the sample
                      weight in    sub-    Economic   Number of Concerned        NPV          ERR        Price
                        the      projects   project     farmers     crops or     (US$)                 sensitivity
                      portfolio analysed incost (US$) participating   animal                           (switching
                                the sample              directly    products                            values)
 Improvement of        27%           3      92,250        630      milk         492,800      219%       -45%
 milk quality and
 productivity
Improvement of field   14%           3      97,700        648      wheat,       482,511      112%       -67%
crops                                                              maize,
productivity                                                       soybean
                                                                   forage
                                                                   beets,
                                                                   potatoes
Improvement of          7%           3      88,100        132      tomatoes,   236 ,700       76%       -53%
horticulture cropping                                              pepper,
practices                                                          onions,
                                                                   strawberrie
                                                                   s
Improvement of          7%           1      27,000         25      apples        90,700      106%       -69%
cropping practices for
fruit trees and
vineyards
Diversification        14%           3      120,100       214      silkworms,   172,400       46%       -53%
                                                                   coriander,
                                                                   mustard,
                                                                   sunflower
Integrated             15%           3      136,200       277                   350,800       77%       -63%
development
 Weighted average      84%                                                                   126%


The ERRs for CGS sub-projects liable to an economic impact analysis vary between 46% and
over 200%. The highest rates of return are for dairy and field crops improvement projects - areas
in which considerable productivity gains could be achieved at a limited cost. The lowest rate of
return is for diversification projects, which need more extension work than others, and integrated
development projects, because such projects usually include an important capacity building
component, the benefits of which cannot be measured. When weighted by the relative weight of
each group in the portfolio, the average ERR for the sub-projects is estimated at 126 %. These
achievements are highly satisfactory, when compared to usual economic rates of return for applied
research and extension projects.

The sensitivity analysis (based on the switching value method) shows that the ERR of
sub-projects would remain superior to 10% even with a price fall of 45%, which is very
unlikely.




                                                      - 18 -

A full ERR for the whole project was also computed, by scaling up the stream of net
economic benefits to capture the benefits of all the CGS sub-projects, and by substracting
total project costs. The resulting ERR is 103%, which is very satisfactory, but still an
under-estimate of the true ERR for the whole project, since it does not take into account
spillover effects, second-round economic benefits of individual sub-projects, as well as
benefits from other project activities.

Financial analysis:

The financial impact at farmers level and the financial rate of return (FRR) of CGS sub-projects
are estimated on the basis of the sample analysis and methodology described above. The results
are shown in the table below (in US dollars).




Type of projects     Relative            Analysis at the farm level         Analysis at the sub-project level
                    weight in   Average     Net       % income         Project  NPV       FRR      Price sensitivity
                   the portfoliofarm size increme      increase         cost                       (switching value)
                                            ntal                       (US$)                       % price change
                                          income                                                    to reach a FRR
                                            per                                                         of 10%
                                          farmer
                                          (US$/ye
                                            ar)
Improvement of         27%       4 cows     192              49%       102,400 484,800    195%           -44%
milk quality and
productivity
Improvement of         14%        2.1 ha    202              64%       108,400 445,200    96%            -62%
field crops
productivity
Improvement of         7%         0.5 ha    484              81%       97,800 202,800     62%            -45%
horticulture
cropping
practices
Improvement of         7%         1 ha      900              42%       30,000  85,000     91%            -65%
cropping
practices for fruit
trees and
vineyards
Diversification        14%        1.1 ha    270              n. a.     133,300 121,000    34%            -45%
projects
Integrated             15%      1.1 ha and  362              73%       151,200 324,700    67%            -58%
development                      4 cows
projects
Weighted average       84%                  350              64%                          111%



The adoption of the technologies disseminated by the sub-projects has resulted in an incremental
net income per farmer ranging between $190 and $900/year, representing between 42% and 81%
of the net income before the project for the considered crop. The type of sub-project resulting in
highest incremental income is the fruit trees type, because of the high value of the crop. In terms
of relative income increase, the highest performance is for the horticultural sub-projects, which


                                                           - 19 -

combine an important productivity increase and an increased selling price due to better quality and
earlier production. When weighted by the relative weight of each group in the portfolio, the
average FRR for the sample of 30 sub-projects is estimated at 111 %. The difference with ERR is
due to the incidence of VAT on financial costs.

The sensitivity analysis (based on the switching value method) shows that the FRR of sub-projects
would remain superior to 10% even with a price fall of 43 % in the worst case. Such a decline in
price is very unlikely.




                                               - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              July 96


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/11/96                       TEAM LEADER ;
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
              12/17/96                       TEAM LEADER; FIN.MNGM.
                                             SPECIALIST; PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIAL

 Supervision
              02/14/2000                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             AGRICULTURAL
                                             SPECIALIS (1);
                                             AGRICULTURAL
                                             CONSULTAN (1)
              11/16/2000                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             AGRICULTURAL SPECIALIS
                                             (1); AGRICULTURAL
                                             CONSULTAN (1)
              05/09/2001                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             AGRICULTURAL SPECIALIS
                                             (1); AGRICULTURAL
                                             CONSULTAN (1)
              11/02/2001                2    TEAM LEADER (1);                 HS              S
                                             AGRICULTURAL SPEC. (1)
              06/28/2002                3    SR.OPERATIONS OFFICER            S               S
                                             (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                             (1); SR.PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIAL (1)
              12/05/2002 (Mid           6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR.        S               S
              -term review)                  OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             CONSULTANTS (2);
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                             FIN.MNGM. SPECIALIST (1);

              10/10/2003                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR.        S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (2); PROGRAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1)
              06/17/2004                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             FIN.MNGM. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              11/26/2004                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S



                                              - 21 -

                                           CONSULTANT (1)
               12/14/2005              6   ACTING TASK TEAM                   S    S
                                           LEADER (1); CONSULTANT
                                           (2); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                           (1); FIN.MNGM. SPECIALIST
                                           (1); PROCUREMENT
                                           SPECIALIST (1)

 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                         485.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                        306.0
  ICR                                                                  22.3
  Total                                                              813.5




                                            - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Appraisal Document
3. Correspondence relating to extensions of closing date and budget reallocation
4. Aide-mémoires of supervision missions, mid term review, and PSRs
5.    Progress reports and completion report by PMU (November, 2005) as well as other relevant
documentation prepared by the PMU
6.    Social impact analysis report (February, 2006; by a Consultant, for PMU)
7.    Economic and financial impact analysis (November, 2005; by PMU)




                                                 - 25 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of ICR prepared by the MAFRD

Introduction

1.       The MAFRD's Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was presented to the World Bank's final
supervision mission together with an audio-visual presentation of CGS sub-projects. The ICR details the
project's outputs and outcomes by component, provides a comprehensive impact assessment and sets out
the lessons learned. The summary below provides an:
·         Assessment of the Project Objective, design and implementation experience;
·        Evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the evolution and implementation of the
project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant in the future;
·        Evaluation of the performance by the Bank, co-financiers, and other partners during the
implementation of the project, including the effectiveness of their relationships, with special emphasis on
lessons learned.

Assessment of the Project Objective, Design and Implementation Experience

Project objectives

2.       The project had two objectives: (a) provide immediately needed technology, information and
training for private farmers and agro-processors; and (b) improve efficiency, cost effectiveness and client
relevance in the management of research and extension.

3.       These were valid objectives because, at the time, there were many new farmers who had recovered
land in the early 1990s and were seeking advice on developing their farming units. The research institutes
and universities, although they had good personnel and scientific tradition, were not aware of the
technology needs of the new farmers, and did not have a tested mechanism for adapting and transferring
information to farmers. Furthermore, the institutions suffered from lack of funds to carry out research and
disseminate the results. There was a need for new working practices to build research-extension-farmer
linkages and sustainable farming systems.

4.       With regard to agro-processors, they were lacking access to supply of good quality basic products
and were still rebuilding their supply chains following the break-up of the previous collective system.
There was a need to introduce better working practices for the entire chain from on-farm production to
processing.

Project design

5.       To achieve the above-mentioned objectives, the project was designed to: (i) support a number of
priority extension and applied research activities that quickly transfer existing proven technologies to
private farmers and agro-processors; (ii) develop an applied research and extension program through a
Competitive Grant Scheme (CGS) responsive to the needs of a market economy and test a combination of
approaches for upgrading agricultural extension; (iii) build capacity within public and private sector
institutions and amongst farmers to formulate, implement and monitor the research and extension services
programs; and (iv) develop an action plan for reforming the agricultural research, extension and education
system to be supported by investment in a larger project in the next phase.

6.       The focus on applied research and extension activities through a competitive grant scheme ensured



                                                     - 26 -

that research was directed at farmers' immediate needs. The system was transparent in its operation,
flexible in its capacity to address changing priorities and was open to a wide range of beneficiaries
including farmers associations, producers groups, research institutes, universities, private extension
providers, NGOs, etc. The award of the grants on a competitive basis and release in several tranches
against performance, ensured that the money was used for the agreed activities. At the same time, it
provided the different research organizations with the much-needed inputs and operating costs for on-farm
trials and demonstrations.

7.       The establishment of an Agricultural Services Board (ASB) with a wide stakeholder representation
and supported by a CGS Secretariat, together with a peer review system, also proved to be important in
maintaining an objective approach to the screening and selection of CGS beneficiaries.

8.       The initiation of public/private partnerships proved to be a very efficient mechanism for
technologies dissemination. The dissemination of improved technologies was also given a boost by the
support provided to ANCA for the Rapid Impact and Rural Radio Programs.

Implementation Experience (outcomes and outputs are summarized in annex1)

9.       Competitive Grant Scheme (total cost US$14.49 million): A number of 154 grants for applied
research and extension sub-projects were awarded on the basis of seven calls for proposals over 7 years.
The process was initiated in 1999 during the project appraisal. The combination of a drastic screening
process (only around 7% of the proposals received were financed) with a regular review of national
priorities, ensured that only the very best and relevant projects were funded. The wide range of
stakeholders (both public and private sectors) in the ASB gave it credibility, and a wide range of
organizations - research institutes and stations, agricultural universities, private companies, producers
associations and farmers associations ­ submitted proposals.

10.      The wide range of stakeholders involved in CGS implementation ensured a high degree of
relevance of the funded sub-projects. Proven technologies and those improved through research, were
transferred to the farmers and applied on privately owned farms. The relevance of the transferred
technologies was ensured by the extension methods used: a participatory process and dissemination tools
(training programs, on-farm demonstrations and workshops) providing regular interaction between the
extension staff and the farmers, and complemented with printed materials. Farmers considered the
information disseminated very useful, and the regular contact with members of the project implementation
teams facilitated the adoption rate for the disseminated technologies at between 53% and 100%.

11.      Institutional Support (total cost US3.23 million): The institutional support provided for ANCA
was implemented with some delay but ultimately raised the capacity of extension services to disseminate
extension messages more effectively. The Rapid Impact Program, following a needs assessment carried
out at the Judet level early in the project, introduced new ideas for preparing extension messages with a
more practical, less academic approach to ensure that they met real needs, as well as the production of
more attractive materials. Using information from a variety of sources including the Universities, the
Research Institutes and the results of CGS sub-projects, 36 titles were selected during participatory
workshops in Calarasi, Mures and Timisoara. Following the monitoring of this first run, another 50 titles
were selected (23 based on CGS sub-projects) during further workshops, and all the published titles were
widely distributed throughout the country.

12.      The program helped ANCA/OJCA to better communicate with farmers. Farmers were active in
suggesting topics and they put the information to good use by starting new businesses and obtaining EU


                                                      - 27 -

funds through SAPARD. Information is now widely available to OJCAs through ANCA's web-site.
Work on rural radio provided local staff with much needed training in communications and speeded up the
transfer of information to farmers. Financing of air-time had not been included at appraisal but was agreed
to at the Mid-Term Review. Although it still took a considerable time to implement the component, due to
managerial and procurement delays, the contracts with local radio stations from 7 counties allowed for 300
broadcasts to be made. The impact of the radio programs has been evaluated at a series of workshops
which indicated that the component has given the OJCA staff more recognition as a source of advice, and
has broadened the penetration of information in the rural communities. Some of the stations continue to
broadcast rural radio programs daily, using their own funds. The Farm Management Handbook was also
prepared with some delay, and the final product will probably be of more benefit to extension staff and
larger farmers than the targeted small and medium scale farmers. Revisions to produce a shorter version
containing only subject matter of relevance to a wider range of farmers will be required.

13.      Work on The Agricultural Knowledge and Information System (AKIS) Action Plan provided the
basis on which the project for modernizing the system (MAKIS) was successfully prepared and appraised.
The MAKIS project loan agreement was signed January 28, 2005 and became effective June 24, 2005. The
studies provided a better understanding of the Agricultural Research Institutes and Universities, their role
in the different agricultural systems, as well as the priorities for technology development and transfer within
the agricultural sector.

14.        The TA and Training was also successfully implemented and a total of 34 young scientists
benefiting from the program co-financed with USAID. Close co-operation between the PMU and the Iowa
State and Wisconsin universities in the USA resulted in a rigorous selection process that chose about 20%
from the fifty or so applicants each year. On their return, many of the young scientists have been hired in
influential positions and are contributing to development of new technologies. The sub-component
demonstrated the potential synergies and benefits of partnerships with other donors, and contributed to
USAID setting up the Young Scientists Program - the "Norman Borlaug International Science and
Technology Fellows Program" - in September 2004.

15.      Three other co-financed training programs were successfully implemented: (a) Extension staff
exchange, with the Scottish Agricultural Colleges (SAC), for a total of 20 ANCA/OJCA and MAFRD
extension personnel, and training for four ANCA staff over six months at the Lille Agricultural Higher
Institute; (b) Training for Young Agricultural Specialists - twelve young agricultural specialists from
MAFRD, Universities, Research Institutes, Private Sector and OJCAs, were trained at the International
Agricultural Center, Wageningen; and (c) Economic Policies & Strategies - training was provided to ten
agricultural specialists from MAFRD and the Agricultural Economics Research Institute in the leadership
and management of participatory policy-making and on sector agricultural policies, at IAC, Wageningen.



Borrower Performance and Lessons Learned

16.      Project Management: It took some time to build an effective PMU, but once fully established it
provided effective technical leadership and efficient project administration. The initial problems with
several changes of key administrative staff, including four PMU directors in the first two years of the
project, undoubtedly contributed to the delayed implementation. Given the innovative nature of the CGS, it
inevitably took time to build understanding at all levels of MAFRD and to put in place the appropriate
management systems. Furthermore, two changes in Government during the life of the project led to some
delays each time MAFRD changed leadership. Nevertheless, the Borrower worked effectively with the
Bank Resident Mission to resolve issues as they arose. As a result, under the direction of the present PMU


                                                      - 28 -

Director since March 2002, the project development objectives have been achieved, expected project
outputs have been, in many cases, exceeded, and funds fully disbursed. The PMU has also played an
important role in: maintaining support for the project during changes in government; publicizing the results
of the CGS sub-projects; integrating the project activities within MAFRD; and in supporting MAFRD in
its dealings within the government and with the press.

17.      Procurement and Financial Management: The success with which the PMU's procurement and
financial staff trained the CGS grant recipients on procurement procedures and on the financial record
keeping and reporting required by the Government and the World Bank, was a major factor in the
satisfactory procurement and financial management ratings received by the project following ex-post
reviews by the Bank.

18.      Project Monitoring and Evaluation: The Borrower has also fulfilled its obligations with respect to
monitoring and evaluation of the project. Although there were delays in establishing the project's
Management Information System (MIS), a comprehensive database is now in place and has proved to be an
effective tool for managing the CGS contracts and checking on progress prior to release of funds, as well as
a management tool for the project as a whole and for regular reporting to MAFRD, ASB and the World
Bank. In 2003 and 2004, the entire CGS portfolio was evaluated and 10 successful sub-projects were
selected each time as being good practice, and the results were widely disseminated. Subsequently, in
2004/05 a sample of 30 sub-projects were selected for detailed analysis, calculation of IRRs and NPVs and
the results were published.

19.      Lessons Learned: Several lessons were learned from implementation of the CGS component,
namely: (a) early efforts should be made to train potential grant recipients in the formulation of detailed
proposals; (b) a two-stage bidding process ­ a Concept Note, which, if approved, is followed by a more
detailed project proposal ­ is more effective; (c) peer reviewers should also be trained up-front to ensure
uniform evaluations; (d) while research salaries remain low, some financial incentives are required for staff
working in sub-projects in order to boost their commitment; (e) the project's MIS needs to be in place
before CGS sub-projects start operate, and more attention should be paid to obtaining baseline information
so as to facilitate the impact assessment; (f) thorough up-front training of grant recipients in procurement
and financial management pays off in lower supervision costs; and implementation teams should always
include somebody familiar with financial management; (g) the considerable workload of the CGS Technical
Secretariat built up over the duration of the project, requiring the review of many progress reports and
sometimes leading to delays in release of payments; newly-created Technical Secretariats should be able to
benefit from exposure to the experience of well-established schemes through training and technical
assistance; and (h) the CGS Operational Manual should cover all matters likely to be encountered in
implementing sub-projects and should be updated regularly.
20.      The CGS promoted research commitments based on outcomes that can be monitored and equitable
access to grant funds for research institutions, extension agencies, universities, private industry and NGOs.
The stakeholder involvement in establishing the national research priorities in a participatory process has
been successful. The CGS proved to be a non-political and transparent process that increased the emphasis
on cost effectiveness and technology dissemination. The impact was consistent both at farmer and at
institutional level. The results were convincing enough for the Romanian Government to mainstream the
CGS as part of MAKIS and the continuing reform process.

21.      With regard to the institutional support component, the changes in the subordination of the OJCA
from MAFRD to the Ministry of Administration and Interior and back again, complicated matters and
stressesed the need to ensure institutional consistency during project implementation. Nevertheless, the
project was not supposed to address the ANCA's institutional structure, and, in spite of the changes, was


                                                     - 29 -

     able to strengthen the research-extension-farmers linkages and transfer on-the-shelf information as
     intended.

     22.       Overall, at farmer level, the extension of the applied research results led to increased profitability
     and greater likelihood of farmers being able to improve their farms and businesses. The livestock sector
     was the first to show outcomes: often the farmer knowledge level was so low that simple training sessions
     quickly yielded positive results, including better animal nutrition, management and hygiene, and effective
     use of organic wastes. In the crop sector, outcomes did not appear as fast, since, with longer production
     cycles and varying weather patterns, it was sometimes difficult to measure the real impact on yield from
     one cycle to another, but some technologies improved production efficiency through lower input use and
     better farm management. Generally there were improvements in product quality, with production aimed
     more at meeting specific market needs and export standards.

     Performance of the World Bank and Other Co-financiers

     23.       The Bank's Resident Mission and Bank supervision missions assisted MAFRD in resolving the
     initial problems with project management, and the accessibility of the Resident Mission was particularly
     helpful in reaching timely decisions. The relationship with USAID worked well, not only in providing
     funding for the PMU prior to effectiveness of the Bank loan, but also in implementing the Young
     Scientists' Program. There was also good collaboration with the Scottish Agricultural Colleges,
     Netherlands Embassy and IAC, Wageningen, on the technical assistance and training program.



Project                          Outcome/Impact Indicators                     Baseline                          Actual
Development Objective
To provide                     Existing on-the-shelf             Technology was                    Existing on-the-shelf technologies
immediately                    technology is transferred         transferred direct from
needed                         to farmers and agro-processors    research institutes to            were transferred to farmers (63 by
technology,                                                      managers of state and             the ANCA Rapid Impact
information                                                      collective farms. Post-1990       Program, and 165 by the CGS).
and training to                                                  disconnection between available In addition, a number of 85 new
private farmers                                                  on-the-shelf                      technologies were
and agro-processors                                              technologies and farmers'         transferred through the CGS.
                                                                 information needs.
                               A number of innovative            Weak link between research        1671 demonstration and on-farm
                               technologies and promotional      institutions, extension services  research
                               materials produced, relevant      and farmers.                      were established
                               on-farm research and
                               demonstration established
Improve efficiency,            A Competitive Grant Scheme        No multi-stakeholder body to      ASB and CGS Secretariat
cost effectiveness             (CGS) that will support relevant review and approve priorities and established in 1999 and
and client relevance           research and extension program    projects for research and         membership of ASB now: 6
in the management              managed by an Agricultural        extension                         members including President
of research and                Services Board (ASB) with                                           from private sector; 3 ­
extension.                     farmer representatives and private                                  Agricultural Universities &
                               sector is operational, procedures                                   Research Institutes; 1­ ASAS; 1 ­
                               for the scheme laid down and                                        MAFRD; 1­ Ministry of Public
                               wide membership of the                                              Finance; 1­ ANCA. CGS
                               stakeholders in ASB                                                 Operational Manual published in
                               management.                                                         the Official Gazette in September
                                                                                                   2001.
                               Wide participation from the       No real competition for           A total of 2575 applications
                               public and private sector in      agricultural research and no      received for the CGS in the seven
                               competing for research and        competition for extension servicesCGS calls for proposals. Total of



                                                              - 30 -

extension contract funds to meet                                    154 sub-projects financed by CGS
priorities set by MAFRD in                                          involving over 500 different
discussion with ASB.                                                agencies.
Amount of collaborative work      No collaboration between public Collaborative public-private
between public and private sector and private sector agencies for   partnerships were established
agencies                          delivering research and extension between 227 private
                                  services                          implementers and 334 public
                                                                    institutions (58% of the total
                                                                    grant amount awarded to private
                                                                    implementers).
Amount of collaborative work      No collaboration among research 154 projects created collaborative
among research and extension      and extension service providers   work between research and
service providers                                                   extension providers.
Number of farmers and             Private farmers not benefiting    A total of about 50,000 farmers
agro-processors that have         from public research results.     benefited from: on-farm
benefited from the research and                                     demonstrations (3,957), training
extension activities                                                (1,608) and workshops (704); 730
                                                                    brochures and 535 leaflets ­ total
                                                                    print run about 1 million copies.




                              - 31 -

         Project Outputs                  Output Indicators                       Baseline                       Actual
CGS administration is fully       ASB established and Secretariat No competitive structures                    See above
operational                       is effective
Research/extension activities     Number of research and extensionNo research funding under        154 CGS sub-projects contracted
from priority topics selected for contracts funded                   competitive arrangements      in seven tranches
support
Selected extension approaches     Lessons learned from extension     No check on extension methods Survey among CGS extension
tested                            approaches lead to mainstreaming efficiency                      practitioners. Most appreciated by
                                  the successful ones                                              farmers in order preference were
                                                                                                   as follows: demonstration fields;
                                                                                                   extension materials; training
                                                                                                   sessions; farmer to farmer
                                                                                                   extension; workshops;
                                                                                                   mass-media
                                  Local training for CGS applicants                                42 person months equivalent
Capacity in the public/private                                                                     trained in CGS project proposal
sector and among farmers to                                                                        writing, procurement, financial
formulate, implement and                                                                           management and reporting
monitor research and extension    Training for ASB members                                         One workshop and study tour
program, strengthened.            Peer review work completed for                                   About 2,575 CGS applications
                                  CGS projects                                                     analyzed by 258 peer reviewers in
                                                                                                   the 7 CGS calls
                                  Young scientists' program                                        34 to USA for short-term training
                                                                                                   (total 36 pm)
                                  Extension staff exchange program                                 Two programs with IAC,
                                                                                                   Wageningen, and SAC,
                                                                                                   Aberdeen for total of 24 pm
                                  Sector agriculture policies study                                Additional program of 5 person
                                  tour                                                             months
                                  Rapid Impact Program ­ number Little user participation in       86 different technology brochures
ANCA has new information to       of new messages disseminated       prioritization                printed in 410,000 copies
disseminate to farmers            Farm management handbook           No farm management handbook   1 FMH printed in 2,500 copies.
                                  produced and distributed                                         Disseminated through ANCA
                                                                                                   network
                                  Radio programs developed and                                     >300 radio programs developed
                                  released                                                         and released in 7 counties x 2
                                                                                                   broadcasts per day x 5 minutes x
                                                                                                   5 days a week x 8 month
ANCA's planned contribution to Annual ANCA work plan,                No action plan                ANCA's future program included
the AKIS in Romania clarified to discussions & workshops                                           in AKIS action plan developed as
solicit support from                                                                               part of ASSP and to be financed
Government/donors for ANCA's                                                                       under MAKIS project.
future work program




                                                                  - 32 -

- 33 -

