Report No. PID3280
Project Name                     Romania-Agricultural Support Services (@)
Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       ROPA43882
Borrower                         Government
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Agriculture And Food
24, Blvd. Carol I, Bucharest
Tel:    40-1-614-4020
Fax:    40-1-613-0322
Environment Category             C
Date this PID Prepared           August 17, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date:        December 1, 1998
Projected Board Date             July 1, 1999
1.      Sector Background: During the 1960s, Romania made substantial investments
in institutions for agricultural research. In 1997, there were 22 central
Research Institutes, 98 regional stations and 5 agricultural universities with
varying responsibility for agricultural research. Since the mid-1970s there
has been little new investment in agricultural research. The agricultural
research system suffers from: an emphasis on basic science over applied
research; emphasis on farm output over efficient farm production; large
production units; narrowly focused scientists; lack of client orientation;
professional isolation; public sector dominance; financial sustainability; and
little accountability to the beneficiaries.
2.      In the past, technology transfer was direct from research institutes to
the managers and technicians employed by the state and collective farms. There
was no extension or advisory services for private farmers. Today, the Ministry
of Agriculture and Food (MAF) has several thousand technically trained
agriculturists assigned to 41 Judets. Available staff have specialized
technical training, but they have limited diagnostic, farm management and
demonstration/training skills that are relevant to assessing and serving the
needs of small private farmers. Furthermore, they have very limited economic
training to assess what support would yield the highest benefits, and lack
experience working in a client-responsive environment The emerging private
sector increasingly recognizes the importance of providing credible advice as
part of good business practice, but has limited experience in delivery. The
farming population is not adequately prepared to mobilize itself to formulate
priority needs and to commit to individual and collective action for improved
management of their resources.
3.      There is an immediate need to address the priority problems of private
farmers through the provision of appropriate technology, training and
information. This need can be partly addressed by establishing a competitive
agricultural research grant fund scheme to support research that would
directly impact on the productivity of crop and livestock technologies and
that would increase the incomes of private farm households. The project will
provide funds to formulate, select, test and monitor ways of extension new to



Romania - involving the private sector and the farmers - and help build
capacity in the management of funding and delivery of extension services.
4.      Objectives: The project has two objectives: (a) to provide immediately
needed technology, information and training to private farmers and agro-
processors, and (b) to improve efficiency, cost effectiveness and client
relevance in the management of research and extension. Towards this, the
project will:
(a)     Develop an applied research service through a Competitive Research Grant
Scheme that is responsive to the needs of a market economy;
(b)     Test a combination of approaches for upgrading agricultural extension;
(c)     Build capacity within public sector, private sector, and farmers to
formulate, implement and monitor the research and extension services system;
(d)     Assist in the development of an action plan for research, extension and
training on the basis of a broad strategy now under preparation.
5.      Description: The project will include three components: (i) a competitive
research grant program (CRGS) that will fund applied agricultural research on
priority problems facing private farmers; (ii) support for innovative, pilot
extension initiatives whose purpose will be to test a combination of
approaches of organizing advisory services for private farmers and agro-
processors, and to strengthen MAF's capacity to provide advisory services to
private farmers; and (iii) prepare an action plan for research and extension
in Romania to meet the needs of market oriented agriculture.
6.      Financing:   The project cost is estimated at $20 million, of which the
Bank loan is expected to be about $15 million.
7.      Implementation:   The project will be implemented over a period of four
years by the Department of Extension and Training in MAF. A Project
Coordination Unit will be established at MAF to oversee project
implementation.
8.      Lessons learned from past operations in the sector: Previous experience
of agricultural support service projects aimed at developing private farming
sector in other Central and Eastern European countries have shown that such
projects must: be focused on private farmer needs; facilitate farmer
participation in decision making and implementation; and, have attainable
objectives and targets particularly in terms of sustainability. Competitive
Research Grant funding has proven to be effective in improving client
orientation and the productivity of research, as well as reforming the supply-
driven, centralized research management, prevalent in many transition
economies.
9.      Poverty Category:   Not applicable.
10.     Environmental Aspects: No adverse environmental impact is expected from
this component. The demand driven productivity oriented farming is expected
to have reduced chemical usage. Research proposals which imply any adverse
environmental effects will not be funded. In fact, because of the nature of
the work likely to be funded, there should be long term environmental, welfare
and health and safety benefits. The project will support environmentally-
friendly and socially sound agricultural practices.
11.     Program Objective Categories:   Not applicable.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
- 2 -



1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Kundhavi Kadiresan, ECSSD
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-4388
Fax No.:         (202) 614-0697
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 4, 1998.
- 3 -



