Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,LASC 0?>Y-/YC
Reprt No. P-4002-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNAT!ONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$32.6 MILLION
TO THE
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOHMINICATIONS CORPORATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
May 15, 1985
Thdxunmmt In a resucukd dbtSEp-m *od My be uWu by recpients ady In the pedwumne of
ti offiidal duti  as eoments am nmt oerwise be disioe d widhs WorldD Bn}  sherlut



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       -       Kenya Shilling (KSh)
US$1.00            -        KSh 14.80
KSh 1.00            -       US$0.67
KSh 1,000,000      -        US$67,567
FISCAL YEAR
Government:   July 1 - June 30
KPTC      :  January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY
Channel          - one circuit of a carrier system carLying speech or
telegraph signals
DEL             - Direct Exchange Line-or connected line
KENEXTEL        - Kenya External Telecommunications Company Limited--an
autonomous government-owned company which was responsible
for the technical maintenance and operations of Kenya's
external telecommunications facilities until its merger
into KPTC in 1982
KPTC            - Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation--an
autonomous government-owned public corporation
responsible for the operation of all public
telecommunications services
Microwave       - radio system working at frequencies above 300 MHz but
normally applied to systems working at frequencies above
1,000 MHz
Multiplex       - part of the equipment in a carrier system (see above)
PCO             - Public Call Office
STD             - Subscriber Trunk Dialling
Telex           - telegraph exchange service for subscribers ultra high
frequency radio beyond 300 MHz; and very high frequency
radio between 30-300 MHz



FOR OMCAL US ONLY
KENYA
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIOtUS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation.
Guarantor:             Republic of Kenya.
Amount:                US$32.6 million equivalent.
Terms:                 Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years' grace, at
standard variable interest rate.  KPTC would bear
the foreign exchange risk and pay to the Government
a fee of one percent (1X) p.a. of the principal
amount of the loan outstanding.
Project Description:  The project forms an integral part of the five-year
(1984-88) development plan of KPTC and would be
iaplemented during 1985-89. It would pursue the
expansion, improvement and modernization of the
infrastructure undertaken by the two previous
Bank-financed projects and support the institu-
tional development of KPTC. Emphasis would be
placed on strengthening KPTC's management systems
which would be monitored through a series of
technical and financial performance indicators. The
project comprises: (a) expansion of telephone and
telex switching facilities, associated cable
networks and subscriber plants, and expansion of
international and long-distance facilities; Cb)
improvement in workshops and repair facilities and
provision of spare parts (c) strengthening of KPTC
training programs and procurement of laboratory
equipment; and (d) improvement of KPTC's management
systems and provision of consultants' services for
studies, including a review of the telecommunica-
tions tariff structure. Business and Government
subscribers would remain the major beneficiaries of
the expansion of local and long distance telephone
and telex facilities, while the expansion of
telephone facilities to the provincial towns and
remote areas would primarily benefit the rural
population.
Project Risk:          Project implementation would be adversely affected
by inadequate improvements in the management
system. However, this risk is contained by the
monitoring and review procedure included in the
project.
This document has a rticeddstibution and may be used by recipents only in Me perfomance 
of their ofbic duties. Its cotents may not otherwse be disclosed without World Bank authoriuston.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
Esti-ated Costi:                            US$ million equivalent  -
Local        Foreign       Total
Local switching, netwnrk
and subscriber plant                       8.6            32.4       41.0
Long distance transmission
and switching equipment                    0.3             3.1        3.4
International switching equipment
and earth station                          0.1             1.9        2.0
Rural Facilities                             0.8             2.2        3.0
Telex and Telegraph                          0.7             6.8        7.5
Buildings                                    2.7             1.1        3.8
Power Plantq                                  -              0.8        0.8
Workshops                                    0.3             0.5        0.8
Training                                     0.7             1.1         1.8
Consultancy                                    -             1.0        1.0
Total Base Cost                         14.1            51.0       65.1
Physical Contingencies                       0.8             2.5        3.3
Price Contingencies                          6.0            11.8       17.8
TOTAL a/                            20.8            65.3       86.1
Financing Plan
-  (US$ million equivalent)
Local         Foreign    Total
Bank                                                        32.6       32.6
European Investment Bank                                    14.6       14.6
Export Credits                                -             16.7       16.7
KPTC b/                                     20.8             1.4       22.2
TOTAL                               20.8            65.3       86.1
a/ Errors due to rounding.
bI KPTC is exempt from customs duties on imported goods and pays no
import taxes.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ million equivalent)
Bank FY                       86        87       88       89        90
Annual                        3.8      10.2      9.8       5.9      2.9
Cumulative                    3.8      14.0     23.8     29.7      32.6
Economic Rate of Return:   262
Staff Appraisal Report      Report No. 5517-KE, dated May 9, 1985.
Map:                        IBRD 18864-XE.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
WITH TKE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (KPTC), with the
guarantee of the Republic of Kenya, for the equivalent of US$32.6 million
to help finance a third telecommunications project. The loan would be
repayable in 20 years, including 5 years' grace, at the standard variable
interest rate. In addition, a loan from the European Investment Bank (EIB)
for 22.0 million e.c.u. (approximately equivalent to US$14.6 million) for
15 years, including 4 1/2 years' grace, at about 6 1/2% per annum, would be
used to help finance the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4689-KE) dated October
5, 1983, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A summary of
social and economic data is in Annex I.
Long-Term Growth and Structural Issues
3.        Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  Kenya's first decade
as an independent nation was one of remarkable growth and structural trans-
formation. Total GDP grew at an annual average rate of 6.6Z during
1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing grew rapidly, at 4.7% and 8.4%
per annum respectively. The expansion of agriculture was stimulated by the
conversion of considerable high-potential land from extensive use to small-
holder cultivation, the introduction of high-value production activities,
and the adoption of high-yielding maize varieties. Growth of manufacturing
was made possible very largely by the expansion of domestic demand due to
rising agricultural incomes, while investment for domestic production was
being encouraged by high levels of protection, a liberal attitude towards
foreign investment, and active Government promotion of and participation in
manufacturing ventures.
4.        Following the first oil crisis of 1973, growth decelerated to 4X
p.a., or virtual stagnation in per capita terms, reflecting not only the
oil shock, but also the emergence or intensification of structural con-
straints largely unrelated to the post-1973 terms of trade deterioration.
These problems are briefly described below.
5.        First, agricultural growth decelerated from 4.5% in the first
decade after independence to 2.5% during the 1970s. This was due partly to
the tapering off of the specific positive factors which had sustained agri-
cultural growth in the first decade after independence. But the decelera-



- 2 -
tion was also due to Government policies, including excessive protection
for the industrial sector which facilitated the maintenance of an over-
valued exchange rate, thereby turning the internal terms of trade against
the agricultural sector, and inefficient, monopolistic Government involve-
ment in agricultural marketing which discouraged production and placed
undue burdens on the budget. There was also growing pressure of the rural
population on the country's limited and unequally distributed supply of
medium and high pocential land (only 18% of the total land area), contri-
buting to over-intensive use in some areas.
6.        Second, industrial growth also decelerated, according to official
statistics, from 8.0% in the first decade after independence to 6.5% during
the period 1973-80. This growth was being accomplished at an increasingly
higher cost in terms of the capital-intensity of investment, low labor
absorption, and the burden on the balance of payments of a sector which
imported a substantial volume of intermediate goods for 'final touch-
processing and assembly, but exported very little. These undesirable
features resulted from Government policies which included high levels of
protection, Government financial participation in industrial firms, and
fiscal incentives for investment. Protection, which was already high in
the late 1960s, increased in 1970s due to the ratchet effect' of the
Government's behavior in responding to fluctuations in the external terms
of trade and foreign exchange availability. During periods of foreign
exchange constraint, the Government intensified quantitative import
restrictions, but during periods of easy foreign exchange availability, the
Government did not relax import restrictions, but increased Government
expenditures instead.
7.        Third, energy supplies became relatively more expensive.  The oil
price increases of the 197Us raised the cost of imported energy
substantially; in 1980, the cost of petroleum imports for domestic
consumption (i.e., exclusive of re-exports of petroleum products) was
equivalent to 36% of nonfuel export receipts, as compared with an average
of 13Z during 1976-78. Fuelwood and charcoal, which account for more than
half of the energy supply in Kenya's economy, also became relatively more
expensive, since the rate of consumption was four times the rate of
replenishment.
8.        A fourth issue, related to the above, is the overexpansion and
inadequate management of the public sector, particularly the parastatal
sector. The Report of the Working Party on Government Expenditures
declared that the fiscal deficit was "a fundamental structural problem-
arising partly from "the proliferation of commercial activities by
Government which has diverted scarce management talent away from the
central functions of Government.' The Government's Sessional Paper on
Development Prospects and Policies stated that "Structural adjustment must
embrace a more constructive and profitable role for essential parastatals
and the return of others to private sector operation".
9.        Finally, the growth of Kenya's population had accelerated from
3.4% p.a. during the intercensal period 1962-69 to 3.8% p.a., the third
highest rate in the world, during the intercensal period 1969-79. This
acceleration reflected a decline in mortality, an increase in fertility
arising from continuation of the traditional preference for large families,
and health improvements enabling fertility to move closer to its biological



-3 -
limit. Kenya is one of only four countries in the world with a total
fertility rate greater than 7.0. The rapid population growth generated by
this high and increasing fertility generated increasing pressures on the
land, the labor market, and education and health services.
Economic Policies and Developments During the Fourth Plan Period 1979-83
10.       The above structural issues were generally well recognized in the
Fourth Plan, which stated that "The progress we have made in the past has
pre-empted the easy forms of development in such sectors as agriculture and
industry. We must now address ourselves to more difficult problems."
Under the Structural Adjustment I (1980) and Structural Adjustment II
(1982) agreements with the Bank, many of the Government's general Plan
intentions were refined into more specific commitments on the content and
timing of structural adjustment measures. The Fourth Plan also recognized
that, in the wake of the "coffee boom" of 1976-77, the external terms of
trade would deteriorate, and that it would be necessary to contain fiscal
and external deficits during the Plan period. These aspects of Govern-
ment's policy were refined into more specific commitments under a series of
IMF programs.
11.       The Plan stated that future industrial growth would require
"increasing emphasis on the promotion of industrial efficiency and decreas-
ing emphasis on industrial protection," and accordingly proposed the phas-
ing out of quantitative import restrictions, tariff rationalization, and
export promotion. Under both Structural Adjustment I and II, the
Government committed itself to timetables for carrying out industrial
studies, reducing quantitative restrictions (QRs), designing and
implementing a new, more moderate and uniform tariff structure, and
developing an export promotion program. The timetable for import
liberalization was disrupted by foreign exchange problems, and presently
only 29X of the items are on the unrestricted list.The Government raised
tariffs on four occasions and lowered them in the two most recent budgets.
The impact of these adjustments on industrial protection, in the
countinuing presence of QRs, has not been measured, and the new tariff
structure intended to be in place when the QRs have been substantially
phased out has not yet been designed. While intentions were announced in
the June 1983 budget speech regarding export finance and manufacturing in
bond, and steps have been taken to strengthen the administration of fiscal
incentives for exports, the implementation of export promotion measures has
been lagging.
12.       The Plan proposed that domestic agricultural prices "be brought
more into line with long term trends in world market prices." The Plan
also stated that 'In principle, there will be direct intervention only in
those areas of agricultural and food marketing where cooperatives and the
private sector cannot or do not perform essential functions and services
adequately or competitively," and that restrictions on private sector mar-
keting activity would be relaxed to encourage private investment in agri-
cultural marketing. During 1982, both producer and consumer prices for
agricultural products were raised closer to border prices. In the area of
grain marketing, following a consultants' study, the Government reaffirmed
its Development Plan intention to redefine the role of the key parastatal
in this sector to that of a market stabilization and food security
function, rather than a legal monopolist, and to permit private traders to



-4-
participate in grait marketing. However, the Government has not yet
formulated an action program to implement this intention, and has recently
revised its previous decision by announcing that the only purchaser to be
permitted to enter the maize market is to be a new apex Cooperative, the
Kenya Grain Growers Cooperative Union.
13.       During the Plan period, the Government continued to follow, as it
had previously, appropriate energy pricing principles. There has been some
reduction in dependence on imported energy through the development of
hydroelectric and geothermal sources. However, apparently due to the
institutional fragmentation of the sector, progress on drawing up a well-
defined energy investment program with an adequate justification had been
relatively slow.
14.       In 1983, the Government prepared, for the first time ever, a
Forward budget and Public Investment Program document, which was
distributed to the January 1984 meeting of the Consultative Group. The
recurrent/capital distribution contained in the Forward Budget reflected
the recommendation of the Working Party on Government Expenditures that
recurrent expenditures be increased more to ensure utilization of existing
capacity and the magnitude of the expenditure program was consistent with
the maintenance of fiscal health required for economic growth and
stability. There remains a need to strengthen public expenditure planning
in a number of respects, including project evaluation and monitoring, and
bringing the parastatals into a public sector financial planning process.
15.       In order to provide more effective leadership to the family
planning program, particularly information and education to generate
greater demand for family planning services, a National Council for
Population and Development was established in the Office of the Vice
President in 1982. However, the Government has not yet adopted the
demographic targets which are necessary foundations of a credible fertility
reduction program, but work on this is underway. In the past, Government
budgetary allocations have not reflected the assignment of a high priority
to family planning, but the President has stated that such allocations will
be substantially increased in the future.
16.       While the Government has made only limited progress on structural
adjustment, by the end of 1983 it had made important progress on reducing
fiscal and external deficits to sustainable levels through stabilization
measures, despite the fact that the terms of trade deterioration was
sharper than expected during the Fourth Plan period. Fiscal deficits were
gradually reduced through retrenchment on Central Government expenditure
from the excessive level of 35% of GNP in fiscal year 1980/81 to 27% of GNP
in fiscal year 1983/84. Interest rates were increased, credit expansion
decelerated, and wages were held down. The exchange rate was adjusted in
nominal terms, but due to domestic inflation, the real effective exchange
value of the Shilling at the end of 1983 was only 32 less than in 1976.
The current account deficit was reduced from 12% of GDP in 1980 to 4% in
1983, but during the same period the debt service ratio increased from 13%
to 28%.
17.       Developments in the real economy during the Fourth Plan period
were consistent with Government policies, as actually implemented.
Agricultural output stagnated during the first two years of the Fourth



-5-
Plan, partly because of drought, and chen grew significantly during the
remaining three years because of the return of normal rainfall and more
favorable prices for agricultural products. The growth rate of
agricultural production from 1978 to 1983, both of which were normal
weather years, was 2.52 p.a. The growth rate of industrial ol'tput was 62
p.a. during the first two years of the Plan period, when Government
expenditures were very high, and then decelerated to 3.5X p.a. during the
final three years, as the stabilization measures began to take effect.
Export performance was disappointing, as export volume actually fell by 11X
over the Plan period. This resulted from a substantial decline in the
volume of petroleum product exports from the Mombasa oil refinery and the
sluggish growth of non-oil exports by only 12 p.a. Real GDP grew by 42
p.a. Because of the deterioration in the external terms of trade, real
gross domestic income grew more slowly than real GDP, and real GDY per
capita fell by 52 during the Plan period.
The Fifth Plan and Medium-Term Prospects
18.       The Fifth Plan.  in December 1983, the Government published its
Fifth Development Plan (1984-88). The Plan's macroeconomic framework is
realistic and its central theme - "mobilizing domestic resources for
equitable development" - is timely and appropriate. The Plan recognizes
that "Public Investment has often been less productive than private
investment' and declares that "Growth in the private sector is the core of
the development process in Kenya." The new Plan clearly reflects the
Government's determination to avoid the excessive spending which was
undermining Kenya's domestic financial stability and external financial
position during the first three years of the Fourth Plan period. however,
the Government's intentions on structural adjustment issues such as import
liberalization and agricultural marketing are not specifically defined.
19.       The Drought and Its Implications for 1984-85.  Unfortunately, the
Government's hopes for launching the Fifth Plan with a year of recovery in
per capita income have been dashed by the worst drought in fifty years.
The "short rains" failed in some parts of the country during
October-November 1983, and the "long rains" failed entirely during
March-May 1984 in most of the maize-growing areas. Grain production has
been only 65% of normal, and production of other crops has also been
adversely affected. Dairy production is sharply down, and the national
*         livestock herd is being reduced by record levels of slaughter.  GDP growth
in 1984 is expected to be zero. There were excellent short rains during
October-November 1984, and it is being assumed for planning purposes that
the drought is over and that rainfall in 1985 will be normal and that the
economy will recover. However, the recently departed drought continues to
have significant financial implications.
20.       The Government's strategy for dealing with the financial
implications of the drought has recently been formalized in an IMF Standby
program covering calendar 1985. The impact of the drought on the budget
has been mitigated by the approximate doubling of external grant aid from
1.3% of GNP in fiscal year 1983/84 to 2.6% of GNP in fiscal year 1984/85.
The impact of the drought on the balance of payments has been mitigated in
1984 by exceptionqlly high prices for coffee and tea (the external terms of
trade are estimated to have improved by 13% in 1984), the increase in grant
aid, and the Government's ability to draw down its strategic grain



- 6 -
reserve. The current account deficit is expected to be a modest 3.4X of
GDP and a slight overall surplus is expected. The major impact on the
balance of payments will be in 1985 when the terms of trade are expected to
deteriorate as coffee and tea prices return to more normal levels, and the
bulk of the grain imports will take place. The current account deficit is
expected to widen to 5.8X of GNP. The Government will finance this deficit
from existing and new Official Development Assistance commitments, IMF
Standby and Compensatory drawings, some draw-down of reserves, and a modest
amount of commercial bank borrowing, to which Kenya has not had substantial
recourse since 1981.
21.       Medium-term Prospects.  For the future, Kenya will need to
continue to pursue prudent demand management policies in order to contain
the debt service burden, and then reduce it somewhat over the medium term.
Under these circumstances, growth prospects will depend importantly on the
vigor with which structural adjustment policies designed to increase the
effLciency of investment are implemented. With less vigorous
implementation of structural adjustment policies, growth would be about 4Z
p.a., implying stable per capita incomes (following recent decline). With
more vigorous policy implementation, growth could be accelerated to 5-6Z
p.a., yielding restoration of growth in per capita incomes.
External Capital Requirements
22.       Over the years, Kenya has relied primarily on Official
Development Assistance (ODA) for its external capital requirements. Kenya
has been a relatively favored aid recipient. In 1982, among the nine
sub-Saharan countries with populations of greater than 10 million, net ODA
disbursements per capita for Kenya ($27) were less than for two other
countries ($37 and $36), but were greater than for six countries which
received net ODA per capita in the range of $6 to $lb. In view of the
country's political stability, its comfortable financial ratios (until
recently), and the availability of a high level of ODA to be 'blended" with
private-source capital in yielding a quasi-concessional overall capital
inflow, Kenya has also been creditworthy for considerable borrowing from
private sources of finance.
23.       Kenya borrowed heavily from private sources during 1979-81, after
the terms of trade deteriorated due to the fading of the "coffee boom," and
the oil price hikes.  During 1979-81, Kenya's current account deficit (its
net external borrowing requirement) averaged an unsustainable 0l of GNP.
During 1982-83, however, as the stabilization measu-es took effect, Kenya
succeeded in reducing the current account deficit to levels which could be
financed almost entirely from ODA and IMF drawings.  In fact, during
1982-83 Kenya reduced, through net repayments, its stock of debt owed to
private sources by one third, and reduced the share of its external debt
held by private sources from 402 to 27%. This accomplishment has placed
Kenya in a position in which the financial impact of the drought, although
serious, is manageable.
24.       For the future, the combination of modestly improved export
performance and continued prudent demand management policies is expected to
gradually lower the current account deficit from the elevated level of 5.62
of GDP in 1985 to a long-term sustainable level of 42 of GDP by 1988. With
such a borrowing requirement, Kenya would not be able to rely entirely on



-7-
ODA, but rather would have to engage in some borrowing from private
sources. The objective would not be a substantial net inflow from private
sources, but rather would be to refinance the existing stock of private-
source debt, in order to avoid a net outflow. Under these circumstances,
the debt service ratio would decline from a peak of 31% in 1984-85 to 25%
by the end of the decade.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
25.       To date, Kenya has received 44 Bank loans, including three on
Third Window terms, and 43 IDA credits, including one Special Fund Credit,
amounting to US$1,847.7 million, which supported 76 operations. In
addition, Kenya was one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans totalling US$244.8
million which were extended for the development of common services
(railways, ports, telecomunications, and finance for industry), operated
regionally for the three partner states of the former East African
Community (LAC). Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and
IDA credits to Kenya and to the EAC corporations.
26.       Recent Bank Group lending has been oriented towards assisting the
Government in its efforts to restructure the economy, resulting in the
inclusion in the program of structural adjustment assistance. For the
future, should structural adjustment lending prove to be impractical in the
short term, sectoral operations could be substituted in support of
structural adjustment objectives. Recent economic work has also focused on
the structural problems in specific sectors. The selection of projects for
financing and the design of such projects have been influenced by the need
to complement policy actions under the structural adjustment program.
Continuing priority has thus been given to the agricultural and industrial
sectors, but increasing emphasis also has been placed on sectors such as
population and energy. In FY84, the Kiambere Hydroelectric Pmwer Project,
the Second Highway Sector Project and a Geothermal Exploration Project were
approved. In FY85, a Nairobi Third Water Supply Engineering project has
already been approved. In response to the 1984 drought (paragraphs 19 and
20), the Bank amended an ongoing project to provide emergency fina1icing of
US$20.0 million for fertilizers, chemicals and seasonal credit for
agriculture.
27.       In contrast to FY82 and FY83, when disbursements improved over
immediate prior years, FY84 disbursements on projects as a percentage of
amounts outstanding at the beginning of the year fell to 13Z (19% including
disbursements against structural adjustment operations) compared with 16%
in FY83. Improvements in recent years were explained by greater use of
Procedure III, and the application of a Treasury Circular requiring
operating ministries to make prompt reimbursement claims under penalty of
freezing funds. The latter remedy has had only marginal benefits to date.
Undeniably, project implementation has deteriorated in recent years, in
contrast to the successful implementation performance in the past. Factors
accounting for implementation delays have varied widely, but some of the
more pervasive factors have been institutional/management constraints,
procurement problems, and budgetary constraints leading to a lack of local
financing. These factors, together with delays in preparing and submitting
reimburFement claims, have led to a poor project disbursement record. An



- 8 -
in-depth review of the causes of this situation has been undertaken by the
Bank Group and the problems and possible solutions have been discussed with
the Government at Country Implementation Review (CIR) meetings. The
discussions were frank and constructive, and the Government intormed the
Bank Group of several new initiatives to improve performance, including
those mentioned. During the ongoing CIR discussions, the Government and
the Bank are continuing to review the Government's development objectives
and investment priorities in the context of implementation capacity and
resource constraints. Recent improvements in budgetary and financial
management in one of the line ministries, which are to be introduced
gradually to other ministries, are expected to reap benefits in the
future. The project portfolio is under review to determine the scope for
reducing project costs through reformulation, rephasing or cancelling
projects which cannot be adequately funded. As a result, substantial
cancellations of funds have been made from the Sugar Rehabilitation Project
(Ln. 1636-KE) (US$58.0 million) and the Second lntegrated Agricultural
Development Project (Cr. 959-KE) (US$38.0 million), and the project scope
for the Bura Irrigation Settlement Project (Ln. 1449/Cr. 772-KE) has been
reduced to a level commensurate with available local resources.
Cancellation of the Rural Water Supply Project (Ln. 1637-KE) is being
considered by the Government. To respond swiftly to urgently required
drought relief assistance, US$2U.0 million has beea reallocated under the
Fourth Agricultural Finance Corporation Project (Loan 1995-KE/Cr. 1143-KE)
from loan funds which would otherwise have been unused and cancelled.
Additional possibilities for project rationalization are currently under
review.
28.       At the end of 1983, IBRD held 18Z, and IBRD/IDA combined held
30, of Kenya's stock of external debt. During 1983, IBRD's share of
Kenya's debt service payments was 14%, and IBRD/IDA's share was 15%. Over
the next few years, our expectation is that Kenya's debt owed to private
sources will grow more slowly than Kenya's debt owed to official sources,
such as the Bank Group, reflecting the Government's success at reducing,
through stabilization measures, the country's borrowing requirements.
Therefore, the IBRD/IDA share of the stock of external debt is expected to
increase gradually to 36% (IBRD only, 21%), while the share of debt service
payments will increase to 23% (IBRD only, 21%).
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
29.       IFC has cnmmitted a total of US$68.4 million for twelve
operations in Kenya. These include loans for six companies: Pan African
Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism Promotion Services
(Kenya) Ltd.; Rift Valley Textiles, Ltd.; Bamburi Portland Cement Company,
Ltd; T.tra Pak Converters, Ltd; and Leather Industries of Kenya, Ltd. Also
included are a US$2.0 million credit line to the Kenya Commercial Bank,
Ltd., a US$5.0 million credit line to the Kenya Commercial Finance Company,
Ltd., and equity investments in Development Finance Company of Kenya, Ltd.
(US$1.3 million), Diamond Trust of Kenya, Ltd. (US$0.8 million), and
Industrial Promotion Services of Kenya, Ltd. (US$0.6 million). As of
March 31, 1985, IFC held for its own account US$43.1 million, comprising
US$31.4 million of loans and US$11.7 million of equity. A summary of IFC
Investments in Kenya is included in Annex II.



-9-
PART III. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Sector Organization
30.       The Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (KPTC), an
autonomous government-owned entity under the Ministry of Transport and
Communications--established in 1977 following the hreakup in 1975 of the
East African Community (EAC) and the East Africa Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation (EAPTC)--is responsible for the provision of
all domestic and international postal and telecommunications services in
Kenya. In addition to the public telecommunications services, dedicated
networks exist to meet the specialized requirements of the police, military
and civil aviation services. Private users also operate radio link
services in areas inadequately served by the public network after obtaining
a license issued annually by KPTC. Kenya has no domestic telecommunica-
tions manufacturing industry, except for a pole plant owned by KPTC.
31.       KPTC is administered by a seven-member Board of Directors, each
having a three-year tenure but who are eligible for reappointment. The
Chairman and three other members are appointed by the Minister for
Transport and Communications. Two members are the ex-officio Permanent
Secretaries to the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the
Ministry of Finance and Planning. The seventh member, the Managing
Director, is appointed by the Minister of Transport and Communications in
consultation with the other members of the Board. The Board establishes
policy, but fragmented management systems in KPTC (paragraph 32) make it
difficult to be effective. The Managing Director, assisted by a deputy,
administers the day-to-day business of KPTC. KPTC's headquarters has three
operational departments: domestic telecommunications services; external
telecommunications services; and postal services. In addition, KPTC's
headquarters has five support departments: finance; legal; buildings;
personnel; and corporate planning, research and development. Outside
headquarters, the postal and telecommunications services are managed by
eight divisional managers. Through its earlier involvement, the Bank has
assisted in certain organizational improvements, but, as telecommunications
services expand, there is a continuing need to reassess organizational
structure and procedures. The corporate planning, research and development
department, for example, appears overstaffed and may be duplicating the
pianning functions of other departments, rather than being engaged in
strategic planning and coordination which are its appropriate functions.
Also, there is a clear need for further integration of the external
telecommunications department into the mainstream of KPTC's operations to
ensure the formulation and implementation of sector policies based on
consistent assessment of demand and traffic, service quality, system
choices and designs, cost estimates, procurement methods, maintenance
procedures, and other operational matters.
32.       The managerial framework, financial structure, manpower
development facilities, and information base established with the inception
of KPTC are fragmented. Investment and manpower planning and resulting
procurement strategies, inventory management, and project implementation
are weak. Performance is not closely monitored and formulation of



- 10 -
corrective actions, budgeting and cost control, procedures for maintenance
and customer service, and utilization of information processing
capabilities are inadequate. Inconsistencies in these areas can no longer
be absorbed since the scale and complexity of management needs has outgrown
KPTC's organizational capabilities which consequently require upgrading.
33.       As of December 31, 1983, KPTC's telecommunications staff totalled
about 1U,70O, equivalent to 112 employees per 1,000 Direct Exchange Lines
(DELs)--which is high. Even after adjusting for 1,039 employees absorbed
from the 1982 merger of KENEXTEL (former state-owned company responsible
for maintaining the international automatic telephone exchange and earth
satellite) into KPTC, this amounts to an increase of 35% over the 7,150
staff in December 1981. KPTC is one of the few profitable parastatals in
Kenya and is particularly susceptible to external pressures to employ an
increasing number of people who may in fact be operationally redundant.
KPTC's training facilities comprise (a) the Central Training School (CTS)
for intermediate and advanced training in telecommunications techniques and
postal operations, accounting, and administration; and (b) the Regional
Training School (RTS) for vocational training of technicians. Specialized
training has been introduced at CTS, and KPTC is upgrading these facilities
to cater to the requirements of the expanding network and introduction of
digital technology. Although training capacity is sufficient, a
comprehensive manpower development plan and consistent training program has
not yet been adequately formulated. KPTC proposes to accomodate on the CTS
campus a new African Advanced Level Training Institute (AFRALTI), a second
regional training center for telecommunications engineers from English
speaking countries in eastern and southern Africa, but no administrative or
financial agreements for cost sharing among the countries have yet been
concluded. It is estimated that KPTC itself would utilize about 60% of the
center's facilities.
34.       In the past, KPTC's financial results have been satisfactory, but
these have recently begun to deteriorate. Although the return on book
value of assets remained steady at 21-25% during 1980-83, the return on
revalued assets declined from 15% in 1979 to 9% in 1983. It is clear that,
for 1984, KPTC will be unable to comply with the rate of return on revalued
assets covenant under the second project. This is due to cost increases
from both inflation and unwarranted staff expansion and delays in
connecting subscribers which have limited the revenue generation potential
of the plant.  Tariffs have not been adjusted since April 1982, so, not
only is the return on capital employed insufficient, but also the operating
surplus in 1984 is expected to be around KSh 300 million, somewhat lower
than in 1983 of KSh 350 million. General revenue growth has been mainly
due to increased connected telephone and telex lines rather than increased
average calling rates per line. The sharp increases shown in revenue and
operating costs in 1983 resulted from the 1982 merger of KENEXTEL and KPTC
and the accounts were consolidated only in 1983. The highly profitable
international service operations increased revenues, but operating costs
also increased since wages and staff-related costs of KPTC employees were
brought in line with the higher KENEXTEL levels. Since 1981, there appears
to have been a steady decline in the average traffic per line for both
telephones and telexes, reflecting the fact that newly connected
subscribers generally generate lower traffic per line than the old



- 11 -
established business ones, and thus the average traffic per line has a
tendency to decrease when the number of connected subscribers expands.
This also reflects congestion in the system and the slowdown of economic
activity experienced in Kenya during this period. In the case of
international traffic, it may be a consequence of a slowdown of export/
import activities.
35.       As of July 31, 1984, outstanding amounts due from private
telephone subscribers were KSh 167.3 million, about 65 days of revenues,
decreased from 72 days at the end of 1982. Outstanding amounts from telex
subscribers have decreased over the same period from 85 days to 59 days of
billings. These improvements since end-1982 are due to improved billing
and collection procedures instituted by KPTC. Amounts outstanding from
government departments, however, were KSh 132.4 million on July 31, 1984,
equivalent to 320 days of billings. The situation has steadily worsened
since the corresponding levels at the end of 1982 and 1983 were KSh 87.7
million (200 days equivalent) and KSh 111.3 million (275 days equivalent),
respectively. KPTC continues to press for payment and was recently able to
persuade the Chief Secretary, Office of the President, to instruct the
various departments to settle their accounts. However, compliance is
uncertain given the precarious budget situation of many of these agencies.
As an offsetting measure, KPTC has been withholding the transfer of
telecommunications tax revenues which it collects on behalf of the
Government.
36.       KPTC has not revalued its assets to incorporate the effects of
inflation and effective currency devaluation, pending final agreement on
the division of EAPTC assets and liabilities (1984), and thus the latest
financial position of KPTC as of December 31, 1983, is based on provisional
data. As a result of the division of EAPTC assets and liabilities, KPTC is
liable to the Government of Kenya for KSh 213.8 million, with the principal
to be paid in sixteen equal bi-annual installments plus interest at 7.3%
per annum on the outstanding amount. At end-1983, the current assets ratio
was about 1.6, which is good. The long-term liability (including the
pension fund) of KPTC increased from KSh 1.46 billion in 1982 to KSh 1.94
billion in 1983, mainly as a result of borrowings to finance its
telecommunications development program which has changed its long-term debt
to equity ratio to 52:48.
37.       Although KPTC has made significant progress in its accounting and
financial management since 1979, and now produces acceptable annual
financial statements, the systems in place remain fragmented and are not an
effective tool for management decision-making and control. Although the
telecommunications and postal operations are separate and exchange rate
adjustments are recorded, commercial accounting (accrual system) is only
used at year-end and such accounts are only available six months after the
end of the fiscal year. Day-to-day recording of all revenues and
expenditures is done on a cash accounting basis. Expenditure accounting,
budgetary control, and cash and inventory management systems also continue
to be weak.
38.       There are no multi-year budget forecasts and KPTC budget requests
for recurrent and capital expenditures for the following year are due at
the beginning of September and, after revisions, management presents the



- 12 -
budget to its Board for approval in November and requisite notifications
are in December. Until recently, cost overruns were routinely approved and
category swapping was allowed. Only in Lhe last year has the internal
audit unit had authority to block vouchers in the case of budgetary
overruns. There is no operating policy for cash management and liquid
assets are deposited in local banks on an ad-hoc basis, often at relatively
low yields. KPTC does not borrow in the domestic market and has no credit
lines with local banks. Inventory management is poor and is confined to
basic bookkeeping resulting In some shortages, some excess stocks, and
continued storage of many obsolete items. The problems of stores valuation
have been further exacerbated with the acquisition of KENEXTEL whose books
were not accurately maintained.
39.       An internal audit department was created in 1976 and strengthened
in 1978 through the creation of a special stores unit. The department
currently employs 46 staff (including 17 auditors) organized in three units
at headquarters. Each regional division (except for the three Nairobi
divisions which share one unit) has an audit unit of about twelve staff.
At present, the internal audit department is mainly concerned with the
vetting of payment vouchers and unable to undertake a comprehensive
physical inventory or provide more sophisticated auditing services. The
Controller and Auditor General of the Kenyan Government produces the
external audits of KPTC and maintains a staff of 13 on KPTC premises to do
so. The external audits for 1981 and 1982 emphasize the weaknesses in the
financial management, control, and audit systems of KPTC.
Status of the Sector
40.       With an installed capacity of 150,000 lines and 101,000 DELs as
of July 31, 1984, Kenya's average telephone density of 0.6 DELs per 100
population is among the lowest in -lower-middle income countries.
Existing telecommunications services are mainly concentrated around the
principal cities of Nairobi and Mombasa. Telex facilities, which are
primarily used for international communications, are even more concentrated
in these two cities, with Nairobi and Mombasa accounting for over 70% and
16%, respectively, of the total telex lines in Kenya. In an attempt to
extend the telecommunications service, KPTC has substantially increased the
number of public call offices (PCOs) to 1,253 nationwide as of July 31,
1984, which are accessible 24 hours a day. There are also 1,050 rental
call boxes installed in commercial premises for use during business hours.
Subscriber trunk dialing (STD) facilities for long-distance calls are
available for subscribers connected to automatic exchanges. Access to
international service is available through two standard A satellite earth
stations, and through microwave radio links to Tanzania and Uganda.
41.       An aLzlysis of KPTC subscriber listings in 1981 estimated that
57% of the exchange lines in Kenya were connected to business premises
or government offices. Commercial and administrative traffic is likely to
be higher than these figures due to a large number of residential lines and
public call boxes being used for business purposes. In addition, analysis
of telephone billings for a typical month, July 1984, indicates that 71% of
KPTC's revenue comes from 2U% of subscribers with monthly bills greater
than KSh 1,000 (US$68). It is estimated that more than 75% of the
telephone revenue is generated from business and about 14% from government



- 13 -
subscribers. Since KPTC does not maintain statistical records on pulse
metered STD traffic flows, it is not possible to distinguish long-distance
STD traffic volume within total metered traffic. Some spot samplings
conducted in previous years, however, indicate that more than half of the
long-distance calls throughout Kenya originate from or are directed to
Nairobi; in medium-size towns this proportion is as high as 70%. As in
many other developing countries, telex service in Kenya is essentially used
for international messages, particularly for commerce, which account for
over 90% of traffic volume as measured by revenue statistics. In recent
years, the volume of telex traffic has closely followed the increase in
volume of Kenya's international trade, reflecting the critical
infrastructural role of telecommunications services in Kenya's open
economy.
42.       Local telephone service is only fair in the major cities with the
call completion rate averaging 45% compared to the 65-75% typical of good
local networks. This low completion rate mainly results from high traffic
per DEL and KPTC's inability to supply more DELs for business subscribers.
Faults averaging 1.2 faults per telephone per annum (a reasonable target
would be 0.5) indicate the scope for improvement in maintenance of cable
networks and subscriber plant, as well as in the quality of repairs. Only
about 30% of the faults are cleared the same day, whereas 80% would be a
reasonable expectation particularly in the cities. Maintenance and repair
capability has declined recently due to difficulties in the procurement of
spares and miscellaneous repair material as a consequence of the foreign
exchange scarcity and Government import controls.
43.       The long distance STD service, which was heavily congested, has
substantially improved since the commissioning in December 1984 of large
trunk switching extension equipment. In late 1984, subscriber
international dialing to major overseas destinations was made available
from major telephone exchanges in the Nairobi area. International
telephone traffic for the other part of the network is operator assisted,
but the quality of service is good.
44.       There has been a steady decline in the ratio of connected lines
to expressed demand for telephone service from 70% in 1974 to only 55% in
July 1984. Telex services have expanded fourfold during the last decade,
but have been unable to meet the growing demand. As of July 1984, only
two-thirds of the expressed demand was being satisfied. Consequently,
domestic telegraph service remains an important mode of communications in
Kenya. The expected growth in expressed demand is 11Z per annum compared
to 12.3% per annum experienced over 1979-83. Supply is projected to
increase at the rate of 13.5%. However, even under optimistic supply
scenarios, there is little possibility of meeting the expressed demand by
the end of the 1980s.
Sector Goals and Constraints
45.       To accord with national economic goals, the Government's
objective for the telecommunications sector in the current Five-Year
Development Plan is the provision of efficient telecommunications services
throughout the country, requiring further expansion, diversification, and
modernization of its facilities. Expenditure on telecommunications will



- 14 -
increase from an average of 0.7X of GNP over the last five years to 0.9Z
for the current plan period. The Plan also states that KPTC should be
financially self-sufficient and improve its technical and financial
management. The difficult economic situation in Kenya and the shortage of
government budgetary resources makes this objective particularly
important. In addition, KPTC's goals are to optimize capacity utilization,
improve the quality of service and revenue generation of the assets, and
expand its training program.
46.       KPTC has translated these goals into the following program
objectives to be pursued during the 1980s:
(a) Improved quality of local, long-distance, and international
telephone services through better network balance, improved
maintenance of installed plant, as well as rehabilitation
and replacement of old assets;
(b) Improvement of KPTC's institutional capabilities pertaining
to program planning and implementation, procurement,
operational efficiency including maintenance procedures, and
financial management;
(c)  Expanded access to telephone service to meet uosatisfied
demand in both urban and rural areas, including provision of
public call offices;
(d) Provision of telex lines to meet business needs; and
(e) Enhanced and revenue generation from assets through
elimination of critical bottlenecks and appropriate tariff
levels.
47.       A major constraint to the availability and quality of
telecommunications services in Kenya is the management of the sector which
determines KPTC 's capacity to implement investment programs and to operate
and maintain the facilities. The quality of locally available repair
material and services is often inadequate and delivery is unreliable, while
KPTC's workshops are poorly equipped. KPTC has made substantial progress
in improving its organization, but this has been outstripped by the growth
in size and complexity of the network. Consequently, shortcomings remain
in several areas such as investment, manpower, and financial planning and
programming of outside and subscriber plant installation and maintenance.
Another constraint to further investment is the scarcity of foreign
exchange resources. The telecommunications sector has to compete with
others to obtain such resources which are constrained by the adverse
balance of payments situation and Kenya's debt service capacity. There is
a shortage of requisite materials, equipment and spares, particularly
imported items not financed through foreign loans and credits. Cost
escalation due to inflation and staff growth in recent years has limited
the local funds available to KPTC, and the level of telecommunications
tariffs has become a binding constraint on KPTC's ability to sustain its
sectoral investment program.



- 15 -
The Bank's Role
48.       The Bank has had a constructive role in the development of the
telecommunications system in Kenya and the dialogue with KPTC is open and
constructive. The first project (Loan 1650-KE), approved in 1979, is
completed and KPTC will submit a project completion report by mid-1985.
The second project (Loan 2155-KE), approved in 1982, is progressing on
schedule with 87% of the loan amount committed and 45% dlsbureed and is
expected to be completed on time in 1987. The primary aim of these
projects was to assist Kenya in establishing a modern telecommunications
*        network with long distance and subscriber dialing facilities, as well as
expanding the local service in Nairobi and some of the larger towns.
Capacity increased from 99,000 exchange lines (70,000 DELs) in 1979 to
150,000 lines (101,000 DELs) by July 1984. Besides meeting a substantial
part of the foreign exchange needs for the requisite investments, the Bank
has been a source of independent technical and economic advice through its
close association with KPTC during project preparation and implementation
and through the provision of external expertise financed under the loans.
Immediate benefits, such as KPTC's success in obtaining good prices for
equipment procured under ICB, have been complemented by the identification
of the institution-building required to develop the requisite financial and
manpower bases within KPTC, as well as the managerial and information
frameworks. The merger of KENEXTEL into KPTC was undertaken in 1982 on the
advice and with the encouragement of the Bank. Although the quality of
service has generally improved with these projects, KPTC has been unable to
meet the target for connecting new subscribers to the newly created
exchange capacity. Insufficient space capacity and inadequate maintenance
in the local network and difficulties in procuring miscellaneous connecting
material are the major causes. The Bank's role is now to address the
constraints facing the sector and to place greater emphasis on
institutional development. The proposed project emphasizes the upgrading
and integration of the management systems to ensure better use of
financial, human, material and informational resources. In addressing both
the institutional and financial constraints, a particular objective of this
project is to help Kenya organize a parallel cofinancing package to secure
the optimal combination of prices and terms for equipment procured
internationally.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
49.       The proposed project was prepared by KPTC and approved by the
Government of Kenya. The Government presented the project to the Bank in
January 1984, with a request for financing. A Bank appraisal was conducted
in October 1984. Formal negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from
April 15-19, 1985, and were completed by mid-May, 1985. The Government's
delegation was led by Mr. A. M. Shitakha, Deputy Secretary, Ministry of
Transport and Communications. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled, 'Kenya:
Third Telecommunications Project", No. 5517-KE, dated May 9, 1985, has been
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. A loan and project
summary appears at the beginning of this report, and a supplementary data
sheet is given in Annex III.



- 16 -
The Telecommunications Program
50.       Kenya's five-year Telecommunications Investment Program is
reviewed and rolled over every two years, at which time the costs and
dimensioning for the last three years of the preceding program are updated
and new projects for the follow-up two years are added. The first
three-year slice of the 1984-88 program includes ongoing works under the
Second Telecommunications Project financed by the Bank (Loan 2155-KE),
extensions of switching facilities and urban networks financed by the
Japanese OECF, and long distance microwave routes financed by French
bilateral assistance.  Implementation of these ongoing projects is
proceeding well and completion of the major components is expected by
1986. The program has been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.
During project implementation, KPTC would inform the Bank of any major
changes in its 1984-88 investment program (draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.04).
Project Objectives
51.       The proposed project comprises the currently unfunded portion of
the ongoing five-year program (1984-88) and will be implemented during
1985-89. It pursues the expansion, improvement and modernization of the
infrastructure undertaken by the two previous projects and provides support
for the institutional development of KPTC. Modern digital technology is
being introduced to the Kenyan network under the second project, and
facilities to be procured under the proposed project have been planned to
complement these earlier investments. To meet the institutional
development needs of KPTC (paras. 31-32), the project would focus on
strengthening KPTC's management systems and sustaining the progress which
has already been made in the areas of asset utilization, operational
procedures, staffing and manpower development, financial control,
investment planning, procurement and project implementation. This will be
achieved through training (para. 58), monitoring technical and financial
performance indicators (para. 59), and undertaking the recomuendations of
consultants' reports on organizational and procedural changes (para. 60).
Project Description
52.       The project would comprise the following:
(a) Expansion of:
(i) local telephone switching facilities for a total
capacity of about 44,700 automatic lines and about
3,180 rural manual lines, together with associated
cable networks and subscriber plants,
(ii) the long distance telephone system by the
installation of two microwave links, multiplex
equipment for about 2,028 channels, and trunk switching
equipment for about 3,568 trunk lines, and
(iii) telex facilities by the installation of about 3,500
lines;



- 17 -
(b) Improvement in the telecommunications workshops and repair
facilities and provision of spare parts;
(c)  Strengthening of KPTC's training programs through
training experts and procurement of laboratory equipment for
the central training center; and
(d) Improvement of KPTC's management systems and provision of
consultants' services for studies, including a review of the
telecommunications tariff structure.
Project Costs and Financing
53.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about KSh 1,274.8
million (US$86.1 million), with a total foreign exchange component of KSh
966.4 million equivalent (US$65.3 million) or 76% of project cost. The
project costs are based on mid-1984 prices for equipment and civil works.
Foreign price contingencies are based on estimated annual foreign cost
increases of 5Z in 1985, 7.5% in 1986, and 8% annually thereafter. Local
price contingencies for building construction, civil works, and other local
expenditures reflect an estimated annual increase in local costs of 122 in
1985 and 1986 and 10% thereafter. Physical contingencies of 5% on local
and foreign equipment costs, 10% on the local cost of civil works, and 10Z
on local and foreign costs of services have been added to base costs.
Total contingencies, US$21.1 million equivalent, represent about 25% of
total project cost. KPTC is exempt from payment of customs duties on
imported goods and pays no import taxes.
54.       In order to mobilize additional resources, and to secure the
optimal financing package, KPTC has invited international competitive
bidding on a prices and terms basis for the largest telephone switching
contract (estimated at US$16.7 million). Neither the Bank nor the European
ilvestment Bank (EIB), which participated in the appraisal, would
participate in financing this component. Securing the financing of the
switching contract would be a condition of loan effectiveness (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 7.01(b)). The EIB would finance US$14.6 million
equivalent of procurement packages of telecommunications hardware. The
execution and fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the initial
disbursement of the EIB loan would also be a condition of effectiveness of
the Bank loan (draft Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(a)). The Bank would
participate in the financing of all other components. KPTC would
contribute US$22.2 million equivalent (26Z total project cost) from its own
resources to cover local expenditures (US$20.8 million equivalent) and the
foreign exchange risk and guarantee fee (US$1.4 million equivalent).
Procurement and Disbursements
55.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:



- 18 -
-(1S$ millim)a/
ICB    Prices
Prlces    &    Neg.b/
Proje: Caqpent        (y_ Tem   Ccrt.    LIIC/         odted/   Total
Loal Switching        0.5 (0.5)  16.7  -       -        -       17.2 (0.5)
Local Network & Sub.
plant               17.3 (10.2)  -  5.9 (3.9) -        -      23.2 (14.1)
Radio Ltnks & *atiplec  2.1       -   -        -        -        2.1
Lag distance sweitdig  -          -  1.9 (1.9) -        -        1.9 (1.9)
Iriternatiaml         1.5        -  0.9 (0.9) -         -        2.4 (0.9)
&iral telqholy        1.9         -   -       0.9 (0.9)  -       2.8 (0.9)
Tele (2 contracts)e/   8.3 (8.3)    -   -      -        -        8.3 (8.3)
Telegrah edi         0.5 (0.5)    -   -       0.5 (0.5)  -       1.0 (1.0)
Pw  plants            1.0 (1.0)    -   -       -        -        1.0 (1.0)
Wolls1Kps            0.7 (0.7)    -   -       0.6 (0.6)  -       1.3 (1.3)
Tmriidn               -           -   -       0.7 (0.7) 0.8 (0.8) 1.5 (1.5)
Corultancy           -           -   -         -        1.2 (1.2) 1.2 (1.2)
TCLal          33.8 (21.2) 16.7 87 (6.7) 2.7 (2.7) 2.0 2.0 63.9 (32.6)
Percent          53%        26;  142      42        3Z      100%
Percetage of Bank lan     65%            21X       &         e        100%
a/ In1udirg cx    s.tinces.
b/ Negtiated can=zcts.
ci Limited It nal Biddig.
d/ Others include World Bak Qxideline for the use of cmiltats, aud  CU
procedures for the recrutmu of ecperts.
e/ 1OB, with aptioal fiacing prq sals.
Note: PJgures in parentheses rereset the alnits financd by the proposed
Bank loan.
The Bank loan would finance US$21.2 million of equipment, grouped in
appropriate packages, and procured by ICB in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines.  Local manufacturers would receive preference of 152 or the
import duty, whichever is lower. Negotiations with existing suppliers
would be used to procure US$6.7 million of equipment, including long
distance switching equipment for existing exchanges (US$1.9 million) and
for cable connecting material (US$3.9 million). This would result in
standardization and economies resultint from the use of existing common
switching equipment, and would maintain the standardization of installation
and maintenance procedures of jointing material. Bank approval of the
negotiated contracts would be required to ensure they are reasonably in
line with those likely under ICB. Limited international bidding (LIB)
would be used to procure US$2.7 million of equipment, including hardware
and manual switchboards for rural telephony, tools and spares for the
workshops, laboratory equipment and some training equipment. LIB has been
selected for these packages because the amounts involved are small or there
are only a limited number of suppliers for the goods to be procured.



- 19 -
US$2.0 million of consultants and training would be procured according to
Bank guidelines. The ElB loan would finance US$12.6 million of equipment
procured along ICl guidelines and one negotiated contract (US$2.0 million)
procured in accordance with EiB guidelines. Export and mixed credits
(US$16.7 million) would finance the switchlng contract to be procured
following the invitation of ICB on prices and terms.
56.       Prior Bank review of procurement documentation would be required
for those contracts estimated to be larger than US$500,000 equivalent.
This implies that 12 contracts amounting to approximately US$26.6 million
equivalent (82% of the proposed Bank loan) would be reviewed. Random
checking of smaller contracts would be conducted during supervision
missions.
57.       The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against full standard
documentation on the basis of (a) 100% of foreign expenditures for
switching and transmission equipment, cables and material, telephone
instruments, subscribers instruments, and fellowships; (b) 100% of foreign
expenditures and 80% of local expenditures for workshop equipment and
tools, material for rural networks, air conditioning, power plants and
school equipment; and (c) 100% of total expenditures for consultant
services. The proposed disbursement schedule (page iii) reflects the
experience of past telecommunications projects in Kenya with an average
disbursement profile of about five years and the fact that 65% of the bids
for this project have already been issued. In accordance with Bank
procedures, a limitation of no less than US$20,000 equivalent would be
imposed on disbursements for applications submitted under procedures I,
III, V and VI.
Project Implementation
58.       KPTC would implement the project which is expected to be
completed by June 30, 1989. Engineering designs have been prepared for all
equipment. As for the previous projects, KPTC proposes to retain the
services of engineering consultants to assist in the procurement of
electronic digital switching equipment. Installation of digital switching
and transmission equipment would be done or supervised by the respective
suppliers. Construction of buildings, cable ducts, and telephone wiring in
large administrative buildings would be carried out by local private
contractors under KPTC's supervision. Laying and jointing of cables, and
installation of distribution cabinets, poles, aerial cables, and terminal
cabinets would be carried out by KPTC staff. The training component of the
project would be implemented with the assistance of experts and the
Management Lmprovement Program with the assistance of consultants. By
completion of the project, KPTC would decrease the total staff/DEL ratio to
62 per thousand (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.04).
Performance Indicators
59.       A critical aspect of the upgrading of KPTC's management systems
is to monitor, through selected performance indicators, its quality of
service, financial situation, operating efficiency, and program
implementation, and to take requisite corrective actions in a timely



- 20 -
manner. KPTC will prepare annually for Bank review an analysis of its
performance against these indicators. While the targets for later years
are indicative, those for 1986 have been agreed upon by KPTC as
representing desirable and feasible levels of attainment. The targets for
each of the subsequent years would be agreed to jointly by the Bank and
KPTC during the preceding year, together with corrective measures to be
taken to improve performance (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.03).
Management Systems
60.       Consultant services would be provided under the project,
according to terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to address KPTC's
management problems, particularly in the areas of manpower planning,
training, accounting, budgeting and cost control and computerization.
Terms of reference and a schedule for their output have been agreed. The
consultants would be appointed no later than March 31, 1986 (draft Loan
Agreement, Schedule 5).
Financial Arrangements
61.       To maintain KPTC's financial viability, a tariff increase
designed to generate a 30% increase in telecommunications revenues has
been approved by KPTC's Board and signed by the Minister of Transport and
Communications. Signature by the Minister of Finance and Planning is
imminent. Implementation of the increase would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(c)), and KPTC expects to
have the tariff increase in effect by July 1, 1985.   In addition, the
Government would ensure that KPTC's arrears would be reduced from 320 days
to 90 days by end-1987 (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.01) with
agreed interim target dates in between. To ensure continued financial
viability, KPTC would ensure that the return on revalued average net fixed
assets would not fall below a minimum of 10%. KPTC would review the value
of its fixed assets annually, in accordance with methods acceptable to the
Bank, and calculate the rate of return on that basis (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 5.02). The project would also finance a detailed analysis for the
revaluation of fixed assets as of December 1984. KPTC's net internal cash
generation would finance approximately 50% of the total program cost over
the implementation period. KPTC would ensure that its net cash flow each
year covers the estimated local costs of the following year's investment
program (draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.03).  The total debt service
coverage is expected to remain about 2 times.
Tariff Policies
62.      Government policy requires KPTC to be financially self-sufficient
and to meet the financial obligations of its investment programs. However,
there is no regular review and adjustment of tariffs and the recent cost
escalation due to inflation and staff expansion has resulted in KPTC being
unable to sustain its development plans at prevailing tariff levels. There
is also a need for adjustments in the structure of tariffs. Funds would be
provided for consultant studies under the proposed project to conduct a
tariff structure study, the results of which would be discussed with the



- 21 -
Bank and implemented in 1986 (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 5). If the
Government decides to use the telecommunications sector for resource
mobilization, tariffs would be satisfactory to meet the investment
requirements of KPTC (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02). Local
calls in Kenya are untimed while long distance calls are pulse-metered with
a discounted rate for nights and weekends. This is an adequate
approximation to a peakload pricing strategy which is economically
efficient. Following a study's recommendation (December 1980),
installation charges were doubled in April 19B2. Rental charges were also
increased in 1982, but not enough to discourage low volume usersof
telephone lines. Billing statistics for July 1984 show that 18% of the
telephone subscribers have monthly bills below KSh 100 and generate only
1.5% of the revenues. There is thus scope for some increase in rental
charges, to implicitly ration scarce exchange connections to high volume
users, particularly if the expansion in payphones continues to serve the
lower volume users. Demand for payphones far outstrips supply, especially
in urban areas as evidenced by long queues in Nairobi, and KPTC is
experimenting with timing local calls made from these phones. It is also
introducing the pulse-metering of local calls, which is now possible in a
cost-effective manner due to the introduction of electronic switching in
the major urban centers, and hopes to relieve the congestion in local
networks as well as raise additional revenue.
External Audit
63.       The Controller and Auditor General of the Kenya Government
produces the external audits of KPTC. KPTC would submit to the Bank its
draft financial statements within six months of the end of its fiscal year
and the corresponding external audit report not later than three months
thereafter (draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.01).
Benefits and Return on Investment
64.       Economic activity in Kenya requires increasing amounts of both
transport and telecommunications facilities. The latter facilitates the
exchange of information, encourages efficient use of transportation
capacity and improves the efficiency of the service sector. With economic
development, the willingness of the population to pay for such services
increases and telecommunications becomes a preferred substitute for
physical transportation, ensuring effective use of available resources and
expertise. Recognizing the benefits of telecommunications, the Government
of Kenya has accorded priority to the development of the sector,
particularly in recent years.
65.       The business community and government administration would remain
the predominant users of telecommunications facilities. A recent survey of
six enterprises in and around Nairobi identified significant gains in
business efficiency due to improved telecommunications services. Their
managements were unanimous in their view that telephone services is a
prerequisite for business activity and that the expansion of extra exchange
lines has resulted in a visible expansion in operations. Telex service is
also important for those firms with significant international business
links.



- 22 -
6b.       KPTC is one of the few profitable perastatals in the country and
is also a fiscal agent collecting a tax, equal to 152 cf its billings, for
the Goverument.  During the period of the development program, the total
tax revenue generated is expected to be equivalent to US$100 million
equivalent, of which about US$20.3 million equivalent would be
incremental. The surpluses generated in excess of the sector's investment
needs are available to Government, which is the sole shareholder of KPTC.
In the past, this operating surplus has been used to subsidize the postal
services. This implicit subsidy also represents a fiscal gain to the
Government. In the future, however, KPTC intends to request adequate
tariff increases to allow postal operations to be self-supporting.
67.       Business and Government subscribers would benefit most from the
expansion of long distance, international, telex and telegraph networks.
However, the project is heavily directed toward expansion of the local
telephone network, comprising 47% of total project cost, which would
benefit rural populations.
68.       The agreed investment program represents the least-cost solution
for providing the service levels planned within the constraints imposed by
the existing configuration and technology of the telecommunications
network. The timing and dimensioning of various elements in the system is
based on generally accepted engineering practice for selection of
techniques and equipment after study of the feasible alternatives.
69.       The financial internal rate of return (IRR) for KPTC of the
incremental financial flows is 12%. Taking the tax revenue raised by KPTC
into account, the IRR for the Government, as sole shareholder, is 16%.
As economic benefits are greater than payments made by subscribers, the
economic rate of return for the investment program is estimated at 26Z.
Incremental revenues and costs are based on the additional telephone and
telex connections commissioned in 1986 and thereafter. Parc of the
investment costs include those for expanding the subscriber base in 1985
and produce conservative ertimates.
Risk
70.       Due to the large unsatisfied dpmand for telecommunications
services, the project offers no significant risk resulting from a possible
reduction in economic activity.  Unexpected implementation problems could
result in delays, but the large number of independent activities should
constrain the impact of such delays on the project as a whole. A more
fundamental risk is that adequate improvements in the management systems
will not take place, thereby decreasing the implementation capacity of
KPTC. However, this risk would be adequately contained by the proposed
monitoring and review procedure.
71.       A sensitivity analysis was conducted.  If capital costs increase
by 10% and revenue declines by 5%, or there is a delay of 20% in
commissioning new connections without any decrease in capital or operating
expenditures, an IRR of 10Z and a corresponding ERR of 22% would result.



- 23 -
72.       No significant adverse environmenta' or health effects are
expected as a result of the project.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Loan Agreement between KPTC and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
74.       Provisions in the Loan and Guarantee Agreements of particular
importance are noted in paragraphs 50 through 63 of this report.
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 15, 1985



ANNEX I
-24-   ,                                  '           L
I- SOCIAL :mEaaiuuajjAjIC  nsm AtU  p
SO                  (SM    -   UThU  f
oLt    u L7.   I           dI= t     SOUNT Vf WUIl        AerA S. O0  SEiA
AM  cma   8q. a1)'
TOTAL                                S62.7      562.7      562.7
AGRCULTUUAL                          33.7        ".1        60.6
o CAPIT (one)                   go..        @.20@0    3o.0              249.1        1UL29
-  ouur6ZO emcns
(RZLDGMU OF OLL 3QUIVALTM)          L4.0        141.0      147.0              62.6                    329.0
popSIATIDI M1 VITA.SL ITU
roHuLATLON.N  YESw CTu      3      I6S19.0    1233.0  1115.0
AN mtOiPLAIo (L 07 OTAL)              7.4        10.2       13.2              19.2                    29.7
POPULATION 1tIJUCTOUS
POPULATION EAR 2000 (HILL)                                39.3
STATtON*A  PULATION C(LL)                               153 3
FPMUU.TION IUENTr                                   -      2.1,
POPULATION B IT                                                                                                                        *
PR SQ. M.                          14.1        19.3       29.8              32.3                     53.8
cER SQ. m. ASK. LAND               132.3      190.4      263.6       _     19.2                     LI1.3
POPULATtON AGE STRUCITUS  (C)
0-14 TRS                          47.7        48.9       50.4              45.6                    43.4
1344 us5                           '9.8        48.6      47.3               51.3                    51.7
63 AS  AIOV                         1.6         2.5        2.4               2.9                     2.9
POPULATION GDOM  MATE (2)
TOtAL                                2.4        3.2        4.0               2.8                     2.8
URBAN                               3.2         6.4        7.3               6.2                     5.2
CWUDE BIR  RATE (CPE THDUS)          34.7        34.7       34.8              48.6                    47.0
CRUOC DATH RATE (PER TIOGS)          23.6        17.6       12.3              17.7                     13.2
GRoss R05 RODOUT   IRATE              3.9         3.9        3.5               3.2                      3.2
FANILT PLANNING
ACCEPTORS5 A1NUAL (THOU)             ..        30.9       63.0 /C
USERS C OF oHAD  t )                 ..         6.0 24    7.0 n. f
FMn Am NOTION
INDEX OF FOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        99.0       100.0       80.0              d3.8                    91.6
PER CAPITA SUMY OF
CALoES (2 Of REXUEUIEN;)           99.0        93.0       36.0              86.4                     96.2
P1T0Ss (Cams PER DATY              66.0        63.0       36.0              49.9                    56.7
OF WHICH ANsIAL AND MU            27.0       27.0       24.0 L            16.3                     17.0
CNILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          21.0        16.0       13.0              23.8                    13.7
LIFE CPCT. AT BIRTH (TEAS)           46.5        52.0       36.7              48.4                     31.7
XEWAT NORT. RATE (CPER THOUS)       112.0        06.0       77.0             117.5                   102.7
ACCESS TO SAFC WATER (COPP)
TOTAL                                ..        15.0       17.0 /h           21.8                     35.6
URBAN                                      .     . 100.0  100.0 7           61.5                     4. l
RURAL                                ..         2.0        4.0 7            14.2                     27.3
ACCUSS To EXCETA OtSPOSaL
( Of POPUIuATI3N)
TOTAL                                ..        30.0       55.0 /b           32.0
URIAN                                          35.0       93.0  l           69.2
RURAL                                ..        45.0       48.0 W            24.8
POPULATION PE  PKIYSICL           10690.0      7830.0 nk  7890.0 ht        27477.8                 11948.3
POP. PER  URSING MERSON            2270.0 /uk 1470.0 WF530.0                3396.2                  2248.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL Bea
TOTAL                              790.0      770.0      620.0 fh         1069.0                   986.9
URBAN                              80.0 /I       ..      620.0             393.2                   368.7
RURAL                                ..          ..      330.0            3094.0                   4012.1
ADSSIONS PER HOSPITAL  D               ..          ..        * 9.7
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..         4.7
URBAN                               4.9 /I      4.7
RURAL                                ..         4.7
AVLUCE NO. Of PERSONS/tO00
Tm                                   ..           .
URBN                                2.3 /1       ..         .
RURAL                                ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF WELLXNGS)
TOTAL                                 ..         ..
Ua                                    ..         ..         .                  ..
RURAL                                ..          ..



-25-
-  OAL InDICAtORS DATA SigE?
*S                     coS 1RCENt RSTINI) /b
~~~    ~~~o  u                 U LIAfAI A               NIBLdiTSSI
A1W U      U UllC4 RATIOS
PlUME    TOTAL                     47.0 a       1.0      109.0              6.2                     I1.
IKALE                    64.0        72.0     114.0               75.1                    90.5
tmW.z                    30.0       50.0      LOt.0               57.6                    73.6
SEUOUY: TOLa                         2.0        9.0       L9.0              13.1                    17.4
KALE                      3.0       13.0       23.0               17.6                    23.7
LS;                       2.0        6.0       15.0               5.3                     14.S
VOCTIONAL C' Of SEWUDAR)             12.2         1.8        2.0               7.2                     5.3
mIL-TUCIIEX PATIO
UUNA                               42.0        34.0      38.0               46.L                    31.6
SECO"NT                            15.0        21.0       25.0              25.9                    24.3
ADULT LITERAC! RAZE (Z)              19.5 /1    30.0        47.1              4.3                     33.6
PASSECN2. CARSITHOUSAND POP           7.9         8.5       6.8                3.8                    20.7
RADIO ERZIRVSUSOUSAND POP             7.0        44.4      32.4               41.9                   100.8
TV REIVERI/ZOUSAID Or                 0.3 It      L.4       3.9                2.0                    18.5
DMtSPAAEI C"DALY GENUAL
INTusr) CIPcru.rLo
Pru  NOUSAND POrULATION            11.2        13.8       9.7 /c             5.4                    17.2
CINEM AAL AT         CCArIA            .           ..       0.4                1.4                     0.3
TOTAL LUAJO  rORCE CtOUS)          3296.0      4314.0    6363.0
FEII.U  (PERCE)                    34.6        34.4      33.3               36.5                    33.8
aCICULTUE (PERCENT)                86.0        82.0       76.0              77.4                    57.1
DUSITY (PERCZNT)                    S.0         7.0       10.0               9.8                    17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               40.3       36.3       35.1              41.0                    36.3
HALE                                53.3       50.9       47.2              52.1                    47.6
. 1                                27.5        26.1       23.3              3O.Z                    25.1
ECOOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.2         1.3        1.5               1.2                     1.4
PERCENT OF MlVATE INCOME
RECEIVE1D BT
IIGXEST SI or HOuSEHOLDS              ..       20.2 /1
RIGEIST 20 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..       52.6 7T     ..
LOUES? 20S OF HOUsEHOLS                         3.9 '       ,I
LWEBYr 4Ot OF HUSEHOLDS               .        l1.7 7T
EST12NATED ABSOLUTE POVERtY INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBN                                  ..         ..      150.0 ).          168.3                   525.3
RORAL           ''                               ..      112.0o 7           90.8                   249.0
ISTAE    RELATIV  POVERTY INCOME
LEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
UR,,                                 ..          ..      179.0 1.          107.7                   477.4
RURAL                                ..          ..      106.0 7;           65.0                  16.0
ESTrATED POP. SUM ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEEL t)
"                                    ..          ..       10.0 to           34.7   -
RURAL                                ..          ..      55.0 7;            65.4
mOT AVAI1ALE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T E S
is  The group averags for oach lodcaror are populatLou-ueioktsd arStlMc.c SMA0e. Coverage of counltrIes soug the
indicators depeds on availability of data e d L  not uifom.
/b  Unless otherwse noted. -ata for L960- refer to any year betweu 1959 and t6l; "Dat for 1970- betuen  1969 a*n
1971; and data for Note Recent Estimate  be-ren 1980 and 1992.
/c  1979; /d 1967: rural areas only;  1o 1971: /f ken 15-50; r& 1977; lb 1975  /1. 1962; Li 1976;
2k Registered, not all practicing La the country; /1 rebn only.
JUSE. 1984



14          me 30 a -  Ain - sAa smi-sa-wAg             -.at -
J. -   3_ a   3 .3  3-ta - 3)3I  T.a-.lw  _i 3ltT    Oa
MooA *--,   _ - PWA    _         =         _T_g   *eo   fi ;
-Tmi 433  *   -.iw mmmi  3-_*mi.Alst3-l  I-lo.  At-p P
J. Pa  _moitalUnadlP A-           - -r -- . _9     m mJ.
PA AlIt g nown Atm PI- -* aln.  -  I3h- 33 .1
_ta a. -,a    .g      .34111a.a -  W it e- --_onl, a Am a      an ot   e
ow   _  -     . a..            . - .t        iim  .-a. a
-1 itmi                                                                    - 31  *3alwfola d --33)3* -  s_P s        *      e 1t- 131 15
.wis *n.u       ii_  n" itaIh   WM*1g nto -   3    p u,'
"-t...U      -  rdfs .                                                               a    sU.                                                   FPFM *l -*- t
__ -   ..ais   ow   _              _ _a_________nv =
~~mt                         I                      hiti--C  3i 1. -.fimL *a _ _- I. 1_ "Al 1_   n  _
'H---';;1 ...  -  at 3.t......a. :  ;:|2-;   '-"-- .ans h. gatg oo                                 -
iam, * m-t inha 3333- *3 15.3mm   Aam-  is oomaPt  Tm-mo                               *AiP i1 , J- Vd    a- _    _, _  - . cm     1 ;       t
nat   a-'IA-    a.,... Ta't    mId A     M .s 1. Man iTo _n        _                         *ta-s g.e .o   md ma .i .aind   . v-I-V         3...... -wPoo,
r*   11- .,    P.q        M3* T  3Po 3 3-1 AAAPPAaO p33ia  P.A14an.i- -J  adet- it. g 1s;kM3. -s  ta 4non" -1 dW.11,~s
_t. q  tq *1L... *.   33-_ t"imI'lo53 m     a.l   a I-u u -_t M,   ,P-                              - 14 `-.'4 l.a -11   _a  '  -             S
*.                                     sno      _-1    t                             -    Ca  ___---"   _   _-   -_ Pot a  JS g q- PaP_P_1 PAP  _-P -1
mi "I'atn. Ttm- g t33g.oa ats I, gait.. a....d m.1
v- 1-i- j_  -a  I Pm  M  a  apoood 3.2  j. atall No J.        m-t
I a3M1  Ag waim-   -          _ iss m .  gw       l          --                    _.."-    a.      !a          W *-a mm  -  3.
atU3Z6 3t-   *! w3                                           _ MiA   *u-,l S _  t_ noa    -
.Aa- _ a am Ead a, voinin, -   I_   a.3a03 a- . P    iPqT.TF .m  iA . 3811-
'(a.  "ft_  ia-ia-    M" -f         5m i                  .aa"m  .3   ,_ aAd_                    1..a.m-. n Iq3too ln' r.Ia,
. *ia   na *it        *       - -amas   F3 _. wtC)    ms3iaaa.*ea*i  -i.3i3   ld. 34*ala                                             t        *m.mm
on -331.1-9 n'to         - al   g                                                        T-         S" mm  *aip I*lv as aai  _fa 333 .  -  "M.  anh4 a-a ona ,-3 --
IAt4i3p-. _e  mi a. si.-. _i-  M           .  t... , a.1 m3.nm                  -    m    A..mj. . sIMS    a -z   inataat. _.35_
-3Sha...  31-a          a   *Tm   - ,a        33* _SO  A~1a.                      -a ,.        z-@| _.,.      5_ a.L3)s3             ........... S .d
-   t33t.laSd  3d  Mi  i   t53~~ -l" 433303.  33 nalBlo I8                  Pob3Ad      AAa  Ngolan  -3)33Pnoal
nas, 1331 iS                1311    P."   .'-otn- *.3 -33250 no,       4 0-43.3 i. 3i3C  -3g
0   mans 53331d i03in2 P    333it Ao i~u   ia"   PaMi.                      a  A"   a. d.  aPiZa.d Pa OS         --- nitia. 3. 1n n,i  -A3*M
UMi 3..         now m - .     nat-mm-da  ACAP33. at   l-  .110al  S.               Poa am,_ n   alcM,    Mi alglit -   wins. 493.. a. MiT* iAL.tn
no  -a) inns 4(3 Sov--A-i   ii                       it 3. n   AAM at..1g -338 disisO s                ii g *335.0-                        t  s
aai.             - ..ad a, sit  - (403.iA- .-m _m a31  233
31t lofs 1-mUSS.v  aam. P a   I3iA.ClamJ. *ssit.ala. "miatPnipo
33  h_AP`,P *PP       i't'AAtW-  mitI ow"l    .1Tq n v-                                                           - e   -o l. .nn ..ca- P  im..g
f                                                      *-o nolla.-.   *3- iti.a- _mI,... .,d_%  Po   .a,         03  3*- 4-* '  s
"Ia"                                                        P- ' =ig @|-t a~  n3-  1  -  it 3 a                f        -
-*; Pooor              PAt APPAP, -ogt               C ,                   i S a. q4 _-. 3d              5J i-bd    .                  t  L
- aSi  i-S Polan -IPPBAA .                                                                                                                   a.aaa M    1. . Isdn
I~~ 53-333 - p3513at3ia3.1tet~~fl~3~~3f4Si3-j4414            331.30PH Pa.3 133133 -A      ti  PI   maa .1.6 ,i.5.lti.   '
P gow;.l-anntio*   i-t_ AmA SS-   . ahe      i  *4 tS_-  _ --J 53- T33. - Iitlg   33 q                                           '  tl - POP 3-m   i.3J
|^    ~~~~~~~~~~~~o                         -     t-w                    P14| n P|1aaf&t   _   t V.t V-    onalonnna        a- ftuam
'Prional"A                   0 0___    _             u_   9s "wzb
-m     .- isaa,    3m-ar              i i      APp                                           3 ,,    it        ....m....-. ,         . in     Lit3.
*a.a. 3 - -1 e a  i~Si33 mm -PPA  at Mi 5ip PI-           A1                 .3 r3.     d Aeopoi3m - oe53 -  it                           Paw5.
313*,33 >_a_ p ti        in*                    X                                                                 *  _ 143 in  n,a  ,a  3awh
"Pan,"m  a" U-_1 n_ ^ -1=_11_ Al -Owls. _4 *An                  1        -a  a  _  _  _      _ nn
30          1 _ t        _ Si    _3 Si                                                  05nlpo  a. JAmgi St'                                        goal _a     -    . t iqg  s a  *   aitj
iwwnpd                                 &F"V- Jim13   ii.3 Polila123                                   *33, flatd-   Per i ug     PO  &mi.a3- s
iaai   i.5m -.3-A   33    -             039'sa 1a  atm                           .ut alsola.Mtmg  3 DP=  i  Chit. iam, so sound. PI=      Po3 ata e'
.20PRI.Mi.ai.1 - mmPAN S.333  MisPAS m3i    Pod1 30.i3   P3-isnM. aal11--P  --wpP
_ itt-a  *atn_ 3_ 0 a. _ 1;  xnii   _   **1 1 1i.n--_
I-  AM                                                  11 Mi *I *  r            i 
own_~p -1 I  I           an an ""A           a" "M lofts- al do3 _                       33.g    *(3n -al ,         i - _3n,              * 3  3
"P" Pt  Mi   _       ~3 .O nnai tip PM   -*- t1  "Sii                                                               *       M   I     IW   1
_  tz_  -  @|_ *w_  *s_ Z  _a  nalw  _  _*bp  . S.oaana P
@~~~~~~~~~*13.C  kilita-li                                      "          4S= 331 matq am-lt a-h _. natuqas  _   h4 --  @
t.31 33-2 a. -        l-_ A_ i q_ _ tui  s   *    Mi m--d                                                                      31530 itWlAmlNa.
aa itna. mmV. 5 A00 -  l SPulm -Ii                                                                                             33333441  sam-w 
Po      l *, PM  ft    t A      C "  T-   C-Wnmi                                                                 '_ol, 1 S   -   i-   =_ C   133 in =a d-C  _  _   _
B           iA P    _            _          n S         MTl                   3M  'l        3      gm31       31        0 _            i
0-ilati-Ci t0-i35t& -   -  -J    .130-    ~            ~         ~~~~~~I&  .-3 S3am  mia-  ?1sad333   . aht33    g- "Pll
-n"I'llson'"  61- __      *P%* a -lh_                               is  *       - P-  _r T an3,-3. aPT-  m31  P1 BP o         tmm
9*1 a-ta-nmi 3.iawsi smeam ~~~ ta-ias  Oam- &-i.s.o                  a-tm         =   g allogtathe' -al  0533    Bono3 "It P P- 
Asis    a.3        t      .a    P4aA to of o . tlw.  ft""3.43 tpma 3.a.ph  angA .ila   Miaht..3                                  33dq . 5    A"
551  "tS9ad onmaid I   3a             aa   I   i,t  -3S -mmm- 03 d-h   M31 333P '3a11MAi3  J. o03n3.  p  MomCf ".I Pam,.
Il-i ill. ...eitsu .m,aina 4t1t_it3 *Aim-   -l-3         00111                      ."    am3 ma m1  -w lis  vt ai"Aasa Ai-m-a   33 =-3.1 
-s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~am,. mimm Mi _m3 gz_.. s utt-a.m13-
IsA       0t5iAm    W0-tIm- 13130 Mi *me-Fl we    a.nl----- Pon.1 SAI33  hOi 313n 53't   P a-lil  55 311-  3033
.0 Peft  -MVP -"Ron                  1h30 I.1 MMa Ia                         am ) a. n' 15 -3 tu  '311mm PWmm.. dingaal3gsIaIA   mu
Poaomi 55A.-3    ~         no     M".  -.a.3    350ll -ft vlo3- ASlIt..,                 Am,iiaaaa MiW~f daTatp 533    i.   Mi, "       Mono
3433.j431 lS'itii.--g", ma . 33- 33)                                 1013,61-i  P01.  egg.~ a- M"
IslIat'Sa P t olC  CPAPPa-i  MC 33"133 - al"'  lw-l
W"I"w ism P= %NW   "on P                   "Mi is nIlOl  44    41l31 PIN Ul1*33 A  laN " mL-m
..Imsaw  S.a ~atmm,. a. 13- lana - Jq1tIi -1133t -mSI33I'ag                                 V*lm    a   S  PAIPM  Aj m, 1301 PM-"1
*.hinmaa   miss a.  ~  itatn a m i.'              sga -"id. .30 133,.hlC3. it" Allug  "adcli)    ldaatSitt  tS.-VW M
P. nowalmosea in sAlUn     "Mg". mbit. *3   *CftImw n355mml.                            &III0 .alIgis Po3 I3SIT"A'An ap"a  p--p    f  s"     wI
pai,A   e  11.0aA  cou03-ea    aa ism                        s _                  Ilium  a.  etiu1d 3.303131a 133d1-   UJ rU                .1
is' Pdagoon .IttI   *33-- t3l1.  303*u,la    a-ra
1c3mm- Aa~utmuta03.1,10310 Ci13313    n33.j130M a- *gml 1 Ag                                                              30131.1  iswo n314na.
is eogaggav   itaat3a  A*     Amd.s B    im"      swin mi.  I gma                   gap J. sAinm aam  i"iA.       mai-  3A 
.,.3  Rtta   .           M        u z        m          R - 11                              I--ii.    a
ae    -,'AA M~   .    ~                                    nof2                                                                 - 00P.LI We3m3331
a.j "s  m,mA"   - umm   -miWIM v"                                                 mommtu psii           -mstIoam.m
313-hel..M- omudstt a-Ct Moi 353  -041511..mi 3 v"a                               it.3   "Callt 0--T       S "pa 333  Pa-U    *StSlWi    --33   a-  30
gm l 33113  is a. '313w  -oa dI     im  PM oe"Aa-a        m ..    umi   ~-3113 !3-od                 %slo   'M   3tm,          deI -TC M , 33301
lmuo a.N            i       aC    1-           3         El   -                 12i          115   35a           33    -3  42"Ml  -in,m 3-30  .3
-mmHg W     ailmIla 13-Clt  013  51 m iitmsoilai an mm"" 1 wagit no  3mmiliom a. Cda.33
bl113 *u"m.tqaga-   03434n,33bufmC   13 P                         3Ca,,Ag ttN.mO do          a-aaiCiaPMs" 5titMi5S  A. P.~3    ..333.3133
on!   r ^                                                                                                            in~~~~~~~3 S  t  -Miu
go-i BWxzizMm P"wooen.=



- 27 -
Populaeiiom 16.9 sUllen (1963)
CNP per Capital U65340 (1063)
mum, seomsac nnoe*oc
tAunt
Calteun U86)      AesaL growth rate (3) lie omataent prime
at esvrut
Indicator                  priesn)                           Actual
1963                1979  19W   3961   192    1913
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Grao dommutic product S    5,723                  3.9   4.8   4.1   1.8    3.7
Agricuture               13 640                -0.7  -1.1   6.2   4.6    4.1
Industry                  1,009                 6.8   5.8   4.2  -0.3    2.7
Services                  2.296                 7.4   5.8   3.2   4.3    4.2
Consumption                 4,615                 6.5  -1.5  -1.4   5.2
Cream Investmnt             1.209               -27.1  39.0  -2.1  -22.8
Expert et CN S              1'456                -5.0   5.   -4.3   1.2
Importa of GNVS             1,556               -19.4   W05 -21.0  -13.3
Grogu national  atwings     1.035                 6.9  -1.4   2.0   6.0   34.5
PRICES
;urotzacor c1963-100 In U3S)                      75.4  82.6  90.9  100.0  100.0
Exchange rage (Xoh/US$)                           7.5   7.4   9.0  10.9   13.3
Share of GRP at market pricea  (2)         Average Animl Increase (Z)
(at turret prices                        (at oenstant prtcem)
1975   190    1963    1 55   1990         970-75 1973-0  193-3  195-90
Cram damstte product/             100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0             9.4     6.0      1.7      4.3
Agriculture                       30.2   27.5   28.7   26.2   27.8             5.9     3.2      0.9      4.0
Industry                         17.9   18.8   17.6   17.9   18.1           135.4     7.9      2.5      4.5
Services                         60.3   36.6   40.1   40.8   41.1             7.5     5.4      2.5      4.5
Cnanumption                        86.5   81.4   80.6   63.0   81.3            11.5     6.2      3.1      4.0
Coma lnveatmut                     16.1   30.0   21.1   21.0   21.6           -3.3    12.2       1.4      4.9
Exports of CUPS                    29.8   28.6   25.4   25.5   25.0             1.7     1.3      1.8      3.9
mports of CliS                     34.5   10.0   27.2   29.5   27.9           -2.0      6.4      5.9      3.3
GCro  national savingp             10.6   16.7   16.5   16.0   17.9            -0.9    11.2    -4.4       6.7
a, At arket prices; cmp.onnto are apreased at factor cost and vili not dd due to exlusion of nm  indir ct  a
and subsidies.
Ac Z of CGO
CENTRAL COVEUZET FINANCE  *i    1980/61   1961182   1982/83   1983/84   1964/65
Renus and Crants                 26.1      25.7     24.8      24.6      26.2
kavenue                        In-      T."       In        YET       YET
Grants                          0.8       1.4      1.6       1.3       2.6
Epnditurms                       34.8      33.1     26.6      29.2      31.3
Current ampndLture             24.7      23.3    ITT        2.3       23.4
Capital apenditure             10.1       9.8      6.2       7.8       7.9
Overall cash dfeicit              9.5       6.6      3.1       4.6       5.1
Foreign financing               El       'fi       57        ST        ST
enastic fisancing               4.6       4.9      1.4       3.6       3.3
Average Annual Growth CE)
Cat contant prim)
1960-70      1970-75       197540       1983-85       1985-90
OTE1 lNDICAloRS
Gcn grow   rate (C)                           5.2          5.5           4.8            1.5          4.6
GM? per capita growth rate Ct)               2.2           2.2           1.3          -1.6           1.4
Enrg consmption  growth rate (C)              -             -            4.9           1.5           2.0
LCD                                          6.1           4.2           4.6           0.6           4.9
Marginal savings rate                        0.5          -1.0          -0.6           -2.6          2.5
Import  losticity                            0.9          -0.2           1.1           4.2           0.6
Ij FLscal yarn ending June 30.
Febroury Z. 1985



-28 -
Ppattoio  18.9 milloln (1983)
01W per Capitaa  UII3AO ($962)
fXIA - RIMRNAL TLRAD
Amount          - - ---- - --- - Annual powth eate  (Z)  - --- - - --- -
(illion US$ at                              (At constant 1983 price.)
Indicator                  current prices)                   Actual                              Pro1ected
1983           1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1964   1985   1 86   198- 1990
EXVRNAL TRADE
Merchandise exporte             947            -2.1    3.2   -5.2   -3.3   -1.5   -1.9    1.7    3.8    3.8    3.8
Primary                      816              4.8  -7.3    6.7   13.9  -1.1   -2.0    2.0    3.7    3.7    3.8
Manufactures                  131            -3.1   29.6  -16.3  -16.5   -3.0   -0.8    1.0    4.0    4.0    4.0
Merchandise imports            1391           -18.3   14.7  -22.8  -12.5  -11.3    7.3    5.5    0.6    4.4    4.4
Food                         125            -19.2   57.6  -48.4   58.4  -10.1    8.8   25.0  -23.5    7.7    8.1
Petrol.us                    508              0.9   16.7  -21.5   -6.7  -18.2    0.4    0.6    1.4    2.5    2.2
Machinery & Equipmnt          315           -28.4   19.0  -22.0  -19.2  -13.4   12.1    5.1    5.1    5.4    5.2
Others                        443            -8.3    5.D   -7.1   -3.6   -1.3   11.5    5.5    4.6    4.8    4.8
PRICES
Epjrrt price Lndex              100.0          58.2   70.0   77.3   84.5  100.0  116.3  113.8  120.2  127.2  150.6
Import price lndox              100.0          46.6   61.1   77.7   89.8  100.0  106.0  112.0  117.9  124.5  146.8
Terms of crade index            100.0         124.8  114.6  99.5   94.1  100.0  109.8  101.5  102.0  102.2  102.6
Compoltioan of  erchandie trade (Z)                  Average Annual Growth
(at current price.)                          (at constant pricae)
1979    1981    1983    1986    1990             1974-79    1983-85    1985-90
Exports                              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                 -         -0.1        3.3
Primry                             84.9    87.7-  86.6    86.6    86.2                  2.1       -0.0         3.2
Manufactures                        15.1    12.3    13.4    13.4    13.8              -11.3       -0.4         4.0
Imports                              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                -          6.4         3.8
Food                                5.3      4.8     9.0     9.0    10.3              -10.4        16.6        2.8
Petroleum                          23.7    36.9    36.5    30.2    27.7                -2.8        0.5         2.2
Machinery & Equtpmnt                35.5    27.2    22.6    25.0    26.1                1.7        8.5         5.2
Othera                              35.5    31.2    30.4    35.8    35.9                -          8.4         4.8
Direction of Trade
Share of crade with           Share of trade with      -  Share of trade with capital
industrlal countrie. (2)     developins countries (S)       1urplus oll exportere (Z)
1979     1981     1983         1979      981    1983       1979        1981       1983
Exports                    54.4      42.1     47.2        34.0      45.0     39.2       1.8        2.3         3.0    "
Imports                    67.4      57.3     50.8        10.0       8.2     15.4      20.3       33.5        32.3
February 21, 1985



-29-
sPulautsm    18.9 *il11  (1313)                                                                                              ANNUl
GNP per Capitoa USAC (1983)                                                                                                  r     o
A -NUALAM OF PARE rnIhhAL CAPTAL AM DODIT
(IdALLooa Us* at eurst prices)
ActIal                        Ent,                       pwoleted
i,ip   rn 0                                                               1g8l  1982  1983   lIP  1ETrRI"Tfl71WF1,W
ALAJICK OF PAYTINTU
gEporto of coods and vortices             166   2A084   1 746   199   1,500            1 604      1 684   1,853   2 049   2 269   2 783
4pect of goods                         tU5!    . flT   TiT3 1007           9!17 1,3ii 1                                           =TN
Spereo of *-rvic o                       634      769      610     599      553        574        651      646      720     824   1,057
Ioeco of aoodand mrvices                 2 254   3,119   25S83   2 130   1 787         1 943      2,182   2275   2 497   2 716   3 280
Imorts  eofc " 1X1 1S m44=1iXT188E tw 
Imports of services                      422      437      435     408      394        364        445      407      437     445      517
(of whlch$ tatere.t)                   (87)   (141)   (139)   (172)   (169)         (182)      (181)   (179)   (187)   (196)   (215)
Transfers (mt)                               91     148       95       68      116        138        138     110      110      110      110
Current Account Belance                    -497    -887    -742    -463    -171         -201       -363    -322    -339    -337    -387
Dlrect invcI tnUt (nut)                     70       78       60       60       74        60         70       70       70       70      70
ubLcL tLT loans (not)                      393      444      275      213      s0        147        147      314      326      336     417
G:ros dLaburs-e-ntsXZ    m                                          w   m              239  M                  mMT3    m
Reapynats                                 76      118      162      180     178        229        259      199      195      199     215
72      57       27      147       96       -12          77     -96      -91      -73     -98
iTr      71       I3     Ta        Ila       1w                            -          
39       9        8       19       46        60         61       96       91       73       98
Other capital (not) /a                     236      155      132       23      36         25         30       50       50       50      50
Champ in Garorm  Reerwe                     282    -153    -248       -20      16S        25        -38       15       17       46     -52
Memorand   Itcon:
Gross reserves at year' mmd              652      499      251      231     396        421        383      398      415     463       558
Reorvs u    weeks Imortu                  13       10        7        8       13        13         11       11       10       11        11
Current account deficit u Z of GOP
Including offieil grants /b           8.2    12.5    11.0       7.4      3.0        3.4        5.6     4.8      4.4      3.9       3.5
Excluding official grants /c           9.7    14.2    12.3       8.6      5.0        5.9        7.8      6.4     5.9      5.2      4.6
XTLZhitAL CAPITAL AND DINT
Groom DI.buram ntu
Official grancs /d                      88      124       82      81      125        144
Cone-snlonal loma                      146      178      146      190      84        174
BilateraJl-DAC                        P1- OW ;                   F T5-   I
Iilateral-OPEC                         -        -       2        5        2         29
IDA                                   22      72       15       85       20         38
Other                                 31       41       13       9       31         37
Nonconceasional loan.                  323      384      291     203      174        202
Official export credit.              T1       -16      1Y      7Y -11   i
ISID                                  40      45       61       88      100         87
Other sultilateral                     7       15       15      22       14         17
Prlvate-source                       264     297      183       79       14         70
Public MLT loans - total               469      562      437     393      258        375
/a  Incluee s short-torm  capital. commsrcial bank' net foreign position. errorm and omiasions, and valuatlon adjustmcnt.
7T; Includang official grants 'abov  the lUnse- _          Iten  istributing to tbh  deternination of the current account deficit.
7   Trating official grants m a 'below the Uen' itm  which contributes to the financing of the eurrent account deficit.
T   'Governsnt transfer receipts' In the balance of paymnts.
February 21. 1985



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Pago 7
Actual                      Est.
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983        1984
External Debt Outstanding
Public debt ouctstanding and
dibursed (excl. IMF)            1,809   2 216   2,315   2 423   2,384       2,701
Official-source                1,064       1    T1,397   1,61    1,7       2,158
Private-source                   746      952     919     803      644       543
Undisbursed debt                 1,431   1,388   1,235   1,361   1,131       1,157
IMF credit outstanding             139      198     207     341      426       399
Public debt outstanding and
disbursed (icl. IMF)            1,948   2,414   2,522   2,764   2,810  3, 10
Debt service /a
Total debt service payments      202      268     309     371      379       447
Of which: interest              87      141     139     172      169       182
Payments as Z exports             12.1    12.9    17.7    23.2    25.2        27.3
of goods and services
Average interest rate on loans /b   7.0       3.4     9.2      5.9     6.5        5.2
(X) Official-source                  3.4      3.0     5.3     5.2      -         -
Private-source                  10.6      9.3    15.4    10.1      -         -
Average maturity of loans            21.J    30.7    22.8    30.4    25.0        27.2
(years) Official-source             33.8    31.6    31.8    33.3       -         -
Private-source               8.3    14.7      8.8    14.1      -         -
As Z of debt outstanding
at end of 1983
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Principal due within 5 years                                            42.8
Principal due within 10 years                                           75.2
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                           5.7
/a Including IMF repurchases and charges.
lb  Excluding new IMF loans.                                               February 21, 19:



- 31 -                                   ANSEX I1
THE STATIS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loani and IDA Credits as of March 31, 1985
- - - -  USS Million - - - - -
Loan or                                                           Amount (Less Cancellations)
Credit 0    Year   Borrower    Purpose                           Bank I/  TW   IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty-one (21) Loans and Twenty-six (26) Credits and two (2)
Third Window Loans Fully Disbureed*                             423.78         312.63
1304-T     1977    Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                     17.00            3.30
1449       1977    Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement        34.00                  14.50
750       1978    Kenya       Small Scale Industry                             10.00    5.50
( 791      (1978   (Kenya      (Second Urban                                     25.00  ( 2.12
(1550      (1978   (Kenya      (Second Urban                      25.00                 (25.00
797       1978    Kenya       Fourth Education                                 23.00   10.00
1636       1979    Kenya       Sugar Rehabilitation              14.00                   2.56
1637       1979    Kenya       Rural Water Supply                20.00                  18.30
1684       1979    Kenya       Highway Sector                    90.00                  15.11
914       1979    Kenya       Smallholder Coffee Improvement                   27.00   23.02
959       1980    Kenya       Second Integrited Agric. Dev.                    12.00    7.11
962       1980    Kenya       Baringo Semi-Arid Areas                           6.50    4.91
1799       1980    Kenya       Third Power (Olkaria Geothermal)40.00 2/                  3.19
1817       1980    IDB         Fourth Industrial Dev. Bank       30.00                  14.89
1045       1980    Kenya       Export Promotion Technical Asst.                  4.50    4.02
1051       1980    Kenya       Fisheries                                        10.00    9.96
1107       1981    Kenya       Fifth Education                                  40.00   28.24
1976       1981    Kenya       Railway                           58.00                  26.26
(1143      (1981   (Kenya      (Fourth Agriculture                               10.00    1.,7
(1995      (1981   (Kenya      (Fourth Agriculture                25.00                   14.90
2065       1982    Kenya       Petroleum Exploration              4.00                   0.85
(2098      (1982   (Kenya      (Forestry IIT  4/                  21.50                  21.50
(1213      (1982   (Kenya      (Forestry III                                     16.00    6.86
1237       1982    Kenya       Cotton Proc. & Marketing 4/                      22.00   18.34
1238       1982    Kenya       Integrated Rural Health &
Family Planning 4/                             23.00   15.47
2155       1982    Kenya       Second Telecomunications          44.70                   21.89
1277       1983    Kenya       Agric. Technical Assistance 4/                    6.00    3.34
2237       1983    Kenya       Olkaria Geothermal Expansion    12.00   -          -      7.31
1387       1983    Kenya       National Extension 41                            15.00   10.91
(2319      (1983    Kenya      (Secondary Towns                    7.00                   6.98
(1390      (1983    Kenya      (Secondary Towns 4/                               22.00   17.15
2359       1983    Kenya       Kiaubere Hydroelectric            95.00                   78.21
(2409      (1984   (Kenya      (Second Highway Sector             50.00                 (49.88
(F017      (1984   (Kenya      (Second Highway Sector                            40.00  (37.80
1486       1984    Kenya       Geothermal Exploration                           24.50   24.50
1566       1985    Kenya       Water Engineering 3/               6.00   _               6.00
Total                           999.98 17.00  655.13  561.85
of which has been repaid        97.58   .88    6.00
Total now outstanding            902.40 16.12  649.13
Amount sold                11.81
of which has been repaid 11.81   .00
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA              890.59 16.12  649.13
TOTAL undisbureed                           318.03  3.30  240.52  561.85
* In addition, Kenya was one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million
which were extended for the development of coton services (railways, ports,
telecommunications, and finance for industry), operated regionally for the three partner
states of the former East African Community (EAC).
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes Loan S-12 ($9.0 million).
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ IDA-6 Credit amounts expreased in dollar equivalents of SDR's.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C. Statement of IFC Investment in Kenya as at
March 31, 1985
Fiscal Year  Obligor                      Type of Business         Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968,
and 1973     Kenya Hotel Properties       Hotels                    5.2     0.7       5.9
1970, 1974,
1977, 1979
and 1981     Pan African Paper Mills      Pulp and Paper           22.2     6.3      28.5
1972         Tourism Promotion
Services                   Hotels                     2.4     -1/      2.4
1976         Rift Valley Textiles Ltd.   Textiles                   6.3     2.8       9.1
1977         Kenya Coimercial Bank Ltd.  Capital Market             2.0     -         2.0
1980         Development Finance
Company of Kenya Ltd.      Development Finance        3.9     1.3      5.2
1981         Kenya Commercial Finance    Money & Capital Market   5.0       -        5.0
1982         Bamburi Portland             Cement & Construction
Cement Co., Ltd.            Material                 4.3      -        4.3
1982         Diamond Trust of Kenya
Limited                    Money & Capital Market    -        0.8      0.8
1982         Industrial Promotion
Services (Kenya) Ltd.      Money & Capital Market    -        0.6      0.6
1983         Tetra Pak Converters
Limited                    Pulp & Paper Products    2.2       0.3      2.5
1984         Leather Industries of
Kenya Limited              Tanning                    1.5     0.6      2.1
Total Gross Commitments                               55.0    i3.4     68.4
less cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                            23.6     1.7     25.3
Total Comnitments now held by IFC                    31.4    11.7      43.1
Total Undisbursed                                      5.4      -       5.4
I/ $51,395



- 33 -
ANNEX III
KENYA
Third Telecommunications Project
Sup,olementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country with Bank
Group assistance to prepare
the project:                            6 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared project:         Kenya Posts and
Telecommunications
Corporation (KPTC)
{c)  First presentation to Bank:              January 1984
Cd) Appraisal:                                October 1984
(f)  Completion of negotiations:              May 1985
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:           September 1985
Section II:  Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The following are conditions of the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement:
(a) Financing for the switching contract through price and terms
bidding secured (pars. 54).
(b) Execution of the EIB loan agreement (para. 54).
(c) Implementation of a tariff increase (para 61).



.    U D A N  ,                    (                                                        KENYA
,.o1\ .\R '*                                               THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
.t     ___,.Sg                                          t~~~~~~~~~~~ong Distance Networkt
,  ,   L  ct   p    t                    s s    ~~~~~~E T H I O  P I A             "                         ' 
UGAN DA  j- i                                                 -Si 
ry"                  ^                                               Q d^-- 
t;                                  S  < ". --                              '                     e    t~~--Wm
12 G"_ -vA 6^_ G 's.
UlP RAI  svsTEM   ------   ._- -- ---   Z   ---X-;i- - F
RADIIO CHANNEL cOIACITcr  3   ,.Y                           _5    wz                          e
\ \   *    o --/               >   *tfNVA f  /~~~~~l-Co
-{s 1D  .11   ;2-               ---p4r   l  
a 12            ^      ___ __^_=_ - _5                    ~~~~~~~~~~~ro rrmm"^|             a_        t 






