Docmin.t of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
ReortNo. 10250
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
SECOND AND THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECTS
(LOANS 2155-KE AND 2574-KE)
DECEMBER 31, 1991
Eastern Africa Department
Industry and Energy Operations
Africa Region
Thi document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
tdhir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CurrGecy Iquivalents (June 1990)
US$  1.00         -     K Sh 23.10 (Kenyan Stilling)
K Sh 1.00         -     USS   0.043
K Sh 1,000,000    -     USS  43,103
Fiscal Year
Government: July 1 - June 30
KPTC      : January 1 - December 31 until June 1986.
July 1 - June 30 since July 1986.
Accounts were prepared through June 1986 for the
transition year.
ABBRZVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Carrier       - A system providing a number of circuits over one radio
link, coaxial cable, or a pair of wires.
Channel       - One circuit of a carr:ier system carrying speech or
telegraph Sigiial.S
DEL          - Direct Exchange Line (connected).
EAC          - East African Community (Union of Kenya, Tanzania and
Uganda, 1966-77)
EAPTC         - East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation--an
autonomqus government-owned public corporation-- responsible
for all public posts and telecommunications services in the
EAC. The corporation ceased to operate with the break up
of the East African Community in 1977.
EIB           - European Investment Bank (Luxembourg).
ECU          - European 4Qurrency Unit.
HF-VHF-UHF   - High frequency radio up to 30 MHz, between 30-300 and
300-3000 MHz, respectively.
ITU          - International Telecommunication Union (Geneva).
KENEXTEL     - Kenya External Telecommunications Company Limited--an
autonomous government-owned company--which was responsible
for the technical maintenance and operations of Kenya's
external telecommunications facilities until its merger
into KPTC in 1982.
KPTC          - Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation--an
autonomous government-owned company--which is responsible
for the operation of all public telecommunications services
in Kenya, since 1977.
Microwave    - A radio system working at frequencies above 1000 MHz.
Multiplex    - Part of the equipment in a carrier system (see above).
OECF          - Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan.
STD          - Subscribir Trunk Dialing.
Telex        - Telegraph exchange service for subscribers.



FOR OFFICIAL UI (MLY
THE WORLD SANK                       w
Washngton, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
- d Oltiin
EwI" aaktkm
February 4, 1992
IMERANDUN TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs    Project Completion Report on Kenya
Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (KPTC)
Second and Third Telecommunications Projects
(toans 2155-KE and 2574-KE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Kenya - Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
(KPTC), Second and Third Telecommunications Projects (Loans 2155-RE and 2574-KE)"
prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project han been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authotization.



FOR OFFICAL UE ONLY
,9                TROJ Cr M UIAI SPOEI
agmANDiy namnaw-ME M
aLQAN  2155-KE AMD ZVA4:mE
Table of Contents
Paste Xo.
PREFACE                                                              
EVALtATION 6T IO4KAY . . . . . . . . . .. .
PART I
1.   PROJECTSIDETIT ITYY 1..................
2.   BACKGROUND   . .  .  .  .    . .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .    .  .  .  .  .  3.
3.   PROJECTS OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION . . . . . . . . . . . 2
-  Sector Goals  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
-  Projects Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
-  Pr6jects Description  . . . . . . . . . . . ..  . 3
A.   Second Telecomnuications Project (Loan 2155-KE) . . 3
3.   Third Telecomuuunications Project (Loan 2574-UE)  . . 3
4.   PROJECTS DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
S.   PROJECTS IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
A.   Second Telecommunications Project
-  Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up . . . . . 4
-  Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
-  Nisprocurement of the Switching
Equipment Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
-  Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
-  Project Costs . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .   . 6
-  Allocat'in of Loan Proceeds . . . . . . .  . .  .  7
-  Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offichl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



TASLI 0o  OJh!3Ta  (Cost *)                                              Pan No.
B.   Third Telecommunications Project          . . . .7
-  Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up            .   .  7
- Procuresent....   7
-  Implementation Schedule.                                  9
-  Project Costs .  . . .. . . .... 9
-  Allocation of Loan Proceeds . . . . . . .                10
-  Disburstents ...   .. ...  ........  .                  .   10
f. PROJECTSRESULTS   .................. .  10
-  Physical and Operational Results.. . . .   10
-  Technical Assistance and Institutional Results . .    11
-  Financial Performance  ......                                 11
-  Human Resources and Development          . .     . .12
7. PROJECTS SUSTAINABILITY               ... .13
-  Projects Benefits.  . .   . . . . . . .13
- Economic Impact             ...                                14
S. BANK PERFORMANCE               ...14
9. BORROWER PERFORMANCE            ..                                 14
- Covenants   . . . . . . . . ..                                 14
10. PROJECTS RELATIONSHIP  ...                               .         15
11.  CONSULTANCY SERVICES AND STUDIES           . . . . .15
12.  PROJECTS DOCUMENTATION AND REPORTING  . . . ...                   15
13.  CONCLUSIONSvAND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . ..16
- Main Findings and Conclusions.                                  16
- Recommendations  . . . . ..16
PART 1I   Borrower's perspective of the design, implementation, and
development impact of the projects. . . . . . . . . . .  18
- (KPTC has been asked to prepare this part of the PCR)-



TAM.3 of cownm  i's  t.)                                       PMR  No.
Part-III  ..    ..   ....................... .    19
Tables
3.1      Related Bank Loans  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
3.2      Projects Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
3.3      Loans Allocation and Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . 21
A.  Allocation of Loans Proceeds (original, and Pi disbursed
in US$)  . . .  .  ......  ......  ......  ..........  ........  21
B. Loans Disbursements (cumulative estimated
and  actual)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    22
3.4      Projects Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
A.  Additional Facilities (Hain Components)  . . . . . 23
B.  Completion Dates   ....  .  .  .    . . .  . . . . 24
3.5      Projects Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
A.   Projects  Costs  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   25
B.  Projects Financing ....  .  .  .  .  .    . . . . . .   . 26
C.  Country Exchange Rates               .26
3.6      Projects Results  . . . . . . . . ... . . .  27
A.  Direct Benefits  . . . . . . .. . .  27
B.  Economic Impact  . . . ... . . . . . . .  28
C.  Financial Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
D.  Studies and Technical Assistance . . . . . .        29
3.7      Status of Covenants . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . ...  30
3.8      Missions Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..         31
Annexes   List of Annees    ....................   33
Annex 1  Technical Performance Indicators (1982-1990)  . . . . . 34
Annex 2   Financial Statements  ..................  33
-Attachment 1. Comparative Income Statements  . . . . . 35
-Attachment 2. Comparative Balance Sheets . . . . . . . 37
-Attachment 3. Comparative Funds Flow Statements  . . . 39
-Attachment 4. Financial Performance Indicators
(1984-1990)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Annex 3  Borrower's Comnents (as applicable) . . . . . . . . . . 41



-     S~MCAN ER=
I. PERFACI
1.        This is a combined Project Completion Report for the Second and
ThLrd Teleccmu1ications Projects in Kenya which were supported by lank Loans
2155-Ut and 2574-IM respectively.
2.        Loan 2155-Ul for USS 44.7 aillion to the Republic of Kenya was
approved in May, 1962, signed on August 17, 1962, became effective on October
13, 1962, and was closed on September 30, 1967, the original closing date.
Loan 2374-U3 for US$ 32.6 million to the Kenya Posts and Telecomunications
Corporation (KPTC) was approved in June 1965, siped on May 23, 1966, became
effective on August 17, 1987, and was closed on December 31, 1989, the
original closing date.
3.        Parts I and III were prepared by Bank Staff, based on information
available in the projects files, supplied by the Kenya Posts and
Telecoaanications Corporation and gathered during the Bank's final
supervision mistion of the ThLrd Project in June 1990.
4.        IPTC, the Beneficiary under the second project and the Borrower
under the third was asked to prepare Parts II of the report. No documents
have been received.



-A
=COMD AMD Y        TlnConlAYIONS PIOJICTS
LOANS 2153-IM AND 2574-fl
PIOJICTS COfl?!ORI REPORT
ZYALUITION SUMAIY
1.        Background.  The Bank has boen involved in the teleconounications
sector in Kenya since the late 60. through financing three projects of the
forser East African Constunity's (EkAC) Posts and Telecomunications
Corporation (EAPTC). Kenya benefitted from large parts of these loans.
Following ACI's break-up in 1977, three loans have been granted to finance
development projects of the Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
(XPTC). The first project was satisfactorily completed in 1984, though
implementation was delayed by one year.   The second and third projects were
part of IPTC's second and third five-year investment programs. They were
appraised in 1981 and 1984 and completed in September 1987 and December 1989,
respectively. Assistance to the telecomunications sector in Kenya was a
continued and interrelated process under these two projects which were
supported by Bank Loans 2155-RE and 2574-KE and are the subject of this
combined Project Completion Report (paras. 2.01 - 2.03).
2.        Projects Obiectives and Descrigtion.  Government's main objectives
in the telecoamunications sector under Kenya's successive five-year
development plans since 1979 was the provision of adequate and efficient
domestic and international telecomunications services to support the
country's economic and social goals. WLthln these goals, [PYTC plans under
both projects, which were part of ite 1982-88 investment program, were
too (i) expand, improve and establish high quality and reliable local, long
dlstance and international services using the latest available techniques;
(ii) provide basic telecomunications facilities to rural areas; and
(iii) improve and strengthen its organization and managemnt. The projects
included:  (i) the expansior of local telephone facilities for about 130,000
lines in total, of whieh about 81,000 and 49,000 lines were in the second and
third projects, respectively; (ii) expansion of the long distance network
through additional or expanded trunk exchanges, microwave radio systems and
multiplex channeling equipment for about 7,000 and 3,600 trunk lines,
respectively; (iii) expansion of the telex system by about 3,000 and 3,500
lines respectively; (iv) buildings, tools, workshops, and repair facilities,
as required; and (v) technical assistance and training in project
engineering, procurement and financial managment, and for advising on RPTC's
management systems and tariffs structure. (paras. 3.01 - 3.04).
implementation Experience and Results.
3.        Except for the telephone and telex exchange components under both
projects, physical implementation did not raise dlfficulties, KPTC wys
fmiliar with Bank procurement procedures mad project start-up action was
timely under both projects. Delivery and installation of equipment for
expansion of existini telephone exchanges, local lines and long distance
systms and for suppart facilities were satisfactorily implemaeted with no or
little delays. These realizations correspond to the final disburseoeats of
about 62S and 432 of ths loan amounts for the second and third projects,
respectively (paras. 5.02, 5.08. 5.14 and 5.15).



4.        Procurem ent of digital telephone exchanges under the second and
telex ezchanges under the third project resulted in misprocurement estimated
at about US$6 aillion and US$4 million respectively. The supplier of
telephone exchanges failed to honor its contract because of insufficient
technological developmnt on the part of the manufacturer. KPTC cancelled
the order and rebidding took placo. Bid evaluati.n for this and the price
and terms tenders for telephone exchanges under the third project was made
approximately at the sae time. The Bank did not accept KPTC's award
proposal for the retendered component and was not satisfied with KPTC's
evaluation of the price and terms component. Following protracted reviews
and discussions KPTC deo.ded to vawrd both contracts (for a total of about
83,000 exchange lines) to the same supplier from Italy. Bilateral financing
was arranged for both contracts. Similariy, a disagreement between the Bank
and KPTC on the contract award for the digital telex exchanges resulted in
long discussions for the award of this item of the third project. Finally,
Government asked for cancellation of most of the uncommitted amounts under
the third loan, including the telex allocation, Completion of these
essential projects items for telephone and telex exchanges suffered delays of
about three years (paras. 5.06, 5.'7, 5.18 and 13.01).
a.        With regard to projects costs, KPTC took advantage of effective
competition for both Bank and externally financed items which were included
in its programs. Actual costs were in line with estimates or even lower in
real terms with regard to some hardware items such as transmission and
telephone switching equipment for which ICB procedures were effectively
followed by KPTC. Local costs were financed by KPTC from self generated
funds. Supervision showed, however, that project components for which ICB
procedures were not followed and unprogrammed sub-projects such as undertaken
for rural telephony in 1988, are not being realized under such favorable
conditions (paras. 5 .03, 5.11 and 5.22).
6.        Both projects contributed substantially to the sector development,
making Kenya one of the better served countries in sub-Saharan Africa. From
1982 to 1989, telephone density increased from 0.4 to 0.7 main telephone
lines per 100 inhabitgnts and will surpass 0.8 at full development. This
exceeds sub-Saharan average by a factor of more than 2. However, quality of
service remains poor, call completion rates are very low, and connection of
new subscribers is still slow. This also requires attention and measures for
improvement (paras. 6.01, 6.02, 7.01, 7.07 and 13.01).
7.        In the financial area, KPTC was performing relatively well until
1987. Operating results were profitable and the covenanted rate of return
was met. Financial performance, however, has deteriorated during recent
years due to increases in operating costs related to increased overstaffing
and fast growing financial charges from accelerated debt servicing. Also
collection of arrears for services provided to the public sector is highly
deficient and tariffs have not been adequately adjusted. The situation
requires corrective measures to be premptly taken (paras. 6.03; 6.08).



-iv-
Conclusions and Recoemendations
S.        The main findings and conclusions from the two projects and the
assessment of KPTC's situation in this report are thatt
(a) KPTC has been performing relatively well technically during initial
implementation of the two projects, in spite of procurement
difficulties.
(b)  Since 1988. hovever, the Bank expressed inereasing concern that
KPTC waS undertaking excessive unprograomed investments before
satisfactorily completing ongoing projects. As a result, the
dlalogue between KPTC and the Bank became less frequent and
thorough, and so became project supervision. Implementation
problems arose, due in part to the loss of dialogue.
(c) At about the same time, KPTC operational and financial management
deteriorated gradually to a level that should cause much concern.
The main problem areas aret quality of service, overstaffing,
unsettled arrears from public sector, very large and costly
unprogrammed investments under recent KPTC's development plans.
poor financial management and deteriorating financial performance.
(d)  It is esseitial that the present unbalanced situation with regard
to KPTC's development and finances be corrected and thatt
(i) discipline be instilled in KPTC's management, development
planning, and finances; and (ii) adequate monitoring be introduced
in the sector development and operation: and
Ce)  The matter should not be limited to KPTC's management and
operation, but also to its oversight, as a whole, includinS overall
sector policy, structure and performance monitoring.
9.        There is need for an in-depth study of the findings and issues
discussed in this report, with a view to full scale restructuring of the
sector, reinforcing managerial discipline and better monitoring of its
investment programming and operations. It is suggested that such study for
Posts and Telecommunications be initiated by Government and supported by the
Parastatal Reform Project which is currently proposed for Kenya. The study
would be undertaken with the view to determine and decide upon appropriate
mesures for restructuring and improving management of both sub-sectors
(paras. 13.01-13.05).



LAN  255KE AMM 2574-KE)
PART I
1.       Proiects Identity
Title:             Second Telecomuunications Project
Loan No.:          2155-fl
Titlet             Third Telecommunications Project
Loan No.:          2574-fl
RVP Unit:          Africa Region
Country:           Kenya
Sector:           AF2IE - Industry and Energy
Subsector:         Telecomeunications
2.       Background
2.01     Public telecommunications services in Kenya are provided by the
Kenya Poets and Telecommunications Corporation (KPTC), an autonomous
government-owned entity under the Ministry of Transport and Communications.
KPTC was created in 1977 after the break-up of the East African Coamunity
(EAC) of which the East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
(EAPTC) was a part. EAPTC was in charge of these services within Kenya,
Tanzania and Uganda. From 1977 to 1982, the Kenya External
Telecommunications Company (KENEXTEL), another state-owned company from the
break-up of the sectors in the EAC, was responsible for providing
international telecoumunications.  KPTC and KENEXTEL were merged in July
1982. Since then. KPTC provides all domestic and international
telecomnunications services comprising telephone, telex, telegraph and broad
band data and video transmission. It is also responsible for the postal
services.
2. tz,    The Bank Group had supported telecommunications development in the
EAc, before its demise, through financing three projects since 1967 as
indicated in Table 1, Part III. The three loans, 483-EA, 675-EA and 914-EA
to the EAPTC totaled USS 56 million. Kenya, with about GOZ of the telephones
of the EAC, largely benefitted from these loans. Subsequently, the first
Bank Loan to Kenya (1680-fE) for US$ 20 million to assist KPTC's first
five-year development program was approved in 1979.   This project, delayed
by one year, was satisfactorily completed in 1984 and KPTC substantially
achieved its objectives. Some deficiencies in planning and management were
identified to be taken care of in the future. A Project Completion Report
was issued in June 1986.
2.03     Kenya's rolled over five-year Telecomsounications Investment Programs
are updated and reviewed every two years for government approval, and
implemented by KPTC. In 1981, when reviewing KPTC's first program under loan
1680-RE, the Goverr=ent requested Bank assistance in financing its second
five-year program for 1982-86. Similarly, when reviewing the second program,
Bank assistance was also requested in 1963 for the 1984-88 third program.
These requests led to the appraisals of the Second and Third



-2-
Telecmounications Projects, supported by Bank Loans 2155-UC and 2574-U.
Tho projocts were appraised in November 1961 and April 1984 and completed in
September 1967 and Dcember 1989, respectively. No extension of the closing
dates was nooded. Each loan was closed during the year following the end of
the related five-year program.
2.04     As for Loau 1680-KE, the Government of Kenya was the Borrower under
Loan 2155-KU for the second project. Sector operations were still divided
between KPTC and UNEXTEL at time of appraisal of the Second Project, and
KPTC's financial situation still required str.ngthening. KPTC was the
Borrower under Loan 2574-Kt for the Third Project. It was then considered
sufficiently structured, following its merger with KENEXTEL in 1982, and
capable of managing its operation and development. Considering the continued
process of assistance to the development and institution building of the
telecomunication sector in Kenya, and the related ovorlappings under two
subsequent investment programs of KPTC, this report is a combined Project
Completion Report for the Second and Third Telecomuaications Projects which
were supported by Bank Loan 2155-KE and 2574-UZ respectively.
3.       Prolects Obiectives and Description
3.01     Sector Goals.   Since 1979, under the successive five-year
development plans, the major sector goal remained the provision of adequate
and efficient domestic and international telecomunications services. To
reach this goal, KPTC's plans were to: extend high quality local, long
distance and international services using the latest available techniques;
provide basic telecommunications facilities to rural areas; and to improve
and strengthen its organization and management.
3.02     Proiects Obectives.   Within sectoral goals (para. 3.01), the
common objectives of the Second and Third Projects were tos
(a)   significantly improve the quality of local service and expand local
telephone networks in Nairobi and other urban areas;
(b)  ,expand access to telephone service in rural areas by increasing
capacity of small rural exchanges and opening new public call
offices in communities (rural, market and local centers) currently
without such facilities;
(c)   upgrade and expand long distance networks and access to
international service to handle additional forecast traffic;
(d)   expand tele: services for business and government use;
(e)   enhance revenue generation from assets through elimination of
critical bottlenecks and appropriate tariff levels; and
(f)   improve KPTC's institutional capabilities pertaining to program
planning and implementation, operational efficiency, and management
procedures including human resources development.



- 3 -
3.03     Prolects Description.   The projects provided fort
A.       Second T.lecomunications Protect (Loan 2155-XE)
-Part As    expansion and improvement of the local networks by the
installation of about 80,900 additional lines of local
automatic exchange equipment (with associated cables and
subscribers' plant).
-Part B:    expansion and improvement of the long distance network
by !.nstallation of: (i) about 7,100 terminations, and
(ii) three microwave radio systems and about 1,270
channels.
-Part C:    increase of access to telecommunications services for
about iOO isolated rural areas by the installation of
rural carrier systems.
-Part D:    expansion of the telex system by 3,000 additional lines
to connect about 500 new subscribers.
-Part Et    construction of buildings necessary for the installation
of equipment under Parts A through D.
Construction was expected to be completed by June 1987.
B.       Third Telecommunications Project (Loan 2574-RE).
Part As  Expansion of:
1.    local! telephone switching facilities for a total capacity of
about 44,700 automatic lines and about 3,180 rural manual lines,
together with associated cable networks and subscriber plants, to
improve network balance;
2.    the long distance telephone system by the installation of two
microwave radio links, multiplex and trunk switching equipment for
about 2,028 channels and 3,568 trunk lines; and
3.    the telex switching facilities by the installation of about
3.500 lines.
Part Bs Improvement of the Borrower's telecommiuncations workshops and
repair facilities and provision of spare parts for activities to
this effect and for the expanded network facilities.
Part C: Strengthening of the Borrower's training programs through the
provision of training experts and laboratory equipment for the
Borrower's central training center.
Part D:  Improvement of Borrower's management systems, and carrying out of
the related studies, including a review of the telecommunications
tariff structure.
Construction was expected to be complete! by December 1989.



- 4 -
4.       Projcts Design and Orzani:ation
4.01     The two projects were designed within the framework of KPTC's
rolled-over 1982-86 and 1984-88 Development Programs under which installed
capacities of telephone exchanges throughout Kenya were to be expanded by
about 130,000 lines from 1982 to 1988, of which 81,000 and 49,000 lines
(including rural systems) were from the second and third projects,
respectively. This compares with total capacity of about 150,000 lines (of
which 120,000 were installed and 30,000 were still under installation) by
early 1982. The projects were prepared by KPTC with the help of technical
consultants to introduce modern digital switching and transmission
technology. The designs of the programs were little modified during
implementation. Difficulties and delays in contracting digital switching
equipment (see paras.5.04 to 5.07) resulted in carrying works over from the
second to the third program, not uncommon under large projects. At
completion of the third project, about 40,000 exchange lines and the 4,400
lines digital telex exchange (both components not at present Bank financed)
were still under installation, to be coamissioned by the end of 1992. The
other projects components had been completed, generally on schedule, as per
the initial projects design and organization.
4.02     As for institution building, the second project included technical
assistance for project engineering and procurement, and for strengthening
KPTC's accounting and auditing procedures. During the first and second
project, installed and in services facilities more than doubled. At a4d-term
of the second project in 1985, 150,000 main lines were in service, compared
to 70.000 in 1980 at inception of the first project. The average annual
revenue per telephone line remained at about US$850 due to high usage. Such
growth and associated operational burden revealed institutional and
organizational constraints within KPTC which had to be addressed to enable
sustained efficiency Iand rapid sector development. Based on this experience,
the third project placed greater emphasis on institutional development and
long-term strengthening of KPTC's management and organization. It emphasized
upgrading and integration of the management systems through studies on how to
ensure better use of miterial, financial, human, and informational resources.
It also aimed at helping Kenya organize cofinancing packages for KPTC's large
program, to secure the optimal combination of price and terms for equipment
procured internationally.
5.       Projects Implementation
A.       Second Telecommunications Pro1ect
5.01     Loan Effectiveness and Proiect Start-up.  The loan became effective
on October 13, 1982. forty days before the date stipulated in the loan
agreement. Kenya had timely met all the conditions, entering into an
appropriate subsidiary onlending agreement with RPTC and securing a credit of
about US$26 milli,-n from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF, Japan)
to assist in the financing of the project. Good progress had also been made
in the procurement process since project preparation and appraisal, by
inviting bids for the Bank financed equipment by the effective date.



-5-
Procurement
5.02     Procurement action by KPTC in the initial stages of the project was
very good. By the end of 1982, contracts were committed for all Bank
financed items, but for telephone exchanges and associated transmission
equipment and services, for which bids were being evaluated. Excluding
contingencies and front end fee, this represented 56 percent of the loan
amount, which had been contracted less than three months after effectiveness.
Award proposal for the large switching equipment item was agreed by the Bank
in April 1983 and the corresponding contract of about US$20 million was
signed in September 1983 with a Japanese supplier. Though this contract had
been delayed by about a year, delivery was to be completed by mid 1987, as
per project schedule. Such rapid progress in procurement process and project
start-up resulted from the fact that most bid documents could be reviewed at
the time of appraisal, consultants for procurement under the first project
being still available and KPTC technical staff being familiar with Bank
procurement procedures from previous projects.
5.03     KPTC benefitted from favorable prices from extensive competition.
Contractual schedules of all components were initially in accordance with the
overall project implementation schedule. Performance of the supplierr and
consultants has been satisfactory and timely, with the exception of the new
digi:al telephone switching equipment (for about 37,800 new telephone lines
in nine exchanges) which presented a major problem of development and
production to the manufacturers as further detailed below.
Misprocurement of the Switching Equipment Component.
5.04     In June 1984, the contractor for digital telephone exchanges under
the project informed KPTC of his inability to meet his commitments due to the
failure of the manufacturer involved in adequately and timely developing the
required systems. The contractor proposed to substitute equipment from
another manufacturer from the same country. However the full conformity of
the substitute equipment could not be satisfactorily established and agreed
upon between the Supplier and KPTC. Also, the other responsive bidders under
the initial invitation were complaining against the substitution, indicating
that they were capable of supplying the equipment and requesting that their
proposals be considered in the process. In July 1985, in consultation with
the Bank, RPTC formally cancelled the digital switching equipment part of the
contract, representing about US$8 million equivalent.
5.05     Finally, in December 1985, open rebids were called by KPTC, in
agreement with the Bank. The time of the rebidding almost coincided with the
price and terms bidding process for similar equipment to be cofinanced
externally under the third project. In November 1986, after protracted
evaluation which was made in parallel for the two large bid packages, KPTC
proposed to award the retendered contract to the second lowest bidder, from
Italy. After thorough review of the evaluation data from KPTC, the Bank
concluded that the proposed award would constitute misprocurement and KPTC
was advised in May 1987.
5.06     KPTC was then pressed to conclude their evaluation of the proposals
for the price and terms switching equipment package under the third project
and to arrange for its financing. Award of the contract to a supplier from
Sweden had been provisionally proposed by KPTC. The selected bidder from
Italy under the second project had also submitted a responsible bid.



-6-
However, the lank was also not satisfied with the proposal, the bidder from
Sweden having the fourth lowest as per Bank's review of the evaluation (para.
5.16). With the view to reach a comon decision for the two packages and
standardize the new installations to be purchased, RPTC finally decided to
negotiate combined supplies for the two packages with both bidders.
Following these negotiations, the two combined contracts for a total of about
83,000 new telephone and 4,000 trunk lines were awarded by KPTC to the bidder
from Italy, at a total cost of about US$32.4 million equivalent. Necessary
external financing was promptly secured through highly concessional bilateral
credit from Italy (para. 5.17).
5.07     This arrangement was concluded in July 1987.  Since it was
inconsistent with Bank procurement procedures, the telephone exchange
component was deleted from the second project. The September 30, 1987 closing
date of Loan 2155-KE was not extended and the undisbursed amount of US$17.3
million was cancelled in December 1987. Unused funds mostly corresponded to
amounts allocated for switching equipment and unused contingencies under the
project.
Implementation Schedule
5.08     Physical project components were originally scheduled to be
completed in December 1986. Table 3.4.B in Part III gives details of the
completion dates, estimated and actual for the main project components.
Excluding new telephone exchanges, installations for the local networks and
transmission systems were achieved with moderate delays ranging from three to
six months. Only extension of existing exchanges was realized, practically
with no delay, using equipment of existing types. Following failure of the
initial contractor and subsequent misprocurement when equipment was
retendered, the new digiYtal switching installations could only be reordered
for delivery years behind the original schedule and under separate external
financing (paras. 5.04 - 5.06 and 5.17).
5.09     There was no major project revision during implementation, but the
project suffered an important slippage in the installation of the new digital
telephone exchanges, which will only be fully completed by the end of 1991,
with same exchanges of the third project. Table 3.4.A details the additional
facilities, as estimated at appraisal and actual as at project completion.
Corresponding physical and operational performance indicators are detailed in
Annex 1.
5.10     The project did not include an institutional component per se.  A
study to asses the organizational and cost economies that may be gained by
the consolidation of the telecommunications sector, and a reorganization of
KPTC and KENEXTEL operations, became unnecessary when Government merged the
two entities in July 1982 at project start-up. Timely and effective
technical assistance was provided to assist in project engineering and
procurement, and to strengthen KPTC financial and accounting procedures.
Targets were met on time in this field, but for assets revaluation which was
repeatedly delayed and was implemented only in 1988, at the end of the third
project. (Table 3.6.D).
5.11     Proiect Costs.  The estimated cost of the project at appraisal was
US$123.0 million equivalent with a foreign exchange component of about
US$70.3 million. Loan 2155-KE was to provide USS 44.7 million of the foreign
costs and a credit of US$25.6 from OECF (Japan) was secured at project start



- 7 -
to complete external financing (para.5.0l). Disbursements on actual
contracts under the Bank loan were limited to US$ 27.4 million due to
misprocurement of switching equipment and cancellation of USS 17.3 million at
loan completion (para. 5.07). Installations under OECF financing, largely
for switching equipment in existing exchanges, were realized but no cost data
are available in the files. Also large variations of the exchange rates
during the project period would not enable meaningful comparison of original
estimates and final actual local costs. Table 3.5.A, Part III gives details
of the estimated foreign costs of the main Bank financed items at appraisal,
and the PCR estimates of project completion costs.
5.12     Allocation of Loan Proceeds.  The original allocation of proceeds
and disbursements by categories for Loan 2155-KE are shown in Table 3.3.A,
Part III. There was no major project revision or loan reallocation. The
cancelled amount at closing corresponds to the cost of switching equipment
from Category 1 (para. 5.06), less consultancy services and unused
contingencies.
5.13     Disbursements.  The disbursement performance on Loan 2155-KE is
given in Table 3.3.B, Part III. The disbursements were higher than expected
in 1983 due to advance payments under all contracts other than for switching
equipment, which were entered into at project start-up. Disbursements
correspond to forecast in 1984 when these early contracts were implemented.
From 1985 on, the failure and cancellation of the digital switching contract
slowed down disbursements to the 61.3Z of the loan amount which was finally
disbursed on December 16, 1987. The undisbursed amount of US$17.3 million
was cancelled as of that date.
B.  Third Telecommunications Project
5.14     Loan Effectiveness and ProJect Start-up.  Delay in project
implementation started at the signature of the loan. The loan was approved
by the Board on June 6, 1985 and signed on May 23, 1986, almost a year later.
Although the original date was August 25, 1986, the Loan Agreement was not
declared effective until August 14, 1987, after 5 extensions of the date.
Signature and effectiveness were postponed principally because of delay in
KPTC and Government deciding upon a supplier and securing external financing
under the price and terms bidding procedure (where a bidder also provides a
financing proposal) for the new telephone exchanges under the project. The
other main conditions for project effectiveness concerned implementation of a
telecoummunications tariff increase and finalization of a Loan Agreement with
the European Investment Bank (EIB) and these were promptly met in July and
August 1985, respectively. With regard to procurement of switchin, equipment
XPTC was confronted from mid 1985 on with the cancellation of an important
contract under the second project, the need to retender for this component
and the complex evaluation of the price and terms of the bids under the third
project. The details given on this in paras. 5.04 and 5.07 explain the
circumstances and difficulties which delayed by about two years loan
effectiveness and start-up.
Procurement
5.15     Similar to the second project, initial procurement action by KPTC
was timely under the third project. All bid invitations for packages to be
financed by the Bank or EIB, and the price and terms invitation for telephone
exchanges had been issued by August 1985. As a result, contracts for about



20? of the Bank financed goods had been signed at loan signature and 402 of
the Xoa  amount had been committed by April 1988, about 8 months after
effectiveness. These contracts correspond to most of the actual final
disburastents and were satisfactorily implemented. KPTC's procuremnt record
and repoeting has been good for the related items. Pending or delayed
procurment was for telex and data svitching facilities, tools and equipment
for KPTC's workshops and repair. facilities, and management consultancy
services which are further detailed below.
5.16     Procurement of switching equipment for about 45,000 subscriber and
3,600 trunk lines was not Bank financed but constituted an essential part of
the project. Supply and external financing for these installations estimated
to cost about US$17 million were to be obtained through price and terms
competitive bidding. KPTC issued bid invitations in August 1985 and offers
were submitted in April 1986. In between rebids had been called for Bank
financed similar equipment under the second project (paras. 5.04 and 5.05).
KPTC evaluated both tenders in parallel and informed the Bank in November
1986 of their award proposals to suppliers from Sweden and Italy for the
price and terms and the Bank financed packages, under the third and the
second projects respectively. The two suppliers had tendered responsively
for both packages. From its reviev, after extended discussion and analysis,
the Bank concluded in April 1986 that the awards proposals were made to the
fourth and second lowest evaluated bidders respectively, which was not in
accordance with Bank guidelines for the retendered exchanges of the second
project, and would not be to KPTC advantage under the third project. XPTC
was advised accordingly.
5.17     Realizing that in the case of misprocurement under the second
project they would have to seek alternative financing and also weighing the
advantage to standardize the new telephone exchange equipment from both
packages, RPTC entered into negotiations with the two preselected suppliers
for a combined switching contract covering both projects. In early August
1987, KPTC notified the Bank of their decision to award the two combined
orders to the Italian bidder, at a total cost of about US$32.4 million
(paras. 5.06 and 5.07). As a whole, the cost of such major item of KPTC
program, including about 83,000 lines of telephone exchange equipment, was in
line with initial estimates or even slightly lower in real terms. Though
detailed information on this is not available in files, this may result both
from the fact that ICB prices for the retendered equipment from the second
loan were used as reference in the negotiations and that, due to new
technology, prices of digital switching equipment tended to decrease,
worldvide, at that time. Also, bilateral financing had been arranged under
highly concesuional terms. Installations were to be completed by the end of
1991. This determined the effectiveness of Loan 2574-UE as from August 14,
1987 (para. 5.13).
5.18     Procurement of telex and data switching equipment estimated 'at about
US$6.0 million was also the source of difficulties and delays under the
project. Followir. an initial inconclusive bidding for combined telex and
data switching facilities in 1985, rebids were called with Bank agreement in
late 1986 for separate systems. In November 1987, the Bank disagreed with
KPTC's disqualification of the lowest bidder in their evalustion. KPTC was
notified but rather than reconsidering their position decided to seek
external financing for this item. Reportedly a contract was entered into in
1989 with the third lowest bidder and supplier's financing arranged for



-9-
delivery by 1992. Award of the message witching system had not been decided
upon at loan closing and KPTC was seeking for a similar solution.
5.19     With regard to workshops and training facilities, KPTC informed the
Bank in 1989 that those requirements had been covered under other financing
in the contest of a new manufacturing complex for telecommunications being
realized at Gilgil. Also, manual owitchboard and extension of rural crossbar
exchanges were replaced by automatic digital equipment under a large project
for expanding rural facilities throughout Kenya, which was undertaken by KPTC
in 1988. The contract for management consultancy and tariff study was signed
in August 1988 and the studies were finalized in November 1989 at project
completion. No proposals were submitted to the Bank with regard to training
(reportedly covered by an ITU/UNDP grant) or other miscellaneous additional
items being part of the project.
5.20     In the above context of slow or partial utilization of the loan
proceeds, the government formally requested, in July 1989, the cancellation
of US$15.0 million from the loan amount. This approximately represented the
uncommitted value of the sub-projects discussed in paras. 5.18 and 5.19. No
reallc:ation of uncommitted balances under the loan was requested or
envisaged before loan closing date. An undisbursed balance of US$3.6 million
was also cancelled in June 1990 at closing of the loan account. One should
note that there was a parallel slow down in the use of funds from the EIB
loan made to KPTC in December 1985. Only about ECU16.5 million had been used
by KPTC at loan completion and the balance of ECU7.5 million, equivalent to
US$9.2 million, was reporteily cancelled.
5.21     Implementation Schedule.  Physical project components were
originally scheduled to be completed by December 1988. Table 3.4.B, Part III
gives details of the completion dates estimated and actual, for the main
project components. Delayed signature and effectiveness of the loan resulted
in deferred implementation of contracts for the local network, transmission
and rural systems which were completed in 1989, about a year late. Besides
the slippage in the installation of the new telephone and telex exchanges and
the changes detailed in above para. 5.19, there was no major project revision
during implementation. The main targets of the project, including new
telephone and telex exchanges, will be fully completed by mid 1992. At loan
completion, at the end of 1989, about 40,000 lines from the digital switching
contract remained to be installed, which was expected to be completed only by
the end of 1991, i.e. three years later than anticipated.
5.22     Proiect Costs.  The estimated total cost of the project at appraisal
was US$86.1 million with a foreign exchange component of about US$65.3
million. Loan 2574-KE was to provide US$32.6 million and external financing
up to US$32.7 million of the foreign costs. In fact, external financing
arrangements surpassed the initial amount: a loan of ECU 22 million
(equivalent to US$26.6 million) was obtained from EIB in 1985, and the
Italian Protocol of 1987 to finance the digital telephone exchanges, also
including 37,800 lines deferred from the second project, amounted to ECU 34.5
million (equivalent to U'S$ 41.7 million) . Disbursements on actual contracts
under the Bank loan were limited to US$14 million following cancellations
totalling US$18.6 million.  Also two-thirds only (US$17 million) of the EIB
loan were actually used and about one-third only (US$16 million) of the funds
from the Italian Protocol had been disbursed at loan closing in December
1989. KPTC does not maintain cost accounting for investment projects and the
local currency costs of the sub-project are not reliably determinable. Table



- 10 -
3.5.A gives details of the estimated foreigp costs of the main Bank financed
item. at appraisal and the PCR estimate of completion costs at loan closing.
5.23     It is likely that both competition under ICB and the unexpected
appreciation of the USS during the project implementation period resulted in
lower costs in real terms compared to original base price estimates, in
particular for telephone equipment. As a consequence the allocation for
price contingencies was not used and had to be cancelled. Nonetheless,
hardware quantities are not precisely comparable, in particular combined
procurement of telephone exchanges from both projects resulted in economies
of scale.
5.24     Allocation of Loan Proceeds.  The original allocation of proceeds
and final disbursements by categories for Loan 2574-KE are shown in Table
3.3.A, part III. There were only slight project revisions and no
reallocation of loan proceeds was made. The cancelled amounts were mainly at
government request following misprocurement for telex installations and for
various deleted items and undisbursed contingencies at loan closing (paras.
5.18 to 5.20).
5.25     Disbursements.  The disbursement performance on Loan 2574-RE is
given in Table 3.3.B, Part III. Disregarding the initial two years delay in
loan effectiveness and the cancelled items, disbursements for the actual
contracts were delayed by only about 6 months.
6.      --Projects Results.
6.01     Physical and Operational Results.  The physical targets of the two
projects as planned and achieved and related comparative indicators are shown
in Tables 3.4.A , 3. iA and Annex I of Part III. Main facilities for local
networks, long distance and rural transmission systems and terminal
installations were realized as planned under both projects for local
networks, subscribers' terminal installations and long distance capacities
were fully realized as planned under both projects. Local and trunk
switching installations were realized only about 70t under both projects due
to the pfiocurement issues and resulting delays explained above. At
completion of the second project local exchange equipment for about 38,000
lines had been deferred for installation during the third project period. At
completion of the latter, installation of about the same number of lines
remained to be completed, which delivery was expected by mid 1992. With
regard to the combined operational target of 110,000 additional direct
exchange lines (DEL) in service, the full target of 198,000 connected DELs,
which compare to 88,000 DELs in December 1982, will only be met at the end of
1991, near completion of the telephone exchange contract. As for telex
exchange equipment, misprocurement under the third project (para. 5.18)
resulted in late order in 1988 and facilities for 4,400 new lines are also
expected to be completed in 1992. In 1988 KPTC initiated a large additional
rural project, with bilateral financing, estimated to include about 20,000
automatic lines of digital switching and transmission equipment to replace
and expand existing manual service. Rural manual switchboards and trunk
facilities were consequently cancelled from the concerned EIB and Bank loans
for the third project (para. 5.18). Prices under the scheme are reportedly
very high. Operational impact of the enlarged rural project may be only 4 to
52 of the impact from all new facilities, but this additional component
outside the project, together with other unforeseen and unplanned investments



- 11 -
such as for the Gigil manufacturing complex, appear in KPTC's technical and
financial data, making it difficult to fully assess project results at this
stage. Full development and results from the third project must only be
expected by aid 1992, three years later than anticipated.
6.02     Technical Assistance and Institutional Result.  The projects
included consultancy services for studies on the consolidation of
KPTC-KENEXTEL Operations (Loan 2155-KE) and KPTC's management systems (Loan
2574-RE), and technical assistance to strengthen KPTC's capabilities in
project engineering and procurement. Table 3.6.D, Part III shows the
purposes and impact of this component. Technical assistance in procurement
was provided and enabled timely issuance of tender invitations under both
projects (paras. 5.02 and 5.15). The study of the second project became
redundant because government merged KPTC and KENEXTEL in July 1982, before
project start-up. The management etudy was completed as proposed and its
final report submitted to KPTC in November 1989, shortly before completion of
the third project. KPTC is now implementing some of the recommendations with
regard to internal organization, high level staffing, and tariffs. Thorough
implementation will be phased out over the next two years through 1992.
However, the scope of the study relates more to short term actions with
regard to KPTC's management and internal organization than to basic issues of
sector policy and efficient development and operation.
Financial Performance.
6.03     The KPTC's financial statements and key performance indicators,
compared with appraisal estimates, for 1982 to 1990 period are shown in Annex
2. The financial performance of KPTC was comparable to the appraisal
estimates during the 1982 to 1988 period with the rate of return on average
net fixed assets during the period consistently over 202 and meeting the
covenanted return of 10? on revalued assets. However, it should be noted
that the net surplus figures shown in KPTC's income statements are before
adjustments for foreign exchange losses, which is made directly within the
General Reserve account. Foreign exchange adjustments required have been
large since 1987. Adjustment of KSh 605 million in FY88 alone would have
largely absorbed the BTet surplus of KSh 697 million. If this adjustment is
made, the performance of KPTC would be less than satisfactory. In addition,
KPTC does not pay any income tax expected of most of the entities which are
required to operate on a commercial basis.
6.04     Since fiscal year 1988, profit and rate of return have declined.
During this period, the telecom revenue per DEL in real terms decreased by an
average of 2Z per annum whereas the telecom operating cost per DEL in real
terms increased by about 62 per annum, resulting in a lower operating income
per DEL. The fall in revenue per DEL has been mainly due to inadequate as
well as lack of tariff increases. Tariffs for domestic services were last
increased by about 10 in February 1990 and were not adequate to cover the
increase in costs. Tariffs for international services have not been
increased since May of 1985. The growth in costs has been due to continued
increase in staff of about 112 per annum, increased depreciation charges and
international outpayment. The most significant cost increase during the
period has been financial charges due to the large loans to finance KPTC's
investment program. The financial charges in FY90 increased from KSh 392
million in FYs8 to KSh 707 million and is expected to increase at about the
same rate in future. Postal losses, which were KSh 296 million in FY90, have
been increasing annually.



- 12 -
6.05     KPTC's balance sheets indicate a deterioration in the financial
position. All the foreign costs of the investment program, which amounted to
about 801, are being financed through debt. This has resulted in an increase
in the debt to debt plus equity ratio from 361 in nY62 to 912 in FY90, which
is high. The current ratio has remained around 2, but due to the large
levels of receivables (para. 6.07) a more reliable indicator of liquidity is
the 'acid test' ratio of cash and bank deposits to current liabilities. By
June 30, 1990, this had declined to 0.06 as compared to 0.40 in June 30,
1987, and even so understates the true picture because the current
liabilities do not include the short term portion of long term debt.
6.06     The adverse impact of the increased dependance on debt relative to
internally generated funds, the large increase in working capital
requirements, accelerated debt servicing and tightening liquidity is evident
in the funds flows statements for the FY87 to FY90. The debt coverage ratio
has declined to about 1.2 and KPTC has not been repaying the Treasury for
servicing soe of its debt due to its need to finance its investment program.
6.07     KPTC's billing performance has been good with bills being issued
vithin two weeks after the close of the billing period on a monthly cycle.
However, KPTC's performance in collection of bills continues to be a major
problem. Private and the Government receivables as of June 30, 1989 averaged
about five months and two years of billing, respectively. Both these
indicators are much higher than the appraisal target of 60 and 90 days for
private and the Government receivables. Disconnection policy is now being
enforced to ensure payment of the private bills. RPTC has also accumulated
telecommunications usage tax due to Government up to the outstanding
receivables from Government. This cross-debt issue is being discussed vith
the Government. To improve both private and the Government bill collections,
a credit control unit has been incorporated in the structure to closely
follow up on arrearsiand current bills.
6.08     Due to the close relationship between the project and the additional
investments as tvell as the two programs under the Second and Third Projects,
any attempt at separation of the operating costs and benefits becomes
arbitrary. Consequen'u'y, the rate of return calculation is made for the two
programs combined. The underlying assumptions are listed in Part III Table
3.6.B and C. The internal financial rate of return for the combined programs
as executed over the 1982-90 period is estimated at 71, as compared with the
estimated return of 251 and 121 during appraisal of the Second and Third
Projects. The lower return is the result of inadequate tariff adjustments,
higher portion of investments in the rural areas, and increase in personnel
costs due to overstaffing (para. 6.09). The financial rate of return
underestimates benefits that would be derived from the investments. Assuming
that new customers are willing to pay for telecomuuications services, as a
minimtm, prices in real terms that the existing customers are paying when
benefits fros the investment begin, and including the additional revenue
generated for the Government through the 151 telecommunications usage tax
paid by customers, then the economic rate of return is estimated at about
162, as compared with the estimated return of 35Z and 261 at time of
appraisal of the Second and Third Projects.
6.09     Human Resources and Development. KPTC has a reasonably well
established set-up with regard to staff management, employment and training.
Staff in place is generally capable and well specialized for the tasks and
compensations are generally attractive. At inception of the second project



- 13 -
senior engineering and management staff still included expatriates staff
which wore gradually replaced under XPTC policy to fully Kenyanise staff;
this was achieved in 1986. both projects included agreed objectives of staff
reduction with a target of 62 staff per 1000 telephones by the and of 1988.
This figure now exceeds 120, making KPTC one of the most overstaffed entities
in the world. Furthermore, despite excessive recruitment, there is a lack of
sufficient qualified technicians and specialists to properly operate the
network and most of the excess staff appear unfit to be retrained due to lack
of basic qualifications. The Management Improvement Study under the third
project covered this aspect, including specific training needs, but its
implementation was not adequately pursued by KPTC's management. With regard
to training facilities, KPTC has well equipped central and regional training
schools and the University of Nairobi provides graduate courses in
telecomunications. The training element of the project was mainly
implemented with UNDP/ITU assistance. However, a comprehensive manpower
development plan and consistent training program have not yet been adequately
formulated and these aspects remain to be reviewed. A plan to remedy
overstaffing, staff imbalances and training deficiencies should be prepared
and implemented within KPTC's management improvement program (para. 6.02 and
13.03).
7. Protects Sustainability.
Projects Benefits.
7.01     The projects  benefits are significant, though less than anticipated
due to delays in implementation. Table 3.6.A showr the principal direct
benefits from each project. Main operational results and performance on
major indicators, under the projects are detailed in Annex 1. each year from
1982 to 1990. Comparative data with SAR expectations are also shown for 1986
and 1989, at completion of each project. Progress on works remaining to be
completed - about 40,000 telephone and 4,000 telex additional exchange
lines - should enable full development by mid-1992. At that time, telephone
and telex exchanges capacities will have increased by more than 1002 in 10
years, or 72 yearly growth. In service facilities will have increased by
more than 1222, or abvut8.3Z average yearly growth. This compares with
average yearly growth in registered demand for telephone service of about
10.5l observed by KPTC.
7.02     At the end of 1989, at projects completion, unsatisfied demand was
still about 352 of the total expressed domand. To meet such a large and
sustained demand KPTC's 5-year expansion program was reviewed in 1988 and an
enlarged program for the 1989-93 period was initiated. However, findings
during supervision indicate that investments under the new program represent
about three times the level of capital expenditures under previous programs.
This is excessive for the current technical and financial capabilities of the
entity. Recommendations were made that these aspects be seriously and
effectively considered and taken up for the safeguard of the entity and the
essential services entrusted to it by government.
7.03     Considering the overall importance of telecommunications services to
economic development and the growing demand for services, there is no doubt
as to the sustainabtlity of the two projects reviewed in this PCR, nor
regarding the sustainability of benefits from previous lending operations for
tileconanications to the EAPTC (para. 2.02). The principal risk is the lack
of proper corporate planning leading to uncoordinated investments and poor



- 14 -
financial and human resources nmnagement of KP?C. Thl is the more important
now that the total existing assets are reaching a replacemnt value of about
US$700 million and generating revenues of US$200 million per year. To
compensate for such risk, the present situation, as underlined above, should
be corrected and it is assential that the required measures be thoroughly
prepared and taken to improve sector policy in Kenya, and to strengthen KPTC
managpment systems, as well as instilling discipline and long term
responsibility in its organization and operation.
7.04     Economic Impact.   The economic rate of return of the two projects
is 162 at final development. Underlying assumptions and calculations are
given in Table 3.6.B.of Part III.
8.01     Bank Performance.  Overall Bank performance has been satisfactory.
In the initial stages of each project, preparation was combined with
supervision of the previous project. By insisting on preparation of bld
documents for the major items in advance of Board approval, the Bank was able
to speed up initial implementation (paras. 5.01, 5.02, 5.14 and 5.15).
During the procurement issue for telephone exchanges which reflected on both
projects at various stages of implementation from the end of 1985 to July
1987, repeated visits were made and discussions took place in Nairobi and
Washington. Following the resolution of the misprocurement problem, however,
supervision became less frequent from 1987 to 1989. At that time, also, the
Bank was concerned with the excessive unprogramed investments which IPTC was
undertaking before completing ongoing projects. Many of KPTC's senior
managers had been replaced and communication with the Bank started to break
down, exchange of information becoming le  frequent and thorough.  One brief
supervision only was made each year in 1988 and 1989, for the discussion of
misprocurement of telex exchange. This was insufficient, in particular for
projects presenting repetted technical and aggravating managerial problem.
Except for this period, lank supervision of the projects was adequate. Table
3.8 in Part III gives details of the supervision and projects
preparation/appraisal missions, and of the types of problems which were
encountered.
9.       Borrower''s Performance.
9.01     Covenants.    The status of compliance with the conditions of the
related Loan and Project/Guarantee Agreements is indicated in Table 3.7, Part
II. Based on findings from the previous Bank project in both loans, the
covenants were similar with regard to KPTC management and operation, or
complementary with regard to operational aspects.
9.02     The main cases of non-compliance wer     ti) continued very limited
or non-payment of its telecommunications bill by Government and official
agencies. Public sector arrears increased from less than a year in 1983 to
about two years in 1989; (ii) adequate exchange of informtion about KPTC's
investment programs during the thlrd project perlod did not take place, In
particular on the 1988-1989 and proposed subsequent progrms which included
very large unprogrummed investments and were undertaken without keeping the
Bank suitably informe': (iii) staff ratio increased excessively from about 84
per 1000 main lines ir. :982 to 100 in 1986, 112 in 1989 and estimated 120 in
1990. No trend toward iecrease is expecteds and (iv) two major cases of
misprocurement for telephone exchanges in 1987 and telex exchanges in 1989
which resulted in substantial delays in project implementation.



- 13 -
9.03     Partial compliance with several other conditions was observed,
namelys (M) repeated delays in assots revaluation which woo made only at
completion of the third project; (it) late submission of audited financial
state mntst (iii) disregard of the cash flow covenant from 1989 on;
(iv) insufficient tariff measures to ensure necessary generation of resources
for XPTC's investmnt program since 1988; and (v) inadequate provision after
1987 of data and indicators to enable sector status assessment and suitable
monitoring.
9.04     In fact, KPTC failed to adequately assume coordination and
discipline in financial management and neglected its commitments related to
investments. Also operational efficiency and human resource planning and
development were neglected or disregarded. The recoamondations from the
management study under the third project were designed to remedy some of the
deficiencies observed in KPTC management, development planning and
operations. Unfortunately, supervision indicated that soveral KPTC
esecutives who participated as counterpast in the study have been
subsequently transferred or dismissed.
10.01    Projects Relationship.  Bank relationship with Government and KPTC
on both projects has been good, even during the difficult periods when the
complex and protracted procurement issues had to be resolved, or when the
supervision missions objected to large additional investments. During
projects preparation, appraisal and supervision, KPTC closely worked with the
Bank and provided the information needed. However, from 1987 to third
project completion, exchange of information was gradually limited to contract
administration of Bank financed items.
11.      Consultancy Services and Studies.  Table 3.6.C, Part III details the
consultants and technical assistance services under both projects. The
result of these services are discussed in paras. 6.02 and 9.04.
12.      Pro1ects Documentation and Renorting.
12.01    The loan agrgements of both projects were quite adequate for setting
the projects objectives in the key areas of sector development and
mmangerial/organizational improvement to strengthen KPTC's management. The
appraisal reports provided a useful framework for the Bank and XPTC to review
and follow up projects implementation. The reports were also used during
supervision in coordination with other co-lenders, in particular E1B under
the third project. KPTC submission of progress reports was satisfactory
under the second project, however, after 1987, technical progress rpports
were limited to implementation of contracts for Bank and EIB financed items,
omitting overall and comparative information on status of and performance in
sector development and operational results. Submission of financial data and
reports was mostly delayed and not complete due to late assets revaluation.
Audited statements were never submltted in less than about 14 months. To
remedy these deficiencies, the management study under the third project has
recommended that KPTC establish a satisfactory Management Information System
(HIS), as was initially included in the project.
12.02    KPTC indicated to the Bank that it would prepare project completion
reports by December 31, 1990, as was done for the first project, to reflect
its perspective of both projects, their implementation, results and impact.
The reports have not yet been received.



- 16 -
13.      Conclnaloss and Recoinendations.
Main Findings mm  Conclusions
13.01    The longstanding Bank's involvement in the telecomunications sector
in Kenya - in particular through three loans granted to KPTC since its
formtion in 1977 - has contributed substantially to the dovelopmnt of the
telecouunications infrastructure, making Kenya the country with the highest
telephone density in sub-Saharan Africa. The current telephone penetration
of 0.7 main telephone lines per 100 lnhabitants exceeds the sub-Saharan
average by a factor of more than 2. From 1982 to 1989, during the second and
third project periods, the density increased from 0.4 to current 0.7 and is
expected to exceed 0.8 in 1992. KPTC has been performing relatively well
technically and financLally at the beginning of the implementation of the two
projects covered by this Rport. The projects developmnt objectlves in terms
of new facliltles will be fully Lmplemented by June 1992, three years later
than antLcipated (paras. 5.04, 5.06, 5.16 and 5.18).
13.02    During the last four years, however, KPTC's reporting as well as the
dialogue between KPTC and the Bank became les trusting and les  thorough.
From 1988, KPTC's operational and flnanclal management has deterLorated
gradually to a level that calls for much concern. This downward trend whlch
had been already identified in 1987 was ascertained ln June 1990, during
final supervisLon of the thlrd telecomunlcations project at closing of Loan
2574-K. The main areas of concern include: ti) poor qualLty of servLce and
persistent slow connection rate of new subscribers (low exchange flll and
call completLon rates, par&. 6.01 and Annex 1); (ll) deterLoratlng financLal
performance (paras. 6.03 and 6.06); Ciii) overstaffLng (par&s. 6.04, 6.09,
and 9.02): (iv) continued and excessive unsettled arrears from public sector
(para. 6.07); (v) very high unprogramed and costly investments under the
current 1989-1992 program (paras. 6.06, 7.01); and (vi) poor fLnancial
management (par&. 6.03-6.07).
Recoumendations
13.03    It is regrettable that satisfactory dialogue and exchange of
information between the Bank, KPTC and Government could not be maLntalned as
was between 1977 and 1987. To correct the present situation it is essential
that discipline be instilled in the XPTC and that Government take actlon to
strengthen and monitor sector policy and articulate sector regulations. KPTC
is aware of the need for corrective action, in partlcular with regard to
management biprovement and strengthening of Lts organization. The
recoendations of the study made under the third project to improve and
update EPTC'" management system will be implemented over the next two to
three years and will take care of the short term problems of this sector.
13.04    For the long term perspective, however, there is a need for a more
in depth study of the Lssues discussed in this report with a vLew to full
scale restructurlng of the sector to remedy Lts imbalances and improve its
overall management and to reinforce the managerLal dlscipline as well as the
organLzatLon and operation of the concerned entLties. Such a study ohould
include; (i) separation of posts -ad talecommunLcations operatlons;
(Li) formulation of policy and regulatory frameworks that would allow full
comrciallzation, competitlon, prlvate partLcipation and eventually
progressive privatLzation of these servLces; (iii) manag eme nt strengthening
and reorganization of the operating entLtLes to enable efflcient operatlon,



- 17 -
financial viability and monitoring of their performance and achievements
within a sound legal and business-like set up, including appropriate
contractual agre eme nts to be entered into with government; and (iv) related
human resource and training development.
13.05    It is suggested that such study for posts and telecommunications be
undertaken under the Parastatal Reform (PR) operation which is currently
being proposed for Kenya. Discussions with Government and a brief review to
better analyze and assess the current situation of the sector could take
place to this effect during preparation of said project. The study should be
initiated by government and undertaken within the proposed PR project with
the view to determine and decide upon appropriate measures for restructuring
and improving management and operation of both sub-sectors for Posts and
Telecommunications in Kenya.



-18
PART IIs   PROJECT REVIEW EM B ORWOWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Conaultants, on behalf of the Borrower, prepared a project final report
(which covwred most aspects of the project set forth as annexes).
2.   We have requested the xenay Posts and Telecoumunications Corporation (KPTC)
on several occasions to provide specific commento to include in Part II, but no
conFnto have boen received as of December 31, 1991.



*                                ~~~~~~~~~-19-
PART III
TALI  3.1%  RIA2D  MM LOANS
Yoer of   Loan AMu-nt
Loan Tltlo               Purpoc            Approval  In USS Milions       Statuc
1. Loen 4U-tA L/        To help finance        1967      13.0    Comploted tn oarly 1974. Project
First Toleeommuni-    local and long                          Performance Audit RepOrt (No. 391)
cations Project to    distance facilitiee                     was inoed In October 1975
the EAC
2. Loam n75-EA UJ        To further extend     1970      10.4    Completed In June 1975. Project
Second Telecemuni-   teleco unicationo                        Performnce Audit Rep_rt (ft. 93)
catlons Project to    service                                 was Issued In October 1975.
the EAC
S. Loan 914-EA j/       To further extend      1973      32.5    The Kenyon portion of the project
Thlrd Tolce ou ni-    tolecomunications                       was completd In 1961 V/. A
cations Project to    services.                               Project Completion Report
the EAC                                                        (45No  129) was issved In June,
1964.
4. Lon 160 -KE  /        To extend local and    1979     20.0    Completed in June 1964.
First Islecom_unl-    long-distance ser-                      A Project Completion Report was
catons Project to    vices end provide                       Iseued In June 19W6.
Kenya                 basic telocomuni-
cations facilities
In poorly served
rural areas; to
improve KPTC manage-
mnt procedures and
financial management
capabilities.
1/    Prior to 1977 telecommunications services in the East African
Community (EAC - Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda) were managed by the
East Africa Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (EAPTC).
These loans were extended to WAPTC.
2/    Due to problems in the East African Community leading to its
breakup in January 1977, the works to be undertaken on the Third
Project vere generally delayed.
3/    This was the First Telecommunications Project to Kenya following
the breakup of the EAC and the creation of the Kenya Posts and
Telecommunicatiors Zorporation (KPTC) in 1977, to operate postal
and telecommunications services. The Government was the Borrower,
KPTC was the Benefi iary and the Executing Agency under the
project.



-20-
TAUSL  3.20   I3OJ3CTS TIDUTAIL
Date                cote                   oate
Item                       tPlanne              Revised               Actual
1. SemOm  TOO                 ProJet (Lmes t2l15S4
Idattification and prepation                                       -               04 and Of/#I
Governmet Applcation                                               -                 06/06/S1
Appraisal Missioft                                                                     11/S1
Losa Nknetlten                                                     -               04/1S-23/S2
Soard Approval                                                     -                 06/25/S2
Loan Sigature                                                      -                 0/27/t
Loan Effectiveness                        11/24/St             10/1u/S               10/1/S2
Loan Closing                              06/30/67                 -                 06/80/57
Loan Coepletion                            12/J1/67            12/16/87             12/16/U7  /
2. Third Telo.sem.mletts  Pro, et tLoa t674-NE3
identificatlon  -/                                                                     02/S"
Prepration and Preappralsal 3/                                                          06/64
Appraisal Mission                                                   -               08/10-22/64
Post Appraisal 3                                                                        01/Ut
Board Approval                                 --                                     06/06/6
Loan Signature                               OS/"                   -                 06/23/OS
Loan Effoctl veneo                         06/25/36                 - 0               06/17/67
Loon Closing                                12/91/"                 -                 12/31/SO
Loan Coopletlon                            06/30/90                 -                06/15/90 O/
Thes were Identification and preparatlon misliono combined with supervision of
the firat project.
3/     oa.e of act ul last disbure"t and closing of the losn account book. The
undisbursed balsnen of US$ 17,315,450.  was cancelled as of that dato.
/      rThes were aInolon  combined with supervision of the seond project.
/      WKPTC requested postponeeont In slgning the Loan Agroeamt to enable preparation of
cotinancing arrangemnts for switching  quipment under tho project.
Flvo oxtent lons of the date of effectiveness, sueseesivly to 11/30/O6, 01/30,
08/31, 06/30 and 06/17/87, were required to enabie finalization of the bid
vevluation and securing related cotinancing arrangemente for the large switching
quipm nt compe_et of the project, which were condition  of effectlvoness.
g/     Date or actual last disbur semt and closing of the loan account book.  The
undlabroed blance of US 3,596,261.90 was canc lled as of that date.



-21-
?ANL3 3:3s  LOANS  ALLOCNTI0U AD DIS3URSUI3NCs
LAMg 3 3.At ALLOCUON OF LOANS PROCEIDS
(original as disbursed in US$)
Final
Category                               Original   Disbursement
1. LOAN 2155-Ut
1.  Local exchange equipment, including switching           30,800,000   24,367,792
equipment, local cables and transmission
systems and subscribers' plants.8l
2.  Long distance Transmission                               2,500,000    1,572,809
3.  Rural Services2/                                         1,300,000
4.  Consultants and Training                                 1,100,000       183,357
5.  Front end fee                                              660,591       660,591
6.  Unallocated                                              8,339,409
27,384,549
Cancellation as of 12/16/87 3/                                            17,315,451
TOTAL         44,700,000   44.700000
2. LOAN 2574-1U
1.  Switching and transmission equipment, local             20,500,000   10,249,499
cables and subscribers' installations.
2.  Workshop equipment, tools, operational support           3,200,00       2,177,830
and training material.
3.  Consultants and Training                                 1,800,000    1,576,409
4.  Unallocated                                              7,100,000
Total amount disbursed                              14,003,738
Cancellation-l as of 07/31189  4/                           15,000,738
Cancellation-2 as of 06/15/90  5/                            3,596,262
1                                  32,600,000   32,600,000
11    In I4, a supplier defaUited on dellivry of digital *witeing equipment (21,000
-     exchange lInee) under a major contract CUSS 20 millon of which about USS 14
ml IIon would not be suppl id). No eubseitution was scceptble. Ritonderinto tk
place in 195, and procureont of "lid equipmnwt was subsequetly combine dIth
similar suppieso from the third proJest Under separate cotinascing. No rewision
of allocation wae mde before closing date.
21    This categwy maInly Included transmle ion eqipmnt which was procured with
equipmet wider cateory 2, from the same suppliers.
3/    The can  led amount corresponds to the sooisees  of switching equipment from
category 1, lessr consuitancy services an the unused pert of categry C.
4/    to July 19w, Government and KPTC requssted the camel lotion of U58 15 millon
from the los aount. This wae for the prour em  et  a digital telex exchange
CUSS 4 alillon) for which KPTC obtiWed separate co-financing frm the third
loest biddr, the deletion of Items In cateories I and 2 teo be mmfectured
locally by IPTC Industrial complex, and the corresponding unusd part of
cateory 4.
51    Cancellation a Is the undisburoed balance of the loes as of the date of the last
disburosmnt on 06/16/90.



-22-
TABS3 S* .3as  LOANS DISBuSD?S
(Cwmlative  IstJated an  Actual - U$ milions)
Loon 21S5IE                            Loon 2574-k!
1D0 FT and                Acculated               Acual            Accumul ate            Actual
Semewtr Ending           disbursets               as X of         disbursemt              *o X of
Appraisal   Aciual pprsisal             Appraisal AcUal           appraisal
Ih    r 11, 1#02       O."         0."            100:.
June $0, 190           S.1 is.00                  1511.0
1904
UhUmbr *1, 1NS         9.70        17.45 sJ       17909
Jun $0, 1904           10.76       10.:6           91.0
19"
UN-mber $1, 1914       27.16       21.25          96.1
June 30, 196           32.44       28.18          71.8
1096
-eber 81, 1965         57.72       20.22          09.5            1.00     0.00 j/         0.0
June 80, 190           40.96       26.59          69.6           .8.0      0.00 J
1907
u c beu 81, 196        44.22       26.98          64.9            6.90     0.00 V          0.0
leas 80, 1907          44.70       27.09          30.6          14.00      0.00 /          0.0
lmbecbr 71, 1967       44.70       27.89 3/       61.8  /        16.00     O."              4.0
Jue 80, 196                                                                 .40           26.9
FO-lur 81, 106                                                   27.40     S.55            81.2
June 80, 1950                                                    29.70    12.50 /          42.4
Fo-eber 71,11909                                                  1.60    18.60 Y          48.0
Juno 30, 1990                                                    82.60    14.00 4/         48.0 41
1/    Dlebuso-ments ware higher than expected beause a1  contracts except these fur
switching hd bees awarded and entred int by erly 1068, for lplementation
throvgh the end of 106.
2/    Delays is dieburseaste corrependr to the delays In Lon signing and
effocbiveome. (See notes In Tablo 8.2)
3/    See seto 1 ln pr cedIng Table ..A explaining the smalI percontoge of Lon 2155-
KE, of which amo"nt only 61.8 percent we acual ly disbursed.
4/    See notee 4 and 5 In precng Table 11.11I.A, explaining the small percetage  of
LoAn 2574-CE, of which amount only 48 perot wa a ctu l ly disbursed.



-23-
TANS   S.* 4:i  ?1.fCTS D i 0
TAILX 3.4-.A    ADDITIONAL VACILITIIS (Main CaMononts).-
Item                         estimate   Actual~~~~~~~~2 LI  esbiwed         m.bsm
I!ilin'k 3ALine                 3630        60,3a0         70      -Inludes  ,7O  mnual line
Thi  Prj                  Lime             46,000      94,000        70       reaized In outo-digital.
Total LI                  Llme             134,300     94,300        70       -Abou 40,000 1lie  to be
elted In  M  under a
contract, with bilateral
financing.
MrF-Pa I r        Os,000    99,000        100      -P a saIn distribution
Third PrMjeep dP-Peir                       7?,000    79,000        lOO              fram
Tots                     PMDf-Pair          176,000    176,000      100
Numbe             7n,200     73,700       100      -Includes rural telephone
Thid P                    Numbe              *7,900     n7,300      100        ete
Thir" Number                                163,000    168,000      100
I NW C       _wat
p e  rr - W        Number             76,000     52,300       63
Third Project             Nuber              32,000     45, 5O      142       -Includees delayoy  m   line.
Total                     Number            106,000     97,900       90       from *eend project.
Number                       3 I          100
Third Project             N    r                  3 4               100
Total                     Number                 11         11      100
ChesI ends         1,270      1,270       100
Third Project             Chanerl ends        2,023      2,023      100
Total                     Channel ede         3,29       2,293      100
Tr nhSwilcbire1E im t                                                           -Including International
---:W rr J-eI             Trunk Cireuits    7,100        4,00        64      switching eqipment under
Third Prject              Trunk Crcuits    S,3$"         2,500       64       third prej-et.
To"l 31                   Trunk Cireits   10,936.        7,000       64
Rurol tSems                                                              ; -Include physical line and
P430n4 rroject                          2C0         360       100      radio carreor *yoto
Third Peoot                                    140         140       100
-ots -                                        5*00        S0        100
tlx Echono  Cromity
Swond Frojeca             Li me              $,000       2,100       70
Third Pojoect             Lines,             a Goo          -        00       -4400 delayed lin  to be
Ttal                      Lines              6,500       2,100       82       completed In 102, under a
contract with supplier's
financing.
T nterlr                                                                   -Includes deat moede  and
co66r7ejeab               Number             1 200      1,200        100      faslml I- met.
Third Projet              Numer              1,400      1 460        100
Total                     Number             260        2,660        100
MIllllezw Mpe                                                                  -Workshop equipmet procured
60r40sJ                   Plant                 22         22        100      from KPTCe own reosreoe.
Third Projet              Plant                 42         42        100
Cionwl *4"ninl1
,go es" rrojmm            Pckages                2          2        100
Third Projeet             Package                2          2        100
11   lbAs of eompleti  date of sech project, total being total facilities from the 2
prjojc  me of .Ae 1990.
21    Delyed lln  to co completed In 1032 under the  etract flo  local exchason (Cm
Wm) e
3/,   leelude  buildings, air coeditiening ad psen r equipeat, under beth projeta and
also workshop Inastallotions uAer third Project.



-24-
AU  S 3.*4s a  CMUUOU' DATUS
Completion Dates
Main Component                    Estimated        Actual         Remarks
1.  Second TelecommmicatLons Prolect (Loan 2155-UM)
1.  Local Exchanges                   12/86        3/87 1/
2.  Cable subscriber plant
and telephone sets                12S66       6/87
3.  Transmission systems               9/86        3/87
4.  Trunk Switching                    6/86        9/67     -Partial, only for
extension of existing
exchanges.
S.  Rural Systems                     12/66        6/87
6.  Telex exchange and
Teleprinters                      12f86       6/87      -Partial, only extenslon of
existing exchanges was
realized
2.  Third TelecomicatLons Proiect (Loan 2574-13)
1. Local Exchanges                    12/66        6/90 2/
2.  Cables, subscribers' plants       12/88        6/90
and telephone sets
3.  TransmLssion Systems              12/88       12/89
4.  Trunk switching                   12/68       12/89     -Partial, only for
extension of existing
exchanges.
5.  Rural systems                      6/88
6.  Telex exchange and                12188       12/89 31
Teleprinters                                            -Teleprinters and modems
only.
7. Workshop, repair/training           6/88       12/89
facilities
Complete Protects -
-Second Proiect
SAR expected                         12186
Actual, but only partial                          9/67
-Third Project
SAR expected                         12188
Actual, but only partial                         10189
1/    Only extolo of *;s;ting exchanow was rwlind  Mmw dlsttel *xchon_ were
delyed *"d ratedeed in 19M. Award mm combine with witchingO_ a uwOr
third project, with bi lat era l"" f lnncn forbot pckV.
21   ODgital switching ep-sot for econd and third projects were ordered togebter
under a large contract with bilateral financlin, for delivery to be completed to
3/    Tel-x exchang was delayed and ordered eparatelY With suppier'* fI"nacINg, for
delivery il 1M.



-25-
TA*L  S  S.  nPOJaT  COSTS AND FIRAIU
TANS 3.5.As PROJECTS COSTS
(US$ millions)
Foreign Costs of Bank Financed Items 1/
PCR Estimates
Item                                                              Completion Costs
Goods and Services                       Appraisal Estimate    at Loan's closing
1. Second Project (Loan 2155-RE)
1.  Switching equipment                   21.00                     11.62
2.  Cables and outside plants              7.50                      9.00
3.  Subscribers sets                       1.50                      2.00
4.  Transmission networks                  3.30                      2.50
5.  Rural services                         1.30                      0.80
6.  Consultants/Training                   1.10                      0.80
7.  Fee                                    0.66                      0.66
Subtotal           36.36                    27.38
S.  Contingencies                          8.34                       _
Total              44.70                    27.38 2/
2. Third Proiect (Loan 2574-U)
1.  Local and trunk switching              2.60                      1.60
equipmwnt
2.  Local networks and                    11.00                      6.80
subscribers plants
3. Rural telephony                         0.70                      0.60
4.  Telex switching equimtent             6.50                       -
5.  Telex subscriber plants                0.80                      2.50
6.  Power plants                           0.80                      0.80
7. Workshops                               1.00                       -
8. Consultants/Training                    2.10                      1.70
Subt-otal          25.50                    14.00
9. Contingencies                           7.1                        -
Total              32.6                     14.00 21
11    Ne Inmfertion io available In the projectI Ile on the Coat of ce-fitnancd
c.mpeus, er of ite. fianed fre KPTC'.owe resources, uder both project.
21    S" Table SIA e  notes coewenin the anceilleioe of UN 17.3  d 1U.6 ml Ilion
from Lease 215419 and 257441 reepoetivly, at projeate empletion or before.



-26-
thLLOR Wfor auk financed item3)
Planned                                    Final
Source             Local         Foreign                      Local         Foreini
1. Second Proiect (Lou 2155.13)
Bank                 -            44.70                                        27.38
IPTC               34.30             -                               Not available 1/
Others               -               -                                         17.32 2/
2.  Third Protect (Loan 2574-U)
Bank                 -            32.60                                        14.00
XPTC                11.40            -                               Not available 1/
Others               -                                                         18.60 3/
11    KPTC dew nt kep project coot acountlg. The actual loca  currecy coet cerreepedIng te
1peciic Iteme or sub-project are not determinabl.  Us dollfare eqivelent of mald ceot  1wod
net be meenine1ul du to the varition of exchange Pate during the project ported.  (Sea Table
3.S.C hale.
2/     5.o Table S.E.A an mote I and a for oxplaatioa of the canI latlotion of thie amn at closing
f "a. lose. Procurement of the daVe digital wittching equipmt was combined with same
equipment nder the third project for whch b lateral finncaing was arranged.
3/     See Tble J.J.A and notes 4 *nd 5 concrning te teo canceltloons undar the loan which totaled
US# 1J.6  IIi on. Dlltal swlching euipmnt for telex (about USJI  m IIIon) for which
mIsprocur'mt was proouVced by the Sank wes finally bought with suppller' flnancing In late
low for da Ivory In 1902. Miscellanous eupment for workshops, building and maintennc  w*
procured frPo 10TC's own I ndustralI complex and f*Inaned by KPTC.
TAM  3S.CS   COs llltY EXCHAN    RATES
xEchAnge Rate
Year                                    (Koh ger $1. Annual Average)
1982                                                 10.92
1983                                                 13.31
1984                                                 14.41
1985                                                 16.43
1986                                                 16.23
1987                                                  16.45
1988                                                  17.75
1989                                                  20.57
1990                                                  23.10
Second Proiect              Third Project
Appraisal year average:              10.92 (1982)                  14.41 (1984)
Intervening Year Average:            15.38                         19.83
Completion Year Average:             16.45 (1987)                  22.95 (1990)



-27-
Table S.6.As Direct seffits
Actual *t    Estimated at
Appraisal      Closing       Full
Indicators                        Estimate       Date          Develop$ent
1. Second Project (Loan 2155-Ue
-Additional telephone exchange
capacity (lines)                  80,900        66,200 1/       80,900 2/
-Additional main telephone
lines in service                  76,000        52,300 1/       76,000
-Additional telex exchange
capacity (lines)                   3,000         1,100 3/        1,100 3/
-Additional telex lines in            500           460              500
service
2. Third Pr*iect (Loan 2574-)
-Additional telephone exchange
capacity (lines)                  44,700        12,400 4/       44,700 5/
-Additional main telephone
lines in service                  50,300 6/    40,500           50,300 6/
-Additional telex exchange
capacity (lines)                   3,500           -              4,400 3/
-Additional telex lines in
service                  ,         2,000          200              3,000
11.   As of September 30, 1987.
2R/ Was realized only it completion of the third project in December
1989 when total installed exchange capacity reached over 220,000
lines.
31    Only the extension of existing exchanps was made during the
second project. New exchanges.were deferred for implementation
under the third project. About 4400 new lines are expected to be
completed by aid 1992 under a ieparate contract vith supplier's
f4nn cing.
4/    As of December 31, 1989.
S/   Expected by the end of 1991 vhen combined additions from the two
projects would be completed. Total exchange capacLty would then
exceed 266,000 lines, because additional new and replacement
exchange lines were ordered under the witching contract entered
into in 1987, with bilateral financing.
6/    Includes delayed connections from the second project.  Full target
of 102,000 additional working lines under the two projects was
expected to be met in December 1991, with about 198,000 main lines
being in service.



-26-
3.6.2. LPogl "D Iect
Economic                       Appraisal                      Actual
late of Returu                     Etimato               (At Final Dvelomoent)
-Second Project                           351
-Third Project                            260
-Second and Third Projects                                             161
Underlyint Assuptitons:
1.      Due to the close relationship betwoen the project and non-
project investments as well am the tvo program involved under
the Second and Third Projects, any attempt at separation of
costs and benefits would be arbitrary. Consequently, the rate
of return of calculation is made on the two programs combined.
2.       The benefit period of the combined programs extends from 1986
to 2006, when on average, the equipment provided under the
programs is expected to have substantially completed Lts useful
life.
3.      New customers are willing to pay for teicom mications
services, as a minimum, prices in real teoas the existing
customers are paying at the start of the benefit of the
investments.
4.      All costs streams have been expressod in 1986 prlces.
5.      Capital cost streams are based on the programs as actually
implemented from 1983 to 1990.
6.      The benefits and costs attributed to the programs are based on
the additional telephone and telez connections which were
conmissioned during the 1985 through 1992 period.
7.      BenefLts include the additional revenue generated for the
government through the 151 telecommunications usage tax paid by
custamrs.
8.       From 1990 on, the benefits and operating cost per connection
are constant.
9.      No residual value of fixed assets are taken into account as the
present value of those in real terms would be minimal.
3 6.C. FINANCIAL IMPACT
inancial                      Appraisal
Rate of Return                   Estimate                 Actual
-Second Project                             251
-Third Project                              12$
-Combined Second and Third 1/                                        71
Ot'her Financial Indicatorss The financial indicators, appraisal compared
with actuals are given in Annex 1.
1/The 'ea   for combIning the twe proJest s welI as the te progws ore providW In the
ude lyluu essimle  for ecoomic rote of retera colculetlo.



-29-
TAJLE 3.6.Ds STUDI1S AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Purpose as Defined                      Status               Impact of Study
at Appraisal
Studies
1. Second Pro1ect (Loan 2155-UZ)
A study to better organize KPfC and   Not required.               Government reorganized
KENEXTEL operations, which was                                    the sector before start
initially included in the project,                                of the study.
became redundant following sector
reorganization in 1982 merging the
two *ntities of the sector.
External technical assistance (TA)    Completed with              TA targets vere met.
was provided for project engineering  project.
and procurement and to strengthen
KPTC financial and accounting
procedures, also through staff in
the fields.
2.  Third Project (Loan 2576-Z
Study to assist KPTC in the desiln    The study was com-          KPTC initiated drastic
and implementation of requisite         pleted and final          reorganization of its
management systems for optimal          report submitted in       services in early 1990.
operation and development of            November 1989, includ-  Thorough implementation
telecommunications servicAs in          ing management            of most recoummendations
Kenya.  Inter alia to:  (i) review    development and tariff  is being considered and
the current situation and formulate   planning consider-          phased over the 1991-92
basic concepts and principles for       ations and proposals,   period. Domestic
corporate organization and              Important measures and  tariffs will be
management developments  l              changes are               increased annually by a
(ii) recoumend changes in               recommended.              minimum of 101 from
management, operational, financial                                FY91 on.
and administration practicest
(iii) review tariffs and formulate
improved tariff structure; and
(iv) assist KPTC in implementation
of the accepted recomendations.



-30-
?AU    3.77   STAITUS OI COVENNTS
COpione. with Major Cavmnto of Lon and Project Ao_               (LA-PA) under the Seond Project (Lean
21554CE) and of L"rond Guereatee Agreement. (LA-GA) under t    Thir Project (Lon 274-ME) are given belowe
8oct10. *f
Agreement                Decrlptioe of Covenant                          Cmeplance and  emarks 
1. leocsed T.leeec_mistion  Proecte QLs ft4
LA-2.01(b)     Subsidlary Loan Agroement betwee  Governmnt  Yem. Appropriate agreement was aigned In
and KPTC to be entered tnto.                    D  ober 1962.
LA-4.02        Study for consolidatl.  of Telecemun-          Sector was consolidated with merger of
ieati en Sector to be compl.ted by July 1,    KENEXTEL Into KPTC frem July 1962. Proposed
196.                                            study becam  redundnt.
PA-4.02(a)     Ait t    PTC to submit audited financial        Partluj: Audited statment. submitted but
itiia nt. within *s  "onthe of the end of       no  en time. Doloys exceeded 12 months tree
each flecal yer.                                FY 1964 to FY 199.
PA-4.03        Ue of revenue frem telecommunicatlons           Yoe
operations
PA-4.04(a)     Achlevo *anual rate of return of 103 on         Not Avil ble: (Fixed assets were not yet
rtevalueW net fIxed to lec_mu ieCttoan aseot.     iToJ-u   rjt efoct Cepletion In September
In operstione.                                  1967).  Rate ot return en curret ass*et
ranged between 17 and S0O  durtng theb  188-67
project perlod.
2. Third TOlmeSMMIcatine Project (Loam 2574-4CD
LA- .01(b)     KPTC to carry out Parts C and D of              Partial: No expert assistance was rqusted
Implementation proorae concerning training     to finnnce for tr taing center (Part C).
and mnagment Improvement an decribed In         Man agmt conoultat. were hired In 19M
LA-chedule S.                                   with a 2 yar delay.  Rd*efo   o   undertaken
In 1990 (P4et D). Tariff measuree are being
ioplemented.
LA-al02        Procurement as per Bank guidelitn  for ICS      Partial:  Misprocureent for Tolex switching
Itiw end an deseribed In LA-Schedule 4 for   equipment (US  6 million). KPTC procured
doesetic tied and lilited IC  items.            several other item  from It. own werkshope or
through negotiated contract with supplier's
financing (Data syst ).  Correspondino
*amont. were cnce led freom the Loan.
LA-l.0        To furnish annually to the Bank Performne    No. Comparative pro-forms indicators were
Ind cator., including review/updating of        prepared by Dank during supervision.
proere   In achlevem_n'L
LA-8.04        Exchange of Information on changc  In KWTC      No.  Informtlon, whe  obtained, was too le
1964-46 Investment progrm. n`waabl, meaningful discussion and ft;iow-
up.  Larg  progras -   re undrtaken fre  1999
en without Consultation with the anLk.
LA-4.04        (PTC to esure sf at ratio of maximum 62         Ne.  Ratio has Incresed to 112 par 1000
staff per 1000 connected line.                  TTins in 1990 frm lees than 100 In 1964.
Trend toward Ineree continue.
LA-S01        Audited account. to be submittOd within 0       Partial.  Audited account submitted bet not
month  of nd of ech flocal year.                on    so. with delays of more than 12 months.
LA-5.02        Rnat  of Return (RR):KPTC to achieve a not      Partial.  Not available until FY U  (sset.
les than 10 RR on net fixed assets.           ; rtoalued).  Compiled In FY  aSnd *9.
Not available for FY 90.
LA-5.0        Cash flow covonant, to enable Inrnal            Partial. Complied In FY 6  but not frm
soure   adequate to cover local tooe  Of        FYWlf-ue to very high capital expedIture
Investment program.                             progrm undertaken by KPTC.
GA-8.01        Account roeivabloe  from Public Sector usage   No.  Governom     roceivable  Increased from
t *ervice to be redueod to 90 days by           =D days in 1r    to 720 day  In 1919.  No
September 1997.                                 trond to decrease.
GA4.02         Governmet to ensure adequate generation of    Partial.   4o until 1967. Doubtful since
reoourc   to enable KPTC to _met It.            TWIF7    to very larg-lnvestmnt progrm and
In_vesteat r  quirement.                        delaye  or insfficient tariff Increases.



-31-
TABU  3.8a  MISSIONS DATA
Typo of
stg  of                  Ussh/  Me. sf   SW in    spssilizatino    Perfermene    Problems
Projet Cylo                 yosr   Prsons  FisidI  R.r"stetd 1             noting 2      or Remarks X/
s. Sosd T1lt im                 lest  oa 1Sln
T hteAms"
* Idmtfieai./
Prepartio             8/0        1       1.5      fa.
* Prepprail               U/0S       1      0.2       FinA.
* Appraisal             %1/Sl        2      8.5      fE., PFlnA.
Follow upto              0/S        1       1.0      ta.
Appraisal
* Suprliso  1            1/58        2      2.0       E"., FinA.             1
*,oo SupsPvisis a           1/84        1       1.0      fag.                   1
*,.. Spolrvisis 8           5/54        2      8.0       Fog., PFnrA.           1
so Susrvi"ssn 4       . /54           4      6.0       Ea., FlrA.,            1        Mainly for
go.                            Appralsal of Third
Project
es Suprvisios 5           I/85        2      2.0       fag., FinA.            1
so Supervision 0          I/US        1       1.1      fa.                    2        T-Prscoremsnt of
awitching
so Supervislon 7         II/a         2      0.0       Erg., Ea.              2        T-Soo abovo
a. Sup.rvlsoo S           il/O        1       0.5      Erg.                   8        T-Sos above
as Superviiso S           .5/07       1      0.8       EC.                    8        T-Sea abowv
so Supervision 10  /     10/67        2                Enoa.  PI "A.          2        T-Looe 1154M
closed S/80/S7 8
o  Coubined mission with supervisono of the first project (Leon 1660-SE).
es Combined smisin with propratlon/appralsal or spervslolon of the third project (Loon 2574-KL.
1/      |_* Abbreviationuse  fag., Enginose; FPA., Fimnlail Aeslyat gc., Economist.
Tle  la the f *iod far combined mislio  was net prorated.
3/     Nae to pwerfeuwse  rating:  1-problem free  2-moderate problemsl r-mejor problems.
Type of probleo_   T-ts.hniol; 11filoael;l l-managerial.
1/     Las full suprvision vnder the s        projet. Tho undiersd aount of USM
17.3 millios for deferred procurement of digital switchln  eqlpemt and other
ndlisbroed blauoe  was anmelled on December 10, 1967.



-32-
Tablo 3.3: Missions Data (Cont'd)
TOMe of
_t of                        No N. of    It       pefmlstblse_  P.e too           Peblms
Prolwb Cycee Peson   aim     S --- --  b-                                             or Illmik  SI
2. mi .4r  l__ll9ftbm  tPelstL    254-am
Throevo Aggreleal
so Identlfcatlo         2/S4        1       1.0       Ela.
so Prepratlo.             5/14        2       3.0      Ig., fl A.
ao Apalal                 3/04        4       6.0       lag.,  l FA.,
Ec.
co Pollow u: to          1/"         2       1.0       lag., flNA.
Appraismal
Supervilslo
*e supervielse  I         3/U         1       1.1       Eno.                   --       Zttial  p1-
este. Diatmelos
on procurement of
so Supervisel.  2        11/"         2       0.6   o a. Ic.                   -        Preesmest (Se
*lb"). beloay t
loaw signing.
s, Supervllon            11/          1       0.5       Eg.                    2        T-Pr1eesrmt.
($m abo). L"n
effectiv, asti.
6/14/66.
so Suprvlsieo 4           3/67        1       0.5       la.                             T T-leutlel on
presremmet (Sme
so Supervision 5         10/37    1  2        3.0      Elg., FInA.             2        T-(Sm  ebi).
Supervision 6          2/U         1       0.5       la.                    2        T-(Ss  above).
Supervision 7          2/60        1       1.0      Elg.                    2        T-Uloprocuremos
of Tel.x switeb-
,se"Pi_et, 1
Suprvllon I J          6/00        2       2.0       Eag., FlaA.            2        M-1t.rgsetatles
sod very larg
I avestaset pro-
gram. Loan aImed
on. 121/0 4
Coeblid mision with seervisimn of the seea  prejoot (Lea 215541).
j/      ^lnlAbbrev.atto  wose  ., f gmoler FPlnA., FPimaecal Analys; 5., le_1ist.
Time In M  field tfr combraed simlone was  et prorated.
3V     Key to pertferme   ratlng:   -problm froe; 2-moderobe problems; 8-msjor probl_es.
Typs of problems: T-tochai.l; P-fiaaatcl;l M.I_cgrlol.
3/     Pol loeit"  lpcuresot of toelswitching eqipsee awarded to third loest
bidder, WTC ar       for supp Is-er's faleeag.    er_nc   fr e llatim
of US 15 miiIna   July  1.
2/     Fle  supervIsion.  All delayed prosluremmt em arranged with biltrel/sllimor
fimaneing. Physical cempletios delayed by about S     Pra.  roenlzatien  a hoeis
InItiated, be require 3 years. IWYC hasm NdW=     a very lr   in*esor l  dtomt
program. The wadisbursed   mce of us 5.6 elII    - mm Gm Uc  led as o1 Jo"e 1e,
1N0.



-33.
PROJIECT COMH E=IONRQx         R
SECOND AN  IRD TELU            MMUMNAONS PROJEU
(LO_AS 2155-XE AND 2574-XE)
List of Annexes
ANNEX 1      Technical Performance Indicators (1982-1990)
ANNEX 2      Financial Statements
Attachment 1. Comparative Income Statements
Attachment 2. Comparative Balance Sheets
Attachment 3.  Comparative Funds Flow Statements
Attachment 4. Financial Performance Indicators (1984-1990)
ANNRX 3      Borroverls Comments



KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMf NICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
SECOND AND THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECTS (Loans 2155-KE and 2574-KE)
PROJECTS CokPLETION REPORT
TECHNICAL PERFORMWNCE INDICATORS (1982-1990) 1I1
Year l 'J-  D .ember 813/           1992       1938      1934      196             190            197        19- 160
-               SAn     Actual                          SAt        Actual  E1"1/
1. Exchange Capacity              &32,920   147,462   168,202   161,690  282,280   197,790   219,540   225,020   236,000   227,860   230,000
Number of OEL                   36,094    96,709   106,140   116,891   170,000   120,0st    14S,27D   1",060   199,000   111,072   116,000
Capacity Fil (3)                 06.1       04.3      07.9      00.0      75.0      60.2       "3.        70.2      74.4      ?5.2       07.0
2. Talen Exchaon  Capclt            2,500      2, W      2,50      2,700    8,500       8,610     8,616 U     ,616     4,500     a,1U       8,616
Number of TUlna 1   beei r       1616       1,730     1,936     2,136     2,130      2,400     2,89a      2,416     8,70      2,491      1,30
Capeity Fill (S)                  04.t       70.0       1.0.     61.0      42.5       44.5      44.4      44.5       94.0       4.2      1n.0
S. Fault Clearing lates I (ithin
sams, day)                                                                                                                                N
-rbee Network                       403        453       463       50        553       40S   U      X       5O         as        54X 3
-41ral Autemate Network              -          -         -         -         0         -          -         -          X         -          -
4. Subscriber Faults per MEL
per- A_nu  (Ave.)                 1.3        1.2       1.7       1.6       0.9       2.4        2.0        -        0.7        2.0        2.6
-Urban Network.                     0.        0.9       1.1       1.2       0.3       1.1        1.1        -         0.5       1.1        1.2
-Iural Autotatle Netwrk             1.5        1.4       1.5       1.0       1.1       1.4        1.7        -         0.0       2.1        2.2
S. Average Call Comletlio
Notes
-Loe  lColII                         -         473       473       43OX 61             501        573        -         751 X4X               -
-LengDist. Call*      vmlt           -          0X       "6        743       on        74         72X        -         sox       u0          -
m.          -         1n        l0x       us        401       253        2CI        -        eoN        24X
6. Telecom. Staff/1OO DEL              02       112         -         -        74        9           -         -        0o        i12        120
/  tndieators at actul achilevemt  live" as per format cad lst weader the Third Project in Annex 10 of SAN from 1902 to 100. Cm_rative
date betwe n     sa timated and actwal achlevement are shown for the years 1996 and 193, at completio  of tb. Second sad Third Prejeec
reepectively. Unvelablo date frm SAR  ot files  re mitted.
3/  Dota rlate te the calendar year, ending December *1, each yee so; wno  . 
/  Estimted. No data were provided by KPTC.



-35-
ANNEX 2
Attachmlt 1
Page  of 2
KENYA                        ----
POSTS AND TELECOMMIUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
SECOND AND THIRD TELECOMM1NICATIONS PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Comparativ- Income Sat.etn* to I2/
(KSho Ml lon)
1962    1912    1963    1963    1964    1964    19"6    1935
--                               SAR     ACT      SAR      ACT      SAR     ACT      SAR      ACT
Operatin Rvn"u:
Telehone                       730.9   766.3   869.9  1012.1  1,020.2  1,249.1  1,371.1  1,740.6
Tolex and Telegram             193.1   145.6   221.7   232.6   174.4    277.8   228.1   289.1
International A Miscellnnous    4.0               4.4             208.4            242.0
Total Operating Revene         92.0   932.6  1,096.0  1,244.7  1,403.0  1,626.9  1,841.2  2,029.8
Operating Exponses:
Adinstration and Other         194.7   240.3   222.3   377.2   452.7   415.0   525.6   606.4
Operational and Maintenance    176.5   175.6   190.3   210.8   254.3   257.3   334.1   356.0
International Services         226.2   220.6   267.8   215.3   242.1   280.7   282.2   357.7
Doproclotlon                    07.5    64.4    90.3    91.5   121.3   130.7   142.3   171.2
Total Operating Expen           64.9   701.1   775.7   894.8  1,071.4  1,033.7  1,23.2  1,391.3
Operating Income/(Loss)        263.1   231.5   820.3   349.9   831.6   493.2   557.0   638.3
Other Income La" Other Expen    7.6        9      8.1    33.2    10.0    10.0  . 10.0    45.4
Los: Intrewt and Loan Charg   63.0    91.6   103.3    51.3   144.4   137.0   210.6   152.0
Net Income(Lo) Telecom         207.1   143.0   22.1    31.6   197.2   37.0           6.4   S31.7
Net Intom  (Loss) Postal                (56.6)           (69.5)   110.0   (98.3)   (71.0)   (74.4)
Not Income                     207.1    92.3   225.1   262.3   307.2   274.2   283.4   457.3
1/ The fiscal yoer changed from January - Decembr to July - June from July 1, 1986.
2/ The SAR oetimtee for flecsLyears 1962 and 1938 are froe the Second Projoect SAR and the
rmaining from th- Third Pro'oect SAR.



-36-
ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 2
KENYA
POSTS AND TELECOMUWNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
SECOND ANI THMRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
PROJECT COLuETION REPORT
Comparative Incom_ State.ante1/  2/
(KShu Milion)
196    i9t6     1937     1937     1963      1938     1939     1990
Telecom             o                     --       --        -               --
SAR  ACT 1/      SAR       ACT     SAR       ACT      SAR      ACT
Operating Revenus                     (6 month)
Tlepone                       1,794.0  1,041.7  2,059.9  2,247.6  2,869.5  2,396.6  8,351.0  3,601.6
Tel-x and Telegrm               294.4   179.9   336.5   360.7   390.2    422.4    408.5   387.5
Interntlonal A Mi"eelloneouu   230.1             321.3            3S.3
Total Operating Revenue       2,366.5  1,221.6  2,719.7  2,623.3  3,127.3  3,313.2  3,754.9  4,139.0
Operating Expense:
Ad)instration and Other        607.4   279.2   698.7   672.9   739.C   309.2   962.6  1,039.J
Operational and Maintenance    484.7   133.3   655.0   439.0   701.0   472.3   571.9   703.7
Internat1onal Servicoo         327.9   166.4   377.0   361.6   433.2   434.1   673.5   U64.6
bepclatlom                     175.1    96.7   210.1   208.1   247.3   269.3   236.9   320.7
Total Operating Expene        1,546.1   630.6  1,687.3  1,661.6  2,171.9  2,024.9  2,494.9  2,923.3
CO.pating Invom/(Loen)          823.4   541.0   381.9   946.7   956.9  1,298.3  1,260.0  1,260.7
Other Incom  Leoe  Other Expon   10.0      0.6    10.0      63.8    10.0       7.6     57.1    35.7
Lose  Interest and Loan Charg  266.2   126.3   291.7   313.0   307.8   392.3   519.9   706.5
Net Income(Los) Telecome        677.2   415.3   600.2   n92.5    658.1   908.6   797.2   5689.9
Net Income (Losa) Postal        (60.0)   (61.4)   (27.0)  (143.7)    (4.0)  (211.3)  (261.6)  (296.6)
Net Income                      527.2   863.9   673.2   546.3   654.1    696.6   635.6   294.3
1/ The fiscal year changd fromJanuary - Decemer to July - June from July 1, 1986.
2/ The SAR eetimatee for fiscal years 1982 and 1933 are from the Socond Project SAR and the
remining from the Third Project SAR.



-37-
.qtl~                                                                ANNIEX 2
Attachment 2
Page I of 2
KENYA
POSTS AND TELECOWMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
SECOND AND THIRO TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
PROJECt COLTWION RPORT
Comparatetw  aela"c Sheets  1/ 2/
(1(5k. Million)       _;
1962    1962     1913     196      1964      1964     1966    1065
ASS                              SAR      ACT      SAR      ACT      ACT                        ACT
Gross Fixed Assett            1,349.9  2,210.4  1,606.6  2,815.6  2,765.1  3,567.8  3,422.1  4,136.5
Accumulated Depr eltion        4N. 7    c63.3   577.0   702.4   790.5   648.9   932.3  1,026.9
Total Fixed A ssts             663.2  1,647.1  1,229.6  2,113.2  1,974.6  2,720.4  2,49.3 3,109.6
Work in Pre                    456.7   182.1   646.4   '74.2  1,077.5    282.2  1,112.6   195.9
Investment  and Deposit        307.3   455.0   393.2   507.4   436.7   565.3   490.5   727.5
Current Asetot
-Cash and lonk Deposits        23.0   336.1    26.5   367.6   135.3   306.9    67.0   422.9
-Accnts Receivabloe           232.0   644.4   274.0  1,072.2   467.7  1,129.6   613.7  1,459.$
-Inventories                  194.4   302.5    233.3    496.1    276.5    612.7    342.2    719.5
-Others                       160.0      2.7    160.0      3.3   331.6       6.7    331.6       6.1
Total Current Assets           600.4  1,265.7    603.6  1,006.9  1,211.3  1,95.9  1,374.7  2,609.8
TOTAL ASSETS                 2,236.6  3,569.9  2,066.0  4,603.7  4,700.1  5,544.6  5,457.3  6,642.6
LISILTES
Equity                        1,234.6  1,705.3  1,469.7  1,609.9  2,262.6  1,865.7  2,569.1  2,014.9
Long-term Debt (LTD)           626.3   965.4  1061.6  1367.3  2,003.1  1,871.9  2,390.5  2,402.9
Pension Liability Fund           30.0   603.1    30.0   574.2                666.6             765.6
Current Llis,Illtlts:
-Accounts baysbl.            '346.7   406.1    411.5  1,052.3    410.3  1,182.4    420.6  1,349.2
-Other                          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    49.1                67.1
Total Current Liabilitles      345.7   406.1    411.6  1,052.3    459.4  1,132.4    477.7  1,349.2
TOTAL LIAILItES             2,236.6  3,649.9  2,963.0  4,603.7  4,700.1  5,544.6  5,457.3  6,642.3
1/ The flcol   er ehanged from January - DOember to July - June from July 1, 1996.
2/ The SA *stimetee for fitcal years 1962 and 1963 are from the Second Projoet SAR and the
roweining from the Third Projoct SAN.



-385-
ANNEX 2
Attachomnt 2
KENYA                         Pago 2 of 2
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNCATIONS CORPOUATION (KPTC)
SECOND AND THTfO TELECOMW?CATIONS PROJECT
PRO.ECr COMWLTZON REPOtT
Comerative hiance Sheet/2/
("hes Ml IeI.o)
196      1966    1967      1917    19 6      19U      196      1990
ASSETS                           SAN   ACT 1/       SAN     ACT      SAR       ACT      SAN      ACT
-                                     (a monthr)
Gross Fixod Assets           4,136.S  4,505.0  4,944.2  6,330.4  6,309.1  6,211.5  7,274.0  0,771.7
Aceumulted DOpreciatton       1,107.8  1,129.3  1,317.9  1,337.1  1,56U.2  1,613.9  1,900.1  2,244.3
fetal Fixed Asset.            3,031.0  3,376.7  3,626.3  '043.3  4,243.9  4,597.6  5,373.9 6,627.4
weuk In Prog                  1,164.6    213.2  1,320.4    319.3  1,145.0    292.9    332.5    56.6
Invoetment and Dposits         526.5    334.5   531.$    947.4   630.4  1,075.6  1,064.8  1,011.8
Current Asse ts
-C'eh and Sak Deposit.        131.5    496.1    122.6   792.2   223.1    7U6.0    435.1    304.6
-Accovate R.c lvsbles          739.5  1,968.5    906.5  2,139.0  1,042.6  3,332.2  4,320.8 6,132.0
-Inventrles                   41U.9    544.5   494.4    726.9   530.6  1,733.7  2,402.7  3,709.9
-Otbers                       S31.6              331.6            3$1.8                       129.6
To-tal Crre nt Asset         1,721.7  3,009.1  1,355.3  3,660.9  2,173.3  5,651.9  7,708.6 10,356.1
TOTAL ASSETS                 6,496.0  7,432.5  7,363.3  3,971.4  6,206.0 11,617.9 14,499.8 13,451.9
LIABILITIES
Equity                        3,166.6  2,205.2  3,764.6  2,321.1  4,424.7  2,447.1  2,116.9  1,010.1
Long-tare Dobt (LTD)          2,771.9 2,960.1  2,962.0  3,606.5  3,125.1  5,460.7  7,113.4 10,342.2
Pns ior Lisblitty Fund                  860.1    75.6   999.0    65.7  1,185.4  1,336.3  1,573.5
Current Liabllittles:
-Accounts Payable             W91.6  1,426.4    377.0  1,965.6    433.2  2,704.7  3,861.7  5,526.1
-Other                          65.9             192.2             137.9
Total Current Liablittles       557.5  1,426.4   559.2  1,965.6  561.1  2,704.7  3,361.7  5,526.1
TOTAL LIASIUTIES              6,490.0 7,432.5  7,363.3  6,971.4  6,206.6 11,317.9 14,479.6 13,461.9
1/ The flosI yer chonged frog January - December to July - June froo July 1, 1986.
2/ The SAN  sototme for flIsel years 1932 and 1963 are ftro the Scond Project SAR and the
re_eining fros the Third Project SAM.



-39-
ANNEX 2
Attheht S
KENYA                          Page I of 1
____  __ ____ _._
POSTS AND TELECOMWMNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
SECOND ANO rfIRO TELECOMUNICATIONS PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Coegaratie Funds Flow Statement 1/ 2/
(KSho million)
17      19w?     19N11    1936     1909     1990
-------                                   SAR      ACT      SAR      ACt       ACT      ACT
Internal Cash G.eneatIon
-Not In t. eore Interest               691.3    661.7    906.6  1,060.1  1,055.5  1,000.C
nDepreiation                           210.1   222.2   247.5   276.6    307.4   344.9
-Nat Others                             10.0               10.0            (20.0)      0.4
Internal Cash Genration               1,111.0  1,068.0  1,223.1  1,366.9  1,342.9  1,346.1
Longe-tare  oertwing                    303.6   536.4   263.6  1,366.7  1,479.6  2,168.2
Qrant*                                              1.1               1.0      0.0    47.6
Pension Liability Fund                           143.2              136.4   200.3   233.4
Other.                                            24.0                        67.4      0.2
TOTAL SOURCES                          1,420.6  1,7 9.6  1,466.6  2,942.0  8,090.1  5,671.5
APPLICATIONS                                                                        3,168.0
Capital Expeadituree                    911.1   962.1   689.4   604.2  1,206.8  1,731.$
Investm et and Doeslta                   62.6   154.4    56.1   120.0         10.4    30.7
Net General Reerve AdJustments                    139.4             (54.6)   328.7      (so)
Debt $er"I*e
-Interes                               291.7    313.0    307.6    392.3    519.9    706.5
-Principal                              98.6    112.2    120.3   200.0    330.1    457.6
Total DObt Service                       390.2  . 430.2    428.1   592.3    650.0  1,164.3
Change In Working Capital                  66       113      311    1,452      700      931
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                     1,420.5  1,798.6  1,486.6  2,942.0  3,090.1  3,671.5
Net Internal Cash/Cap. Expenditure        79.23   67.13   115.33    96.2X    40.92    10.2X
Debt Srvice Covorage         I             2.6      2.5      2.9      2.3      1.6      1.2
1/ The fiscal year changed froe January - Decmber to July - June from July 1, 19M.
2/ The SM aetiatee for filcal years 1932 and 1903  are from the Second Project SAR and the
remaining from the Third Project SAR.



KENYA
POSTS AND TELECOuMRNICATIONS CUPOSATION (KPTC)
SECON AND THIRD TELECOLUIWICATIONS PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION RPO"T
Financial Performnce Indicators  1/ 2
10 14 1984        196      1986     190a     1901     1967      1987     1900     19       1090     1(O
SAR      Af       SAR      ACT    SAR     ACT 1/      SAR       ACT      SM       ACT      ACT      ACT
Telephone Revenu./ DEL                                                     (4 m*onts)
Current                        9,500   11,7M1   11,600   14,701   12,860    6,047   12,360   15,472   12,350   16,319  19,692   21,590
Conatant(16)                   9,9906   14,494   10,238   16,012   10,553    8,047   10,137   14,707    9,*69   14,093   15,987  14,201
Telex R.ven u/ Subscriber (t000.)
Current                       02,000  141,874  100,000  132,130  107,000   74,771  107,000  156,757  107,000  170,590  163,54  149,08
Constent(190)                104,774  174,180  105,480 149,307  104,769   74,771   94,424  150,910  86,209  140,867  1U,O0   112,290
Op. Cost/ OEL
Curreet                        7,419    3,507    7,613  10,800    8,069    4,511    9,4S3   10,148    9,720   11,169   12,907   14,6WU
Constant(190)                  9,306   10,478    8,626   11,645    3,059    4,511    8,603    9,642    0,083    9,312   10,409   11,1 5 9
Rate of Return (Av. WA)          17.06    108.7X    80.0    24.43    30.0o    16.31    20.06    20.4X    24.0C    29.4X    26.4X   21.0X3
Not Internal Cao ok  sratlon     80.03   NA         77.0O   161.65    U.OX   152.1X    73.0X    07.13   112.0X    96.23    40.90    10.23
Current Ratio                     2.6      1.7      3.0       1.9      8.1      2.1      8.0      1.9      8.7       2.2      2.0      1.9
Dsbt/(Dsbt+Equlty)                 47X      50O       48X      5o       47X     65X       44X      4l1       41       603X     7x       01X
Debt Service Notlo                2.2   NA           2.6   NA          8.1   NA          2.9      2.5      2.8       2.3      1.0      1.2
Accounts Recivable  (Days 11    120        2"        120      269      120      50       120      293      120        62      462      527
IYvestorles as X CFA               103      14X      10X       17X      103      123      103      14X      10      203      88X      483
Posal  efitclt (Ks MI IIleon)     110       (90)     (71)     (74)     (60)     (51)     (27)    (144)       (4)    (212)    (262)    (266)
1/ The  iscal    r changed free Jajuary - December to July - Jun  free July 1, 19f0.
2The S       t te  for fisa  yrea  190 sad IN8 are from the SeceW Projet SAN sad the
reml"imoi fee the Third Project SAN.
'0



- 41 -
Annex 3
PE=~~-K
(LOANVS 25-BAD 54I
Borrower's Comments
19    INTRODUCTION
1.1   This report covers the Second and Third Telecommunicntions projects of
the Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (KPTC) wupported by IBRD
Loans 2155-K and 2575-RE. The loan for the Second Telecommunications project
of US$ 44.7 million was approved in 1982 and closed on September 30, 1987.
The Bank in 1985 approved a loan of US$ 32.6 million for the Third
Telecommunication project and closed on December 31, 1989.
1.2 The Second and Third Telecommunications projects are a continuation of
the efforts the KPTC has been making towards expanding and modernizing the
telecomnmications network in the country. A lot of emphasis has been placed
on modernizing and extending the services to the rural areas with the
objective of facilitating rural development.
1.3 The report therefore attempts to assess the design, implementation and
development impact of the Second and Third Telecommunications projects whose
implementation started in 1982 and 1985 respectively.
i
2.    PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
291   PROJECT OBJECTIVES'
Under the projects, KPTC aimed at expanding and modernizing the
telecommunication network with special concentration on the rural areas which
are poorly served as compared to the urban areas. The objectives and
foundation of both the 2nd and 3rd telecommunications



- 42 -
ProJECts which were understood and shared by all the parties involved
were as follows:-
a) To improve the quality of local, long distance and international
telephone services through better network balance, improved
maintenance of installed plant as well as rehabilitation and
replacement of old assets.
b) To expand the local Nairobi telephone network as well as those
of other urban areas.
c)  To increase access to telephone services In rural areas by            -
increasing capacity of small rural exchanges and opening of
new public call offices in communities (rural market and local
centres) currently lacking such facilities.
d) To increase telex lines to meet the ever growing demand from
the business community.
*) To upgrade and expand the long distance network so as to handle
additional fcrecast traffic.
f) To enhance revenue generation from the assets through eliminatlon
of critical bottlenecks and introduction of optimal tariff levels.
g)  To improve KPTCs management procedures and financial management
capabilities.
2.2   PROJECT SCOPE
The First and Second Teleconununications projectswere part of KPTC's
1979/83, 1984S.'3 and 1989/93 development plans. The timiny of the
projects was appropriate In view of the envisaged socio-economic
benefits which wore to be realised; especially so when the Government
embarked on the development of the rural areas through its programme
of District end   for Rural Development.



-43 -
The projects comprised the following:-
a) Installation of additional automatic lines
b) Installation of additional manual lines
c) Installation of long distance transmission systems
d) Cables for local distribution
I) Subscribers equipment
f) Telegraph instruments
g) Telex Switching
h)  Power - diesel generators
I)  Telecommunications workshops
J) Training
k) Contingency including consultancy
2.3   PROJECT PREPAUATION AND APPRAISAL
Prior to the negotiations between KPTC, the Kenya Government and
the Bank, the necessary project economic and technical feastbility
studies and appraisals had been carried out. The appraisal
documents were particularly useful in providing data for the
Implementation of, and later on, performance monitoring of the
projects. Infact, this aspect of project design helped KPTC to
successfu11, implement its projects as it served as a guideline.



-44 -
3.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.1   According to the plans, the loans' closing dates for the 2nd and
3rd Telecommunications Projects were 30th September, 1987 and 31st
December, 1989 respectively. The physical implementation of the
projects was supposed to be completed by 30th June, 1986 and 30th
June, 1989. ':owever, both projects experienced delays.
3.2   The major problem originated from the 2nd Telecommunication Project
and was carried on into the 3rd Telecommunications Project. There
was a delay in the implementation of the digital exchanges which
were procured under price and terms arrangements.   The r-easns for
delay were two fold:-
1) In the bid specification documents, a number of necessary
requirements were dmitted. For instance, price breakdown for
each mandatory and optional item and the common currency to be
used for conversion purposes were not included. These otissions
posed a problem, in that, the supplier was under no obligation
to abide Dy the omitted requirements.
2) KPTC did not negotiate directly with the supplier for the
required equipment but went through a&middle party.  The supplier
suggested by the middle party could not satisfy the Corporation's
technical requirements and hence was considezeed unsatisfactory.
The controversy in the selection of the supplier necessitated a
rebid which resulted in a further aelay in the execution of this
project.  The contract was eventually awarded to ITALCOM of Italy
and installation is expected to be completed by the end of 1991.
3.3   KPTC did not ;^resee that negotiating through a middle party would
delay completion of the projects. This experience, therefore, brought
into focus the need to consider and discusS thoroughly issues pertain-
ing to process implementation during contract negotiations.



45  -
4,    PROJECT RESULTS
4.1   NETWORK GROWTH
The projects aimed at making substantial additions to the network
and improving the quality of services through expansion and
modernization. This was achieved as could be seen in the
significant expansion In both rural and urban networks. The total
number of exchanges increased from 3;6 in 1982 to 376 in 1986 and
to 449 in 1990. The telex exchange capacity was expanded from
2500 lines in 1982 to 3,616 lines.
4.2   SERVICE GROW,TH
As at the end of 1990, KPTC operated a total of 183,240 Direct
Exchange lines (CELs) for a total capacity of 243,490 lines, thus
giving the 'ill rate of 75.3% as compared to 66.3% in 1982 and
65.5% in '986. The objective of the project was to achieve a 16%
growth in telephone connections. The Corporation managed to achieve
an average gr6wtn rate of l10  which is commendable considering the
delays in t'1e i-plementation Of the Third Telecommunications Project.
Telephone stations went up quite rapidly from 216,674 in 1982 to
291,629 in 1986 to 362,683 in 1990. The number of public call offices
increased froin 655 in 1982 to 2,659 in 1986 to 5,135 in 1990.
Telephone density improved due to the expansion of the networks. The
ratio of DELs to 100 population rose from 0.51 in 1982 to 0.62 in 1986.
to 0.75 in 1990.
The telex cornections rose from 1,540 in 1982 to 2,290 in 1986 to
2,375 in 1990. the growth rate is at a declining rate as this service
has been inow taken by modern technologies like the facsmile. The
demand for thi$ service is unlikely to grow in future. Traffic per
subscriber has already started going down to mark the aeclining use
of the telex.



46
4.3   QUALITY O)F SERVICE
The. introduction of digital systems in KPTC telecommunication network
occasioned by the implementation of the projects is expected to
improve overall efficiency of the network. The digital technology
has been introduced in both transmission and switching systems thus
improving the telecommunication services.
One of the objectives of these projects was to improve the quality
of service through modernization. However, it is apparent that only
margfnral improv-e*ent has been registered and, overall, the results
have not been satisfactory.  The source of the problem could be
oartlv due to delays in the comoletion of the Third Telcsmunlea-
tion Project. By the end of 1989 the call completion rate was 54%.
For long distance automatic calls (STD) it was 24% while for incoming
international calls it was 31%. The appraisal targets were 75%. 60%
and 50% for local automatic, long distance calls and international
inconiing calls respectively. The low call completion rates have been
caused mainly by the following:-
a) Inadequate trunk capacity
b)  High fault incidence on subscriber equipment
c) Congestion at the notional switching centre (C82).
4.4   SOCIO-ECONOMIC BENEFITS
Through these projects KPTC has invested heavily in the provision of
services in rural areas so as to reduce the existing imbalance between
the urban and rural telecommunications networks. This is expected to
open more areas Oor rapid economic growth and hence improve income
generation In the rural areas where the majority of the population
resides. It is t4e policy of KPTC to support the Government In Its



-47
efforts of ceveloping rural areas by providing services for social
and other economic purposes. This is expected to reduce poverty in
rural areas and improve income distribution among different sectors
of ths national population.
4.5   MANPOWER OEVELOPMENT
Under the Second ana Third Telecommunications Projects, KPTC's
engineering staff gained sufficient experience in managing the
projects. -hey were well trained and are generally capable of
managing the ccnslderable expanded operations resulting from the
projects. A total of 1026 staff were trained at the KPTC's local
training schools (873) and overseas (153). On the other ha;.d
KPTCs staff jr'owth has been higher than the appraisal targets.
There is no definite plan to reduce the numbers as the Corporation
has the social obligation of providing employment to assist in the
reduction of unemploynient in Kenya.
5.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILTY
5.1   The projects are expected to maintain an acceptable level of net
benefits throughout their economic lives given the capacity of KPTC
to train ano retain its maintenonce personnel. KPTC has planned to
expand its existing training schools to meet its future requirem,ents,
end cater for tdvanced training.
5.2   An important factor to be observed is the introduction of a large
number of different digital switches in the national network. As
of now, a total number of five different suppliers from U.K. Sweden,
Ttaly and 6apan have provided their switches. The proliferation of
such a large rumber of switches in the network will of necessity lead:
to the stocking of a large variety of spare parts and special test
equipment and a lot of training. Thte need to standardize on a few
systems that can be easily maintdifled cannot, therefore, be over-
emphasised.



48  -
5.3   To save an the large sums of foreign exchange for the country, KPTC
has established a manufacturing complex which is Producing some of
the needed tTecommunications equipment like small manual exchanges
and automatic telephone sets. The KPTC plans to undertake a large
expansion of this cumplex to manufacture more teleCOmmunications
equipment.  This cmplex is expected to eadress thle problem of
standardization as well in the long run.
6.    BANK PERFORMANCE
6 1   Throughout the identification and Implementation processes of both
the Second and Third Telecommunication Projects the role of the Bank
as the major financier of botth the projects has been very vital.
Apart from the financial backing the Bank also made useful suggestions
on a number of areas including thow to achieve the goal of urban-rural
telecommunications network balance without reducing the profitability
of KPTC's operations.  On the Issue of standardization the Bank gave
positive advice tat the Corporation should approach the Government
with the idea *' working out a formula for equipment standardization.
6.2   The Bank 'as been in close association with every development stage
of the projects, offering advice and solutions to problems that arose
where necessary.
7.    BORROWER'S P!RFORMANCE
7,1   KPTC completed the Second Telecommunications Project in 1987 and t.e
Third Telecomtunications Project is expected to be completed by tbe
end of December, 1991. This will be thirty (30) months behind
schedule. :n both projects KPTC has experienced delays in implemenrta-
tion of projects like microwave links (Mombasa-Malindi and Kisumu-
Siaya),.and the orocurement of the digital switching system.
7.2   KPTC has been *uffering from lack of adequate skilled staff to man
these projects de to inadequate training facilities.  This probler
has been made worseby the fact that the Corporation has procured
equipment from U3ny different manufacturers.



- 49 -
7.3   Despite those weaknesses, KPTC managed to prepare the bids for the
two projects in time. Tte bids were evaluated and awarded to the
successful tenderers In time. The Corporation has worked hard to
install and commission all the projects to achieve the objectives.
8.    PROJECT RtLATIONSHIP
8.1   The Bank Was continuously associated with KPTC during the implementa-
tion of the projects. This participation by the Bank enabled KPTC to
achieve the objectives set out.
8.2   Funding arrangements for the Second Telecommunications Project was by
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD),
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) and KPTC. For the Third
Telecommunications project funding was by IBRD, European Investment
Bank (EIB) and KPTC.
8.3   The World Bank gave a lot of guidance during the implementation
process of these two projects. This was highly appreciated by the
Kenya Government and KPTC. The Bank's relationship with the above
named cou financing agencies, KPTC and the Kenya Government was also
excellent. Much to the satisfaction of KPTC, the funds from OECF
and EIB were released in time. All these made the implementation of
the projectS a success.
9.    CONSULTANCY SERVICES
9.1   For the Second Telecommunications Project consultancy services were
engaged in the junction and local cable planning. KPTC also retained
the services of consultants for the Third Telecommunications Project
to review .nd recommend necessary management improvements. The
consultarts completed their work and made recommendations to the
KPTC manage-ent which were adopted.  Their recommendations included
changes to ehe organization structureo and improvements in maintenance
services, hur-an resource development and computer services.



s 50 -
10.   PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
10.1 Logal contracts were signed between tthe Bank and other concerned
parties in both the Second and Third Telecommunication project.
Procurement was carried out in accordance with the Bank guidelines.
What needs to be pointed out is that the interpretation of the
contracts to the-would be suppliers of equipment and parts should
be done effectively to avoid the possibility of misunderstanding
between KPTC and the suppliers.
10.2  The project a-ppraisal reports provided the vital frame-work for
the implementation and monitoring of both the projects. These
reports also funned a vital input for the Bank and all other
co-financing agencies in this regard.
10.3  From this experience, it has been realised that the Corporation
should have a permanent data base for planning purposes. As a
follow up, KPTC is automating its management information systems.
11.   CONCLUSION
11.1 In conclusion the projects can be considered to have been very
successful despite some unavoidable delays. Physically the
Second Telecommunications project is completed in whole.  The
Third telecommunications project is expected to be completed by
December 1991, approximately two years after the appraisal target,
With the experience gained on these two projects, it is envisaged
that a higher level of performance will be achieved on any future
projects that may be undertaken by KPTC.



