Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 25472-CO
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FOR A PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US $150 MILLION
FOR A PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
April 3, 2003
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Department for Colombia and Mexico
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURENCY AND EXCHANGE ,EAfSm
(As of March 31, 2003)
Currency Unit = Colombian Peso
US$1.00 = C$ 2,958.75
IFISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
AiBBREVIIAlTrONS AND Acaommis
AMLJCTF              Anti-money laundering / Countering of terrorist financing
BANCAFE              Banco Cafetero (Bank serving the Coffee Grower's Region)
BANCOLDEX            Banco de Comercio Exterior de Colombia (State Export Bank)
BECH                 Bancos Especializados en Credito Hipotecario (Mortgage Banks)
BR                   Banco de la Repuiblica (Central Bank of Colomnbia)
CAMEL                Capital/Assets/Management/Earnings/Liquidity
CAV                  Corporaci6n de Ahorro y Vivienda (Savings & Loan Banks)
CISA                 Central de Inversiones, S.A. (Goverrnent Asset Management Agency)
CONPES               Consejo Nacional de Politica Econ6mica y Social (Economic Policy Courci;,
DANE                 Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadistica (Statistics Agency)
DGCP                 Direcci6n General de Cr6dito Publico (Public Debt Office of MoF)
DIAN                 Direcci6n de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacional (Tax and Customs Agency)
DTF                  Dep6sitos a Termino Fijo (Interest rate on time deposits)
DTN                  Direcci6n del Tesoro Nacional (National Treasury in Ministry of Finance'
EMBI                 Emerging Markets Bond Index
FEN                  Financiera Energetica Nacional (Government Energy Sector Bank)
FINAGRO              Fondo para Financiarniento del Sector Agropecuario (Agro Sector Bank)
FINDETER             Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial (Municipal Financing Bank)
FIs                  Financial Institutions (supervised by the Banking Superintendency)
FOGAFIN              Fondo de Garantias de Instituciones Financieras (Deposit Insurance Agency)
FRECH                Fondo de Reserva para la Estabilizaci6n de la Cartera lipotecaria
FSAP                 Financial Sector Assessment Program
LAIS                 International Association of Insurance Supervisors
IFI                  Instituto de Fomento Industrial (Industrial Development Bank)
M2                   Currency in circulation, demand deposits and time deposits
MBS                  Mortgage Backed Securities
MoF                  Ministry of Finance
PDR                  Problem Debt Restructuring
RP/REPO              Repurchase Market / Repurchase Operation
SARC                 Sisterna de Administraci6n Riesgos de Cr6dito (Credit Risk Mgmt. System)
SB                   Superintendencia Bancaria (Superintendency of Banks)
SEARS                Sisterna Especial de Andlisis de Riesgos de Seguro (Insurance Risk Mgxnt. Sys.)
SEN                  Sistema Electr6nico de Negociaci6n (Electronic TSrading System - Gov't DebZ)
SV                   Superintendencia de Valores (Securities Superintendency)
TES                  Treasury Bills/Notes
ULAF                 Unidad de Inteligencia y Analisis Financiero (AML Analysis Unit)
UPAC                 Unidad de Poder Adquisitivo Constante (Mortgage Price Index)
UVR                  Unidad de Valor Real (Index based on real value of mortgages)
VAR                  Value at Risk
VIS                  Vivienda de Inter6s Social (Social Priority Housing)
Vice President:                David de Ferranti
Count Director:                Isabel Guerrero
Sector Director:               Danny Leipziger
Sector Manager:                Fernando Montes-Negree
Task Manager:                  John Pollner



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Loan and Program Summary
PART I. Recent Economic Developments and Prospects ...........................................   I
A. Recent Economic Developments ...........................................I
B. Economic Prospects and Financing Requirements ............................................ a . 3
PART II. Financial Sector Context and the Reform Program .           ........................................... 5
A. Overview ............................................5
B. The Banking System ............................................7
The Govemment Reform Agenda for the Banking System .................................................... 10
C. Housing Finance ..............................................................            21
The Govemment Reform Agenda in the Housing Finance Sector ..........     .............................. 23
D. The Insurance Sector and Non Bank Financial Services ......................................................... 26
The Govemment Reform     Agenda in the Insurance Sector and Non Banks ..      ..................... 28
E. The Capital Markets .............................................................. 32
The Govemment Reform Agenda in the Capital Markets ..... .............................................. 32
F. The Govemment Debt and Money Markets ..............................................................  35
The Govemment Reform Agenda in the Govemment Debt and Money Markets .................. 36
PART III. THE PROPOSED LOAN: A PROGRAMMATIC APPROACH ...........                    ....................... 38
A. Loan Description: Objective and Rationale for Bank Involvement .................   ..................... 38
B. Program Conditionality ..............................................................       42
C. Disbursement and Auditing ..............................................................  48
D. Environmental Aspects.           ..........   .................................................... 49
E. Social and Poverty Impacts ............................................................... 49
F. Benefits and Risks.    .............................................................. 50
Annex 1: Policy Matrix.                                  .............     ...                  52
Annex 2: Letter of Sectoral Development Policy .............................. ....      ;       56
Annex 3: Banking Regulation and Supervision in Colombia ......................................................... 72
Annex 4: Evaluation of the Insurance Sector with respect to IAIS Core Principles .......76
Annex 5: The Government Securities Market and its Link to the Domestic Capital Market .......... 83
Annex 6: Detail of Actual and Potential Proposals Comprising the Ongoing Policy Dialogue ...... 86
Annex 7: Timetable of Key Processing Events .......................................... ......................... 90
Annex 8: Colombia - Fund Relations Note ................................................................... 91
Annex 9: Colombia - Status of World Bank Operations ...................................................... ...... 94
Annex 10: Colombia - Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio .................... ........ 95
Annex 11: Colombia at a Glance ................................................................... 96
Bank staff who worked on the FSALincluded Fermando Montes-Negret (Sector Manager, LCSFF), John D Pollner (Task Manager and
Lead Financial Sector Specialist, LCSFF), Loic Chiquier (Lead Financial Officer, OPD), Joaquin Gutierrez (Lead Financial Sector
Specialist, OPD), Patnck Conroy (Program Director and Peer Reviewer, FSEGP), Manuel Peraita (Consultant/Insurance), Thomas
Glaessner (Lead Economist, OPD), Jeppe Furbo Ladekarl (Sr Financial Specialist, OPD), Claire Grose (Sr Financial Specialist, OPD),
Augusto de la Torre (Senior Regional Financial Sector Advisor and Peer Reviewer, LCRCE), Helena Issa (Program Assistant, LCSFF)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PROGRAM AND LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:                The Republic of Colombia
Implementing Agency:     Ministry of Finance
Objective:
The objective of the loan is to complete the clean up of the banking
system as a result of the 1999-2001 crisis and to strengthen the
government's capacity to manage and mitigate weaknesses in the
financial system. The project also aims to strengthen and diversify
the participation of the housing mortgage market including
improved access to finance for the micro sector, as well
strengthening non bank financial services and securities
institutions in the financial system.
Description:
Banking Sector. A key aspect of the proposed program is the
design of a multi pronged effort to first dispose of the financial
system's residual loan assets (or collateral) remaining from the
interventions during the earlier crisis, by developing more agile
and modern financial instruments and fiduciary arrangements to
package and sell loan assets. As part of this effort, the remaining
intervened banks are expected to be divested and one of the largest
second tier problem banks will be wound down. Prudential
regulations and supervision would be strengthened to incorporate
corporate governance rules and development of a graduated
sanctions regime to ensure corrective actions.
Housing Finance and Non Banks: As part of mortgage market
reform, the program will address the micro credit sector and
promote further credit access through the development of credit
instruments targeted to the micro housing sector. The
securitization industry will be further developed to support bank
asset sales, to provide more liquidity to the mortgage industry, and
to help develop the capital markets. A reform of the capital
requirements and risk management regulations applicable to
insurance companies, trusts, and pension funds, will be
implemented to ensure the solvency of these institutions.
Capital Markets and Government Securities. A reform of the
entire securities legislation will be conducted as part of the
program's second phase, to promote a more agile development of
the local capital market. This will involve reforming corporate
governance and disclosure standards as well as fit-and-proper
criteria for securities industry participants. A streamlining and
adjusting of the benchmarks and exposure risks of the government



debt market will take place as well as enabling the creation of a
reference yield curve for the public and private bond markets.
IPoverty Aspects:        The program's objective as linked to social protection, is to
strengthen and improve the financial sector's solvency and
profitability to serve as a catalyst for private sector led growth.
The implementation of reforms in bank resolution mechanisms and
reforms of the deposit insurance scheme will protect the weakest
depositors with the least economic assets, and assure prompt and
full repayment of their funds in the event of bank failures.
The regulatory reforms under the financial system law generate
strong incentives and financial mechanisms to channel private
banking credit to the micro and rural credit housing markets. The
loan proceeds will help mitigate the impact from the
govemment's tight fiscal policy, helping to maintain social
expenditures.
BleneffIs:
The reformed legal framework would significantly upgrade and
facilitate the regulation, corporate governance, and risk
management of the financial system. It would increase the
autonomy of the supervisory body and upgrade the mechanisms
available for prompt corrective action, and resolution of intervened
or insolvent banks to minimize potential drains on the public
budget. The rationalization and consolidation of the state owned
banking sector will also reduce fiscal exposure.
The new framework will open up the financial market, under tight
prudential rules, to allow diversification and improvement of
products in the housing finance and mortgage market sector,
including funding instruments for the micro credit sector, as well
as in the capital markets, thus diversifying financial risks into other
sub-sectors with capacity to raise financing and liquidity.
Risks:
The main risks to the reform program pertain to the possibility of
adverse economic shocks which might be exogenously or
regionally generated and which would set back the growth
prospects for Colombia and thus compromise the long term health
of the financial system which is just coming out of a tough period
following the 1999 crisis. A low or negative growth scenario for
the next two years would not only threaten overall welfare, but
could also reverse the gains in banking system health and generate
the need for new contingency plans to rescue vulnerable
institutions. Another risk pertains to the fiscal risk of over
exposure, particularly to the internal capital market as well as the
risk that international financial market access will remain difficult
for a prolonged period. Finally, a key risk is the potential for the
internal conflict to deteriorate, causing additional fiscal stress and
slowing down or braking progress on the financial sector reform.



Loan Amount:            US $150 million, for the first programmatic loan, to be disbursed
upon meeting Board approval conditions.
Terms:                  LIBOR-based US Dollar Fixed Spread Loan with a final maturity
in 2014 with a bullet repayment.
Commitment Charge:      0.85% percent on undisbursed loan balances (first 4 years).
During FY-2003, the annually approved 0.50% waiver of the
charge, was in effect.
Front-end Fee:           1 percent of the loan amount payable out of loan proceeds.
Schedule of Disbursements: First loan to be disbursed upon Board Approval following
effectiveness. Conditionality met prior to Board presentation.
Project Identification No.: PE-P078869-LEN-BB






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
ON A PROPOSED
PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
1.   This program document proposes a one-tranche Financial Sector Adjustment Loan as part
of a two phase Programmatic Financial Sector Operation to the Republic of Colombia. The first
loan would amount to US$150 million to support the reform of the financial system through a
reform framework for banking legislation, strengthening of bank and securities supervision,
resolution of banks using market mechanisms, closure, sale or merger of government owned
financial institutions, as well as a legislative and institutional strengthening program to reform
the securities market, non-bank financial services, and the government debt and money markets.
The program would be implemented by the Ministry of Finance with support from the
Superintendency of Banks, the Deposit Insurance Agency (FOGAFIN), the Superintendency of
Securities, the Public Debt Office, the Central Bank and the National Treasury. The first Loan
would be LIBOR-based, US Dollar denominated Fixed Spread Loan, with a grace period of
eleven years and a final maturity of eleven years with a bullet repayment of principal.
PART I. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND PROSPECTS
A. Recent Economic Developments
2. Colombia's vulnerability to external shocks has risen in recent months as a result of several
factors: increased violence domestically and uncertainty as regards the future path of the internal
conflict; the sharp deterioration in sovereign debt spreads; the recent worsening of market
sentiment towards Latin America; problems in Venezuela, the second largest market for
Colombia's non-traditional exports; and an uncertain outlook for the US economy, Colombia's
main trading partner. That said, Colombia is relatively well-equipped to deal with moderate
external shocks, given its floating exchange rate, falling inflation, adequate international reserves
(US$ 10. 8 billion), as well as the implementation of new additional fiscal adjustments and
reforms.
3.   Colombia's sovereign spreads and currency had, until recently, been relatively unaffected
by regional events, partly the result of the pre-financing by the government of more than three
quarters of its external market financing needs for 2002. Pre-financing was undertaken in 2001
in order to avoid accessing the markets in the run-up to the presidential election. Colombian
bond spreads fell throughout 2001 and in early 2002, but increased somewhat in April after
Colombia's sovereign rating was downgraded by Fitch and its outlook changed to negative by
Moody's, both citing growing public debt and an uncertain outlook for reforms and fiscal results.
Despite this, in June 2002 the government obtained fresh funds in the international bond market
for US$195 million issued at a 10.5% coupon interest rate, and an additional US$500 million in
December 2002 at a 10.75% rate.
4.   Colombia's macroeconomic performance is expected to continue improving in the next two
to three years, but it will take longer before the country is able to achieve its full economic
potential. Following a mild recovery of economic activity in 2002, GDP growth is expected to
accelerate to about 2.5 percent in 2003 mainly due to a recovery of the export sector and slightly



- 2 -
better prospects for aggregate private investment. Growth is expected to rise in 2004 to levels
around 3 percent, accelerating to 3.5 percent by 2006.
5.   External Envfironment. Exports will be aided by a projected recovery of international
trade growth and prices of some of Colombia's key export products. A shift in trade pattems is
also expected, as the share of trade with neighboring countries will likely shrink dramatically due
to the weak economic prospects of some regional partners, especially Venezuela where recent
policies may imply an almost total cut-off of Colombia's exports to that country thus having
potentially serious adverse balance of payment effects. The prospective economic recovery in
the U.S. and Europe suggests that Colombian exporters will shift their attention to these regions,
with the impact of economic recovery in those markets further amplified by a possible
weakening of the US dollar relative to other major currencies, particularly the Euro. Colombia's
exchange rate is projected to depreciate mildly in real terms over the next three years, as
continued low domestic inflation and a flexible exchange rate policy facilitate a smooth
adjustment of the tradable sector. In this connection, inflation is expected to continue on a
downward path and stabilize at levels close to 4 percent by 2005 (from 6 percent in 2002).
6.  IFinaneWia and Monetary Developments. The Colombian peso depreciated by nearly 20
percent in nominal terms in the third quarter of the year, at the same time that Colombia's EMBI
spread nearly doubled to 1100 basis points. The fall in Colombian bond prices was precipitated
by negative alerts posted by the rating agencies as fiscal slippages became evident amid effects
of intensified regional contagion. Increased risk perception also reduced the liquidity of the
domestic public debt particularly at the long end, with the yield on ten year government notes
rising by 5 percentage points to 17.5 percent. The stress in financial markets eased notably in
October following indications of increased financing from the international financial institutions
as well as a more general tightening of the risk premia in emerging markets in the region. By the
second half of November, the bond spread had narrowed to below 700 bps.
Emerging Markets Bond Index - Colombia vs. Latin Sproads
140  -
0 Lai MI               _ oobaEB
1200 -__,X,.
600   L    | 
Jun42  Jul-02  A   e a  i     ^
AuMS.p02 Oct-02 No*0~1
3 oLatin EMBI  c3Colombia EMBI|



- 3 -
7.   A systemic banking collapse had been averted in 1999, through the officialization of
affected banks and a consolidation process that drastically reduced the number of players in the
market; however, the fiscal liability arising from rescuing borrowers, depositors, and bankers
was large, and is so far estimated at about 4 percent of GDP (including non cash contingent
liabilities of the Government and additional resources raised via the financial transactions tax).
A final accounting of costs will also depend on how much of the losses from non-performing
loans of public sector banks are recovered via the ongoing disposition of the foreclosed assets.
8.   There are still significant weaknesses in the housing finance sector where the non-
performing loan portfolios continue to loom large (especially in the state controlled entities) and
risks associated with asset-liability mismatches have not yet been fully addressed. Reforms are
also needed to improve the operation of public debt management, address critical governance
and regulatory issues related to entities participating in the capital and debt markets,
consolidation of state controlled second-tier banking entities, and regulation for bank resolution,
bad-asset disposition and the insurance sector. Therefore, building on the financial sector reforms
put in place during 1999-01, a second round of financial sector reforms will need to be
implemented, while minimizing any further fiscal costs or interruptions in the flow of bank
lending to the private sector.
9.   Banking as well as insurance and pension reforms also go hand in hand with a strategy to
create a deeper, more liquid capital market. Much activity is underway: the three stock
exchanges have already been integrated and merged; a proposed draft capital market framework
law that would reduce obstacles for private securities issuance is currently in preparation; a new
private mortgage securitization firm is now operating; market-making has been institutionalized
for government bonds; and, an almost complete range of Treasury bill maturities are now
available.
10. Finally, a healthy and stable development of the domestic financial sector requires
strengthening the legal and regulatory framework applicable to financial institutions, including
the Anti-Money Laundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) regime.
The Ministry of Finance and Banking Superintendency have strengthened the AML/CTF system
over the last two years, including the establishment of a monitoring unit to detect money
laundering and white collar crime.
B.   Economic Prospects and Financing Requirements
11. While the current policy framework is expected to provide for a solid-adjustment of the
external sector, the key risk to the country's macroeconomic stability remains the large fiscal
deficit and the high burden of public debt. Assuming a full implementation of the
macroeconomic reform package, the overall public sector deficit is projected to fall from about 4
percent of GDP in 2002, to between 2.5 - 3.0 percent in 2003, and between 2.0 - 2.5 percent in
2004 and 2005. However, due to the lag in the fiscal adjustment process as well as the relatively
conservative economic growth prospects projected for the country, on a net basis total public
debt is still projected to continue rising (although at diminishing rates) before stabilizing at levels
close to 50 percent of GDP by 2006. Achieving these goals for the overall public sector and thus
macroeconomic stability on a sustainable basis will require strong and deep adjustment at the
level of the central government, especially on the expenditure side, for which the authorities have
agreed on a strategy in coordination with the IMF. In January 2003, an IMF Stand By
Arrangement (SBA) was approved for a two year period. The SBA also includes structural



-4 -
banking sector benchmarks for privatizing Bancafe and eventually divesting Granahorrar, two
State banks.
12. The Colombian economy has since 1998, been growing at an average rate of close to zero
cumulatively during the last four years. The current account deficit in 2002 is estimated at $2.2
billion, and is projected at $2.4 billion for 2003 and $2.3 billion for 2004. For 2003 and 2004,
the presently identified financing requirement in the capital account, is estimated at $2.0 billion
and $1.7 billion for both years, respectively (see table below), excluding the changes in
international reserves across both years.
Colombia: External IFienciang RIequiremenimts ($US mniDlons)
2002       2003      2004        2005
(est)     (pro.j0)  (projo)     (proj.)
Current Account Balance       (2,259)    (2,413)    (2,349)    (2,201)
Capital Account Financing, net:
i. Foreign Direct Investment  2,333     2,391     2,475       2,561
Iii. Loans:I
o/w Official/Multilateral  442       1,655     2,309       1,396
o/w Private               (448)     (1,090)    (1,729)    (1,107)
iii. Other Capital            (31)      (96)       (99)        (74)
Int. Reserves    increase]     (37)      (446)      (607)      (576)
Source: World Bank Country Assistance Strategy, Annex B6
13.  While the current account deficit is not expected to grow, financing from the capital
account, particularly from private lenders, is expected to reflect negative flows on the order
between -$1.0 billion to -$1.5 billion, for the foreseeable future. Therefore, balance of payments
financing requirements will rely primarily on multilateral and official financing to meet the gap
which, including other factors, will require on average, $2 billion annually in the next two years.



- 5 -
PART II. FINANCIAL SECTOR CONTEXT AND THE REFORM PROGRAM
A. Overview
14. At the start of the 1998 banking crisis, the government, recognizing the seriousness of the
issues facing some segments of the financial sector, the Government introduced in November
1998, through an Emergency Executive Decree, a series of relief measures designed to help the
most vulnerable groups affected by the crisis - mainly low income mortgage borrowers and
depositors in the cooperative system. In May 1999, taking into account the increasingly acute
portfolio problems of financial intermediaries, the Government announced a special
recapitalization program to be administered by the deposit insurance agency (FOGAFIN). The
support was in the form of medium-term loans to the banks' shareholders to be used exclusively
to recapitalize the banks. These lines of credit were funded with bonds issued by FOGAFIN
which were then applied by the shareholders to the banks' balance sheets as an investment asset
along with the equivalent corresponding entry in the capital account for paid-in-capital.
15. The objectives of the program supported by the earlier loan were to minimize systemic risk
in the Colombian financial system and to promote the longer-term capacity and efficiency of the
system in restoring economic growth. The objectives addressed both the immediate risks
associated with financial system stress as well as the challenges faced by the system in the
medium to long-term. The principal components supported by that operation were a macro-
economic program that enabled the stabilization and significant reductions in real interest rates,
combined with financial sector reforms to ensure a timely and effective implementation of
prudential rules and supervision of financial institutions, including preventive measures, case-by-
case resolution actions, consolidation of different types of financial intermediation under one
institution, and a restructuring of public banks. The operation was viewed by the Government
as an important complement to the Economic Emergency Measures adopted in 1998.
16. The government's strategy with respect to the state-owned banks was meant to isolate
them from the rest of the financial system in order to restructure or sell them under controlled
conditions while avoiding an additional factor of potential contagion to the already weak private
banks. Public banks were formally "officialized," meaning that the management oversight and
ownership stake were taken over directly by FOGAFIN with a view to clean up the balance
sheets, recapitalize the banks, and sell them or liquidate them. The Caja Agraria, a rural finance
bank, was closed and a new Banco Agrario created out of a Leasing Company (Colvalores)
which was part of the Banco de Desarrollo Empresarial; following a reform in the statutory
mandate of the institution. Although the remaining banks could have been easily sold in one or
two years if economic and market conditions were favorable, the potential further deterioration
of the loan portfolio under less favorable conditions and the operating costs of keeping troubled
banks open, created some risks. Moreover, for banks that had been experiencing severe
management difficulties and weak control systems (often the case for public banks), it was
particularly difficult to redress ingrained management habits and instill a new governance
culture.



- 6 -
Box 1: Lessons from the 1999/2080 FSAL Loan and the First Financial Sector Reforms
The context in which the pnor FY00 FSAL reforms took place, reflected a situation of crisis prevention,
avoidance of contagion across the banking sector, and assuring the stability of the financial system. In this light, the
measures taken were thoughtful and essentially contained three key strategic tools: (i) intervening, managing and/or
providing liquidity and capital support to weak financial institutions, (ii) raising the capital and solvency
requirements to force all institutions to build up stronger balance sheets to handle impending risks, and (iii)
implementing early corrective actions as defined by the Banking Superintendency to reverse adverse trends in
individual institutions before they reached insolvency.
Taken together, the measures were comprehensive and holistic in their approach. However, the existing
financial "technology" as well as the limitations in the bank resolution policy framework, later revealed some
shortfalls which had not been anticipated, in particular:
(a) For those intervened banks or officialized public banks taken over by FOGAFIN, the asset sale and
liquidation process was lengthy, in part due to legally specified time periods endorsed judicially under the
Commercial Code which is not governed by the Banking Law. Since this phase of the unwinding of banks
constituted the last phase in a process preceded by attempts to sell a bank or a part of its loan portfolio, the issue of
final liquidation of collateral and potential judicial delays had not been addressed. This therefore, resulted in the
State holding on to such assets for longer periods than anticipated, following the end of the crisis period.
(b) As part of the banking resolution process, the reform permitted the option of transferring viable assets
of intervened banks, matched by deposits, to other banks willing to purchase or take over such obligations. The
procedure required the concurrence of the ceding bank's depositors and was not fully clear regarding the hierarchy
of the bank's creditors, which made it more difficult to transfer deposits with matching assets without taking into
account other bank liabilities or obligations. In retrospect, the concurrence of the ceding bank's depositors and other
parties while meant to protect legal rights, was not all that practical and made the process of balance sheet transfers
more difficult and drawn out. Nevertheless, the procedures were successfully implemented though their frequency
and speed might have increased substantially without the legal obstacles.
(c) Even with the successful purchase of assets by healthy banks, along with the assumption of matching
deposit liabilities, acquiring banks needed to carefully evaluate the loan portfolios they were purchasing to verify
their stated quality. While FOGAFIN did in some instances provide credit enhancement guarantees or outright
bonds in order to share the risks of these transferred portfolios, this meant that the State began assuming more
contingent liabilities. The existence of securitization mechanisms (which were not fully developed until later when
housing finance and capital market norms began to be defined for that purpose) could have avoided the assumption
of risk sharing obligations by the State. This is because under securitization procedures, the portfolio assets would
be held by a trust at a multiple of the face value of the secuntized bonds issued by the trust, thus they would have
provided a more optimal 'market based' comfort mechanism for the acquiring banks. However, under near crisis
conditions, the development of innovative financial instruments was not of immediate priority and the banking law
was not explicit enough to allow optimal use of these instruments along with asset/liability carve-out mechanisms.
While many of the above procedures were indeed envisioned under the 1999/2000 reform, the specification
of their implementation mechanisms and the institutional/market infrastructure were not yet sufficiently developed
to provide the government with the additional instrumentalities for handling troubled banks. However, despite these
initial limitations, the government, through FOGAFIN's management of insolvent institutions and its asset
management agency (CISA), was able to achieve substantial progress in the gradual sale and reduction of the assets
of those banks. The further development and implementation of the new procedures should provide the government
added flexibility in the resolution and divestment of the remaining officialized banks such as Bancafe, Granharrorar,
as well as IF, the second tier industrial development bank.



-7 -
B. The Banking System
Background
17. Total assets of the Colombian financial system amount to Col$ 159 trillion or
approximately US$ 55 billion. The structure and composition of the Colombian financial system
is shown below.
Table 1: Colombia - Structure of the Financial Sector
Financial Intermediary Assets
(As of December 31, 2002, in Col$ billions)
Banks and   Corporate   Ordinary    Finance    Pension  Insurance  Trust
Deposit    Financing   Finance     Leasing    Funds     Industry  Co's.    Total
Institutions  Co's.    Companies   Companies
Local      47,623      6,694      1,072       2,121     11,724     4,230    22,404   95,868
Foreign     14,256                  604         81        9,176     3,044    10,780   37,941
State     14,989      1,730        487         106                  957     10,475   28,744
Total     76,868      8,424       2,163       2,308     20,900     8,231    43,659   162,553
as % of
GDP        39%         4%          1%          1%        10%        4%       22%      82%
Source Superintendency of Banks
Note: Total asset figures may be overestimated as financial institutons may hold as assets reflectng the liabilities of other institutions
18. During the 1998-2001 crisis, the financial system underwent some consolidation as credit
institutions, particularly mortgage banks were closed, as well as other commercial banks and
finance companies. To-date, the financial system has 18 fewer commercial banks (including the
ex savings & loans) than it had towards the end of 1998 at the onset of the crisis.
Restructuring of the Banking System
19.   After the banking restructuring process during 1999-2001, fewer risks remain with respect
to government support of private banks. However, though the experience has been generally
favorable, if adverse economic conditions persist and additional banks are not to repay the
capitalization credit lines to FOGAFIN, then the State would need to effectively take on the
share ownership which was meant to be financed temporarily by FOGAFIN's credit line.
20. For the state-owned banks, the process has been somewhat arduous: more than three years
after initial intervention, the final resolution status of some of these is still being worked on, and
as the time draws out, the more costly option of outright liquidation looms larger. While the
government has successfully been able to gradually reduce and sell off the balance sheets and
physical infrastructure of these banks, its investment in this process may need to continue for
some time to achieve its end target of privatization or extinction.
21.   Table 2 shows the support of FOGAFIN's capitalization program to restore technical
solvency of state-owned banks following the intervention and officialization of these banks.



- 8 -
Table 2. Capitalization Support Provided to State-Owned Banks, 1998-2001
Bank                                       Amount (Col$ billions)
BCHJ'                                             1,546
Banestado                                         1,240
Bancafe 2                                         1,660
Granahorrar                                       689
IFI                                                700
Banco Agrano                                       150
FES                                                45
Total                                       6.030
as % of GDP                                    3 6%
1. Includes CISA managed assets of BCH.
2. Includes CISA managed assets of Bancafe.
Source: FOGAFIN
Outcomes and Next Steps
22.  Thus, it should be pointed out that the government's rapid response and policy approach
has been instrumental in averting a systemic financial collapse given the macroeconomic,
regional, and global environment. The prompt introduction of a new legal framework for
banking capital adequacy, portfolio concentration, and consolidated supervision of financial
groups was critical for early diagnosis of the problems. At the onset of the crisis, the
establishment of progressively stringent prompt corrective actions for banks facing possible
insolvency prevented what might have been fiscal outlays in multiples of what was actually
disbursed. The fast implementation of bank capitalization schemes coupled with incentives for
risk sharing by owners and more modern procedures for the prompt exit or merger of weak banks
in the system was crucial to avoid the proliferation of "zombie" institutions that would have only
postponed more serious problems, raising the overall cost of the crisis. Therefore, the
government's record in tackling this precarious situation was commendable. However, final
resolution and stability of the sector is not assured, and certain risks remain. Some of the key
gaps requiring attention so as to permit the orderly conclusion of the processes initiated, include:
23.  Improvements and increased flexibility in banking resolution measures used to restructure
or dispose of weak banks using market agents and instruments. While the prior reforms of the
banking law alluded to such mechanisms, the good bank/bad bank approach facilitated by
securitizations of portfolios held in trust, was not used given the lack of a firm legal framework
requiring such procedures for the resolution of banks. To avoid the languishing of financial
institutions under the State's umbrella, if privatizations do not materialize, increased incentives
such as auctioned loan portfolio securitizations should be applied, to allow a more prompt
carving out of good assets with matching deposits from intervened institutions.
24. Reducing and Extinguishing Potential Fiscal Liabilities: To improve the prompt
privatization or liquidation of financial institutions considered insolvent, and to wind down weak
institutions that have no earnings prospects while compensating depositors, the government has
considered additional options for the liquidation or asset sale procedures using a multibank
portfolio approach managed competitively. Time-bound performance measures and
compensation fees should be applied, with rotation of liquidators to provide incentives for
achieving maximum returns in stipulated time periods. Time-bound limits for the disposition
(sale or liquidation) of intervened banks could be set, particularly for banks where investments
have already been made in recapitalization and improvement of their financial condition. An a
priori assessment of market demand is also crucial.



-9-
25. Strengthening the Early Corrective Action Regime: While banking prudential regulations
are strict and include additional provisions for market risks in conformance with Basle standards,
completion of these best practices will include the implementation of a matrix of prompt
corrective actions associated with a schedule of sanctions and penalties, based on non
compliance with regulations. Future work is also expected to incorporate the quantification,
weighting and incorporation of deficient corporate management and sub-optimal risk
management practices as key triggers for invoking corrective measures and penalties. To
support the long term implementation of these practices, the Superintendency needs to be
provided with resources to strengthen its supervision procedures, provide staff training, upgrade
its knowledge of risk management analysis and modernize its systems for evaluating and
monitoring banking risk.
26. Addressing the Non-bank Financial Institutions: To ensure the prudential management of
non-credit institutions, other priorities include the reform of solvency standards and
consolidation of the insurance and non bank sector regulatory framework. Priority will be given
to upgrading insurance industry regulations, including the proposed adoption of actuarially sound
solvency margins particularly to ensure more adequate technical reserve provisioning for both
health insurance and general insurance risk exposures. The upgrading of regulations and
guidelines for the trust industry is also required, particularly with the advent of new products to
be managed, such as asset securitizations and managed funds for third parties.
Prudential Regulation and Supervision - Background and Diagnosis of Issues
27.  Since the beginning of the past decade Colombia exhibited a relatively complete and
advanced prudential regulatory framework. The initial financial crisis reforms were anchored by
several crucial laws that provided the basis for empowering the Superintendency to manage the
crisis, regulate debt and bank restructuring, require and enforce remedial actions, and revise
previous prudential regulations. For prudential regulation, the most important pieces of
legislation were Law 510/1999 (which updated the Organic Statute of the Financial System and
gave the Superintendency additional powers to improve prudential regulations and effect
enforcement) and Law 550/1999 (which set the path for the restructuring of problem loans).
28. Future Development of the Regulatory Framework: The most important regulatory
priorities, in the near term, would be directly related to the latest Financial Sector Reform, and
evolve around some of the provisions of Law 795/2003. Regulatory priorities of the SB include,
inter-alia: (a) strengthening the definitions of bank insiders, so that comprehensive supervision of
financial conglomerates can take place, including real sector related parties; and, (b) establishing
a consistent, homogeneous and transparent, framework of criteria to administer remedial actions.
29. Under Decree 1775/2002, the Government also revamped the internal organizational
structure of the Superintendency, advancing changes that will enable supporting the approach
that is to preside over the development of the supervisory agency during its next strategic, cycle.
By this decree, supervisory resources were concentrated into five delegated Intendencies
('Delegaturas') of the Superintendent, merging together onsite examiners and offsite analysts,
and nominating new Directorates to provide for essential support functions such as Supervision,
Regulation, Technical Analysis, Legal, and IT and data processing.



- 10-
The Governmient IReform Agenda folr the 3anking System
The First Operation under the Program
30.  Given the above issues, and the need to assure a full and sustained recovery of the financial
system, the Government has embarked on a second round of reforms of the law governing the
financial system. Key objectives of this reform are to provide additional tools to ensure a non-
traumatic and market oriented restructuring of the financial sector as well as additional
regulatory and supervisory tools to effect prompt corrective actions and avoid deterioration and
contagion from mismanaged financial institutions. The Government reform program thus
contains the following key policy actions:
Corporate Governance, Rules of Conduct and Client Protection
31. Governance. The new financial system law incorporates a number of rigorous norms to
ensure proper governance of financial institutions. Proper corporate governance in a sense, is the
first line of defense to protect the viability of banks and generates a culture of self regulation by
requiring transparency and accountability by the management and Boards of institutions. The
reforms of the law, set out norms to ensure Board independence and strengthen the code of
conduct including risk management and ethical responsibilities of managers and directors. A key
provision in the reform which puts additional force into these norms, is the strengthening of a
regime and schedule of sanctions which extends its applicability beyond bank managers to cover
administrative officers of various degrees of responsibility, Board Directors, legal staff, bank
auditors, as well as other officials designated with a particular fiduciary role such as officers in
charge of monitoring money laundering activity.
32.  Strengthening Sanctions. Another aspect relates to the available sanctioning tools of the
Superintendency of Banks (SB), both for corporate governance norms as well as standard
prudential norms, pertains to the establishment of time bound periods for institutions to comply
with SB directives issued previously, with particular focus on loss provisioning requirements,
wherein, lack of compliance within specified periods, automatically leads to additional sanctions
or fines for persistence of a given unprudent practice. This aspect of the new law strengthens the
resolve of the regulatory framework to ensure that institutions no longer count on time delays or
other legal procedures to avoid meeting their outstanding obligations without penalty.
33.  Conflicts of Interest. The new law, in addition, sets stricter controls on banking operations
to avoid conflict of interest situations. Specifically, under the new framework, Boards of
Directors of financial institutions are required to vote by unanimous decision in order to approve
any lending or deposit taking activities with any of its shareholders or their relatives (or
administrators of the institution) which happen to exceed five percent of the institution's share of
ownership. The measure forces transparency as well as accountability by Boards of Directors, to
ensure that banking operations are not put at risk via the concentration of transactions in key
shareholders or stakeholders of the institution, and who might otherwise unduly influence the
polices of the institution to meet their specific investor interests rather than those of the majority
of shareholders.
34.  Client/Consumer Protection. The reformed legislation also sets out regulatory
requirements for financial institutions to comply with information transparency norms to
adequately disclose their products, pricing norms, terms and inherent investment risks and



- 11 -
protections applicable to clients. The new law, in addition, establishes the internal public liaison
function of the 'client advocate' to be implemented within each financial institution and which
will serve as a first recourse instance to internally resolve and address any complaints emanating
from clients of said institutions, before such issues are escalated to the SB for handling or for
undertaking any required regulatory action.
Enforcement Powers
35.  As part of the revised legal framework, a number of areas of modification relate to the
SB's autonomy as well as special powers to ensure prompt reversal of risky actions engaged by
financial institutions or their parent economic groups. In this context, an innovative approach to
supervision of consolidated groups is promoted by authorizing the SB to inspect companies
within those economic groups not traditionally subject to SB's supervision. This will permit
more leeway for the SB to uncover related party operations or double counting of capital or
assets within financial groups and/or larger economic groups which go beyond the financial
system. In addition, the new law also establishes a sanctions regime for implementation in the
event of conflict of interest breaches which involve bank operations with subsidiaries or related
institutions.
36.  Another key aspect for optimizing the enforcement operations of the SB, pertains to its
degree of autonomy in carrying out the necessary actions in a timely manner when dealing with
problem institutions. For this purpose, the new financial system law grants the SB autonomy to
enforce regulatory norms under its mandate including the promulgation of directives and
application of sanctions to non complying entities. The new law also paves the way for future
development regulations which would allow the SB to take possession or intervene a bank when
necessary, without prior approval from the Finance Ministry.
37.  The rationale for this change is not only to provide the SB with the operational autonomy
that it requires, but also to avoid delays in the execution of prompt corrective actions which
would otherwise potentially contribute to the further deterioration of financial institutions before
appropriate steps could be taken. In addition to decision making autonomy, the new law also
authorizes the SB to have additional budget autonomy in terms of its internal resource allocation
where this pertains to resources raised through regulatory fees and not through any central
government budget transfers. This will provide the SB with the needed flexibility to manage its
internal resources according to technical and logistical requirements. To support this, the new
law paves the way to provide future presidential authorization to establish a special career regime
for the SB, in order to train and retain qualified and adequately compensated personnel.
38.  Consistent with the above, the reform program also includes the preparation and approval
of the SB's institutional development and strategic plan. The plan includes the upgrading of
supervisory policies to be reflected in updated manuals and procedures, as well as the planned
implementation of risk rating methodologies to monitor subject banks and assess potential
vulnerabilities. The plan also includes increased SB capacity to train, recruit as well as
adequately compensate and retain qualified supervisory personnel under a budgetarily
sustainable career development program.
Regulatory Infrastructure, Financial Stability, and Tracking of Sensitive Funds
39. Regulatory Costs. The monitoring of not only potential credit risks but new market risks
too, and the move towards the latest Basle reforms, has resulted in a heavy information reporting



- 12-
requirement for financial entities. In this regard, the Government has confirmed its initiation of
an exercise to assess opportunities to reduce the regulatory costs and rationalize reporting
requirements of supervised entities, where necessary, and avoiding duplicate requests from
separate units within the SB or other financial and/or regulatory authorities. In addition, the
reduction of reporting requirements following the end of the 1998-2000 crisis was not fully
recognized by all entities, hence a review of all current requirements and proposals for
rationalization will be conducted. For the first loan under the programmatic operation, the
Government has started conducting the regulatory reporting rationalization exercise. Once the
issues have been diagnosed and identified, the Govemment will, under the second loan in the
programmatic operation, implement the reporting and cost rationalization measures.
40. Payments System Risks. The new legal framework also clarifies and confirms the authority
of the Central Bank as it relates to large payment systems transactions. This is important given
that, while the previous banking law alluded to the Central Bank's role in oversight of the
payments system, it did not fully confirm the CB's regulatory authority in this area which was
left undefined between the CB and the SB. The new law thus confirms the CB's authority in
particular as it relates to large transactions and thus allows the CB to set or modify the rules of
operation of the payment system in this area, as needed for efficiency or enhanced security. At
the same time, given the proliferation of smaller payment system transactions such as those
executed via debit cards and credit cards, the new law gives the SB powers to supervise such
operations. The legal framework thus clarifies and maintains the CB as the overseer and
authority in terms of the large non-retail payment transactions which constitute the bulk of fund
movements in the financial system, while the SB retains authority over other payment system
operations associated with specific lines of business or retail products.
41. Anti Money Laundering/Countering Terrorism Financing. Given Colombia's particular
social and business environment affected by both the guerrilla insurgency, the associated drug
trade, and the potential for large sums of laundered illicit funds, the financial reform, through
SB's issuance of new procedural regulations, strengthens the special anti-money laundering
information intelligence unit which is ascribed to the Finance Ministry. Colombia's anti-money
laundering framework and countering of terrorist financing is already well established given the
framework law No. 526 of 1999 which established a special financial intelligence unit for this
purpose as well as the earlier banking law of 1999 which set out the obligations of financial
institutions in reporting suspicious transactions. Since then, a number of regulations and decrees
issued by the Banking Superintendency as well as the Revenue and Customs Department
(DIAN) and the Superintendency of Notaries, have reinforced the institutional and private
financial business accountabilities in reporting illicit transactions which are channeled for
analysis to the financial intelligence Unit (UIAF).
42. The UIAF, besides entering into inter-institutional agreements with other State entities
including police, crime detection, auditing, cadastral and tax institutions, has also set up a
complex multi-feed information database system (the centralized information query system or
the SCCI) which matches financial information with particular geographic, business, residential,
legal, and other attributes, to detect most likely transactions which originate from illicit sources
and which fall into the AMIJCTF oversight framework. To further strengthen the UIAF's
oversight and detection mandate, the new financial system reform law requires that all financial
sector institutions submit (electronically) all information related to cash transactions equal to or
above US$5,000 equivalent directly to the ULAF for processing and screening. The UIAF,
following its procedures would identify any transactions subject to suspicion based on other



- 13 -
attributes including reasonableness of source and size of income in the given area and sector, and
forward any likely candidates to the Attorney General's office for follow up and legal or police
action. To further augment the detection capabilities of illicit funds, the new law also gives the
SB authorization to monitor the destination and composition of offshore investment monies of
domestic financial institutions.
43.  Financial Stability and Contingency Planning. Finally, in order to ensure that the recent
effects of the 1998-2000 crisis and their resolution contain the seeds for sustainable financial
sector health and stability, the govemment intends to carry out a sensitivity and diagnostic
review of the condition of the financial system. The commitment to conduct such a review and
its core parameters are defined as part of the first loan under the programmatic operation, and the
execution and finalization of it will be implemented by the second operation. Essentially, the
review will evaluate the risks posed by remaining weak or vulnerable banks and financial
institutions and assess their potential performance under scenarios of low or no growth in the
economy, including their capacity to service loans, and where applicable, their capacity to repay
FOGAFIN loans which were extended to them as part of an institutional capitalization scheme
during the crisis.
Mechanisms for the Resolution of Problem Banks linked to the Operations of the Deposit
Insurance Fund
44. During the 1998-2000 crisis years, the earlier changes to the banking law had enabled
FOGAFIN, the deposit insurance and bank restructuring agency to move away from outright
intervention and subsequent immediate liquidation of failed banks towards a less traumatic
method which preserved asset value, and whereby viable bank assets were matched against
deposits and packaged as "partial balance sheets" for sale or transfer to another acquiring bank
with a healthy solvency condition. In theory this approach was more progressive and avoided
running up fiscal liabilities on account of payments to depositors which could not be funded with
underlying assets (until after full liquidation). In practice, however, the transfer to other banks,
of viable remaining assets along with depositor funds, was made more difficult during
recessionary periods where demand was lacking and the value of such assets was uncertain. In
addition, bank shareholders and managers resisted the break up of their bank into parts, and
instead preferred to undertake supervised rehabilitation plans.
45. Restructuring Powers. Under the new financial system law's reforms, many of these
aspects are improved to allow implementation of a more effective and workable bank resolution
procedure. The new law defines more precisely the SB's powers and authority in this regard, so
that once a bank is deemed unviable from a solvency perspective, and following the possession
of said bank by the SB, the asset/liability carve out procedure becomes automatic rather than
optional. The idea is to minimize moral hazard and essentially undo a banking operation which
is clearly insolvent yet can be absorbed in part by other institutions. In this regard, given that the
subject bank no longer has sufficient regulatory capital to be licensed for operation, the SB may
automatically proceed to determine the most optimal asset/liability carve out procedure without
the consent of the shareholders or managers.
46.  Securitization Instruments. However, the more innovative aspect covered under the new
law, is the active use of asset securitizations to enable a more effective transfer of portfolios with
associated liabilities (e.g.: deposits) to acquiring institutions. With the establishment of an asset
securitization company in Colombia as well as the start of the mainstreaming of the



- 14 -
securitization industry, this mechanism provides an efficient means of transferring underlying
loan portfolios to other banks, without the uncertainties of asset valuation or loan recovery
prospects inherent in the earlier approved procedures. The securitization method permitted as
part of the resolution tool kit under the new law, is set up by transferring the viable loans of the
subject bank, into a trust which subsequently issues securities (e.g: bonds or notes) whose yields
are based on the projected cash flows of the underlying portfolio. The securitized bond is
normally over collateralized, that is, a portfolio of underlying loans of significantly higher
nominal value than the bond's face value, is used as the underlying asset pool to back the
bond(s). In this way, the non repayment of part of the underlying portfolio would not necessarily
affect the bond's performance, at least within its more 'senior' tranches.'
47. Fiduciary Trust Vehicles. Under the new law, a key provision in making the resolution
mechanism more effective, is the use of fiduciary trust vehicles to house the underlying portfolio
and to issue the securitized bond. The advantage of this approach, particularly for those bond
holders within the senior tranche, is that loan portfolio valuation becomes less of an immediate
requirement and therefore assets can be transferred more expeditiously via this instrument. To
complement the transfer of assets to acquiring banks under this instrumentality, the new law also
permits FOGAFIN to utilize its own bonds, guarantees, or if needed, deposit insurance funds2.
Purchasing banks, from a regulatory perspective, need to have a slightly larger asset base for
every similar value batch of new deposits they acquire in order to have an adequate solvency
margin. Thus, a transfer of deposits (which avoids fiscal pay-outs of deposit insurance funds)
and which are matched by securitized assets, may not always be viable if the Government wished
to maximize the amount of deposits transferred to other banks. Therefore, the new law provides
additional flexibility for FOGAFIN to "add" assets to the partial balance sheets of those
acquiring banks, so that they might have enough viable assets, including the securitized ones, to
assume the mass of deposits desired. The "added" assets, thus, can take the form of additional
bonds issued by FOGAFIN and backed by deposit insurance resources, or FOGAFIN contingent
guarantees to cover any unexpected defaults on the securitized portfolio, or outright cash
assignments in lieu of deposit insurance payments.
1 The securitized bond can be broken up into subordinated/jurnor, mezzanine and senior tranches. Each tranche
receives a successively higher repayment priority so that the senior tranches are 'preferred credits' in that they have
first guarantee of payment proceeds, while each successive tranche is guaranteed payment only based on the residual
cash amounts received after paying the higher tranches. Thus, the most subordinated tranche has the lowest credit
rating for investment purposes.
2Provided that the amount utilized is equal to or less than any amount which would have been required as a direct
cash pay out to depositors, if no asset/liability transfers had taken place.



- 15 -
Securitization Structure Used as Bank Resolution/Asset Transfer Mechanism
Loan Portfolio of Intervened
Bank (Average portfolio
rati  = BB)
Securitized Asset - Bond Issued
AA tranche
Depositor
funds for
transfer with                         BB tranche
matching                              CC tranche
assets
Fogafin Bond
Matching assets and liabilities transferred to acquiring bank(s)
48. Phased Asset Carve Outs. Finally, an additional modality authorized under the new law,
applies primarily to institutions that wish to voluntarily close down due to unfavorable future
business prospects. Under this modality of "progressive dismounting" the SB and FOGAFIN are
authorized to oversee a gradual carve-out, reduction and sale of assets of a financial institution in
order to decrease its operating balance sheet progressively until a minimum of core assets remain
which can be liquidated outright. This modality, which also avoids immediate liquidation of all
assets and State pay-outs to depositors, and does not necessitate the quick transfer of
asset/liability packages to other banks, nevertheless provides regulatory flexibility for banks
which voluntarily decide to close down, permitting an orderly exit from the market.
49. Asset Management Modalities. To increase the administrative flexibility in managing any
residual assets which may not be subject to securitization under the above scheme, and which
would require liquidation and/or foreclosure of underlying assets, the new law also authorizes
banks and fiduciary companies to offer services for the administration of assets and trustee
services, respectively, in order to undertake portfolio management for institutions undergoing
liquidation. This measure allows further 'privatization' of asset liquidation exercises previously
conducted primarily by CISA, the government's asset management/liquidation company, for the
officialized banks; and the measure also provides private banks and trust companies with
adequate legal tools and instrumentalities to conduct such work as separate lines of business
which can remain as off balance sheet activities given their fee based nature and objective as a
specialized financial service. At the same time, the new law provides CISA itself with additional
flexibility to conduct its asset management functions. CISA, while State owned, operates under



- 16 -
the private contractual regime, and the new law now permits it to utilize securitization
procedures in order to enhance its asset sale/liquidation options which would help to accelerate
such processes. With this legal change, CISA is thus authorized to engage in enhanced asset
management procedures and permitted to take on trustee functions. Thus, entities undergoing
liquidation may have their assets administered by CISA under both trust arrangements as well as
standard asset management contracts.
50. Deposit Insurance Policies. The work of FOGAFIN itself, while receiving more attention
under its bank restructuring operations, is principally one of managing insurance funds for
depositors. During the 1998-2000 period, the Government transferred resources to FOGAFIN to
capitalize its insurance fund more adequately given the expected bank failures at that time and
the need to have deposit insurance and bridge funds during the restructuring or liquidation
processes of banks. Following that period, however, the actual indemnities paid to depositors
under the insurance scheme were reviewed with a view towards ensuring fairness both in terms
of coverage as well as in terms of deposit insurance premiums charged to deposit taking
institutions in the financial system. Under the new legal reforms these issues are addressed and
modified as follows: While previously, deposit insurance payments contained a co-insurance
element whereby depositors paid a percentage of their coverage out of their own pocket (akin to
a rolling deductible), the new law excludes this provision and provides FOGAFIN the flexibility
to set the co-insurance deductible at a level starting from zero. In this manner, the smallest
depositors need no longer pay a co-insurance deductible which would otherwise mean that they
immediately lose that portion of their deposits if a bank fails. Instead, FOGAFIN, within the
limits of coverage established, would pay small depositors 100% of their deposits as long as they
were equal to, or below the coverage limit. The law also formalizes an adjusted premium
approach charged to banks, and authorizes implementation of a 'rebate' program whereby the
risk based premium is adjusted on an ex post basis by refunding to those banks in good standing
a portion of their premiums paid at the start of the year, or charging additional premiums if they
are not in good standing.
Restructuring and Resolution of the State Owned Banks
51. As discussed earlier, one of the large programs which involved government intervention
and support concerned the State owned banks, many of which were officialized and put under
direct oversight by FOGAFIN while they were restructured or wound down. In the process,
most of the officialized banks were gradually wound down with portfolios or liquidated assets
being sold off. The key remaining banks at the moment are Bancaf6 and Granahorrar which
have yet to be fully resolved, sold or disposed of. In addition, the State still has the second tier
lending banks although these have not had major portfolio and solvency problems with the
exception of IFI (Instituto de Fomento Industrial). The Government has been considering a
strategy to consolidate some of the second tier banks so as to reduce the State banking
institutions.
52. First Tier Banks. In terms of the remaining two first tier banks3 listed above, under the
reform program the government has formally committed to privatizing Bancafe, with the sale
process having already been initiated along with the hiring of an investment firm to manage it.
While the privatization process for Bancafe is now well underway, the situation for Granahorrar
3 Not including the Banco Agrario which was created from the merger of other institutions and which, as a matter of
government policy will remain as the only first tier bank of the State, to serve the needs of the rural sector.



- 17 -
whose portfolio is less attractive is somewhat different. The Government's intention is to also
eventually sell Granahorrar so as to capitalize on the remaining assets and avoid materialization
of a fiscal liability. However, market demand for the bank has still not been identified and the
Government is considering options for structuring a deal which would be well received by the
financial industry. In this regard, the Government is developing a number of policy options to
achieve a viable restructuring and sale strategy for Granahorrar, including the securitization of a
portion of its assets as well as the issuance of bonds to fill any balance sheet gaps. The
Government will evaluate these options in the context of potential market demand in order to
arrive at a realistic determination of the optimal sale or disposal strategy for the bank. The legal
and financial instruments authorized under the new law will also provide the government the
needed flexibility to exhaust all possible avenues for providing the most secure package to
potential investors.
53. Second Tier Banks. In the second tier banking sector, the Government has reinitiated its
intent to rationalize that sector and improve the financial condition of its banks. Under the
reform, IFI, the most problematic bank, has been put under a private contractual regime and is
formally only permitted to engage in second tier lending operations. Following that, as part of
the reform, the Government, through IFI's shareholders assembly, authorized the transfer IFI
assets and liabilities as well as some of its operational infrastructure, into Bancoldex, the export
bank, with any remaining untransferred assets to be liquidated. In effect this decision downsizes
and merges these banks although Bancoldex is maintained as the legal entity and EFI is formally
dissolved. To complement these measures and avoid future loss making operations of State
banks, the new law also requires that State banks such as Banagrario and IF1 set lending rates to
fully cover financial and operational costs and credit risks, with no subsidies allowed in lending.
The only exception which the law provides is if a given State bank can obtain separate budget
resources transferred to it from the Government to engage in an explicit subsidized lending
scheme, something which would require authorization at the highest Ministerial levels.
Prudential Regulation and Supervision -Phase I
54. Actions planned by the Government will focus on finalizing a complete inventory of the
decrees required to develop the provisions of the new Financial System Law. The inventory
will also include the external circulars that the Superintendency will need to implement the
provisions of the new law (795/2003). In addition, the SB intends to ensure that as part of its
2003-2006 Strategic Planning cycle, it adopts a Supervisory Development Program to continue
strengthening its capacity.
55. Assessment of Credit Risk Parameters: As part of the ongoing efforts of the
Superintendency to implement a circular on integrated credit risk management processes, the SB
has committed to develop terms of reference for an independent expert to review the overall
consistency for approval of credit risk methodologies.
56. The Government intends to carry out two quantitative studies to provide input for further
actions to follow strengthening the efficiency and stability of the financial system. The first
study addressed earlier, will consist of a prospective stocktaking of the degree of progress
achieved in restoring the health of the banking system. The second study intends to establish the
effect of current regulations - economic, tax, prudential, reporting -- on financial intermediation,
both in terms of regulatory and business costs. This study will also aim at identifying actions to
mitigate such costs.



- 18 -
57.   As part of the first operation supported by the Bank, there will be an agreement regarding
the commitment and overall scope for such studies. As part of the programmatic approach
followed by the Government, it is expected that the recommendations and conclusions emanating
from these studies will be considered in taking measures to continue consolidating the health of
banks and mitigating the effect of regulatory costs, including the adoption of additional actions
to address any relevant findings by the time of the second programmatic financial sector
operation.
Actions for Institutional Development of the Superintendency
58. Supervisory Development Program: The Superintendency has committed to developing a
new Strategic Plan for the 2003-2006 cycle of operations of the SB, including among others,
detailed components of a Supervisory Development Program to address the challenges and issues
identified by the SB, in order to:
a) Design and formalize a revised risk based4 operational Supervisory Strategy, to streamline,
and integrate into current Supervisory Processes -- for licensing and authorizations, onsite
and offsite supervision, and remedial, enforcement, and resolution actions-- whose steps
would be charted, identifying major decision points, to ensure a consistent supervisory
response;
b) Compile and update currently dispersed out-of-date Supervisory Manuals of Procedures,
combining both solvency and risk based approaches, including computerized planning, and
working programs and papers, in order to support supervisory assessments of financial
institutions as per a new Risk Rating Matrix Methodology; and
c) Review, simplify, and make cost efficient, current Supervisory Products --such as
examination reports, surveillance analysis notes, and CAMEL indicators -- ensuring a set of
homogeneous executive oriented reports warehoused in accessible network computerized
systems.
59. Related Investment Projects: The above plan will include any incremental investment
projects that would facilitate implementing the Supervisory Development Program of the
Superintendency during its planning 2003-2006 cycle, indicating the level of funds to carry out
the necessary programmed actions, including consideration of major training sessions.
60. Supervisory Staff Training and Compensation: To resolve the current restriction
impinging on the depth and caliber of supervisory staff, the Ministry of Finance has agreed to
evaluate, and present alternatives to ensure that the Superintendency can effectively mitigate its
deteriorating staff turnover ratio, as well as train and compensate its staff closer to market and
institutional standards.
4 To focus on risk accumulation at systemic and individual bank levels; centering on assessing both quantitative and
qualitative aspects of risk, including the primary quality of assets and earnings, the availability of genuine residual
capital, and adherence to sound standards of business and financial practices; and, looking prospectively at resilience
to risks under stress, rather than to static measures of compliance with regulatory capital and risk limits.



- 19 -
The Second Operation under the Program - The Banking System
61. The proposed program for the second operation is described below. Under the second
loan, the main areas covered anticipate: (a) full implementation of the required regulations
emanating from the financial system reform law (including those for supervision of
conglomerates, conflicts of interest, governance rules, and enforcement of sanctions), (b) actions
to improve banking system efficiency by rationalizing tax and regulatory constraints and fine
tuning the payments system, (c) measures to ensure systemic integrity through prompt
application of corrective actions, (d) examination of contingency measures to assure safe
operation of the banking system under adverse economic states, and (e) actions to improve the
efficiency of the regulatory process and implement an institutional development plan for the
Superintendency. While the main thrust of the program is further described below, the final
policy agreements and specifics of implementation will be defined during the formal preparation
of the second phase.
62.  A key aspect under the second phase pertains to integrating regulations relating to the SB's
enforcement actions including the span of remedial actions as well as subsequent schedules of
pecuniary sanctions applied in a graduated manner based on the seriousness or persistence of
given infractions. This section of the report addresses banking sector issues whose major
reforms will have occurred under the first phase -- the subsequent sections address other various
key subsectors including insurance, non-banks, securities, housing finance and the government
debt market, where a major set of reforms will take place under the second loan of the
programmatic operation.
Financial Efficiency and Systemic Integrity.
63. The second phase will also allow the government to review and address structural tax and
regulatory rigidities in the financial system which could in the long term affect the
competitiveness and the soundness of the financial system. While economic and credit
conditions will remain a key priority in the oversight of the financial sector, the payments system
and instruments used for generating temporary liquidity in the interbank market (e.g.: repos) will
also be enhanced to prevent any transaction related default risks.
64. During the first phase of the programmatic operation, the Government has committed itself
to conduct a vulnerability review of the financial system. Under the second phase, said study
will have been completed and a contingency plan defined to handle any possible downturns,
systemic effects, or institutional failures caused by lower than anticipated economic growth and
other factors potentially affecting banking health.
Institutional Strengthening and Regulatory Process Efficiency
65.  In order to ensure that the reform's progress and implementation of the new regulatory
framework is sustained over the medium and long term, and as per the provisions for enhancing
the SB's institutional autonomy under the reformed financial system law, under the second
phase, the government will seek to implement a Strategic Plan for the institutional development
of the SB over the 2003-06 period. Part of the institutional plan, besides the sustainable career
development and compensation plan, and the approval of investments for the SB's development
program , will include the establishment of ongoing internal risk ratings of financial institutions



-20 -
so as to allow a more strategic approach to undertaking supervisory activities and focusing on
vulnerabilities in the sector.
Prudential Regulation and Supervision
66. Reduction of Regulatory Costs: The Superintendency intends to diagnose and identify
measures to rationalize its requests for prudential information, with a view to alleviate the
regulatory costs associated with the current system of reporting requirements.
67. Internal Corporate Governance Standards: The Superintendency will implement, as well,
regulations governing the codes of conduct and duties of bank boards and management,
including a more detailed set of standards for bank board procedures, their functioning and their
operating committees.
68.  Conflicts of Interest: The Superintendency intends to establish, as well, regulations to
implement articles of the Financial System Reform Law covering measures to mitigate conflicts
of interest under major decisions and transactions where significant shareholders of an
institution, directors or senior management, are parties.
Actions for Development of the Superintendency
69. By the time of the second programmatic operation, the Superintendency intends to have
advanced substantially in specifying objectives and targets for a Supervisory Development
Program, including selected benchmark indicators in the areas of intemal governance standards
communicated to the industry, market risk management and collateral valuation standards, as
well as full disclosure of its sanctions regime and associated fines, improved and documented
supervision procedures and examination strategies, and implementation of the supervision of
consolidated groups including offshore entities.



- 21 -
C.    Housing Finance
Background
70. The housing finance crisis was caused by massive unemployment, excessive levels of
UPAC-denominated loan rates, unsafe underwriting standards, falling housing values which
created negative equity and wealth losses, and a spreading culture of non-payment fueled by
court rulings adverse to lenders. Non-performing loans represent 24% of mortgage loans,
although that level when expressed in nominal pesos stopped deteriorating in 2002 (at 2 trillion
pesos, plus 0.7 trillion of foreclosed assets).
71. The CAVs or savings and housing loan banks (now known as BECHs) suffered
particularly strong financial shocks on account of four factors: (a) the economic downturn
including rapidly rising unemployment and variable interest rates put many housing loan
borrowers in default with their banks, thus significantly increasing the CAVs level of non
performing loans; (b) the higher interest rates which caused a mismatch on asset and liability
yields on CAVs' balance sheets; (c) the recession also depressed real estate prices which had
been used as collateral/guarantees to back home loans - with lower real estate values, collateral
guarantees were eroded and thus the CAVs had to forcibly provision more income against losses,
and repossess real estate assets, while at the same time those borrowers were denied further
access to credit or refinancing; and (d) during the same period, the Constitutional Court ruled
that the variable mortgage rate index used by the CAVs (the UPAC), based on average interest
rates levels, was invalid since an inflation based index should have been consistently used over
the years, and therefore this ruling prompted the government to refund on an ex post basis many
of the interest charges to borrowers which would have been lower if a non-interest rate index had
been used. In response to these challenges, the Government embarked on a series of specific
measures to address the immediate problems in the financial sector, as well as the structural
reforms needed to enhance the efficiency, competitiveness and risk profile of the banking sector.
72. The housing finance law No. 546 was approved in December 1999 in order to keep the
housing financial industry alive but rebuild solid foundations. The main blocks of reforms were:
(a) Savings & Loans institutions ("CAVs") were converted into fully regulated banks,
subject to diversification, and tighter loan-loss provision rules (some institutions being
restructured by Fogafin or closed).
(b) The Government through FOGAFIN, purchased CISA in 2000 as an asset management
company to dispose of the bad loans including mortgage ones, from restructured banks,
primarily Bancafe and BCH. Despite a slow start, CISA has paralleled the efforts of the
private banks in active debt recovery and loss mitigation".
(c) Fogafin has been operating a credit enhancement program for mortgage securities
refinancing social housing loans ("VIS"). Until 2001, it has also provided some
10 By September 2002, CISA purchased $925 million of assets (peso 1.6 trillion from Bancafe), and disposed of
$370 million. About 44% of the assets were mortgage loans. CISA plans to sell $185 million of assets in 2003 and
complete its sales by 2005.



-22 -
subordinated credit lines to shareholders of banks to help these meet tighter solvency
goals. It also sold its own portfolio through a competitive bidding process.
73. Most banks have learned to pursue active mortgage debt recovery and mitigate their losses.
The coverage ratio of mortgage loan-loss provisioning has steadily increased up to 39% as a
result of tighter prudential regulations set by the SB. Many of these loans correspond to
households that stopped repaying for various reasons more than a year or two ago. Most have
already been restructured but loss provisions need to increase as the classification worsens.
74. The quality of the portfolio and the revival of sound loan production depends on the
evolution of housing prices and of a stable macro and judiciary environment. The housing sector
started to revive in 2002 after three years of distress. There is a reported 20% increase in new
construction as households have resumed investing in housing, even if carefully. Demand was
boosted by new tax benefits offered in 2002, for new mortgage borrowers.
75. Most mortgage lenders are now liquid but remain vulnerable to credit and market risks.
The ex-CAV banks are still struggling to diversify their production into more profitable sectors.
Most struggle to meet stricter regulatory solvency ratios and have had to leverage using the re-
capitalization lines provided by Fogafin to the shareholders. Fogafin stopped extending these
credit lines after 2001 and is now actively monitoring inherent risks and bank repayment
capacities, including if needed, collateral strengthening actions.
76.  Banks have not yet entered into contracts using the FRECH fund created as a transition
policy instrument to hedge their market risks resulting from the UVR portfolio conversion,
because of the high (and inadequate) level of the triggers under that swap contract, compared to
the actual low real market rates. The FRECH fund was created by law as a transition measure to
partially hedge the increased market risk exposure of banks whose mortgage portfolios were
converted in 2000 into the UVR index. This sizeable fund - now of 350 billion pesos - was
partly financed by taxes imposed earlier on transactions within the financial system, and is
administered by the central bank. Its swap design has been conservatively priced to preserve the
fund in a range of risky environments, and to protect lenders against significant spikes in real
market rates.
77. Under current circumstances, any contracting institution would have to pay expensive
contributory fees (adverse to its profitability), with further unpredictable yearly flows. Despite
extensions and minor adjustments, banks have not found the mechanism attractive enough to
contract, as short-term real rates have remained low. Banks have remained exposed to large
market risks although the eligible portfolio for this mechanism, is amortizing through time, and
shareholders instead borrowed re-capitalization credits from the state through Fogafin to meet
SB's capital adequacy requirements for credit and market risks. Therefore alternative hedge
instruments and their design are being considered to modify the FRECH mechanism.
78. In a major advance towards the access to long-term funds for mortgage lenders,
securitization is again operational. It is a useful instrument to manage liquidity and market risks,
and to leverage scarce capital. A sizeable amount of high-quality mortgage loans was
successfully securitized in 2002 at favorable conditions " through the new securitization
company that was capitalized by the majority of the ex-CAVs. But this initial phase remained
II About Peso 1 trillion through two securitization programs, the latest was placed under the following conditions:
interest rate at UVR +5.4%, terms between 5 and 15 years, with moderate structuring and trustee fees.



-23 -
largely driven by large tax advantages, as the offering banks later purchased and held a large part
of these mortgage backed securities (MBS) to capture the tax exemption on MBS interest. Their
exposure to market risk was then only partly reduced, as about 30% of the senior rated MIBS
bonds were acquired at issuance by a diversified group of other investors (mutual funds,
insurance companies, pension funds). The sustainability of securitization should be developed
on its own merits with sunset rules after 2004 to phase out disputable, regressive and fiscally
costly tax subsidies. Nevertheless, the tax exemption has helped the housing finance sector to
raise new funds increasing the availability of mortgage finance to new borrowers. The
exemption does not apply to the securitization of other non mortgage loans, as utilized for more
generalized banking resolution procedures.
The Government Reform Program in the Housing Finance Sector
The First Operation under the Program
Housing Finance and Mortgage Market Reforms under the New Financial System Reform Law
79.  Under the first operation, the financial system reform law and the reform of the civil
procedures code include several fundamental elements that will enhance the development of the
housing finance sector in Colombia. These include the following:
*  Reducing the complexity, length and costs of the mortgage foreclosure process.
*  Facilitating the leasing of foreclosed assets by mortgage lenders as a remedy to cases
of delinquent mortgage loans.
*  Granting CISA abilities in the financial management of assets, in order to strengthen
its credit pledge enforcement capacity and contract external servicing companies.
After having set up automated systems and organizational capacity, CISA should be
able to dispose of assets even more rapidly.
*  Facilitating procedures for bank privatization and/or close ending resolutions.
*  Extending micro-finance to housing with permitted additional administration fees,
and open access for lenders to the credit guarantee program of the Fondo Nacional de
Garantias (National Guarantee Fund). By giving banks special provisions to extend
micro housing loans as well as permitting banks to fund credit lines for finance
companies for the same purpose, this will permit a broader outreach to potential
homeowners who traditionally have not had direct local access to housing credit
institutions.
Inflation /Interest Rate Hedging Mechanisms
80.  Other reforms undertaken as part of the program under the first operation, include an
actuarial study to review the guarantee enhancement program operated by Fogafin since 2002 for
mortgage securities which finance social housing loans ("VIS"). Fogafin has been charging 81
basis points for its support of securitized loans that would meet eligibility criteria, and 32 basis
points for its insurance/credit enhancement program to support mortgage bonds issued by banks.
This program was originally envisaged as lasting two years, as an incentive to spark the growth



-24 -
and trust in mortgage securities, by extending a state guarantee that would reduce funding costs
of VIS loans (capped by law at UVR + 11%). The premium will be updated and differentiated
according to the net risk exposure, and so that no type of security structure is favored in a non-
economical way. Should the program be extended, sunset clauses will be clearly announced
and/or the program will be transferred to a regulated professional insurance institution.
81. Another constructive use of FRECH, implemented under the first operation and which is
not a hedge mechanism but simply deploying the liquidity accumulated and available in the
FRECH fund, consists of it acting as a liquidity backstop facility for the newly developed
mortgage securities markets by permitting the swapping of eligible mortgage securities with
repo-able government securities. This use of FRECH has been approved and the Central Bank
will promulgate its methodology to determine the corresponding pricing haircuts. It will also
adjust the general valuation rules for debt securities, to the specifics of mortgage securities,
which are infrequently traded through secondary markets, as well as valuation methods for and
embedded callable options.
82. Simultaneously, while the FRECH hedging mechanisms is being modified, Fogafin has
developed operational guidelines for a new UVR-swap program operated through by it on behalf
of the Government. The guidelines have just been disclosed through the recent Decree 66 of
January 15, 2003. The swap is directly contracted between Fogafin and eligible borrowers
through the partner credit institutions. It is applied against the UVR level and a fixed 6% peso
interest base, and pertains to the next 40,000 eligible housing loans for a limited credit amount
until mid-2004. The program is designed to regain trust by the population of UVR mortgage
loans, using a hedge against any catastrophic inflation risk. The program represents a long-term
bet on inflation. Should inflation fall below 6%, reassured households would stop contracting,
but if inflation exceeds 6%, pressure may materialize to enlarge the program beyond its current
size and format. In this context, the government will take care to avoid resulting in fiscal
liabilities which could be detrimental to the overall national housing policy. Fogafin will also
establish prudential financial reserves institutionally, and has developed its own hedging strategy
against inflation risk to support this mechanism and to avoid any undue accumulation of
contingent risks.
The Second Operation under the Program - Housing Finance
83. The proposed program for the second operation is described below. The second phase of
the program will include progress in the implementation of: (a) harmonized rules for capital
adequacy between banks and securitization companies, particularly with regard to securitized
asset instruments, (b) reform of the swap inflation hedging mechanisms, (c) regulatory measures
to increase the competitiveness of the mortgage industry, (d) developing alternatives for inflation
indexed mortgage loans, (e) improving the micro finance infrastructure to increase credit access,
and (f) creation of a national housing information center. While the main features of the
program are described further below, the final policy agreements and specifics of
implementation will be defined during the formal preparation of the second phase.
84. Regulatory Improvements. Harmonized rules for capital adequacy and loss provisioning
between banks and securitization companies are expected to be implemented, with respect to
their net exposure to risks generated from holding or guaranteeing different tranches of mortgage
securities, so as to avoid regulatory arbitrage detrimental to the soundness of the financial sector.



- 25 -
85. Industry Efficiency. Additional measures will also be explored to make the mortgage
lending industry more competitive and efficient. Competitive mortgage lending would be
accelerated by some newly-licensed credit institutions, acting either as commercial banks or as
non-depository specialized mortgage finance companies. The permitted use of external
providers of specific and unbundled mortgage finance services (origination, appraisal, servicing,
etc.) would increase the efficiency of mortgage lending by leveraging their respective
comparative advantages on operation costs and risks.
86. Market Benchmark Indices. Alternatives will be considered regarding the lack of liquidity
attached to the imposed UVR-indexation of mortgage securities. Since there is no liquid UVR
benchmark, the affordability of housing finance is affected by a liquidity premium.
87. The Tax Regime. The taxation of housing finance along with exemptions will be assessed
from various perspectives (fiscal authorities, borrowing households, lending institutions,
investors of mortgage securities). The slow recovery of the housing finance industry may not
tolerate too unfavorable and unexpected changes in the tax regime, but some rules need to be
reformed for the system to be more consistent and efficient.
88. Real Estate Valuation and Micro Finance. Additional infrastructure is needed for the
development of micro-finance as applied to housing investment. Links with formal VIS social
housing subsidies are needed, as well as housing savings products, risk analysis tools, eligible
distribution channels, institutional strengthening, market-oriented pricing and refinancing
products. A national housing information center is needed to provide updated, reliable, and
accessible information on the evolution of housing markets and actual market prices.
89. Market Instruments and Infrastructure. The FRECH fund will be reformed into a more
effective hedging mechanism through the concerted efforts of a working group. Parametric
changes would be justified, or alternative hedge structures will replace the swap design,
particularly through interest rate options or extended credit enhancements to non-VIS mortgage
securities.



-26 -
D. The Rnsurance Sector and Non B3ank Financial Services
Background
90. The key regulations that kicked off the liberalization of the insurance activity were Laws
No. 45/90 and No. 9/91. The Superintendency of Banks is the authority responsible for the
supervision of all the financial institutions including insurers and other non-banks, but excluding
securities market players and small mutual cooperatives. The Delegatura de Seguros is the
Department within the SB that specializes in the control of the insurance industry. While the SB
is responsible for supervision, Law 35/93 established that a Technical Vice-Ministry of the
Ministry of Finance (Hacienda) would be the Regulatory Body.
91. Insurance companies must specialize in either the Life or the General Insurance sector.
Presently there are 28 companies licensed for General Insurance and 23 for Life. Most of the
Life Insurers are sister companies in the same group as that of a Non Life Insurer.
92. Insurers are required to regularly submit to the SB financial returns and other types of
schedules. The most recent regulation that defines the information that must be regularly
forwarded by insurers to the SB was issued in December 2002 within the External Circular No.
052. The last relevant Law that regulates the Financial System Law 795/2003 which applies new
reforms to the entire financial system.
Corporate Risk Management - The SEARS Approach
93. The SB, through External Circular No. 052 of Dec. 2002, established the requirement for
adopting formal procedures in the analysis and measurement of all risks that affect the
development of activities of any insurance company. Each insurer is requested to produce its
own SEARS method (Sistema Especial de Analisis de Riesgos de Seguros) which must be
approved by the SB. A time schedule for the implementation of SEARS has also been issued.
Reinsurance
94. Reinsurance plays a key role in the proper development of insurance activity. However in
some cases reinsurance is used for non desirable purposes such as "fronting" for example, where
the insurer does not retain any risk, passing most or all of it to the reinsurer and operating as a
mere intermediary.
95. According to the Colombian regulations, foreign reinsurers do not need to have a domestic
company to operate in the Colombian market, but they must register at the SB which monitors
that market using: (a) A specialized reinsurance surveillance scheme; (b) Support to specialized
inspection activities regarding the reinsurance programs of each insurer; and (c) Impact on the
solvency margin of ceding companies, in the case of excessive use of reinsurance.
96. The SB is seeking ways to eliminate financial reinsurance and to reduce "fronting"
operations, limiting them only to those cases where it might be technically required.
97. The existing regulations also affect reinsurance brokers which are required to be domiciled
locally and are subject to a sanctions regime against malpractice. The register of reinsurers is
granted only to those that count with a satisfactory evaluation of an international specialized
rating agency.



-27 -
The Trust Industry
98. The Trust agency industry ("Fiduciarias") in Colombia has grown into a significant player
in the domestic financial markets. At the present, thirty one actively operating Trust companies
exist and are subject to the Financial System Law which governs banks and other financial
institutions. Trust companies are authorized to invest funds as trustees for third parties, to enter
into contracts for the administration of assets (both real and financial), to administer collateral
guarantees to assure financial obligations of third parties, and to administer or oversee any assets
underlying the execution of any such collateral guarantees. They are also authorized to act as
agents for the registration and transfer of securities as well as custodians of assets held under
judicial procedures. Trust companies can also provide fee based financial advisory services. A
high growth area in the Trust business has been the management of mutual funds as well as
pension and retirement funds. Mutual funds managed under trust arrangements account for over
11% of all funds held under trust in the industry.
99. The fast evolution of the trust business and its fiduciary role in managing a large stock of
investment assets, has prompted the authorities to examine closely the risk management
requirements and responsibilities of the industry and to start developing appropriate regulatory
norms commensurate with the current development of the market. At the same time, industry
participants understanding their growing role in the financial markets in Colombia and the
potential for increasingly diversified business lines, have begun proposing regulatory changes to
provide the trust industry more flexibility to offer products in line with what they perceive as
growing market demand. In this context, the reform program for the trust industry addresses
both prudential risk management requirements and the need to avoid regulatory constraints for
market development.
The Private Pension Sector
100. The private contribution defined pension system was established in 1993 following the
approval of Law No. 100. Prior to that, the State run defined benefit social security system was
the only pension provider for obligatory retirement funding. Private pension management firms
(AFPs) are currently a significant player in Colombia's capital markets. Currently there are
seven AFPs operating in the industry which manage obligatory pensions for workers in both the
private and public sectors.
101. Pension assets managed by the AFPs currently amount to Col$15.7 trillion or US$ 5.4
billion equivalent. During the last five years, pension funds managed by the AFPs yielded an
average rate of return of 20.7% per year, equivalent to a real rate of 9.9%. The current number
of affiliates to the private pension system is 4.7 million individuals. Of these, a little under 50
percent are active contributors. Inactive affiliates are those who, due to unemployment or other
factors, have not contributed within the last six months.
102. In terms of investment instruments in the portfolio, the primary categories constitute
government securities which represent 49 percent of AFP portfolios, while financial institution
securities represent 21 percent and corporations outside of the financial system, 20 percent. In
currency terms, the portfolio includes 57 percent of investments in local nominal currency, 15
percent in inflation adjusted instruments, 22 percent in dollars and 4 percent in euros. The SB
regulates a minimum rate of return required on AFP portfolios, and which is specified as a
maximum downward deviation compared to a rate of return yielded by: (a) a



-28 -
benchmark/reference portfolio of lower risk securities, and (b) the average AFP industry return;
with each of these two factors having a 50 percent weight in the calculation. The reference
portfolio is referred to as the "synthetic portfolio" and is constructed by the SB.
103. The public defined benefit pension system still remains open to new affiliates, but recent
reforms have helped reduce benefits in order to lower the projected actuarial deficit. Under the
public system there exists the main social security system (1[SS) as well as other specialized
funds for government and congressional workers as well as specific sectoral (teachers military)
pension funds. In addition, territorial and municipal funds are being consolidated into a common
funding mechanism (FONPET) to better manage their combined actuarial deficit. The
specialized sectoral/professional public pension funds are partially funded with close to Col$ 3
trillion in reserves although, the same is not the case with the social security and govemment
workers' funds whose reserves fall very short of future obligations. Affiliates in the main public
funds (ISS, Govemment, Congressional) amount to almost 4,600,000, about the same number as
in the private system.
The Government Reforzm lPirogram for the linsuraince Sector and Non IBanks
104. Before reaching the second stage of implementation of the SEARS approach and the
introduction of a multi-factor model to establish risk based capital requirements, the govemment,
in line with prudent practices will implement the following changes to the present regulatory
regime, as discussed below.
The First Operation under the Program
The Insurance Sector
105. Technical Solvency Standards. The implementation of a full Risk Based regulation that
has been initiated, will still take a relatively long time before it becomes fully operative.
Meanwhile, the Insurance Sector needs to be improved in terms of the capital requirements for
insurers and reinsurers, the updating of the minimum solvency levels that they must meet, the
basis for the establishment of the technical provisions that should be reflecting the liabilities
arising from their insurance activity, and the type of assets that can be allocated for the coverage
of these provisions.
106. Capital Requirements. Under the first loan, the financial system reform Law (No.
795/2003) modifies articles 80 and 82 of the "Estatuto Orgdnico del Sistema Financiero
(Financial Sector Framework Law)". The new Article 80 establishes that the minimum capital
for an Insurance Company (except those operating export credit insurance and Reinsurers) has
been set at 5.5 billion Pesos, and for a Reinsurer at 22 billion Pesos. These amounts will be
automatically updated with the CPI. Article 82 defines the concepts of Technical Net Worth,
Adequate Net Worth and the Guarantee Fund, and establishes that the required Net Worth to
operate in each Line of business ("ramo") will be fixed by the Govemment and that these
amounts should be added to the capital requirement of Article 80.
107. The Government, therefore, using its capacity and increased regulatory flexibility provided
in Article 82, will proceed towards a prompt revision of the minimum capital (net worth),
requirements for insurers and reinsurers. In doing so, the Government will allow consideration
of both the local environment and the need to align these amounts with intemational standards
for the different lines of business (property, life, accident). This revision affects not only to the
minimum initial capital but also the solvency requirements for each line of business.



- 29 -
108. Technical Reserves. Law 795 has also modified Article 186 of the framework law,
empowering the Government to establish the technical provisions that must be set by insurers.
These provisions must be equal to at least: (a) the Unearned Premium Provision (still called
Unexpired Risk Provision), (b) the Mathematical Provision, (c) the Pending Claims Provision
and (d) the Claim Stabilization Provision. In a first phase, the Government will analyze which
improvements can be introduced to the present regulation.
109. Enforcement Regime. In order to guarantee a proper fulfillment by insurers of the solvency
and reserving requirements in the first stages of this reform, the SB will count on a schedule of
sanctions for breaches of minimum solvency requirements or the adequate level of technical
reserves. The SB's insurance supervision will also be extended local offices or agents of foreign
insurance and reinsurance operations.
110. Investment Norns. Finally, in the area of investments of insurer's technical reserves, the
Government is considering a policy proposal to establish a more flexible regime for the
investment in assets permitted to fund the technical reserves so as to allow insurers to better
match the maturity of their liabilities with corresponding investment assets. In that regard
allowance might be made for the introduction of a certain proportion of real estate and loans as
qualifying assets, although this should will be done with strict adherence to all the prudent
principles that investment of these funds are subject to.
The Trust Industry
111. For the first operation under the program, the Government has implemented an initial set
of reforms within the financial system reform law, in order to address business transparency and
operational flexibility needs for the trust industry. A key concern of the authorities has been the
diverse pricing practices of trust companies with respect to funds managed under either trust or
asset administration contracts. Prior to the reform, the pricing of investment management
services could have been based on either fixed commissions, asset based fees, return/yield based
fees, or other modalities. In order to promote transparency and comparability for clients, the new
financial system reform law requires that trust company fees for managed investment assets, be
expressed as a percentage of the managed assets, and that fees be discounted from the fund. In
this manner, pricing norms are normalized and comparability of products and transparency is
assured for clients.
112. In terms of prudential risk management practices, the new financial system reform law
replaces the previous limits on investment instruments regulated for the trust industry, with a
requirement that trust companies establish their own internal investment risk management
systems for reporting to the SB. Consistent with banking system practices being adopted in line
with Basle H guidelines, the risk management models of trust companies for asset management
functions, are also to be developed internally by the supervised institutions. These risk
management systems, once developed by each firm, will be subject to review and no objection
byf the SB. The new law therefore, avoids the prior practice of attempting to regulate investment
norms for a multi-function and diverse industry, and instead migrates to a modernized
framework based on the SB's evaluation of internal corporate systems.



- 30 -
The Second Operation under the Program - The I[nsurance Sector and the Non Banks
113. The program for the second operation is described below. The second operation would
include actions and reforms to: (a) phase in new risk based solvency and capital adequacy norms,
(b) establish norms for the calculation of technical reserves and mathematical provisions, (c)
regulate the insurance supplied pension annuity market, (d) establish a more adequate framework
regulating the use of catastrophe risk reserves and for the accounting for financial reinsurance
contracts, (e) remove tax obstacles and product restrictions for trust companies, (f) modify
pension sector regulations to permit increased investment flexibility and protect pensioner funds,
and (g) implement value-at-risk regulatory methodologies for trust and pension companies.
While the main thrust of the program is described below, the final policy agreements and
specifics of implementation will be defined during the formal preparation of the second phase.
The Insurance Industry
114. Once a conclusion has been reached by the SB regarding the technical provisions to be
established by insurers to better reflect their liabilities arising from their insurance activity, under
the second loan, regulations will be issued updating the rules for the calculation of solvency
margins, the uneamed premium provision, technical reserves, mathematical provisions in the life
insurance industry, technical discount rates, and pricing of products pertaining to the
pensions/retirement annuity market.
115. A modification of the regulations regarding the accumulation and use of catastrophe
reserves will be considered in order to allow their utilization for major events, with reserve
replenishments achieved according to a graduated schedule. The accounting norms for
reinsurance contracts will also be reviewed with a view to adjusting these to recognize financial
(or finite) reinsurance treaties as contracts without having full risk transfer characteristics,
regardless of their commercial names.
116. The introduction of the changes mentioned above will significantly reinforce the solvency
of the insurance industry in Colombia and will allow a more gradual and phased implementation
of the new risk based solvency regulations. The introduction of the SEARS approach will be
rolled out in a manner consistent with the local progress of the industry and supervisors'
actuarial and risk management capacities.
The Trust Industry
117. Under the second operation, certain regulations applied to the trust industry are expected to
be examined. For example, the financial transactions tax may be applied more frequently to trust
companies given their multiple routine transactions required during the transfer of funds. In
addition, since trust companies currently have a sales tax applied on their commissions and fees,
the reform will review this practice to make it consistent with practices in other parts of the
financial industry.
118. An additional area that will be considered, is the level of capital requirements for trust
companies. Current requirements are somewhat arbitrary given that trust companies effectively
have no need for a solvency margin. In addition, the minimum requirement on the size of client
funds to be invested for business by trust companies, will be reviewed. To support the
development of internal risk management systems, regulatory circulars will be issued by the SB
specifying value-at-risk (VAR) and duration gap methodologies to be applied by the trust
industry to measure market risks.



- 31 -
The Pension Fund Industry
119. Under the second operation, prudential norms for the pnvate pension fund industry will be
upgraded and disseminated in line with those in the trust industry, so that AFPs follow
appropriate VAR methodologies for assessing investment portfolio risks, and take measures to
fully monitor their asset and liability duration gaps. Using these VAR methodologies as well as
with calculations regarding the relative liquidity and secondary trading of securities, the
benchmark/reference "synthetic" portfolio used by the SB to compute the minimum allowable
rate of return of pension funds, will be reviewed to better reflect actual market investment
opportunities in line with the tradability and liquidity of securities, which the existing synthetic
portfolio does not take into account, and which diminishes its usefulness as a reference
investment strategy. In order to diversify risk and protect the value of pension assets, the
government will consider regulations permitting an increase in AFPs investment limit in foreign
securities (currently AFPs invest under 10% of their portfolio in these).



- 32 -
lE. The Capfital Markets
Background
120. A comprehensive strategy for capital markets and financial intermediaries needs be
developed. At present, there exists an excessive fragmentation in Colombia's financial markets.
Capitalization of the stock market amounts to only 13 percent of GDP, one of the lowest for the
more developed economies of the region. The integration of the three stock exchanges in
Colombia will help to increase market liquidity. The new securities law, now under preparation
will also help reduce obstacles into the issuance of securities by companies and provide
incentives for capital market activity, such as providing the legal basis for developing securitized
transactions, one of which has been recently implemented. To facilitate securitization, a
standardized mortgage instrument needs to be created. The recent launching of a securitization
firm now provides the legal and institutional mechanism to jump-start the securitized asset
market, which should help promote longer-term securities backed by credit or other asset
portfolios.
121. Accelerating the development to deepen the markets for securities, long-term debt and
securitized assets and derivatives, and promoting an ordered development of the large
institutional players in such markets -- including insurance companies, mutual funds, and
pension funds -- constitutes an important alternative mechanism to facilitate the absorption of
risks by market participants. The development of the market for corporate stocks and securities
will lessen the reliance on banking intermediation, thereby reducing debt leverage and allowing
macroeconomic and financial shocks to be directly absorbed by investors rather than debtors or
financial intermediaries.
122. The government has continued to progressively and successfully develop the basis for a
capital market, particularly through its government securities market. The institutionalization of
market-making agents in the financial sector and the regular schedule of auctions implemented
by the government has succeeded in creating a liquid and deep capital market in government
paper. More recently, the government implemented short-term issues of bills and notes and
longer-term bonds, so as to complete the maturities available on the government debt yield curve
while providing a full range of risk-free benchmarks to support private market securities pricing.
The addition of issues of short-term maturities (60 days to 180 days) will also help set the zero
risk benchmark of the yield curve for short-term corporate paper. At the subsovereign level, the
Bogota District govemment recently began to issue municipal bonds on the fixed-income
market, backed solely by the credit of the municipality-district.
The Government Refofrm PFrogram - The Capital Markets
The First Operation under the Program
123. Asset Valuation Standards. As part of the first operation and prior to the approval of the
new securities law, the govemment has taken steps to set strengthen the institutional and
normative framework for the oversight and operation of the capital markets. Specifically, the
govemment has instituted a common methodology for the valuation of assets in the securities
market to ensure the mark-to-market norms are established and applied consistently across the
banking, securities and other non banks sectors (e.g.: institutional investors). For this purpose, a
working committee among the SV, the SB and the Central Bank has been established, and an
asset valuation methodology has been developed and disseminated to the industry. Valuation



-33 -
standards have been established for government (Treasury) securities, external debt securities,
other public agency securities as well as private fixed income instruments.
124. Cross Sectoral Consolidated Supervision. Given the increased inter-linkages between
banking and securities institutions including cross ownership ties, the government has considered
it of utmost priority to ensure that the supervision of such related entities is conducted at the
consolidated level. For this purpose, under the first operation, a four year inter-institutional
agreement between the SB and the SV has been entered into in order to conduct joint
supervisions of financial groups which include banking and securities enterprises. The
supervision teams of both authorities, will thus jointly examine operations which fall under both
their mandates, including mutual funds managed by trusts, bank trading desks, and affiliated
financial services.
125. Capital Requirements and Conf icts of Interest. The operation of a sound capital market
also relies on the strength and financial resilience of the key intermediaries in that market. For
that purpose, under the first operation, the government will issue regulations governing the
proprietary market positions as well as capital at risk and provisions against conflicts of interest,
as applied to the securities brokerage and dealer industries. This will put in place a framework
holding dealers and brokers accountable for the management of client funds and to ensure their
fiduciary responsibilities in separating their strategies when managing own funds versus third
party investments, including the requisite procedural fire walls to avoid illicit leveraging of client
funds.
126. Institutional Strengthening. In order to carry out the above functions effectively, the
Superintendency of Securities (SV) has carried out a reorganization by decree. This will create a
new structure including a separate mutual funds division to oversee the multitude of funds
modalities in Colombia and begin to develop a regulatory and supervisory framework consistent
across the industry. Another division for intermediaries and markets will be created to primarily
focus on the regulation of entrants into the securities market, as well as the regulation of those
institutions needing to exit the market due to non compliance with prudential norms, solvency
risk, or other factors. Finally, a separate supervision division will be created to focus exclusively
on surveillance of the market and enforcement of regulations. In the above structure, the SV
therefore, will be strategically placed to focus its attention in the key risk areas pertaining to the
operation of the market.
The Second Operation under the Program - The Capital Markets
127. Under the second operation, described below, reforms for the capital markets would
include: (a) a new Securities Law, (b) provisions and regulations established for corporate
governance, securities issuance, sanctions regimes, professional/technical entry requirements and
qualifications, regulation of investment banks, and securities trading infrastructure, (c)
unification of regulation and treatment of fund managers in the mutual funds industry, (d)
dematerialization and electronic custody of securities, and (e) modernization of the SV including
implementation of market monitoring instruments.
128. While the main thrust of the program is further described below, the final policy
agreements and specifics of implementation will be defined during the formal preparation of the
second phase. Under the second loan, the Government intends to have finalized the new
securities law and regulatory/institutional framework. The new securities law will address key
issues which will reform the operation and behavior of market participants while promoting



- 34 -
additional issuance of securities through less onerous regulatory procedures. A number of key
reforms under the law are considered:
129. The law will provide guidance and regulatory powers to the SV to establish industry entry
criteria with respect to standards and qualifications of professionals in the securities industry
including those working for securities firms, mutual fund managers, bank securities desk
operators and other participants in the capital markets. The qualification and fit-and-proper
aspect will be critical to ensure that industry entrants and players are fully trained and
knowledgeable of market risks as well as govemance and conflict of interest norms. Norms on
corporate govemance of public companies will be substantially reformed to increase
transparency and accountability including definition of responsibilities of corporate Boards,
management, legal counsel, auditors, and other de facto controlling interests in companies. In
line with the supervision of the banking system's approach, the new securities law and associated
regulations, will implement a sanctions and penalties regime within a graduated schedule of
regulatory actions based on the magnitude of regulatory breaches by market participants.
130. Mutual Funds. A key aspect of the new securities framework will be the unification and
consolidation of the mutual funds industry. The industry is segmented into various subsectors
and the Banking Superintendency is responsible for supervision mutual funds managed by Trust
companies even if such funds have similar or same characteristics of those managed by securities
firms. In addition, the current regulation varies according to the type of fund (equities, fixed
income, money market, venture, etc.) and thus supervision of the industry becomes inconsistent
and cumbersome. As part of its market development mandate, the new law will also define
licensing and regulatory requirements for the investment bank industry which is still very
embryonic in Colombia. Investment banks can be important intermediaries and market makers
in the securities market, and the new law will improve the definition of these agents so as to
reduce regulatory ambiguity and encourage entrants into this market segment under transparent
rules.
131. Market Infrastructure. Subsequent to the implementation of the law, the SV will also set
and implement standards and operational procedures to modernize trading and electronic
negotiation systems so as to increase the transparency and integrity of the price formation
process as supported by the previously implemented asset valuation methodologies. The
regulations under the new law will also implement the dematerialization of securities and the
implementation of electronic custody registers so as to allow the more efficient purchase, sale,
and ownership change in traded securities to be effected on an electronic book entry basis.



- 35 -
F.   The Government Debt and Money Markets
Background
132. Over the last decade many substantive improvements have been made in the structure and
processes of the local debt markets. The modernization of local debt markets and monetary
policies as well as the primary issuance process, accelerated in 1997 and 1998. Over this period
the authorities introduced the primary dealing arrangements, and the two tier on-line dealing
system (SEN) for government securities was set up. The Central Bank (Banco de la Republica
or BR) has also gone from being a very active issuer of its own paper to using indirect monetary
instruments in implementation of monetary policy. Under the new model only the Ministry of
Finance issues sovereign debt via fungible standardized issues. By 2002 the most liquid
benchmark on the yield curve was represented by the 10 year 2012 maturity and the overall
average modified duration of the treasury debt (TES B) was almost 2.5 years at past mid 2002.
133. At the outset of the modernization process, actions were also taken to improve liquidity in
the money markets via actions to permit borrowing and lending of securities, the partial
relaxation on taking short positions in the repurchase agreement market, and the subsequent
complete liberalization via introduction of a new type of repo contract ("simultanea")'2. Finally,
over this same period important actions were taken with respect to the investment regulations
applicable to forms of investment funds and pension and severance payment funds.
134. The debt market, however, despite implementation of these important steps, has
experienced some set-backs in its development and exhibited a number of vulnerabilities. This
was most recently illustrated by the mini-crisis in the TES market during August and September,
2002. The vulnerability witnessed in Colombia's debt markets in 2002, which eventually
required the discontinuation of auctions of government bonds from mid August until the end of
November 2002, highlighted the importance of implementing a mutually reinforcing set of
reforms to reduce the reoccurrence of such scenarios. The 2002 vulnerability in the Colombian
local debt markets was caused by a number of factors including:
* the transfer of interest rate risk to the private markets via issuance of government
securities of long maturity and duration;
* the structure of the tax system which harmed liquidity, and contributed to rapid growth in
the use of funds;
* structural factors in the debt market (e.g., public sector domination within the investor
base) that limited liquidity and increased interest rate volatility;
* extensive fragmentation and segmentation in areas such as: the money markets, due to,
e.g., differences in regulatory treatment of REPO contracts; in information transparency,
lack of proper aggregation of information within and between trading platforms and in
consolidation of information collected by different supervisory agencies. These problems
hindered effective supervision, hurt the integrity of asset prices used in valuation, and
harmed liquidity;
* an inadequate valuation and accounting framework that allowed losses to be hidden, and
compromised the value of disclosures as a self-disciplining device;
12 In the Colombian market two types of repo's co-exist: a "repo" (which is a loan against collateral, with the
collateral blocked at the level of the CSD) and a "simultanea" (which is a sale / buy back arrangement). When
discussing repo markets in this document both instruments are covered unless explicitly stated.



- 36 -
o lack of an adequate risk management culture - in particular the capacity to measure and
control market risks - by certain banking and non-banking entities; and
o gaps in regulations and supervision that hindered proper coordination, and slowed
responses to the problems.
The Government Reform Plrogram - The Government ]Debt and Money Markets
135. A credible reform package to address the vulnerabilities noted, involves three carefully
sequenced areas for action: (i) debt market development, (ii) the money market, and (iii) a
package of actions to improve risk measurement and management by various market
participants. In the case of the first loan under the programmatic operation, emphasis will be on
improving valuation and capital regulation while the second loan will focus on fundamental short
to medium term actions aimed at addressing the vulnerabilities of the debt market and its
participants.
The First Loan under the Programmaic Operation
136. Under the first loan of the programmatic operation, core actions will be taken in the
following areas:
o measures aimed at increasing liquidity of Treasury securities;
o upgrading capital regulations for non-banks; and
o strengthening the valuation framework.
137. Liquidity of Tes B (Treasury) securities: The Tes B market has in general suffered from a
lack of liquidity during periods of high volatility. While primary dealers have been required to
"make the market", the obligations have been relatively light and not enforced. The Ministry of
Finance has devised and issued a new set of Primary Dealer regulations which have strengthened
obligations and the enforcement mechanisms (Resoluci6n No. 001, 2003). Additionally, the
Central Bank has changed its investment policy to allow it to purchase outright Tes B securities
open for issue (so called on-the-run issues). This move is also expected to increase the liquidity
and the associated liquidity premia for the on-the-run Tes Bs.
138. Capital regulations for non-banks: The authorities (in particular the Securities
Superintendency or SV) are rapidly moving to strengthen the capital regulations and
requirements for independent broker-dealers ("comisionistas") to limit the amount of leverage
allowed by these entities, and to create incentives for better risk measurement and management.
An important part of this effort is to harmonize capital regulation where possible, between
entities regulated by the Banking Superintendency (SB) and the SV. However, such changes to
capital regulations cannot prudently be introduced without consultations with the financial sector
and with affected independent brokers in particular. The SV therefore, will issue a new set of
capital regulations for broker/dealers with the aim of implementing the new capital regulatory
framework after a brief consultation period. The authorities are also preparing an explicit
transition plan for the phasing in of this new capital standard, which must be completed by
December 2003.
139. Valuation framework: The lack of a solid valuation framework was identified as one of the
most important factors adding to the vulnerability of the local debt markets, and the authorities
have already progressed in this important area. The valuation methodology has been defined,
and guidelines have been promulgated for valuation of all TES B instruments. Such securities by



- 37 -
far account for a dominant share of all outstanding securities in the financial system. The
guidelines have been successfully implemented, and the integrity of the prices and methodology
utilized, is monitored by the authorities in a collaborative process designed to ensure rapid
consultation with regard to any anomalies in asset prices. The authorities are also establishing a
high level valuation committee for this purpose. The committee will undertake such tasks as:
periodically validate or review the methodologies used to determine prices, establish margins
and reference rates; propose new methodologies that improve the accuracy of the valuation
methodology; and recommend means by which the public and investors should be informed
about the valuation methodology.
The Second Operation under the Program - The Government Debt and Money Markets
140. The Second Phase. Under the second operation, a number of reforms, described below, are
anticipated. These include: (a) establishment of valuation guidelines for all securities, (b) setting
out an issuance strategy as vetted by an established high level debt management committee, (c)
implementing a new collateral system for central bank operations and taking measures to
strengthen the efficiency of the repo market, (d) regulations to clarify the accounting treatment of
forced investments in public securities taken by public agencies, and (e) establishing risk
management VAR guidelines for institutional investors managing securities and fixed income
funds. While the main thrust of the program is further described below, the final policy
agreements and specifics of implementation will be defined during the formal preparation of the
second phase. Under the second loan of the programmatic operation, core actions will be taken
in the following areas:
* debt market development with special emphasis in the near term, on the definition of an
operational debt issuance strategy;
* strengthening of the money market with special emphasis on the development of local
repurchase agreements and treasury bill markets; and
* a package of actions to improve risk measurement and management by various market
participants.
141. An essential building block to support risk measurement and management, is development
of the money market. Instruments such as T-bills or CDs are the natural instruments to be held
in the portfolios of money market mutual funds. The lack of money market development has
been due in part, to the debt issuance strategy that has not focused adequately on development of
the short term T-Bill market. In the near term, immediate priority will also be given to the
development of the repurchase markets. In the medium term a new approach to the short-term
T-bill market is warranted. There will be consideration to establish a revolving T-bill program of
significant size in maturities on the short end of the yield curve. The next steps in promulgating
an overall valuation methodology will include design of a valuation methodology for a broader
cohort of securities. The authorities plan next to introduce valuation methods to be applied to
other forms of public debt.
There is also a need to introduce a package of measures relating to the capital regime, risk
management guidelines and reporting practices while continuing to strengthen and broaden the
valuation framework. The SV started with the issuance of new capital regulations for
independent broker dealers that corrects problems with the definition of capital and also imposes
risk related capital requirements. This coupled with other changes in the regulatory framework,
will also lead to improvements in the solvency of primary dealers and management of funds.



- 38 -
PART 1111l. THE PROIPOSElID LOAN: A PIROGRAMMATHIC APPROACH
A.   Loan Descrniption  Objective and Raftionle for 1Bank lInvolvemnent
142. Loan Objective. The objective of the loan is to complete the clean up of the banking
system as a result of the 1999-2001 crisis and to strengthen the government's capacity to manage
and mitigate weaknesses in the financial system. At the same time the objective is to prevent
crisis contagion effects from neighboring countries or other exogenous events, by utilizing strong
regulatory incentives for prudential management, market risk-sharing mechanisms and optimal
supervisory powers to expeditiously contain any emerging risks in the financial system. The
project also aims to strengthen and diversify the participation of the housing mortgage market as
well as of non bank financial services and securities institutions in the financial system in order
to implant a framework which provides more liquidity in the markets and diversifies the sources
of finance for investors and actors in the real economy. At an institutional level, the objective
will be to strengthen the capabilities and financial/supervisory institutions while strengthening
the legislation to incorporate areas of corporate accountability, governance and risk management
as key elements in the regulatory strategy.
143. A key aspect of the proposed program is the design of a two pronged effort to first dispose
of the financial system's remaining loan assets (or collateral) remaining from the interventions
during the earlier crisis by developing more agile and modern financial instruments and fiduciary
arrangements to package assets according to credit rankings while making collateral liquidation
procedures much more agile and effective. As part of this effort, the remaining intervened banks
are expected to be divested and the largest second tier problem bank will be wound down. A
second aspect is the development of a liquid securities market by, inter alia, modifying the
framework for the mortgage sector to permit more standardization and allow securitization of
loans as well as to reform the entire securities legislation to promote a more agile development of
the local capital market while streamlining and adjusting the benchmarks and exposure risks of
the government debt market as a key pillar to support the private fixed income securities market.
144. At the same time, the operation addresses the micro credit sector and promotes further
credit access by pernitting financial institutions to provide credit or leases to small financial
entities so they can better fund their financial services to the micro sector. Finally, given the
unique environment in Colombia, the above reforms are supported by specialized measures to
detect money laundering activity associated with the drug trade or terrorist activity.
145. IP2ro gram Amount and Sequencing. The program will consist of two operations, each of
one loan. The first loan will be in the amount of US$150 million and the second one for US$150
million. All prior actions for the first operation have been undertaken at this time. Disbursement
of the first loan will take place immediately following approval and compliance with standard
effectiveness conditions of the Bank. Approval and disbursement of the second loan is expected
to take place approximately a year hence, following completion of tangible implementation
indicators and enforcement actions associated with the first loan as well as with conditions
including approval of the pertinent legislative frameworks required under the second operation.



- 39 -
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Strategy
146. Relation to Country Assistance Strategy. The operation constitutes a main pillar in the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) as delineated in the CAS document discussed on
January 16, 2003 (Report No. 25129-CO dated December 24, 2002). The assistance strategy
which relies on the government completing a number of structural changes supporting its
economic growth, poverty reduction, and fiscal strategy, includes consolidating and extending
the reforms of the financial sector to set the base for funding private sector led growth with
sufficient regulatory and market incentives while assuring the solvency and proper governance
framework of financial institutions.
147. Since current economic conditions preclude strong incentives for private bank lending, and
thus financial access is very restricted, the financial sector strategy as envisioned in the CAS as
part of the macroeconomic growth package of policies, includes strengthening the capital base of
the banking system by removing unproductive financial assets through mergers, acquisitions,
asset transfers and/or liquidations while aiming to modernize the funding instruments and
institutions in the country's financial market so as to improve the liquidity of the savings base
through the regulation and standardization of financial contracts under a diversified set of
instruments (bank lending, micro lending, housing finance, securitization, fixed income and
equities, insurance and trust services, and streamlining the government debt market). Since one
of the main pillars of the CAS is to increase the role of the private sector in promoting growth,
the development of the private financial industry while reducing the role of the State in the
financial sector, constitutes a key part of the policy and institutional package with which to
engender economic reactivation and facilitate the financing of new investment in Colombia.
148. Timing and Level of Financial Support. From a balance of payments and budgetary
perspective, Colombia clearly requires external financing to meet its obligations given the net
expected outflows of private lending during 2003 and 2004 ($1.1 billion and $1.7 billion
respectively). At this juncture, Colombia's access to financing from the international private
capital markets is quickly declining, and due to the fiscal situation, there are few reassignable
funds to fill any gaps and meet debt servicing obligations. In 2003 total debt service as a share
of exports of goods and services, is estimated at 49% versus 42% for 2002, and debt outstanding
as a percentage of GDP was estimated at 55% in 2002 and projected at 56% for 2003 with the
latter increase expected to be temporary, to be reversed. In addition, the 1999 banking crisis
which required intervention by the State, generated direct fiscal costs amounting at the time to
about 4% of GDP, as well as contingent liabilities which continue to be outstanding
(approximately US$ 2 billion) due to intervened financial institutions which are still being
resolved. The proposed program aims as well to implement modernized banking resolution tools
which generate market sharing risk mechanisms such as sale and transfer of asset portfolios to
the private sector, with the objective of reducing and eventually extinguishing those outstanding
government liabilities.
149. Under the program period, GDP growth is projected to be 2.5% in 2003 and between 3.0%
to 3.5% in 2004. The same time, the government's budget deficit is estimated between 2.5% -
3.0% of GDP in 2003 and is projected at between 2.0% - 2.5% of GDP for 2004. However, an
eventual war in Iraq and/or a further escalation of violence in Colombia might make these
projections on the high side. The budget balance would thus aim to remain at -2.5% or below
from 2004 onwards under the IMF program, from an estimated -4.0% in 2002 and a target of
under 3.0% in 2003. Monetary policy is expected to be modestly tight in order to maintain



-40 -
inflation low between 4% and 8%, and to avoid any sharp changes in currency value which will
remain on a very gradual depreciating path. The proposed loan would, through the more
efficient mechanisms and legal provisions for the disposal, sale and/or liquidation of intervened
bank assets and liabilities, aim to stem any further fiscal losses or potential liabilities of the State
due to unresolved financial institutions, thus protecting social expenditures which target the poor
and eventually attracting additional external financing and investment.
150. Medium Term Objecives aind Outcomes. For the banking system, the Government's
medium term goals are to ensure the stability and strength of the system so that it may return to a
position where the provision of credit can be increased to support the reactivation of the
economy, a key requirement in the success of the government's economic development program.
Within this process, the government intends to simultaneously reduce its fiscal obligations and
contingent liabilities which had emanated from the support it provided to financial institutions as
well as its direct stake in the "officialized" banks which it needed to manage following earlier
interventions. The reduction of these obligations would not only provide the government with
additional "fiscal space" but also encourage the standardization of a new policy framework in
which the private sector might share the risks inherent in the financial system.
151. The housing finance sector suffered considerably during the last crisis, as illustrated
earlier. This resulted in the reduction of mortgage financing which was detrimental to potential
homeowners who could have established a more solid economic base as well as to the financial
institutions themselves who could no longer count on housing loan portfolios to intermediate and
mobilize savings adequately. The government's main developmental objective is to revive the
housing market by first ensuring the soundness of the mortgage banks and allowing that sector to
expand the provision of credit through innovative intermediation mechanisms specified in the
Financial System Reform Law. The Government understands that the asset base of the housing
stock, when financed by solvent institutions, can constitute one of the most stable sources for
mobilizing savings for further investment in the economy.
152. With the focus on the banking crisis in 1999, little attention was paid to the insurance
sectors and the non banks. This sector mobilizes significant sums of savings and investments
through the financial system but regulation to-date was not upgraded. In order to prevent any
future risks which might emanate in the financial system, either from a lack of prudential
investment and market risk management measures, or from unsound underwriting practices, the
government has included the reform of this sector as part of overall financial system reform.
This is also particularly critical given the ties within large financial groups which can cover the
range of financial services under the same ownership.
153. Partially as a result of the 1999 banking crisis but also due to the low capitalization of the
equity market in Colombia, the authorities consider it essential to develop the capital markets as
a funding alternative and competitor to the traditional banking system. The diversification of
funding intermediation mechanisms in the financial system will help reduce risks of
concentration of assets and cyclical downturns in particular sub-sectors of the financial industry.
In this regard the govemment's strategy in developing this market is linked to its policy of
economic reactivation and to optimize funding sources to finance new industrial and enterprise
investment.
154. The development of the government debt and money markets highly complements and
supports the development of the private capital markets. The government recognizes the
benchmarking role played by a structured and broad spectrum of government securities issues to



-41 -
set both yield and maturity references for subsequent issuance of private sector fixed income
securities. In this regard, while the government has already successfully developed a Treasury
securities market, the irregular cycles of issuance and the lack of coverage of certain maturity
segments of the yield curve has promoted demand for these particular instruments but has not
engendered the issuance of private securities. The government considers it a priority to develop
a systematic strategy for debt issuance in the domestic market and in the process, develop
incentives including through enhancement of the local money market, for private corporations to
offer debt instruments using reference prices.
155. Bank Role in the Medium Term Program. Under the banking component of the program,
the support provided by the Bank involves developing norms that regulate transactions within
large financial and economic groups and the risks such transactions may engender. Such a
regulatory framework will also allow deployment mechanisms which exploit a range of financial
instruments to allow the generation of structured financial packages designed for the disposal of
balance sheets and asset transfers to interested buyers in the financial system. The latter
mechanisms are also intended to efficiently reduce fiscal exposure to intervened institutions by
avoiding lengthy State interventions and ongoing management of such entities.
156. Under the housing finance component of the program, the Bank will support the
enhancement of the regulatory and risk management framework for the housing finance industry
to ensure a sound development of the securitization market. Besides the implementation of
soundly designed inflation/interest hedging mechanisms to assure the long term sustainability of
this sector, the Bank will also support the implementation of legislation to provide banks and
other financial institutions incentives and funding sources for offering non traditional credit and
leasing instruments to promote the growth of the housing market.
157. For the insurance component of the program, the Bank will support the adequate
monitoring of this industry's risks, particularly since these entities are heavily involved in the
contractual savings sector, is crucial to ensure both the protection of assets forming part of the
financial system's savings base, and to maintain the integrity of the domestic capital markets of
which these institutions are important investors. In addition, the Bank has an interest in
developing the insurance and non bank sector which, when prudently managed, provide financial
services which greatly assist in cushioning and softening the impacts of financial or economic
shocks.
158. For the capital market component of the program, the Bank will support the modernization
of the securities law which will involve the careful design of an operating framework that
engenders good governance, informational transparency, efficiency of procedures, and fit-and-
proper criteria for industry participants. In addition, the automation of certain practices, such as
the dematerialization of securities held in electronic custody, can significantly increase market
activity by reducing frictional costs.
159. Besides the policy support provided under this operation, the Bank has already been
involved through non lending services and technical assistance, in developing for the
Government's debt management program and procedures for improving the market's operation.
The Bank's policy support involves the development of a common valuation methodology for
Treasury securities, consistent with the methodologies being developed for all traded securities.
The Bank is also supporting the development of regulations pertaining to the rules of operation



-42 -
of primary dealers in the government debt market, as well as adoption of regulations pertaining
to proprietary capital/trading positions.
B. IPirogramn Conditionality
Condtlions for Board Piresentadon / lFirst Gperadon
160. The First Phase of the Program comprises a major reform effort geared towards
strengthening private financial institutions, implementing measures to detect and correct
developing weaknesses in the financial system, divesting assets of State owned banks, and
initiating reforms in the capital markets and government debt sector. The main pillar of the First
Phase reform effort in the program is the recently approved Financial System Reform Law (No.
795/2003) which covers a broad spectrum of changes in financial legislation, ranging from
corporate govemance norms to bank restructuring procedures to the insurance and housing
finance sectors, as listed further below under the loan conditions. In this regard, the new Law
sets much of the stage for this first phase given its depth of coverage, while laying the
groundwork for a number of complementary supporting reforms which constitute the other
elements of the first phase of the program including the sale of State owned banking assets,
mechanisms to improve the operation of the mortgage markets and ensuring regulatory
consistency between the banking and capital market industries.
161. Prior to Board Presentaion: The Government will have (i) taken the necessary steps to
maintain a sound macroeconomic framework as certified by the 1MF; (ii) approved major
reforms to the financial system law, (iii) agreed to approve and implement an overall medium
term economic reform program as indicated in the Letter of Development Policy; and (iv) carried
out the specified regulatory and institutional reform actions as listed below:
Banking Regulation and Supervision
The Borrower has enacted Law 795-2003 to regulate, inter alia: (a) the independence of
decision making by FIs' of boards of directors; (b) the enhancement of the existing code of
conduct for managers and directors at FMs; (c) the integration of sanctions rules applicable to
administrative officers, board directors and auditors at Fls; (d) the powers of SB to conduct
supervision of consolidatedfinancial groups including authority for SB to inspect companies in
thosefinancial groups not directly under its supervision; (e) the prevention of conflicts of
interest related to the operations of Fis; (f) the enhancement of SB's mechanisms to intervene
FIs and apply sanctions.
The Borrower, (a) through SB, has issued Circular Externa No. 046, dated October 29, 2002,
which strengthens existing regulations that prevent money laundering in the Borrower's
financial sector, and (b) through the enactment of Law 795-2003, regulates FIs' obligations to
directly report information onfinancial cash transactions to MoF's anti money laundering
monitoring unit.
BankinR Resolution
The Borrower, through the enactment of Law 795-2003, has regulated (a) the compulsory
procedures for asset and liability transfers and carve-outs from failing banking institutions; (b)
FOGAFIN's issuance of guarantees backed with deposit insurance funds, and (c) FOGAFIN's
powers for swapping bonds issued by the securitization trust, with FOGAFIN bonds.



-43 -
The Borrower through MoF has issued a commitment letter to the Bank dated March 28, 2003,
to undertake a stocktaking review of the Borrower'sfinancial sector, including, inter alia, a
review of: (a) the risks affecting weak banking institutions under low economic growth
scenarios; (b) the banking sector's cash flow generation; (c) the Borrower's public debt
securities held by commercial banks and the possible risks affecting said banks as holders of
said debt securities; and (d) contingency plans to address any potential risks caused by internal
and/or external factors affecting thefinancial sector.
The Borrower: (a) through IFI's shareholders assembly of January 27, 2003, has approved the
transfer of IFI's selected assets and liabilities to BANCOLDEX; and (b) through CONPES
Document Number 3214 dated January 9, 2003, has requested FOGAFIN to commence the
privatization process of BANCAFE, and (c) through FOGAFIN has selected an investmentfirm
that will carry out said privatization.
Housing Finance
The Borrower has: (a) enacted Law 794-2003 to, inter alia, streamline banking foreclosure
related judicial proceedings, and therefore execute collateral in a timely manner; (b) through
MoF has issued Decree No. 710 dated March 20, 2003, establishing procedures forfinance
companies to obtainfinancing from commercial banks so as to increase housing micro credit
lending; (c) enacted Law 795-2003 to regulate (i) the increase of access to segments of the
population with limited or no access to financial services with respect to housing micro credit,
and (ii) the participation of banks in the housing lease market.
The Borrower, through: (a) FOGAFIN has issued operational guidelines for a new swap
program to protect mortgage borrowers against the risks of inflation; and (b) the Central Bank
has adopted and published on its web site, procedures for swapping of mortgage backed
securities through the FRECHfund, in order to acquire more liquid treasury securities.
Insurance and Non Banks
The Borrower has enacted Law 795-2003 to regulate: (a) MoF's powers to establish solvency
margins and technical reserve of the insurance industry, (b) the minimum capital requirements
for insurers and reinsurers; and (c) MoF's powers to establish minimum capital requirements
for the different business lines of insurance.
Capital Markets
(a) The Borrower, through SB, has issued Circular Number 033, dated August 2, 2002 to
update and adjust market valuation regulations; (b) the Borrower, through SV, has issued
Resolution Number 0550, dated August 2, 2002 to regulate a common securities and financial
asset valuation methodology to unify market pricing norms; and (c) SB and SV have signed a
memorandum of understanding dated November 13, 2002, to, inter alia, carry out a joint
supervision and surveillance of FIs and securities brokers and dealers, in accordance with the
procedures set forth therein.
Government Debt Markets
(a) The Central Bank's board has issued the procedures for said institution's purchase of on-
the run securities (traded securities reflecting the series most recently issued); (b) the



- 44 -
Borrower, through MoF has issued Resolution Number 001, dated January 2, 2003, to
regulate, inter alia, primary dealer operations; and (c) the Borrower, through SV, has issued
Resolutions Number 0964 and 1047 dated December 13, 2002 and December 30, 2002,
respectively, to regulate the valuation of domestic treasury securities.
162. Implementation Benchmarks and Results Monitoring. Conditionalities have been met
under the banking component of the loan and include the approval of major reforms to the
Financial System Law as indicated above. Following loan approval, the Bank will continue to
monitor further progress and results in the implementation of these reforms to assure their
consistency with the medium term objectives of the development program. In particular, the
application of the norms to turn around deteriorating financial institutions, the application of the
procedures for separating viable assets with matching deposits for purchase and assumption by
third party banks, and the divestment or closure of State banks, will constitute key benchmarks
and measurable results to assure reduction of fiscal exposure to this sector.
163. Conditions have been met under the housingfinance component. Follow up monitoring in
terms of this reform's impact and results on the micro credit sector, include examining the
growth in access to credit from previously unbankable sectors and the growth in the homeowner
housing stock as well as the increase in housing lease contracts with purchase options, spurred in
part by the growth in the mortgage bond and securitization market to allow freeing up funds for
lending.
164. Conditions under the insurance component have been met and include the legislation
indicated earlier. Monitoring benchmarks for implementation of this component will include the
behavior and/or consolidation of industry participants in line with their adaptation to the new
capital regulatory requirements, the record of enforcement of such by the SB, as well as the level
of development in actuarially based reserving practices for insurance liabilities. A strongly
perceived insurance sector should also, along with projected economic growth, be reflected in
the further expansion of the industry into the business and consumer sectors.
165. The principal actions specified as a conditions for capital market development have been
met. The three financial authorities involved have set up a working committee to define the
technical models to be used across the credit and securities industries. Monitoring of the
execution of this framework involves the observation of market behavior to assure the removal
of arbitrage based on variations n financial asset valuations, and a subsequent the increase in
securities market activity which will subsequently be boosted by the passage of a new securities
law.
166. The condition related to public debt management has been met. The valuation policy for
treasury securities will improve primary and secondary market pricing and permit increased
trading based on objective and technically modeled pricing criteria. The eventual adoption of
similar methodologies for other fixed income securities will allow the market to expand through
increased placements by private enterprises.
The Second Opeiration
167. Prior to the Second Operation: The second loan will be prepared and made available once
the Government has (i) continued to maintain a sound macroeconomic framework per IMF
certification, (ii) confirmed that all legislative and related reforms under the first operation
remain in force; (iii) implemented all agreed follow up actions including application of a prompt



-45 -
corrective actions regime with associated graduated sanctions, establishment of the new banking
resolution and deposit insurance framework, (iv) effected initial reforms to strengthen the
insurance sector; (v) undertaken actions related to completing the agenda in the housing finance
and mortgage market sector, (vi) implemented a new Securities regulatory and institutional
framework and (vii) other agreed activities including approval of risk management regulations
for the insurance, trust and pensions industries, and the launch of a new government debt
management policy.
168. For the banking component of the second phase, the loan will proceed based on specific
actions demonstrating implementation progress from the first phase and policy initiatives which
aim to institutionalize the new supervisory framework. Key actions related to the banking sector
components will involve the enactment of the necessary decrees and regulations required to fully
implement key provisions of the Financial System Reform Law, including those related to the
supervision of financial conglomerates and related parties. Key actions for the second loan will
also involve the issuance by the SB of procedures to ensure the consistent application of a regime
of graduated sanctions and penalties for evoking corrective action on the part of supervised
entities.
169. The housingfinance component of the program will proceed based on progress achieved in
improving the regulatory environment and reduction of risk in the mortgage market. In
particular this will include demonstrable progress in areas such as upgrading of norms for the
primary and secondary mortgage markets including, inter alia, harmonized capital adequacy
regulations between secuntization and credit institutions to avoid regulatory arbitrage.
170. The implementation of the second phase of the program under the insurance component, is
intricately tied to progress in the application of the new framework established under the first
phase. In this regard, key actions for the second phase will include the implementation of
regulations for upgrading solvency standards, regulatory margins, and appropriate methodologies
established to provision for insurance and market risks. For the other non bank financial
institutions such as trusts and pension funds, the issuance of binding regulations specifying value
at risk (VaR) and duration gap methodologies for invested funds, will constitute a key
achievement to modernize the internal risk management practices of such intermediaries and
better protect client funds.
171. Under the securities component, the second phase will proceed based on progress achieved
in the production and implementation of the upgraded securities framework. The completion of
a draft new Securities Law and its presentation to Congress constitutes a key trigger for the
second phase. A key action, given the disperse regulation of the mutual funds industry will be
the specification and implementation of a uniform regulatory and supervisory framework for the
mutual and investment funds sector.
172. Actions associated with the government debt component under the second loan, will be the
government's adoption of a new issuance strategy for government debt. The adoption of the
strategy will signify the incorporation of the above referenced market enhancement measures
including valuation, pricing and periodicity of issuance, in order to set a viable market
benchmark for both the private and the public sector to better manage risks.
173. The identified triggers for the financial sector reforms under second loan are as follows:



-46 -
Banking System
The Borrower through: (a) MoF has issued Decrees for implementing the financial system
reform law and (b) SB has issued circulars and regulatory amendments to adapt existing
regulations to the supervision offinancial conglomerates and related parties.
The Borrower though the SB has demonstrated: (a) the application and enforcement of the Law
795-2003 via actions such as specifying and integrating in a sequenced manner, prompt
corrective actions to be applied, and developing procedural handbooks specifying enforcement
of remedial actions under a graduated regime of sanctions, and (b) the effectiveness and
improvement of supervision via progress on benchmarks established under it's Strategic Plan,
including the improvement of risk assessments made forfinancial institutions, the conducting of
consolidatedfinancial group examinations, and the investment of resources for SB's
institutional strengthening.
The Borrower through MoF has undertaken a financial sector stability review to assess future
banking system health using projections of. (a) the risks of weak banking institutions under low
growth scenarios; (b) the banking sector's actual cash flows; (c) the government debt
securities held by commercial banks and its possible risks to said banks; and (d) contingency
plans to resolve any potential negative effects within said sector.
The Borrower through FOGAFIN, has undertaken progressive actions in the
divestment/dismantling of insolvent State banks, and measures for selling off assets of said
banks to the private sector.
Housing Finance
The Borrower though MoF, and with technical support from FOGAFIN and SB, has taken
measures to increase the competitiveness, soundness, efficiency and transparency of the
mortgage industry, and to improve the institutional set-up to support housing micro finance.
The Borrower through MoF has taken measures to ensure that secondary mortgage market
regulations and practices are adjusted, including improved securitization methodologies to
harmonize risk-based capital adequacy norns and oversight functions between banks and
securitization companies.
Insurance Sector and Non-Banks
The Borrower through SB has demonstrated (a) significant progress in the implementation of
new insurance regulations addressing solvency margin standards and methodologies to
upgrade the calculation of technical and mathematical reserves, and (b) set forth regulatory
methodologies for identifying Values-at-Risk in the pensions, trust and insurance industries'
investment portfolios.
Capital Markets
The Borrower through SV, has implemented a new Securities regulatory and institutional
framework covering, inter alia:
(a) Corporate governance norms including role of the Board, management, auditors, and other
industry officials;
(b) Securities issuance norms and disclosure requirements including rationalized procedures



-47 -
for issuance; and
(c) Qualification of standards for industry professionals and entrants.
The Borrower through the coordination between SV and SB, has harmonized the regulatory
and supervisoryframeworkfor the mutual and investmentfunds industry -- trust institutions,
specialized investmentfunds and mutualfunds under different supervisory authorities are
placed within a consistentframework.
The Borrower through SV has implemented valuation guidelines for a range of public
securities andprivatefixed income instruments.
Government Debt Markets
The Borrower through MoF, has developed an issuance strategyfor government debt
developed through a coordinated effort comprising technical teamsfrom the MoF regulatory
units, the DGCP, and the Central Bank.
174. Expected Outcomes, Implementation Benchmarks and Follow Up. Following the second
operation, the targeted outcomes in the banking sector will include a measurable reduction in
fiscal liabilities from the resolution of insolvent entities. A quantifiable improvement in the
financial health of the sector, under the assumption of no recession should be observed, as well
as a verifiable record of corrective actions achieved through the SB's improved supervision and
prudent application of a sanctions and penalties regime to reverse deficient financial and risk
management practices. Monitoring of these results will proceed via the Bank's ongoing policy
dialogue with the Government which began with a previous FSAL loan and an FSAP exercise as
well as its ongoing involvement in a current financial technical assistance loan, and its expected
continuation of non-lending advisory services in the area of banking supervision.
175. The Bank will monitor the implementation of key housingfinance reforms, in particular
examining the judicial effectiveness of new foreclosure rules for liquidating collateral, and the
improved efficiency and competitiveness indicators of mortgage institutions. Access to credit by
the micro sector of the economy will be a key indication of success in the reforms established
through the financial system. The mainstreaming of the securitization industry will be closely
monitored given its importance in supporting (a) the mortgage finance market, (b) instruments
for resolution and asset carve outs of banks, and (c) its role in capital market and securities
development. The Bank expects to continue collaboration and advisory work in this sector over
the medium term, and is in the process of preparing a program of technical assistance to carry
some of these measures through trust funded programs.
176. Expected results in the insurance sector after completion of the second phase will include
the across-the-board upgrading of the solvency level (and some possible consolidation) of the
insurance industry allowing improved market penetration prospects for the industry as a whole.
Adoption of modernized actuarial modeling standards are expected to be verified. The entire
non bank financial services sector including the trust industry and the pension funds will have
adopted risk management practices to ensure both balance sheet hedging or direct contractual
hedging against adverse market risks. The Bank is also involved in a preparation of a separate
investment loan which contains a key insurance sector component and which will permit
continued policy dialogue and follow up to monitor the implementation of these reforms.



-48 -
177. A principal objective of the capital markets component will be an increasing size in the
private equity and fixed income markets in Colombia, under the new prudential fit-and-proper
operating rules and with a strengthened Securities Superintendency to ensure oversight over the
industry. The resulting diversification of portfolios of institutional investors such as AFPs,
insurance companies and trusts, would represent a healthy development in the financial system
and allow the spreading of investments across a wider range of economic sectors. The Bank has
had a traditional and long term dialogue with the securities authorities in Colombia, dating back
to the implementation of an ongoing technical assistance loan and followed up by advisory
missions by both the Bank and IFC. The Bank was also involved in consultations regarding the
demutualization and unification of the stock exchanges in Colombia, and expects to continue the
partnership with the government in these matters. This will allow the Bank to actively monitor
implementation of the new securities law after the closure of the second phase of the project.
178. A key result of the govemnment debt component following the execution of the second
loan, will be the implementation of a regular issuance program for government securities
spanning across all yield curve maturities, thus effectively representing a full government
benchmark series. Results would include follow up placements of private fixed income
instruments on the market as well as the reduction in pricing discrepancies across holders of
govemment debt. The Bank has started a technical assistance service including the strengthening
of government institutions responsible for debt management and issuance. In this respect, efforts
are actively underway to obtain further budgets as well as grant funding to continue the policy
dialogue and institutional strengthening efforts.
C.    Disbursement and Auditing
179. Disbursement arrangements will follow the simplified procedures for SALs/SECALs. The
Borrower will open an account in the Central Bank of Colombia. Once the Bank formally
notifies the borrower that a tranche is available for withdrawal, the borrower may submit a
withdrawal application so that the proceeds of the tranche are deposited by the Bank in this
account to be used in accordance with the Loan Agreement. For the purposes of the
Programmatic FSAL's disbursements and audits, the Government will open a specific deposit
account, prior to furnishing the Bank with the first request for withdrawal from the loan account,
and thereafter maintain in the Central Bank a dollar denominated account on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All withdrawals from the loan account will be deposited by
the Bank into the deposit account which should operate at the Central Bank in a manner similar
to a commercial bank account without requiring the opening of intermediary commercial bank
accounts for this purpose.
180. The Bank will monitor and assess ex-post (through supervision missions with the
government's concurrence) the use of the deposit account based on the Comptroller General's
Audit Report, if this shall have been carried out. The Government undertakes that the proceeds
of the loan will be used to finance only eligible expenditures based on an existing negative list
for the loan. The Bank will thus reserve the right to request: (a) an audit of the deposit account
conducted in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (b) receipt as soon as available, of a certified copy
of the report of such audit; and (c) any other information concerning the deposit account and the
audit.



-49 -
D.    Environmental Aspects
181. The Programmatic FSAL has no direct impact on the environment. For the purposes of
Operational Directive 4.01, it has an environmental category of C, which does not require an
environmental assessment. In terms of environmental considerations, there exists a process of
collateral valuation used by the government and the private industry to value loan portfolios of
banks in the process of being dissolved or sold in whole or in part to other institutions. Such
valuation also applies to the sale of assets under foreclosure procedures, and takes into account
as part of the prudential review of asset quality, existing environmental liabilities (e.g.: real
property in flood zones, industrial property requiring environmental clean up) as part of the
market valuation process for determining net value of such properties. While the process is
based on market discounting to account for such liabilities, the Bank has communicated to the
government the benefits of developing means for systematizing the environmental review
process under such transactions to allow for identification of environmental issues as well as to
ensure precision in the valuation of assets based on both real and financial factors.
E.    Social Aspects and Poverty Impact
182. The program contains important elements of social protection for certain segments of the
population. To begin with, the financial system law's reforms which affect the protection of
depositors are aimed at providing full coverage of deposit losses for the smallest depositors in
the event of bank failures. While the lowest income segments of the population may not always
own bank deposits, other features in the law (see further below) would aim to increase the
bankability of previously underserved segments of the population. With respect to deposit
insurance reforms, previously all depositors needed to pay a coinsurance or deductible portion of
their deposits when receiving compensation for funds lost through bank failures. The
government, recognizing that the smallest depositors have little ability to monitor or correct bank
risk taking, has authorized through the law, full coverage and reimbursement to those small
depositors whose deposits fall within the specified insurance limit provided by the State. Thus,
for the smallest depositors, they may receive full protection and compensation by the State.
183. Another social intervention via the financial system, is the new financial system law's
allowance for commercial banks to fund credit lines for finance companies for the purpose of
extending micro finance to the housing sector. The new law also permits banks to engage in
micro housing credit operations. In addition, given the difficulty to finance housing without
owning real or other collateral, the new law introduces the concept of housing leases to be
offered by banks, and which would provide housing options to lower income families without
the need for a down payment. The leases would have an option to purchase once the holder
could accumulate funds to convert the contract into a mortgage. These policies are specifically
aimed at providing increased access to credit to the underserved or non-bankable sectors of the
population. In addition, reforms aimed at increasing the efficiency of banking operations,
mitigating future risks of bank failure, and developing alternative financing sources in the capital
markets, would indirectly benefit the poor avoiding the sudden withdrawal of weak financial
institutions from given sectors or regions which inevitably leads to steep drops in community and
business investments. Similarly, the enhancement of anti money laundering systems would help
reduce contamination of the banking system with illicit funds which become volatile and do not
serve as a reliable savings base for investment in community development, particularly in rural
areas.



- 50 -
IF.   Beneffts and lDsks
184. BenefJts. This proposed programmatic adjustment operation would have benefits in a
number of areas of the financial system. The reforned legal framework would significantly
upgrade and facilitate the regulation, corporate governance, and risk management of the financial
system. The modernization of bank supervisory practices would cover the sequenced and early
application of corrective actions and associated sanctions to halt accelerated deterioration of
financial institutions and correct deficient management practices regarding operational practices
and risk taking, as well as upgrading the Superintendency's monitoring tools for risk assessment,
particularly for consolidated financial and industrial groups. It would increase the autonomy of
the supervisory body to undertake such actions, upgrade the mechanisms available for resolution
of intervened or insolvent banks so as to minimize potential drains on the public budget and
permit quick liquidation and asset foreclosure procedures. The rationalization and consolidation
of the state owned second tier lending banking sector will also reduce fiscal exposure and
potential losses and generate additional market niches for the private banking system to develop.
185. The new framework will open up the financial market, under tight prudential rules, to
allow diversification and improvement of products in the housing finance and mortgage market
sector, including funding instruments for the micro credit sector, as well as in the capital
markets, thus diversifying financial risks into other sub-sectors with capacity to raise financing
and liquidity. The development of market hedges and swaps (interest rate and inflation based)
will help the private sector contain such market risks and avoid balance sheet mismatches, while
the increased and prudential design of securitizations will provide more liquidity in the fixed
income market while developing structured instruments to transfer packaged portfolio risks to
market investors, under pre defined credit risk categories. The upgrading of technology for the
detection of money laundering will provide benefits of confidence and security of market players
as well a detection capabilities for criminal prosecution. Finally, the rationalization and
improvement of regulations in the non bank sector will increase investment flexibility in the
insurance, pensions and trust industries as well as assure that their operations follow international
standards for solvency adequacy.
186. IRisks. One of the main risks to the reform program pertains to the possibility of adverse
economic shocks which might be exogenously or regionally generated and which would set back
the growth prospects for Colombia and thus compromise the long term health of the financial
system which is just coming out of a tough period following the 1999 crisis. Political risks of
legislative approval appear low since the Congress and the Administration are highly committed
to the reform agenda for the financial sector. The Region though, is in a state of low growth with
very few exceptions (e.g.: Peru, Mexico) and the current political and economic crisis in
Venezuela, a country whose imports comprise about 15% of Colombia's export market, could
easily generate a large gap in Colombia's economic recovery prospects if that market is lost.
187. A low or negative growth scenario for the next two years would not only threaten overall
welfare, but could also reverse the gains in banking system health and generate the need for new
contingency plans to rescue vulnerable institutions. To mitigate such risks or prepare for them,
the government is committed to a floating exchange rate policy and maintain robust international
reserves. Under the Operation, a condition to undertake a financial system vulnerability review
exercise and the preparation of a contingency plan for addressing any materialization of such
risks. The strengthening of banking resolution measures and asset carve out procedures managed
by the deposit insurance agency will provide significant efficiencies in the quick disposal of



- 51 -
failing bank assets as well as avoid contagion as and unnecessary fiscal outlays. However, if the
internal conflict situation and associated violence deteriorated, this would pose a significant risk
of increasing fiscal costs as well as a slowdown in the reform effort, which could adversely
affect the program.
188. Another risk pertains to the fiscal risk of over exposure, particularly to the internal capital
market as well as the risk that international financial market access will remain difficult for a
prolonged period. At the moment, the government debt market is growing and beginning to
reach a level where it could potentially crowd out private financing and have an adverse effect on
domestic interest rates. The Operation includes a comprehensive component to re-examine and
upgrade the operations of the public debt market to ensure that it promotes rather than stifles the
issuance of private sector securities. The commitment of multilateral institutions to fund the
government's balance of payments and fiscal needs will to some extent mitigate the dangers of
over exposing the government in the domestic financial market with shorter maturity debt
instruments which could otherwise pose refinancing risks to the government as well or worse,
forced roll over risks for financial institutions holding government debt. To further mitigate such
a risk, and as agreed under the IMF Stand By arrangement, the government would consider
utilizing resources in the petroleum stabilization fund on a temporary basis to avoid crowding out
private debt.
189. Lastly, a key risk might involve the weakening of the government's resolve to conclude a
full clean up of the remaining intervened private and public institutions in the financial system
and which need to be disposed of efficiently. Instead, the government could potentially return to
a regime of increased discretionality which would continue the process of State management,
officialization of banks, and intensive supervision of such institutions (including any new ones
should they arise), versus the program's approach of utilizing market and financial mechanisms
to sell off such assets to the private sector utilizing more attractive securities instruments. This
would imply the continuation and possibly the increase in fiscal contingent liabilities which
would be detrimental for the maneuvering room the government may have if such liabilities
materialize in the short term (e.g.: if asset values of intervened banks collapse and the
government needed to proceed towards liquidation to recover State credits).
190. While such a risk could occur in the event of restructuring fatigue, lack of good market
reception, or government perceptions that it might be more convenient to use straightforward
traditional bank restructuring procedures, the risk is not considered high. One reason, is that the
new financial system reform law, already approved gives priority towards using new
restructuring tools which require the prompt carve outs and securitization of assets to sell off
failed bank balance sheets. For those unrecoverable loans which require liquidation of collateral,
the new reform (under the approved civil procedures code) also speeds up the judicial process
very significantly and prevents earlier experienced delays in the realization of collateral to pay
off residual creditors including the government. Another policy level mitigation factor is that the
momentum, support and interest invested by the government in this new financial reform appears
sufficiently robust and is seen by the authorities as a major advance in financial sector practices
established to correct some of the problems experienced in the implementation of the prior
reform. Hence, reverting to a less effective and less flexible approach, would be unlikely in the
current policy environment, given the level of precision of the new reforms and the acceptance of
them by the Congress.



COLOMBIA                                                                                Annex 1
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
POLDICY MATRPX FOR PROGRAMMATIPlC REFORM PROGRAM
slilslll~                        A n e zsX _ 1 _ _ P o llicy _  .  .larfi     ._             _  _ _ _  _  _ _ .  _ _ _  _  _ _  _ | _  _  _
FEIST PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT                          SECOND PROGRAMMATIC FANCIAL SECTOR                          KEY EXPECTED RESULTS AT THE EMI) OF TH
LOAN -: PRIOR ACTIONS TAKEN                                   ADJUSTMENT LOAN - FUTURE ACTIONS                                          PROGRAM
MACROECONOMIC POLICY ENVIRONMENT
Policv Obiective: Maintenance of a sound macroeconomic policy framework.
Responsible Govemment Agency MHCP
The Borrower through MoF has maintained a sound macroeconomic       The Borrower through MoF, has maintained a sound macroeconomic  Reduction of fiscal deficit and reliance on long term debt
program maintained with appropnate fiscal, monetary, inflation, reserves  program maintained with appropnate fiscal, monetary, inflation and  financing, to increase stability
and exchange policies                                               exchange policies
1. BANK REGULATION AND RESOLUTION
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REFORMED FINANCIAL SYSTEM LAW TO ENSURE SUSTAINABILITY OF THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Policv Obiectiye Upgrading the Banking Regulatory, Supervisory, and Institutional Framework                                                                                                  Lrn
Responsible Govemment Agencies MHCP, SB                                                                                                                                                      M
The Borrower has enacted Law 795-2003 to regulate, ititer alta- (a) the  The Borrower through' (a) MoF has issued Decrees for implementing  Banking stability and supporting financial and balance sheet
independence of decision making by Fls' of boards of directors, (b) the  the financial reform law and (b) SB has issued circulars and regulatory  strength indicators become evident Transparent and
enhancement of the existing code of conduct for managers and directors at  amendments to adapt existing regulations to the supervision of  accountable identification and removal of conflicts of
Fls; (c) the integration of sanctions rules applicable to admnuistrative  financial conglomerates and related parties              interest and related party risks is achieved. Evidence of
officers, board directors and auditors at Fls, (d) the powers of SB to conduct                                                      their reduction within the financial system, is estabhshed via
supervision of consolidated financial groups including authonty for SB to                                                          the SB's record of application of the new corporate
inspect companies in those financial groups not directly under its                                                                  govemance regulations for the financial sector
supervision, (e) the prevention of conflicts of interest related to the
operations of Fls, (f) the enhancement of SB's mechanisms to intervene Fls                                                          Application of the enhanced banking supervision powers is
and apply sanctions.                                                 The Borrower though the SB has demonstrated (a) the application and  evidenced, permitting the early correction of adverse
enforcement of the Law 795-2003 via actions such as specifying and  financial trends via the prompt applicaton of sanctions and
integrating in a sequenced manner, prompt corrective actions to be  fines towards musmanaged and non complying financial
The Borrower, (a) through SB, has issued Circular Extemna No 046, dated  applied, and developing procedural handbooks specifying enforcement  institutions Graduated and intensifying process of
October 29, 2002, which strengthens existing regulations that prevent money  of remedial actions under a graduated regime of sanctions, and (b) the  sanctions provides evidence of institutional correction or
laundenng in the Borrower's financial sector, and (b) through the enactment  effectiveness and improvement of supervision via progress on  dissolution of entities posing tnsolvency nsk, thus reducing
of Law 795-2003, regulates Fls' obligations to directly report information on  benchmarks established under it's Strategic Plan, including the  potential costs to the State Improved prudential practices
financial cash transactions to MoFs anti money laundenng monitonng unit  improvement of risk assessments made for financial institutions, the  increase the confidence and stability of the financial system,
conducting of consolidated financial group examinations, and the  and permit managed nsk taking, allowing channeling of
investment of resources for SB's institutional strengthening   increased credit into the economy.
Detection of illicit financial activities and cash flows
becomes more successful as regulatory, market monitoring
systems, and technology, are improved



COLOMBIA                                                                                Annex 1
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
POLICY MATRIX FOR PROGRAMMATIC REFORM PROGRAM
,,           * *^i + -at.+ '   ro   '   A'@ uf -> ^ ,Annexl --Polic         Mairix                         __
FIRST PROGRA,MIATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTIIENT                        SECON'D PROGRArMtAAIC FINANCIAL SECTOR                      KEY' EXPECTED RESULTS AT THE END OF THiE
LOAN -- PRIOR ACTIONS TAKEN           -         *            ADJUSTMENr LOAN - F-,TLIRE ACTIONS                 '                       PROGRAM
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REFORMED FINANCIAL SYSTEM LAW FOR IMPROVING EFFECTIVENESS OF BANKING RESOLUTION PROCEDURES
Polhcy Obiective Upgrading the Bank Resolution and Deposit Insurance Operational Framework
Responsible Government Agencies. MHCP, FOGAFIN
The Borrower, through the enactment of Law 795-2003, has regulated (a)  The Borrower through MoF has undertaken a financial sector stability  Reduction of fiscal liabilities and State interests in
the compulsory procedures for asset and liability transfers and carve-outs  review to assess future banking system health using projections of (a)  intervened financial inshtutions is achseved via the sale of
from failing banking institutions, (b) FOGAFIN's issuance of guarantees  the nsks affectmg weak banking institutions under low economic  their assets and matching liabilities through the new
backed with deposit insurance funds, and (c) FOGAFIN's powers for   growth scenanos, (b) the banking sector's cash flow generation, (c)  secuntization/trust mechanisms Evidence exists of failed
swapping bonds issued by the secuntization trust, with FOGAFIN bonds  the Borrower's public debt secunties held by commercial banks and  banks' viable assets/balance sheets successfully transferred
the possible nsks affecting said banks as holders of said debt  to pnvate sector institutional buyers. Increased banking
The Borrower through MoF has issued a commitment letter to the Bank  secunties, and (d) contingency plans to address any potential nsks  strength and liquidity of the remaining sohd banks, perrut
dated March 28, 2003, to undertake a stocktaking review of the Borrower's  caused by intemal and/or extemal factors affecting the financial sector  the provision of credit to an increased number of productive
financial sector, including, inter alia, a review of (a) the nsks affecting                                                        enterpnses with cash flow prospects
weak banking institutions under low economic growth seenanos, (b) the
bankong sector's cash flow generation, (c) the Borrower's public debt
secunties held by commercial banks and the possible nsks affecting said
banks as holders of said debt secunties, and (d) contingency plans to address                                                                                                               Lin
any potential nsks caused by intemal and/or external factors affecting the
financial sector
Evidence, if liquidation of banks is required, that all small
depositors covered under the insurance threshold limit are
The Borrower (a) through IFI's shareholders assembly of January 27, 2003,  The Borrower through FOGAFIN, has undertaken progressive actions  fully paid out and their balances are protected Premiums
has approved the transfer of IFI's selected assets and liabilities to  in the divestment/disnsanting of insolvent State banks, and measures  charged to financial instntutions by the State for deposit
BANCOLDEX, and (b) through CONPES Document Number 3214 dated        for selling off assets of said banks to the pnvate sector      insurance, are applied based on the nsk categonzation of
January 9, 2003, has requested FOGAFIN to commence the pnvatization                                                                 banks established by the SB
process of BANCAFE, and (c) through FOGAFIN has selected an
investment firm that will carry out said pnvatization.                                                                             The divestment, merger and liquidation of the remaining
insolvent State-owned banks has been completed, and fiscal
contingent liabilities in this respect have been reduced
substantially or fully ehminated
11. HOUSING FINANCE
STRENGTHENING THE HOUSING FINANCE SECTOR AND EXPANSION OF THE MORTGAGE MARKET
Poli0v Obiective Upgrading the Regulatory/Operational Framework of the Mortgage Market and Improving Access to Credit
Responsible Govemment Agencies. MHCP, FOGAFIN
The Borrower has (a) enacted Law 794-2003 to, inter alia, streamline  The Borrower though FOGAFIN, SV and SB, has taken measures to  New judicial procedures show evidence of fast and efficient
banking foreclosure related judicial proceedings, and therefore execute  increase the competitiveness, soundness, efficiency and transparency  sale of loan collateral assets, allowing increased pnvate
collateral in a timely manner, (b) through MoF has issued Decree No 710  of the mortgage industry, and to improve the institutional set-up to  market participation in the absorpnon of assets of failed
dated March 20, 2003, establishing procedures for finance companies to  support housing mucro finance                               financial institutions, and prompt payment of creditors
obtain financing from commercial banks so as to increase housing mucro
credit lending, (c) enacted Law 795-2003 to regulate (i) the increase of                                                            Increased access to housing credit evidenced by underserved
access to segments of the population with limited or no access to financial                                                         segments of the population The production of mortgage
services with respect to housing micro credit, and (ii) the participation of                                                        loans has expanded and lending margins reduced The



COLOMBIA                                                                                   Annex 1
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
POLICY MATRIX FOR PROGRAMMATIC REFORM PROGRAM
@S! 5 9- ' 4 '. ' '' '' ' ' ' ~~~~ Annex l Poli                                 c M    trx -.;^-. l
FIRST PROGRAMMATIC NANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMNT                               SECN 'NDPR(UGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR                      KEY EXPECTEDRESULTS AT THE END OFTE
'   LOAN- 'PRIR A.                                 ;.TMLNSFTAKENUTUR AD STIOLOAN - FUTURE ACT;ONS                                             PROGIRAM
banks in the housing lease market,                                                                                                    micro housing finance market applied to housing has
expanded including housing leasing contracts.
The Borrower, through (a) FOGAFIN has issued operational guidelines for  The Borrower through SV and SB has taken measures to ensure that  Mongage bonds and mortgage backed secunties develop
a new swap program to protect mongage borrowers against the risks of  secondary mortgage market regulations and practices are adjusted,  with sufficient liquidity as a sustainable funding tool
inflation, and (b) the Central Bank has adopted and published on its web  including improved securitizason methodologies to harmonize nsk-  without undue regulatory arbitrage and/or tax privileges
site, procedures for swapping of mortgage backed secunties through the  based capital adequacy norms and oversight functions between banks  after the medium term market development penod.
FRECH fund, in order to acquire more liquid treasury secunties        and securitization companies
A package of public policy tools to augment the housing
finance market (e g interest rate hedge, inflation swap,
mortgage secunty guarantees, rationalization of tax
exemptions) improves the operation, risk management and
ongoing sustainable development of the pnmary and
secondary mortgage markets
Hi1. NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (INSURANCE, PENSIONS, TRUSTS)
STRENGTHENING REGULATORY FRAMEWORK AND FINANCIAL SOUNDNESS OF THE INSURANCE, TRUSTS, AND PENSION INDUSTRIES                                                                                     Un
Polcy Obiective Upgrading the Regulatory Framework for Risk Management and Capital Adequacy of the Non Bank Financial Service Institutons
Responsible Government Agencies: MHCP, SB
The Borrower has enacted Law 795-2003 to regulate (a) MoFs powers to  The Borrower through SB has demonstrated (a) significant progress in  The solvency of the insurance industry is confirmed with
establish solvency margins and technical reserve of the insurance industry,  the implementation of new insurance regulations addressing solvency  respect to intemational standards, and the viability and
(b) the minimum capital requirements for insurers and reinsurers, and (c)  margin standards and methodologies to upgrade the calculation of  actuanal soundness of the industry is established for the nsk
MoFs powers to establish minimum capital requirements for the different  technical and mathematical reserves, and (b) set forth regulatory  underwnting business Corporations and households
business lines of insurance                                           methodologies for identifying Values-at-Risk in the pensions, trust and  increasingly rely on insurance coverage for personal and
insurance industnes' investment portfolios                      property nsks.
Insurance companies which only collect premiums and
comsussions but have no solid actuanal solvency or risk
management culture, either adapt to the new norms and
capitalize adequately, or are consolidated and removed from
the market by the regulatory authorities.
Pension, trut and insurance companies are adequately
hedged and capitalized, and have improved corporate
policies to ensure their provision against financial market
nsks, thus guaranteeing improved protection of client assets,
reduction of liabilities for the State, and expansion of the
client industry base



COLOMBIA                                                                                Annex 1
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
POLICY MATRIX FOR PROGRAMMATIC REFORM PROGRAM
;-.                                                   \ -  :   -  - X    -   :  .. Annex  I - P.olicy N.a*riiA          - :  .  .-. -.
FIRST PROCRAAMCIATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJL'STMIENT ,                   -' SECOND PROGRANmIAnc FINANCIAL SECTOR,                    KE'I EXPECTED RESULTS AT THE END OF THE
-~ .         LOk.N    PRIOR AC-TIONS TAKEN -                              ADJULSTIEN' LOAN - FUTURE. ACTIONS'                          - .  .        PROGRAM-                     -
IV. CAPITAL MARKETS
MODERNIZING THE LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK FOR THE SECURITIES MARKET
PoUcv Obiective Upgrading the Regulatory Pramework for the Governance, Transparency, Operations and Liquidity of the Securities Market
Responsible Govemment Agencies MHCP, SV
(a) The Borrower, through SB, has issued Circular Number 033, dated  The Bonower through SV, has implemented a new Securities       Increased issuances of secunties on the capital markets and
August 2, 2002 to update and adjust market valuation regulations, (b) the  regulatory and institutional framework covenng, inter alia.  purchases of secunties by investors are evident in the
Borrower, through SV, has issued Resolution Number 0550, dated August 2,  (a) Corporate governance norms including role of the Board,  expansion of the capital market, supported by improved
2002 to regulate a common secunties and financial asset valuaton     management, auditors, and other industry officials,            rules of disclosure, corporate governance, professional
methodology to unify market pncing nonns, and (c) SB and SV have signed  (b) Secunties issuance norms and disclosure requirements including  quahfication of industry participants, and improved
a memorandum of understanding dated November 13, 2002, to, inter alwi,  rationalized procedures for Issuance; and                  secunties industry trading infrastructure.
carry out a joint supervision and surveillance of Fls and secunrtes brokers  (c) Qualification of standards for industry professionals and entrants
and dealers, in accordance with the procedures set forth therein.                                                                  The funds industry (including mutual funds) and its
The Borrower through the coordination between SV and SB, has   enhanced risk management practces, has developed, with
harmonized the regulatory and supervisory framework for the mutual  increased participation by consumers and investors, based  u
and investment funds industry -- trust institutions, specialized  on the implementation of consistent regulatory, valuation
investment funds and mutual funds under different supervisory  and pncing nonns across the sub-sector.
authonties are placed within a consistent framework
The Borrower through SV has implemented valuation guidehnes for a
range of pubhc securities and pnvate fixed income instruments
V. THE GOVERNMENT DEBT AND MONEY MARKETS
UPGRADING THE POLICY AND OPERATIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR THE GOVERNMENT SECURITIES MARKET
Poliy Obiective Implementation of a Public Debt Issuance Strategy to Improve the Functioning of the Fxed Income Market
Responsible Govemment Agencies- DGCP, SV, BR
(a) The Central Bank's board has issued the procedures for said insUtution's  The Borrower through MoF, has developed an issuance strategy for  A regular issuance program for govemment secunties is
purchase of on-the run secunties (traded securities reflecting the series most  govemment debt developed through a coordinated effort compnsing  implemented spanning across the yield curve spectrum, thus
recently issued), (b) the Borrower, through MoF has issued Resolution  technical teams from the MoF regulatory units, the DGCP, and the  engendenng the incrased issuance of pnvate sector fixed
Number 001, dated January 2, 2003, to regulate, inter abla, pnmary dealer  Central Bank                                             income secunties which use the govenmient market as a
operations; and (c) the Borrower, through SV, has issued Resolutions                                                                benchmark. The size and depth of the capital market is
Number 0964 and 1047 dated December 13, 2002 and December 30, 2002,                                                                 improved, thus increasing altemative funding sources for
respectively, to regulate the valuation of domestic treasury secunries                                                             businesses and corporations



- 56 -
Annex 2
LETTER (DF SECTOIRAL DEVELOPHEMNT P(PDLRICY
Cairta dtle Polffica de IDesarrollLo paira el Sectoir IFInanciero
Bogota, Marzo 18 de 2003
Sefior
James DL). WoRfensohin
Presidente
Banco Mundial
Washington, DC
Estimado Senior Wolfensohn:
Uno de los pilares fundamentales de la estrategia de recuperaci6n y crecimiento econ6mico del
Gobiemo del Presidente Uribe, consiste en la implementaci6n de politicas y medidas dirigidas a
fortalecer el sistema financiero nacional y garantizar su salud y sostenibilidad.
Un primer esfuerzo en la implementaci6n de poifticas y medidas en esta area se logr6 como
resultado del primer programa sectorial de Desarrollo para el Sector Financiero del Banco
Mundial. Continuar promoviendo el desarrollo del sistema financiero a traves del fortalecimiento
de la regulaci6n, supervisi6n y esquemas de resoluci6n de entidades; a traves de la creaci6n de
nuevos mecanismos para la financiaci6n de vivienda; y mediante el apoyo al desarrollo del
mercado de valores y de deuda publica es hoy un compromiso de Gobierno.
Estas acciones van en la direcci6n de apoyar otras reformas estructurales prioritarias para el
Gobierno y cuyo fin ultimo es la construcci6n de un Estado Comunitario. Un Estado con
autoridad legitima al servicio de la ciudadania, que concentra sus esfuerzos en la seguridad para
todos, la erradicaci6n de la pobreza, el crecimiento y la biusqueda de la equidad. Un Estado que
conlleve la responsabilidad poiftica de la participaci6n ciudadana en la definici6n de tareas,
ejecuci6n y supervisi6n de las mismas.
Sabemos que la implementaci6n de muchas de estas acciones implica riesgos, pero el Gobierno
ha identificado medidas de contingencia disefiadas para salvaguardar su programa y alcanzar el
fin ultimo, dotar a todos los colombianos de las oportunidades que les brindara una economia
sana.
A continuaci6n nos permitimos presentarle en el documento anexo una breve exposici6n de la
situaci6n econ6mica del pafs y del sector financiero y, en ese contexto, una sintesis de los
objetivos y el contenido de las poifticas y reformas que se han emprendido para promover el
desarrollo y fortalecimiento de la economfa en general y del sector financiero en particular.



- 57 -
El Gobierno ve con beneplacito el acompafiamiento y el apoyo financiero del Banco Mundial y,
en atenci6n a las medidas tomadas e implementadas, el Gobierno agradece la pronta
consideraci6n por parte del Directorio del Banco del primer credito programatico de ajuste al
Sector Financiero contemplado en el CAS para Colombia para el perfodo 2003-2006. El
Gobierno esta a disposici6n de los equipos tecnicos del Banco para definir conjuntamente
programas futuros de cr6dito en la medida en que se consoliden los ajustes y se requieran nuevas
acciones en este sector.
Cordialmente,
/ original signed /                        / original signed /
ROBERTO JUNGUITO BONNET                    SANTIAGO MONTENEGRO T.
Ministro de Hacienda y Credito Publico     Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n






- 58 -
REPUBLICA DE COLOMBIA
MINISTERIO DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
DEPARTAMENTO NACIONAL DE PLANEACION
CARTA DE POLITICA DE DESARROLLO PARA EL SECTOR FINANCIERO
Bogota4, 18 de marzo de 2003.






- 59 -
I.    SITUACION MACROECONOMICA
CONTEXTO
1.    Desde 1999 Colombia ha reducido los desequilibrios macroecon6micos que amenazaban
con quebrar el crecimiento econ6mico y el progreso social. La consolidaci6n fiscal avanz6, la
inflaci6n se redujo y la estabilidad financiera se restaur6. Esto a pesar de la agudizaci6n de la
violencia y de la existencia de un entorno internacional adverso.
2.    Sin embargo, el panorama actual del Estado colombiano es preocupante: recientemente el
crecimiento de la economfa se desaceler6, el problema de inseguridad se acentu6, el detrimento
de los indicadores sociales se hizo evidente, el estado de las finanzas publicas se deterior6 dado
el creciente gasto publico y la legitimidad del Estado se lesion6 por el efecto perverso de la
corrupci6n y el clientelismo. Siendo la recuperaci6n econ6mica y la seguridad intema un tema
prioritario del Gobierno, la administraci6n Uribe-Velez esta comprometida con la consolidaci6n
fiscal y con reformas estructurales necesarias para llevar a cabo cambios que permitan que todos
los colombianos se beneficien de las oportunidades que una economia sana les brindara.
DESEMPENO RECIENTE
3.    Hasta comienzos del aiio 2002, los logros alcanzados en materia econ6mica permitieron
el acceso a los mercados intemacionales de cr6dito y garantizaron la estabilidad de la tasa de
cambio. Sin embargo, a mediados de 2002, el pais sufri6 las consecuencias de la inestabilidad
regional: los spreads de los bonos soberanos se ampliaron de manera considerable y el peso se
devalu6 consecuentemente. Esta situaci6n se vio agravada por el aumento en el deficit fiscal y
por una agudizaci6n sin precedentes recientes en el conflicto armado. La agudizaci6n del
conflicto no s6lo ha aumentado la fuga de capitales y cerebros, sino que tambien ha disminuido
la productividad de la economia y la inversi6n privada.
4.    Enfrentado un entomo regional adverso e ingentes problemas fiscales, el nuevo Gobierno
actu6 rapidamente. Primero, propuso (y logr6 aprobar) importantes recortes presupuestales para
el anlo 2003 hasta el punto de que el gasto diferente a intereses crecera este anlo por debajo de la
inflaci6n esperada. Segundo, estableci6 un impuesto por una sola vez al patrimonio y present6 al
Congreso un paquete de medidas tributarias y de control de gasto sin precedentes. Y tercero,
expidi6 decretos que recortaban gastos, prestaciones o subsidios: se redujo a cero la tasa para el
Certificado de Reembolso Tributario (CERT), las prestaciones extralegales a nivel territorial y se
suprimieron las vacantes que no habian sido Ilenadas desde julio de 2002. De manera paralela, el
Gobierno comenz6 el disefio y la implantaci6n de un ambicioso programa para reducir y
reestructurar la administraci6n pdblica.
5.    Por otro lado, el sistema financiero ha continuado su recuperaci6n desde la crisis de 1999,
pero algunas debilidades subsisten. El entorno en el que operan los bancos se ha fortalecido
significativamente con la adopci6n de regulaci6n prudencial consistente con las mejores
practicas intemacionales. La supervisi6n ha mejorado sustancialmente con la continua revisi6n e
implementaci6n de planes de recuperaci6n para instituciones d6biles, coordinaci6n mas estrecha



- 60 -
entre las autoridades de supervisi6n y la adopci6n de regulaciones que permiitan acciones
correctivas rapidas. Los mecanismos de apoyo y fortalecimiento patrimonial han sido
firmemente establecidos por el Fondo de Garantias de Instituciones Financieras, FOGAFIN.
6.    La reciente Ley de Reforma Financiera aprobada recientemente en el Congreso (Ley 795
de 2003) coloca el marco regulatorio del sector al nivel de los estandares internacionales de
regulaci6n y supervisi6n bancaria. La reforma financiera enfatiza el desarrollo de mecanismos
que permitan modemizar algunos aspectos de la legislaci6n vigente y flexibilizar rigideces de la
normatividad actual, corregir debilidades evidenciadas en el proceso de reacomodamiento del
sector financiero, introducir mecanismos de protecci6n a los usuarios del sistema, implementar
nuevos instrumentos para proteger la confianza del publico en las entidades financieras y adecuar
algunas normas a pronunciamientos de la rama jurisdiccional.
XDESEThHPENC MACRGEC@N@MII(CG Y PERPECTRlVAS
7.    Durante el 2002, el crecimiento real del PIB estuvo cerca de 1.7%, la inflaci6n fue de
6.99%, el deficit en la cuenta corriente permaneci6 en niveles cercanos al 2.2% del PIB y las
Reservas Intemacionales Netas crecieron en un monto aproximado de US$ 220 millones.
8.    Por el lado fiscal, al finalizar el anlo 2002, el deficit consolidado fue de 4% del P1B, 1,4
puntos por encima de la meta inicialmente pactada con el Fondo Monetario Internacional. Esta
desviaci6n se explica, en buena medida, por las mayores erogaciones (asociadas en parte al
proceso electoral) y por la desaceleraci6n del crecimiento econ6mico en 2001 y en el primer
semestre de 2002, la cual afect6 de manera adversa el recaudo tributario.
9.    El escenario macroecon6mico para los pr6ximo cuatro ainos parte de un d6ficit en la
cuenta corriente que oscila entre 1% y 2,5% del P1B, una tasa de inversi6n que pasa de 13,7% a
14,6% del P13; en consecuencia la tasa de ahorro domestico aumenta de 11,9% a 12,6% del PIB.
De esta forma, la financiaci6n de la cuenta de capitales se explicara por el monto de inversi6n
extranjera directa y el endeudamiento neto del sector privado y publico.
10.   Por otra parte, el sector privado adelantara un ajuste en el balance ahorro e inversi6n que
oscila entre 0,2% y 1,6% del PIB como resultado de la recuperaci6n de la inversi6n privada. El
ajuste privado es necesario para hacer viable el ajuste publico . Tanto la inversi6n extranjera
directa como el financiamiento extemo neto del sector privado financiaran el deficit extemo en
cuenta corriente, lo cual en la prdctica significa que el sector privado tendra un importante rol en
el financiamiento de la inversi6n que se ejecute durante el siguiente cuatrienio.
11.   El balance del sector publico muestra un deficit que es financiado con recursos de credito
interno (entre 2,1% y 1,7% del PIB) y credito externo (entre 0,3% y 0,4% del PI1B). La
gradualidad del ajuste sobre el exceso de gasto que subsiste en el sector publico se financiara con
el ahorro generado por el ajuste del sector privado. La credibilidad del ajuste en el sector publico
esta dada por el alcance de las reformas estructurales que se estan adelantando.
12.   La consolidaci6n fiscal continuara en el mediano plazo. Se espera que las condiciones
econ6micas mejoren en 2004 y que el crecimiento real del P1B sea superior al 3 por ciento a
partir de este afio. El mayor deficit serfa financiado con inversi6n directa, el continuo apoyo de la
banca multilateral, y el acceso a los mercados financieros internacionales. La polftica monetaria



- 61 -
estara dirigida a apoyar una moderada reducci6n en la inflaci6n dentro de un esquema de
inflaci6n objetivo y tasa de cambio flotante.
13.   El deficit del sector publico se reducira a 2,1 por ciento del PIB en 2004, apoyado por las
medidas expuestas anteriormente. El ajuste reducira la deuda del sector puiblico no financiero por
debajo del 50 por ciento del P113. El Gobiemo espera que la sostenida reducci6n de la deuda, la
continua mejorfa en los indicadores de vulnerabilidad econ6mica y el s6Lido manejo econ6mico
incrementen la confianza y permitan que la calificaci6n crediticia de Colombia mejore y el costo
del endeudamiento disminuya.
14.   Se tiene como objetivo explicito reducir el deficit del sector publico consolidado de 3,6%
del PIB en 2002 a 2,5% en 2003, y continuar la consolidaci6n del proceso en los afios siguientes.
El ajuste fiscal aumentard el superavit primario del sector publico no financiero de 0,7% del PIB
a 3,0%.
REFORMAS ESTRUCTURALES
15.   Para continuar con la senda de crecimiento y estabilidad macroecon6mica, el programa
de Gobiemo esta disefiado para incrementar los ingresos fiscales, reducir el gasto publico, atacar
la corrupci6n, apoyar la recuperaci6n econ6mica y el desarrollo social mediante una mejor
distribuci6n del ingreso, los servicios sociales y las oportunidades. Por ello el programa hace
enfasis en el tema fiscal con el fin de retomar la senda de consolidaci6n fiscal en el afio 2003. La
acci6n fiscal y una agenda estructural s6lida permitiran que estos objetivos se alcancen dentro de
un ambiente de estabilidad macroecon6mica, apoyado por politicas monetarias prudentes y el
fortalecimiento del sistema financiero.
16.   Un elemento central del programa de Gobierno es el fortalecimiento de las finanzas
publicas que busca reducir el deficit del sector publico consolidado. Para alcanzar este objetivo
se estan adelantando acciones tendientes a congelar el gasto corriente del sector publico y a
implementar las medidas tributarias recogidas en la reforma tributaria aprobada recientemente
por el Congreso; ambas acciones se complementaran con reformas estructurales de gran alcance
como la reforma pensional de segunda generaci6n y la reestructuraci6n y disminuci6n del
tamanio del Estado.
17.   Por otro lado, la politica monetaria continuara siendo desarrollada dentro de un esquema
de inflaci6n objetivo con un regimen de tasa de cambio flotante. Igualmente, el Gobiemo
continuara con su polftica de fortalecimiento del sistema financiero, no s6lo a traves de la
expedici6n de una adecuada regulaci6n del sector financiero y del mercado de capitales sino del
fortalecimiento de los esquemas de supervisi6n. Estas acciones se complementaran con acciones
de politica para mejorar las condiciones laborales de los empleados colombianos, de educaci6n y
salud que permita que mas colombianos accedan a servicios educativos y sanitarios, de
protecci6n social para atender sectores desprotegidos de la poblaci6n, de anticorrupci6n para
mejorar la transparencia del sector publico, entre otros aspectos.
18.   Como complemento a las anteriores medidas el Gobiemo ha puesto en marcha una
estrategia integral que le permitira brindar seguridad a todos los sectores de la sociedad,
consolidar la presencia del Estado en el territorio nacional y recuperar el control en las zonas con



- 62 -
influencia de los grupos armados ilegales. La Seguridad Democratica es un elemento vital para la
recuperaci6n de la confianza y, por ende, para el crecimiento econ6mico.
19.   La estrategia de asistencia del Banco Mundial para Colombia, para los pr6ximos cuatro
anios, sera importante para adelantar reformas econ6micas y sociales que contribuyan a aliviar la
situaci6n de pobreza de la poblaci6n vulnerable y a lograr la recuperaci6n y sostenibilidad de los
niveles de crecimiento econ6mico.
PROGRAMA STAND-BY CON EL FONDU) MONETARllD ETERNACRIONAL
20.   Dentro del marco de politica macroecon6mica, el Gobiemo colombiano firm6 un acuerdo
Stand-By (SBA) con el FMI por DEG 1.548 millones para los siguientes dos afios. Uno de los
principales objetivos del programa es la reducci6n del ddficit fiscal en dos puntos del PIB. Esta
reducci6n se lograra con mayores ingresos tributarios, como resultado de nueva reforma
tributaria y con la congelaci6n de los gastos corrientes de la Naci6n por un perfodo de dos anios.
En el mediano plazo, reformas estructurales como la Reforma Pensional -aprobada recientemente
por el Congreso- y el programa de modernizaci6n del Estado, contribuiran a asegurar la
sostenibilidad de la deuda y consolidar el proceso de ajuste iniciado por el Gobiemo. El SBA
incluye un deficit del sector publico no financiero de 2.5% del PIE, un d6ficit de cuenta corriente
de 0.8% del PIB y tasa de inflaci6n entre 5 y 6% como principales metas para el 2003.
.lL   EL PROGR1AMA DIE AIPGYO AL SECTOR FIlNANCflERO
CONT'EXTO'
21.   En 1998 el sistema financiero se encontraba en estado de crisis. En el ambito interno
algunos factores macroecon6micos afectaron el sistema financiero, propiciando el ambiente que
llev6 al desarrollo de la crisis financiera. A estos factores se sum6 una fuerte expansi6n del
credito, en los primeros afios de la decada pasada, que llev6 a un incremento del indice de cartera
en mora y de bienes recibidos en daci6n en pago, afectando la liquidez y posteriormente la
solvencia de las instituciones. El sector cooperativo, por su parte, estaba sumido en una crisis de
confianza que hicieron evidente la debilidad estructural del sistema cooperativo.
22.   En raz6n a esta situaci6n y con el fin de evitar una crisis financiera generalizada, con
efectos negativos sobre la actividad econ6mica, el Gobierno Nacional adopt6 medidas orientadas
a desarrollar operaciones de apoyo, con el concurso de FOGAFIN, y coordin6 medidas con la
Junta Directiva del Banco de la Republica para dotar de liquidez a las entidades financieras.
Gracias a estas acciones el sistema financiero mostr6 claros sintomas de recuperaci6n; se redujo
el riesgo sistemico en el sector y se evit6 la propagaci6n de la crisis. Sin embargo, aun subsisten
algunas debilidades al interior del sector financiero.
GIBJETIIVOS DEL PROGRAMA
23.   El Programa de Ajuste al Sector Financiero, a ser financiado con recursos de libre
destinaci6n del Banco Mundial, tiene como objetivo acompafiar el Gobierno de Colombia en el



- 63 -
proceso de ajuste del sector financiero para garantizar la salud y sostenibilidad del mismo y en la
introducci6n de herramientas que propendan por ajustar la legislaci6n financiera colombiana a
las exigencias del mercado y a los estandares internacionales. Ademas, con el fin de garantizar la
estabilidad del mercado financiero, es necesario alcanzar un balance entre el sector bancario
intermediado y el mercado de valores, que proporcione un eficiente manejo de los riesgos
financieros y de liquidez, que blinde al sistema de situaciones adversas de la economifa.
24.   Para cumplir con este objetivo, el Gobiemo ha identificado un conjunto de medidas
estructurales que permitiran: apoyar el fortalecimiento de la regulaci6n, la supervisi6n y los
esquemas de resoluci6n de entidades asi como el desarrollo del mercado de valores y deuda
puiblica, crear nuevos mecanismos para fortalecer la financiaci6n de vivienda, entre otros.
Confiamos en que este conjunto de reformas permita modernizar y flexibilizar la normatividad
actual e introducir nuevos instrumentos para proteger la confianza del publico en las entidades
financieras.
COMPONENTES DEL PROGRAMA
Implementaci6n de la Ley de Reforma Financiera
25.   La nueva Ley de Reforma Financiera aprobada el pasado mes de diciembre por el
Congreso (Ley 795 del 14 de enero de 2003), que promovi6 el Gobierno Nacional, debera ser
reglamentada e implementada. Esta Ley incluye cambios importantes para la modernizaci6n y
fortalecimiento del sistema financiero asi como un conjunto de reformas que flexibilizara la
normatividad actual e introducira nuevos instrumentos para proteger la confianza del publico en
las entidades financieras.
26.   Los principales aspectos que aborda la reforma y que tendran un impacto positivo para el
sistema financiero y para el crecimiento econ6mico del pais, son:
a) Autorizaci6n, a determinadas entidades financieras, para adelantar nuevas operaciones
como el leasing habitacional, operaciones de microcr6dito, microcredito inmobiliario,
cobertura de la inflaci6n a los cr6ditos individuales de vivienda, entre otros. Se busca
estimular la oferta y demanda de credito a sectores estrategicos.
b) Establecimiento de nuevas medidas de salvamento y resoluci6n de entidades que
permitan superar dificultades con celeridad y preservar asi la confianza del puiblico en el
sistema. Estas medidas son fruto de las lecciones aprendidas de las pasadas crisis
financieras y de la experiencia internacional.
c) Establecimiento de normas de protecci6n a los clientes y usuarios del sistema financiero
mediante figuras que limitan o ajustan el comportamiento de los intermediarios
financieros. Para el efecto, se establecen normas de conducta que deben cumplir los
administradores, revisores fiscales, directores y demas funcionarios de las entidades
vigiladas. Normas relativas a conflictos de intereses y revelaci6n de informaci6n. Y, se
crea la figura del Defensor del Cliente.



- 64 -
d) Ajuste al regimen de algunas entidades financieras puiblicas con el prop6sito de definir su
funci6n dentro del sistema financiero, procurando que su operaci6n se desarrolle de una
forma mas eficiente y transparente.
e) Establecimiento de un regimen sancionatorio objetivo y coherente. Incorporaci6n de
parametros que otorgan mayor responsabilidad al supervisor bancario.
f) Introducci6n de otros ajustes relacionados con el sector financiero que van en la direcci6n
de fijar normas claras y prudentes en el desarrollo de la actividad de intermediaci6n y que
permitan una adecuada supervisi6n.
27.   La implementaci6n de todas estas medidas contribuira a la sostenibilidad del sistema
financiero y a la efectiva resoluci6n de los problemas bancarios, brindando una mayor protecci6n
al ahorro del publico y canalizando de manera mas eficiente los recursos hacia actividades
productivas.
Resoluci6n bancaria
28.   Las enseiianzas que dej6 el manejo de la crisis financiera por la que traves6 Colombia
entre 1998-99 fueron: 1) que la regulaci6n existente no contemplaba la estructura para manejar la
separaci6n de una instituci6n en banco bueno y el malo y 2) que la liquidaci6n de instituciones
financieras es muy costosa para los depositantes.
29.   Por lo anterior, y como se mencion6, un tema importante que se desarroll6 dentro de la
Reforma el Estatuto Organico del Sistema Financiero (Ley 795 de 2003) fue la introducci6n de
mecanismos para resolver problemas de quiebra en los casos de las instituciones muy grandes o
facilitar la salida voluntaria de instituciones. Se cre6 la figura de la exclusi6n de activos y
pasivos como medida previa a la toma de posesi6n que permite transferir rapidamente los
dep6sitos de la instituci6n en problemas a otras instituciones financieras y los activos a un
patrimonio aut6nomo con la posibilidad de que el diferencial sea cubierto por Fogafin.
Adicionalmente, se cre6 la posibilidad de que las entidades pudieran efectuar el desmonte
progresivo cuando asi lo deseen bajo la vigilancia de la Superintendencia Bancaria y la
autorizaci6n para que las entidades fiduciarias puedan recibir los activos de las entidades en
liquidaci6n con el fin de que se agilicen los procesos de liquidaci6n.
Banca publica
30.   Considerando el alto costo de la crisis de la banca publica, el Gobiemo decidi6 que no era
conveniente permanecer como propietario de bancos publicos. En ese contexto, se disen6 una
estrategia consistente en privatizar aquellas instituciones viables y desmontar las no viables
permaneciendo con un s6lo banco publico.
31.   Dentro de la politica general, el Gobiemo tom6 la decisi6n de liquidar BCH y Caja
Agraria, desmontar a BANESTADO y decidi6 vender sus acciones en dos bancos comerciales
(GRANAHORRAR Y BANCAFE). El Gobierno ha iniciado el proceso de privatizaci6n de
BANCAFE que se estima concluir en el presente aflo, si las condiciones del mercado lo
permiten. El estudio de altemativas para determinar el proceso a seguir respecto a
GRANAHORRAR esta presupuestado para el 2004. El Banco Agrario de Colombia, se decidi6
dejar en manos publicas por las externalidades que tiene en cuanto a otorgamiento de creditos y



- 65 -
provisi6n de servicios financieros en zonas apartadas del pals pero con un blindaje especial en
sus estatutos y en la Ley que le permite operar bajo criterios comerciales.
32.   Como complemento de la estrategia de saneamiento y capitalizaci6n de la banca publica,
Fogafin adquiri6 las acciones de la Central de Inversiones S.A. -CISA, para convertirla en
colector. A esta entidad se le transfirieron activos no productivos de los bancos publicos por
valor en libros de $3.2 billones. Con el fin de disminuir el costo fiscal de la banca publica,
reviste especial importancia que la recuperaci6n y realizaci6n de los activos recibidos por CISA
se produzca en el menor tiempo posible. Dado el caracter de entidad publica, su regimen de
contrataci6n y presupuesto no permitfan realizar los procesos con la agilidad que se requiere. Por
lo anterior,- el Gobiemo promovi6 la reforma de su regimen legal la cual qued6 plasmada en la
Ley 795 de 2003, asimilando su regimen al de Fogafin que permite la contrataci6n y manejo del
presupuesto de acuerdo con el derecho privado.
33.   Respecto a la banca de segundo piso, en la actualidad existen cuatro bancos de segundo
piso en Colombia, cada uno de los cuales se especializa en canalizar recursos a sectores
especificos: IFI canaliza cr6dito a las pequenas y medianas empresas, BANCOLDEX al
exportador, FINAGRO al sector agropecuario y FIDETER a los municipios y departamentos.
Dentro de este esquema se puede incluir a FEN y FONADE; la primera se encarga de atender el
sector energetico y la segunda de adelantar estudios de prefactibilidad y factibilidad de proyectos
. Este esquema es muy costoso para el gobierno e impide alcanzar los beneficios de las
economias de escala y el uso 6ptimo de los recursos invertidos.
34.   Por lo anterior, el gobierno esta diseniando una estrategia para consolidar los bancos de
segundo piso. Un primer paso de este proceso que ya fue autorizado por el Consejo de Ministros,
es la transferencia de todas las actividades de segundo piso del IFI a BANCOLDEX y la
liquidaci6n del IFI. Este proceso se espera culminar en julio del presente anio. Una segunda etapa
podria consistir en la integraci6n de los dos restantes bancos de segundo piso con
BANCOLDEX. Sin embargo, la decisi6n respecto a la conveniencia y cronograma de esta
segunda fase se podria producir al final de 2003.
Reforma del Seguro de Dep6sitos.
35.   Debido a la crisis financiera del perfodo 1998-1999 las reservas lfquidas del seguro de
dep6sito fueron consumidas practicamente en su totalidad y fue necesario endeudarse en un valor
aproximado a $2 billones de pesos. Por esta raz6n, el Gobiemo adopt6 la decisi6n de fortalecer
las reservas hasta Ilegar al 5% del total de dep6sitos en el perfodo comprendido entre 2001 y
2006. Por tal motivo decidi6 emprender una reforma mediante la cual se aument6 la prima de
seguro de dep6sito que pagan las instituciones financieras a FOGAFIN de 0.3% a 0.6% en el afno
2001 y a 0.5% en el perfodo 2002-2006. Adicionalmente, en concordancia con las
recomendaciones de Basilea y la Asociaci6n Internacional de Aseguradores de Dep6sitos decidi6
implementar un esquema de prima diferencial con base en devoluciones y cobro de prima
adicional expost basado en el sistema CAMEL desarrollado por la Superintendencia Bancaria.
36.   De acuerdo con la modificaci6n efectuada, el monto asegurado se elev6 de $10 a $20
millones de pesos por depositante y por instituci6n sobre el cual existe un deducible del 25%. En
raz6n de que este deducible afecta a los pequeinos depositantes que son a quienes el seguro de
dep6sito pretende cubrir, en la Reforma Financiera recientemente aprobada se tom6 la decisi6n
de otorgarle a la Junta Directiva de Fogafin la posibilidad de eliminar el sefialado deducible.



- 66 -
37.   Fogafin esta trabajando, adicionalmente, en la modernizaci6n del costo de la garantfa para
los fondos de pensiones y cesantfas y companias de seguros con el fin de que sea diferencial,
reflejando el nivel de riesgo de los portafolios administrados por estas entidades y los riesgos
actuariales en que las companifas aseguradoras incurren.
Fortalecimiento de la supervisi6n bancaria
38.   La supervisi6n del sistema financiero se ha venido fortaleciendo con una estrategia
basada en la estructura de tres pilares que ha esquematizado el Comite de Basilea: autocontrol
por parte de las entidades vigiladas, la supervisi6n y la disciplina de mercado.
39.   En lo relacionado con el autocontrol, se ha puesto enfasis en la implantaci6n de sistemas
de administraci6n de riesgos. Dentro de esta poiftica, las instituciones financieras deben
desarrollar sistemas adecuados para identificar, medir, controlar y monitorear los riesgos de
mercado y credito. Las companifas de seguros tambi6n deben avanzar en la misma direcci6n. De
este modo, el supervisor esta promoviendo un carmbio desde una postura patemalista a una
autosuficiencia donde las entidades vigiladas deben crear sistemas a su medida para administrar
sus riesgos. Esta tendencia y cambio cultural debe llevarlos a un conocimiento detallado de sus
operaciones y a un mayor compromiso con el control de riesgos. En la agenda pr6xima se
encuentran temas relacionados con los sistemas de gobiemo corporativo y de administraci6n del
riesgo de liquidez.
40.   En materia de supervisi6n, el trabajo se ha concentrado en diferentes direcciones con el
objetivo de mejorar la capacidad de cumplir con la misi6n de la Superintendencia: velar por la
estabilidad del sistema financiero y la protecci6n del ahorro del publico. Dentro de este objetivo,
se hicieron cambios al interior de la Superintendencia para permitir la supervisi6n consolidada de
los grupos financieros. Especial atenci6n merece el desarrollo normativo que le permite a la
Superintendencia requerir programas de recuperaci6n con base en sistemas de alerta temprana.
Esta herramienta se us6 exitosamente en el caso de los bancos hipotecarios, produciendo como
resultado un significativo fortalecimiento patrimonial de las entidades. Tambien debe destacarse
el importante avance en la actualizaci6n y ajuste de la normativa regulatoria con la aprobaci6n de
la reformna al Estatuto Financiero a finales de 2002. Por ultimo, la Superintendencia se ha
restructurado para mejorar la coordinaci6n de las unidades de inspecci6n y fortalecer las areas de
regulaci6n y planeaci6n.
41.   Para promover la disciplina de mercado, la Superintendencia ha adelantado un trabajo
permanente para lograr altos niveles de transparencia e informaci6n hacia el publico. La
Superintendencia permanentemente esta aumentando la informaci6n disponible en su pagina
web. Los datos relativos a quejas y sanciones son publicados, ademas de la detallada informaci6n
de las cifras y resultados de las entidades mensualmente y en algunos casos con mayor
frecuencia.
42.   Para concluir, debe destacarse el esfuerzo permanente del Gobiemo por lograr estandares
elevados en los temas del sistema financiero. Por otro lado, en la segunda fase del programa se
establecera un Plan Estrat6gico para fortalecer la Superintendencia Bancaria y se adelantara un



- 67 -
anZ1isis y evaluaci6n de la vulnerabilidad del sistema financiero a factores end6genos y
ex6genos.
Financiaci6n de vivienda.
43.   Con el fin de consolidar la recuperaci6n del sector de vivienda, el Gobiemo ha otorgado
prioridad al desarrollo de esquemas para la financiaci6n de la construcci6n y la vivienda, tales
como:
a) Para estimular la demanda de creditos para la clase media, el Gobierno esta ofreciendo
cubrir el riesgo de inflaci6n incorporado en los creditos de largo plazo a trav6s de un
"swap". El Gobiemo paga la inflaci6n observada y el deudor una tasa fija, establecida en
el 6% por toda la vida del credito. El cubrimiento del riesgo en que incurre el Gobierno se
efectuara a traves de la inversi6n de las reservas disponibles en titulos denominados en
UVR o a traves de la contrataci6n de coberturas en el mercado nacional o intemacional.
b) Otro mecanismo que se introdujo en la Reforma Financiera es el leasing habitacional que
permitira nuevos actores en el mercado de vivienda y que podra beneficiar a los bancos al
reducir el riesgo de credito asociado y movilizar los activos recibidos en daci6n en pago
ademas de reducir los costos de los procesos asociados a la recepci6n de bienes.
c) Por otra parte, el Gobiemo continuara apoyando los esfuerzos para titularizar los creditos
hipotecarios como una forma de reducir el riesgo de balance. Por lo anterior, es factible
que el Gobiemo continue ofreciendo la garantia para los tftulos provenientes de procesos
de titularizaci6n y los bonos respaldados con cartera hipotecaria VIS. En la actualidad se
estan revisando los cglculos con el fin de establecer las primas que se deberian establecer
para las nuevas emisiones de bonos.
d) En la segunda fase del programa se piensa evaluar medidas para aumentar la
competitividad del mercado hipotecario y armonizar la regulaci6n aplicada a las
compafias titularizadoras y las instituciones de credito.
Desarrollo del sector asegurador
44.   La Ley de Reforma Financiera (Ley 795 de 2003) introdujo normas relativas al sector
asegurador con el prop6sito de fijar normas claras y prudentes que permitan la supervisi6n y la
protecci6n de los asegurados e inversionistas de estas entidades y armonizar la legislaci6n
colombiana con los parametros internacionales.
45.   Para estos efectos:
a) Se facult6 al Gobierno para que determine el patrimonio adecuado, eliminandose el
concepto de patrimonio saneado.
b) Se facult6 al Gobierno para que sefiale el patrimonio requerido para operar los
diferentes ramos de seguros que les sean autorizados a las entidades aseguradoras, el
cual hace parte del calculo del capital mfnimo.
c) Se autoriz6 al Gobierno para que determinar el r6gimen de inversiones.



- 68 -
d) Se modific6 los capitales minimos de reaseguradoras.
e) Se facult6 al Gobierno Nacional para que seniale las reservas tecnicas que se requieran
de acuerdo con la naturaleza y realidad de la actividad aseguradora y las
caracterIsticas de cada ramo de seguro.
46.   Todas estas reformas permitiran contar con un sector mas s6lido y competitivo. Ademas,
al incorporar ajustes regulatorios que propenden por armonizar la regulaci6n y supervisi6n de la
actividad de las entidades vigiladas por la Superintendencia Bancaria, incluidas las del sector
asegurador, se lograra una aplicaci6n integral de normas en beneficio de las entidades y los
usuarios de las miismas. En esta direcci6n, en la segunda fase del programa se preve la
implementaci6n de normas de solvencia para el sector asegurador en los diferentes ramos de este
sector.
Desarrollo del mercado de capitales
47.   Para alcanzar un eficiente mercado de capitales es importante corregir y equilibrar el
desarrollo desigual del mercado financiero intermediado y el mercado de valores; por tal motivo
es necesario lograr balancear estos dos segmentos del mercado financiero, los cuales se
encuentran estrechamente relacionados por las instituciones que participan en los mismos, por
los servicios y productos que ofrecen y por la transferencia de riesgos que ellos permiten. De
esta manera, consolidando un mercado de valores transparente, que maneje eficientemente los
riesgos financieros y la liquidez y oferta de productos se aumentara la competitividad y
productividad del pals.
48.   El objetivo del Gobierno en la promoci6n del desarrollo del mercado de valores es
asegurar una adecuada protecci6n de los inversionistas y el logro de la organizaci6n e integridad
del mercado, con el fin de obtener ganancias en la confianza del publico, atraer a los
inversionistas y mejorar la formaci6n de capital. Esto implica la remoci6n de barreras
estructurales, como el fragil marco legal para el mercado, la debilidad en la capacidad de la
Superintendencia de Valores -SV- de realizar la vigilancia y seguimiento de las actividades del
mercado, asi como de investigar y sancionar conductas ilegales, y el establecimiento y
mejoramiento de estandares para los participantes. Muchas de estas reformas se adelantaran bajo
el segundo prestamo de la operaci6n programatica.
49.   Con el fin de proveer un adecuado marco legal para el mercado, el Gobiemo presentara al
Congreso unas reformas legales disenadas siguiendo los principios de IOSCO relativas a la
protecci6n a los inversionistas, logro de un mercado organizado, justo y transparente, y control
del riesgo sistemico. La propuesta consiste en: (i) establecer un marco legal unico y
comprehensivo para el mercado de valores; (ii) disefiar una arquitectura del mercado definiendo
un marco para regular las actividades relevantes, cambiando el actual enfasis de la regulaci6n
orientada a los agentes; (iii) fortalecer a las autoridades estableciendo en forma precisa las
competencias del regulador y del supervisor, y (iv) corregir los arbitrajes regulatorios.
50.   A fin de propiciar el desarrollo del mercado se desarrollaran estrategias relacionadas con
la demanda y con la oferta de valores. En el primer caso, se requiere acercar a los inversionistas
institucionales a la adquisici6n de papeles de renta fija y de acciones, por lo que sera necesario
efectuar cambios en la regulaci6n, asi como establecer las barreras de dichos inversionistas para
acceder a inversiones de riesgo. Desde el punto de vista de la oferta, se trabajara en la



- 69 -
implantaci6n de principios internacionales de contabilidad, auditoria y contaduria por los
participantes en el mercado, al tiempo que se promovera una transformaci6n de las empresas
desde el esquema de propiedad familiar a uno que utilice el mercado de valores,
51.   Enfoque en la Segunda Fase de la Reforma. La reforma al marco regulatorio tambien
incluye aspectos como: (i) los estandares de buen gobiemo corporativo de los emisores (papel de
las juntas directivas, administradores, auditores y otros); (ii) los estandares de profesionalismo y
gobierno de los intermediarios; (iii) la emisi6n de normas y los procedimientos de publicidad;
(iv) el ambiente regulatorio para las emisiones en el mercado publico y las ofertas privadas; (v)
el fortalecimiento de la autorregulaci6n, extendiendola a todos los agentes; (vi) las licencias para
todas las actividades relevantes, que actualmente no estan bajo supervisi6n; (vii) el mejoramiento
de los estandares de los sistemas de compensaci6n y liquidaci6n de valores (marco legal para la
creaci6n de una camara de compensaci6n riesgo central de contraparte, desmaterializaci6n y
anotaci6n en cuenta en registros electr6nicos para los nuevos valores - con algunas excepciones-,
la regla de hora cero y otros); (viii) la unificaci6n de las normas para los fondos de inversi6n
colectiva; (ix) la definici6n clara de infracciones y de sanciones y de criterios para su aplicaci6n,
y otras.
52.   El programa para el desarrollo del mercado de capitales tambien contiene el
fortalecimiento de la capacidad de la SV de realizar la vigilancia del mercado y adelantar
procedimientos de investigaci6n y sanci6n. Ademas de la inclusi6n en el proyecto de ley del
mercado de un catalogo preciso de infracciones y sanciones, y procedimientos especiales para
realizar las investigaciones administrativas, el Gobiemo realizara la modernizaci6n y
reingenieria de la SV, para incorporar (i) la reorganizaci6n de la entidad (por decreto) creando un
area especializada de fondos colectivos, una de intermediarios y mercados para regular la entrada
/ salida y realizar la vigilancia preventiva de los agentes, y una de supervisi6n enfocada en la
investigaci6n y sanci6n de conductas contra el mercado; (ii) la automatizaci6n del sistema de
monitoreo del mercado (incluyendo la vigilancia sobre la actividad de supervisi6n de la bolsa);
(iii) la definici6n de autorregulaci6n, que incluye a todos los participantes en el mercado (bolsa
de valores, sistemas electr6nicos de negociaci6n, sistemas de compensaci6n y liquidaci6n de
valores, y otros); (iv) la coordinaci6n con la Superintendencia Bancaria -SB- respecto de
actividades de supervisi6n comun, incluyendo la supervisi6n de grupos financieros y fondos de
inversi6n colectiva, buscando eliminar el arbitraje regulatorio actual entre los fondos fiduciarios
vigilados por la SB y los fondos de valores que estan en la 6rbita del control de la SV; (v) el
establecimiento de manuales operacionales, y (vi) el mejoramiento de las competencias tecnicas
de los funcionarios.
53.   Para fortalecer los instrumentos de regulaci6n prudencial para supervisar al mercado de
valores, la SV ajustara los requerimientos de capital de las entidades bajo vigilancia, incluyendo
a las sociedades comisionistas de bolsa y a la sociedad titularizadora (armonizados con la
regulaci6n de la SB), con el fin de requerir que dichas entidades asignen capital de acuerdo con
los riesgos que corren en sus operaciones. Ademds, siguiendo estandares internacionales, la SV
establecera parametros para vigilar a estas entidades, orientados en requerimientos de control
interno y estandares elevados de gesti6n y control de riesgo, con el fin de mejorar la disciplina
del mercado.
54.   La SV continuara con la implementaci6n de la regulaci6n de valoraci6n a precios de
mercado, acordada con la SB. Estas entidades y el Banco Central, estableceran un comite asesor
de valoraci6n, con la participaci6n del sector privado, con el fin de obtener estandares de buen



- 70 -
gobiemo en la unificaci6n de las metodologias de valoraci6n para titulos de deuda publica, deuda
publica externa, otros tftulos publicos y valores de deuda privada.
55.   La SV mejorara la regulaci6n de los valores hipotecarios, en aspectos tales como (i) la
implementaci6n de un apropiado esquema de vigilancia de las sociedades titularizadoras; (ii) la
adaptaci6n de normas para valores hipotecarios para hacerlos viables para la movilizaci6n de
hipotecas de bajo desempenlo; y (iii) el mejoramiento de las metodologias de valoraci6n para
categorias especificas para estos tipos de papeles.
56.   La SV hard una revisi6n del marco normativo y de funcionalidad de los sistemas de
negociaci6n para mejorar la transparencia y justicia en la formaci6n de precios en los sistemas de
negociaci6n.
57.   Finalmente, el Gobiemo emitira una gufa con los terminos y condiciones para la
introducci6n del mercado de derivados en Colombia (futuros y opciones, financieros y sobre
productos).
Desarrollo del mercado de deuda
58.   La Direcci6n de Cr6dito P iblico del Ministerio de Hacienda piensa estabilizar, a mediano
plazo, la deuda total de la Naci6n. Esto es, pasar del actual nivel de 53% del PUB a 47% del PIB.
La estrategia conjunta de deuda interna y externa (incluyendo en esta ultima los prestamos
multilaterales) busca darle prioridad a la financiaci6n en deuda intema sobre la externa; para el
2010 se espera una proporci6n aproximada de 60:40 en el stock total de deuda.
59.   En terminos de deuda intema la estrategia es bajar la duraci6n ligeramente a 2.1 anios (de
2.4 afios actuales). Sin embargo, la duraci6n total de la deuda publica no se debe afectar pues
para ello se aumentara la duraci6n de la deuda externa, a traves de la emisi6n de bonos por un
valor de USD 1000 millones, de los cuales USD 500 millones fueron ya a 10 anios y USD 500
millones a 30 afios; igualmente, los prestamos multilaterales tambi6n ayudan a extender la
duraci6n de la deuda extema.
60.   En el tema de deuda externa quedaria un tema adicional que es el manejo del perfil de
vencimientos. Para ello, en este afno se busca actuar en dos frentes: uno, los altos vencimientos
de los afios 2005 y 2008 y dos, arbitrar la diferencia entre la curva para los bonos en d6lares y en
euros, pues los ultimos estan 150 p.b. por encima del mercado americano.
61.   La estrategia de deuda intema es primero modificar el esquema de creadores de mercado
a traves de la ya emitida Resoluci6n 001 del 2003, la cual aumenta la exigencia de la
participaci6n y reduce, hacia delante, el numero de participantes.  Segundo, se busca el
desarrollo de la parte corta de la curva, a lo largo del anio, de la siguiente forma: i.)Para los bonos
TES de 90 y 180 dias, de forma tal que halla formaci6n de precios eficientes que hoy en dia no
existen; ii.) Para los bonos de 1 afio incrementando su liquidez de forma tal que sean el
benchmark de 180 dias a mediados del aiio iii.) Para los bonos de 2 a 5 afios aumentando la
liquidez dandole a los agentes alternativas de inversi6n a papeles diferentes de 10 afios, tales
como las fiduciarias y los fondos comunes de valores.
62.   La estrategia de focalizarse en la parte corta de la curva implicara disminuir la duraci6n
de la deuda. Con ello, tambien se reduce la transferencia del riesgo de duraci6n ya que no hay



- 71 -
desarrollo de esquemas para cubrir este tipo de riesgo. Los plazos de cinco anios seran
colocaciones mas esporadicas que los de los otros plazos, y buscan darle espacio a los
Inversionistas finales como fondo de pensiones y compafifas de seguros, por ejemplo.
63.   Por otro lado, los papeles en UVR estan concentrados en plazos de mas de cinco afios.
La emisi6n de los WVR no son emisiones rutinarias sino esporadicas, y se realizan solo cuando
se puede concentrar un mayor volumen.
64.   Finalmente, la estrategia de deuda interna se basara en los bonos "plain vanilla" y los
indexados a WVR, dandole a estos unos volumenes de liquidez adecuados. Asi, se buscara
reducir el monto actual de bonos poco lfquidos como los indexados a la TRM.
65.   Paralelamente, se complementara el esquema de deuda publica con el desarrollo de
instrumentos paralelos como los repos, las simultaneas, el esquema de transferencia temporal de
valores y, finalmente, los futuros. Todo ello para el aino en curso del 2003.
III.  CONCLUSIONES
66.   La aplicaci6n de las medidas y polfticas previstas por el Gobierno, parte de las cuales se
recogen en el Programa de Ajuste al Sector Financiero, a ser financiado con recursos del Banco
Mundial, permitirdn que el pais pueda contar con un sector financiero sano, necesario para
apoyar la recuperaci6n y crecimiento de la economia, y que propenda por modernizar y
flexibilizar la normatividad actual e introducir nuevos instrumentos para proteger la confianza
del publico en las entidades financieras asi como ajustar la legislaci6n financiera colombiana a
las exigencias del mercado y a los estandares intemacionales.
67.   Por ultimo, el Gobierno esta comprometido con el programa que se presenta en este
documento y ve con beneplacito el acompafiamiento y el apoyo financiero del Banco Mundial a
estos procesos. El Gobierno agradece la pronta consideraci6n por parte del Directorio del Banco
del primer cr6dito programatico de ajuste al Sector Financiero contemplado en el CAS para
Colombia para el perfodo 2003-2006. El Gobierno esta a disposici6n de los equipos tecnicos del
Banco para definir conjuntamnente programas futuros de cr6dito en la medida en que se
consoliden los ajustes y se requieran nuevas acciones en el sector financiero.



- 72 -
Arnnex 3
BANDUNG REGULATlW(DN AND SUPERVEBRN EN CGLO           EA
Recent Regulatory Developments
191. Since the crisis period, a host of circulars in 2001-02 were developed to make more
consistent the implementation of the legal provisions that govern problem debt restructuring
(PDR), as legislated by several Laws in 1999 (546, 550 and 617). There are still, though, some
gaps between this framework governing PDR and existing intemational doctrine (FAS 15 and
others), but the rules provide for a relative complete and integrated framework of disclosure,
valuation and reporting for loans that have been restructured as per the definition under the
circulars.
Analysis and Recommendations
192. Areas where actual PDR practices would benefit from further review and, eventually,
where regulations could subsequently be improved, would include: the scope itself of PDR
transactions, beyond that of problem loan PDRs; the clarification of "sustained performance"
('pago regular y efectivo'); the reversal of provisions following restructuring; associated interest
capitalization rules; the extension of such rules to spun-off and offshore units; and, actual debt
relief tests for PDR long term viability.
193. Market Risk Regulations: The most important recent regulatory achievements relate to
those risks that were not previously supervised. Circular CE 042/2001 includes market risks in
the capital adequacy formula, permitting banks to use internal VAR models or, alternatively, to
follow a standard approach developed by the Superintendency, an option to which most banks
have conformed. In addition, Circular CE 033/2002 - which modifies the overall code of rules
set by CU 100/95 - has regulated in greater detail the valuation of securities portfolios, including
the distinction and transfers among trading transactions, those available for sale, and those held
to maturity.
194. Circular CE 033/2002 has facilitated the implementation of capital charges for market risks
and made more transparent, homogeneous and consistent, the securities valuation rules.
Together with CE 042/2001, it has established, as well, a framework of qualitative market risk
standards to which bank management is expected to progressively adhere to. Though this
Circular could be improved marginally in several aspects, it is presently mnore of an issue of
consistent implementation, and of systematic and homogeneous supervisory enforcement. This
also includes training examiners to carry on evaluations of bank practices in capital market and
trading activities, extending to new off-balance sheet products being traded, and related hedging
strategies.
195. Credit Risk Regulations: The most important regulatory development, albeit, was the
introduction in early 2002 by Circular CE 011/2002, of a new credit risk management system
("Sistema de Administraci6n de Riesgos de Credito, or SARC". SARC extends beyond the
traditional deterministic approach to loan classification and provisioning, and is probably
(besides the Mexican case) among the most advanced and complete regulations of its kind in the
Region. SARC requires bank directors and senior management to set in place an integrated



- 73 -
credit risk management process, including: a) an adequate organization for credit activities; b) a
credit business strategy as well as identified business segments; c) detailed credit policies and
procedures; d) a methodology to measure credit risk; and e) independent controls to ensure
adherence to both the bank's internal self imposed, as well as regulatory requirements.
196. These qualitative standards are further complemented with an advanced approach to loan
classification and provisioning. Bankers are given two distinct alternatives for that purpose: i)
using the traditional regulatory deterministic approach - composed of the customary five risk
grades with pre-established provisioning levels; or ii) using internal methodologies based on
appropriate procedures and data to rate credits, by risk grades in homogeneous segments.
Bankers are expected to associate a probability of default and an estimated loss (given default) to
each risk grade.
197. Banks have, therefore, the possibility of provisioning loans based on the expected loss
estimated using the two previous basic parameters, provided that the Superintendency has
approved the complete credit risk management framework. CE 010/2001 though, establishes as
a floor for provisioning purposes the deterministic regulatory levels, a rule which would need to
be reviewed in light of the actual progress achieved by bankers in developing their
methodologies.
Diagnosis and Issues Encountered in Regulation and Supervision
198. With few minor exceptions, already in the course of being addressed, the Colombian
regulatory framework for banking would appear very advanced, and close to achieving a
substantial degree of convergence with best international standards of regulatory practice.
Accordingly, the fundamental issues going forward would relate more to the effectiveness,
efficiency, and capacity of Supervision, rather than to the adequacy of the regulatory framework.
This is precisely the focus of the Superintendency for moving forward: to center its development
efforts into strengthening its supervisory processes and procedures, providing effective
incentives to bankers to operate prudently; to improve its consistency in evaluating the latter; to
communicate better with the industry and be able to elicit remedies, and limit resorting to ex
post sanctioning; and to improve the dept and capacity of its supervisory staff, providing them
adequate training and compensation.
199. Under the future Basle Pillar Two, supervisors are expected - as several developed
countries already do - to require additional add-ons to the minimum ratio, including the use of
trigger capital ratios, for those institutions whose risk management frameworks exhibit
circumstances that warrant imposing higher operational capital requirements.
200. Development of the Supervisory Framework: The approach to supervision by the SB has
also been evolving in tandem with regulations and the priorities imposed by events in (and the
condition of) the financial system. In 1998, it decisively moved away from focusing in off-site
surveillance to the much more intensive emphasis placed today in examining solvency. The
agency recognizes, however, the need to further its approach, incorporating risk-focus elements
into its culture, and adjusting, accordingly, its planning processes, policies and procedures.
201. For the Superintendency, its actual effectiveness depends crucially on the rigor and depth
of onsite examinations, including the quality and transparency of financial and risk exposure
information reported by banks. Thus, besides effectively incorporating risk parameters to
supervision, the Superintendency is planning additional efforts to solidify and make more



-74 -
consistent practices among teams of examiners, specially regarding asset and earnings reviews -
and the assessment of group related activities --, as preconditions for evaluating the sufficiency
of capital and, hence, financial solvency.
Consistency and Dissemination of Procedures
202. It is clear to the Superintendency that the recent fast change experienced in regulations has
outpaced the framework (strategic plan and priorities, processes and policies, procedures and
personal capacities) under with which it has been operating. Its purpose is to make that
framework more consistent among its different sub-sectoral Intendencies (called "Delegations"
or Delegaturas), ensuring that quality assurance in terms of adherence, consistency, uniformity,
effectiveness, and efficiency, is formally instituted within the Directorate of Supervision.
203. With the formalization of its operating policies around risk assessments of banks, the
Superintendency will seek venues to institutionalize its evolving culture across Administrations
and Superintendents. In this manner, the Superintendency is aiming at elevating the stability of
its "prudential concerns", making them durable, and gaining in this manner, further
independence and autonomy. Moreover, the Superintendency is aware of the need to foster its
image as provider of a level playing field to industry participants, while retaining the necessary
flexibility to carry on its duties. To that end, the Superintendency intends to communicate
publicly how it intends to supervise, in order to appear transparent about the criteria governing
its main decisions and interpretations, so that supervision becomes more predictable and
consistent across the system, further gaining in stature vis-a-vis the bankers.
Key Future Refonns to be Undertaken by the Superintendency
204. Besides making more precise the scope of oversight of consolidated financial institutions,
by means of more consistent and uniform definitions of related parties and financial groups, the
reform effort will ensure that adequate combined risk limits are established for overall groups of
insiders of financial institutions, including -- but not limited to -- those companies where
significant shareholders of a bank, maintain or exert control - individually or as a whole -- as
well as appropriate capital deductions for any limit excesses.
205. Remedial Actions and Enforcement of Sanctions: The Superintendency will make public -
as necessary by means of a combined set of regulations, policy stances, and process descriptions
on its web site -- a revised regime for remedial actions and enforcement sanctions, consistent
with the purpose mentioned before. It will further develop the provisions of Articles 208 to 212
of Law 795/2003, establishing a more efficient, transparent and objective graduated regime of
remedial actions and enforcement sanctions. Such regime will extend beyond formal regulatory
compliance and consider the relative and prospective levels of financial condition, adherence to
internal governance and risk management standards, and progress in implementing
reorganization plans approved or previously requested by the Superintendency.
206. The regime will add incentives for bankers to abide by prudent standards of business and
financial practice, as well as to comply with law and regulations, including objective rules to
determine what levels of capital, in addition to the minimum established, the Superintendency
will require for those individual institutions with adverse risk profiles, including: lesser
granularity of regulated risks; greater accumulations of unregulated risks such as interest rate risk
in the banking book, liquidity and operational risks; and lower than warranted adherence to risk
management and internal control standards.



- 75 -
207. Rather than resorting solely to imposing pecuniary sanctions, the new regime will focus in
eliciting positive and effective responses from bank owners, and from directors and senior
management, for adopting effective remedies in addressing concerns of the Superintendency. A
such, the regime will explore additional venues to provide incentives to bankers to bank
prudently, including operational limitations to mitigate risk, and other alternatives. The
Superintendency intends to explore for such purposes, whether to use individual regulatory
capital triggers and operational ratios in excess of the generally minimum capital adequacy
established. This would thus advance the introduction of new supervisory standards put forward
by pillar two of the new BIS Accord being developed. Moreover, the regime will determine
proportional sets of economic sanctions, applied both to banks and accountable individuals when
remedies and orders approved by the Superintendency are not complied with, including explicit
identification of the degree of gravity of offenses committed.
208. Internal Corporate Governance Standards: The Superintendency will implement, as well,
the codes of conduct and duties required by Articles 12 to 15 of Law 795/2003, including a more
detailed set of standards for board processes, their functioning and their operating committees.
Among other aspects, the standards will expand, to ensure that directors and senior management
create an adequate control environment, and operate effective internal control systems --both
organizational and procedural-- as well as robust and independent internal audit and risk
management functions for assessing adherence to such controls, internal policies and procedures,
and to goals set for the institution. These standards will add and complement those discussed
earlier that have been already issued for market and credit risk management. They will be
followed, as part of the second operation, with further themes, such as liquidity risk
management, creating in this manner a robust framework of qualitative and enforceable bank
business and financial standards.
209. Conflicts of Interest: The Superintendency will establish, as well, regulations to
implement Articles and 35 to 36 of the Financial System Reform Law. These will consist of
measures to mitigate conflicts of interest under major decisions and transactions where
significant shareholders of an institution, directors or senior management, are parties. These
regulations will include also measures and supporting information systems to improve the
identification of such transactions including those entered with parties related to the above
persons where they exert control or significant influence; to track the performance of all related
operations both at an aggregated and individual level; and to facilitate conducting comprehensive
supervision of financial conglomerates and related non-financial sector concerns.
210. Credit Risk Parameters: Based on the recommendations of the expert evaluation carried
out regarding experiences in supervising the implementation of Circulars on integrated credit risk
management processes by banks, the Superintendency will determine which additional
refinements are necessary to ensure a satisfactory, risk contained migration by qualifying banks
to the new credit loss provisioning regime. These refinements will include additional capital-
compatible regulatory incentives that could be appropriate and feasible to introduce, in order to
facilitate a level playing field for the most advanced risk management practitioners in the system.



-76 -
Anxneiw 4
EVALUAT'IDN OF THE INURANCIE REGULATORY F            RAMEWOR    WITH
RESPECT TO hAIlS CORE P     NCIf'LES
BACKGROUND AND DEVELOPMIENTS IN THE COLOMBIAN JNSURANCE SECTOR
Adequacy According to IAIS Core Principles
211. The adequacy of the insurance sector legal, regulatory and supervisory framework was
conducted by an independent consultant to determine the degree of adherence of Colombia's
insurance regulation to the Core Principles established by the International Association of
Insurance Supervisors (IAIS).
Organization of the Insurance Supervisor (C.P. #1)
212. The Insurance Supervisor's Office ("Delegatura de Seguros") at the SB is in charge of the
supervision of the insurance sector. This Department has a staff of around 70 professionals and
assistants. The staff is mainly organized around three teams and each of them is in charge of the
control of a set of companies through on and off site financial examinations. For this purpose,
the insurance entities are classified into different categories: Foreign companies (these are
supervised by one team that increasingly relies on an "early warning system" and risk analysis),
conglomerates, domestic independent companies and "capitalizadoras". The group of local
entities is split into two sets (each of them supervised by a specific team). Insurance brokers are
also supervised by this Delegatura. Finally, two other Divisions of this Delegatura have specific
functions different from direct supervision of the licensed entities: One is in charge of legal
control, filing of policies and keeping the registers of reinsurers and insurance brokers, and the
other looks after internal control, elaboration of statistics and preparation of proposed
regulations. Within the SB there is a Committee where the Delegates of the different sub-
sectoral Departments participate with the Superintendent. The Committee is in charge of
evaluating the "fit and proper" criteria for senior management of insurers as well as taking care
of Corporate Governance issues.
213. The SB has two other Departments that provide services to all its areas of supervision and
hence to the Delegatura de Seguros: Legal support (Direcci6n Juridica and Direcci6n de
Regulaci6n) and technical and actuarial support (Direcci6n Tecnica). In general terms the
Delegatura de Seguros at the SB is sufficiently staffed and well organized. It is considered to
have efficiently developed its role of controlling the Insurance Sector. However the challenges
derived from the new shift towards a "risk based" supervision require new resources and training
programs for existing staff. Finally, in this new environment, the technical and actuarial control
will become more sophisticated and specialized, very possibly requiring that the Delegatura form
its own team of actuaries instead of relying entirely on more generalist actuaries from the SB's
Technical Division.
Licensing and Changes in Control (C.P.'s # 2-3)
214. All Insurance entities must be incorporated in Colombia (even if 100% of the share capital
is foreign owned) and they must seek a specific authorization for each line of business ('ramo')
in which they wish to operate. The Law establishes that there must be separate legal entities for



- 77 -
life and non life products. However non life companies can sell certain group life contracts. The
legislation leaves a grey area when defining which activities are subject to insurance regulation
in the fields of pre paid health care (with some type of HMOs not being considered insurance
entities) and pre paid burial services (also explicitly excluded by Law 795/2003).
215. All insurance brokers are also required to register at the SB. The changes in control of the
shares of registered entities must be duly communicated to the SB. The SBC has the authority to
object to new shareholders if it finds that such a change might endanger the solvency of the
company or challenge "fit and proper" principles.
Corporate Govemance (C.P. # 4)
216. The insurance regulation makes no reference to corporate governance principles. The
corporate law and the recent law regulating the Financial System (Law 795/2003) addresses
issues such as the role and responsibilities of the board of director, conflicts of interest, checks
and balances, and some rights of minority shareholders. However, it does not explicitly
empower the SB to request companies to adopt specific corporate govemance principles.
Nevertheless, the law requires insurers to establish procedures for dealing with complaints from
customers; to monitor all risks involved in the development of their activity, and to have external
auditors.
217. The law does not establish sufficient powers for the SB, in the area of corporate
govemance. The SB thus has resorted to administrative procedures (the most recent is the
Circular Externa 052 of December 20th 2002 that modifies the Circular Externa 007 of 1996)
which only indirectly address corporate govemance issues, namely through the request to
produce written policies that define the administration of financial, operational and reputational
risks. The 795/2003 law also requires that financial institutions set adequate procedures to deal
with customer complaints. The insurance regulation is in the process of being amended to allow
the SB to require boards of directors to adopt specific corporate govemance mechanisms.
Internal Controls (C.P. #5)
218. The insurance regulation does not enable the SB to require the establishment of internal
controls to address such issues as: organizational structure, separation of critical functions, cross
checking of activities, and decision making procedures. There is also no special provision in the
law regarding the requirement for companies to establish an ongoing intemal audit function.
This relates to the lack of positive regulation on corporate governance.
219. Notwithstanding the absence of a specific regulation on internal controls, the insurance
regulation enables the SB to supervise and review intemal controls approved by the board of
directors. Supervision of internal controls is achieved by the external auditors and also by the
SB during on-site inspections as the law states that the SB has the authority to review
information on organization, operations, accounting practices, investments, and other
information deemed necessary.
220. Regulation enables the SB to require directors to establish standards for underwriting and
investment risks. Underwriting standards are to be clearly established for each product. It is
required that new products be filed at the SB to allow their review. Companies are only required
to file documentation (sample contracts and technical notes) relative to new products, or any
modification to existing ones. However in practice most insurers will wait until they receive an



- 78 -
explicit response from the SB before launching any new products or introduce changes. The SB
ensures that products are legal and fair.
221. The regulation enables the SB to require directors to establish standards and monitoring
controls on fair treatment of customers; proper disclosure to customers of policy benefits, and
risks and responsibilities. Companies must advertise their products in a clear and precise way in
order not to engender confusion about the services that the company offers. The SB has the
power to order companies to modify or suspend marketing activities if these principles are not
followed.
222. Finally, the regulation requires the establishment of a formal system for the analysis of
insurance risks (SEARS) that must be approved by the SB. Depending on the criteria that the SB
uses for those approvals, it could play an important role towards the reinforcement of the internal
control procedures that insurers should have in place.
Prudential Rules (C.P.'s # 6-10)
223. The law establishes standards with respect to the assets and liabilities of companies
licensed to operate in the jurisdiction. Assets should be invested with the aim of maintaining
adequate levels of safety and liquidity. The decrees that regulate reserving requirements are
839/1991, 2345/1995, 2347/1995 2655/1997, 2656/1998 and 94/2000. The Decree 94/2000 is
further developed by Decree 2779/2001.
224. In order to guarantee a safe level of diversification, maximum limits are established on
generic investments by type of assets. Further detailed limits are set for some investments.
Investment in real estate and in loans is not permitted. Until relatively recently there were no
adequate rules in place for the investment of technical reserves. This was finally changed in
2000. However, the practices of many insurers had been so loose until then that the change of
criteria resulted too difficult to be implemented at once. For that reason, the rules on the
investment of reserves (94/2000) established a gradual implementation of the investment rules.
The percentage of the reserves that must comply with the investment rules have been phased as
follows:
o  By December 31st ,2000::  45%
o By December 315t ,2001:  50%
o By December 315t ,2002:  55%
o By December 31st ,2003:  60%
o  By December 31st ,2004:  70%
o By December 31st ,2005:  80%
o By December 31st ,2006:  90%
o By December 31st ,2007:  !00%
225. Concentration of investments is dealt with by limiting the risks for each institution..
Finally, a proper matching in the denomination of assets, is required for contracts with sums
insured which are denominated in foreign currencies. Derivatives should only be used as a
hedging instrument, not as an investment instrument.
226. As a general rule assets are to be valued at market price. For those more illiquid assets that
are not frequently traded, some rules are established to ascertain a fair market value. Some fixed



- 79 -
income assets can be earmarked by the insurer and then would be valued at their acquisition cost
plus the corresponding accrual of the financial return. The insurer has to keep these bonds in its
investment portfolio until maturity.
227. The Technical Provisions (policy liabilities) required by the Law 795/2003 are:
D Unearned premium reserve (called the reserve for unexpired risks)
o Mathematical reserves (for life policies)
o  Outstanding claims reserve
o Claim stabilization reserve (contingency fund)
228. An important rule introduced by Law 795/2003 is that it empowers the SB to define the
additional types of reserves that insurers will have to establish according to the needs of each line
of business. Under these rules, the actuarial valuations of technical provisions for the life
business must be conducted using the same basis used for pricing the corresponding product.
For non life operations the provision for pending risks is equal to the unearned premium at the
moment of calculation, assuming a uniform distribution of the risk over time. The SB is
preparing regulations that will require a better establishment of appropriate technical provisions
for claims incurred but not reported, although no mention seems to be made at this stage for
claims incurred but not reported fully.
229. Most of the investments for the technical provisions and the minimum capital requirement,
consist on government bonds. Bonds from private issuers and shares are well below the
maximum limits permitted by the regulatory framework. According to the present rules in force,
an insurer could invest 100% of its technical provisions in the private sector, provided it fulfilled
the diversification criteria. To a certain extent the existing investment mix is a consequence of
the availability, or lack of, of alternatives in the capital market that would otherwise attract the
insurer as a prudent investor.
230. Several issues could be taken into consideration to improve the valuation of assets and
liabilities. The assets earmarked until maturity are possibly too strictly locked into the portfolio.
This might bring difficulties in optimizing the reinvestment policy as it produces a shorter
timeframe over which the reinvestment decision has to be made. It would be advisable to
analyze if a certain degree of flexibility could be introduced in line with some general accounting
principles.
231. In the cases where the method of determination of the technical provisions is based on the
same assumptions that were used for fixing the premiums (contractual assumptions), the results
would not reflect the changes that might have occurred for the risks covered since the premium
was determined. The resulting level of provisions would thus not reflect in those cases, what the
true underlying liability was. This effect produces an over valuation of the life liabilities when
the rate of interest used in the calculations is below the expected return on investments and the
mortality tables show a margin compared to actual experience. However in other scenarios, the
liabilities might be undervalued. In non life branches the unearned premium reserve might not
be sufficient in the cases where expected risks exceed that portion of the premium.
Market Conduct (C.P. # 11)
232. Companies are required to establish standards of fair treatment of customers, and proper
disclosure to customers of the policy benefits. Companies must advertise their products in a



- 80 -
clear and precise way in order not to engender confusion about the services that the company
offers. The SB has the power to order companies to modify or suspend marketing, if these
principles are not followed. Adherence to market conduct principles contained in the Law, is
evaluated during on-site supervisions.
Monitoring, Inspection and Sanctions (C.P.'s # 12-14)
233. On-site inspections have as the objective, the control and evaluation of revenues, liabilities,
capital, operations, intemal controls, and any element that could affect the financial position of a
company. Two types of inspections are foreseen: (a) Ordinary, and (b) Special.
234. The first type of inspection belongs to the annual program of inspections. Special
inspections can be the result of off site analysis of financial and operational information that the
insurer has filed at the SB, or it can be provoked by an external report of an incident. The
regulations establish a detailed framework for disciplinary measures that the SB can adopt
depending on each situation (failure to facilitate the requested information, mismanagement,
fraud, etc.). Economic sanctions are decided in the case of most of infringements of their duties
by insurers, brokers or agents, but in extremes cases the SB is allowed to withdraw the operating
license or even request the liquidation of the insurance entity.
Cross-border Business Operations (C.P. #15)
235. There are no relevant cross border operations conducted by insurers licensed in Colombia,
except in the cases of Marine Insurance. No relevant issues have been raised regarding this
principle.
Supervisory Coordination and Cooperation, and Confidentiality (C.P.'s # 16-17)
236. The SB pays special attention to international collaboration with the Insurance Supervisory
Authorities in other countries, especially in the area of uncovering money laundering schemes.
However its communications to some Insurance Commissioners or similar authorities are not
followed by any relevant feedback that would allow the SB to follow up on cases towards
subsequent stages. The SB is rarely informed about the measures taken by the foreign supervisor
against foreign companies illegally operating in Colombia. In some cases the actions taken, end
up successfully uncovering money laundering schemes. This is the case of a recent action taken
jointly by the Colombian, U.K. and U.S. authorities together with the Isle of Man customs
department, that allowed the seizure of around US$ 8.75 million. The complex scheme had been
designed to launder the proceeds of Colombian drugs traffickers through the international life
insurance industry in the USA and through international finance centers.
237. Until very recently, the law in Colombia did not allow the SB to become a member of
multinational organizations of Insurance Supervisory Authorities where it had therefore just sit
as an observer. The law 795/2003 allows the SB to become full member of ASSAL (Asociaci6n
de Superintendentes de Seguros de America Latina) and IAIS (the International Association of
Insurance Supervisors)
The SEARS Approach
238. The SB, through External Circular No. 052 of Dec. 2002, established the requirement for
adopting formal procedures in the analysis and measurement of all risks that affect the



- 81 -
development of activities of any insurance company. Each insurer is requested to produce its
own SEARS method (Sistema Especial de Analisis de Riesgos de Seguros) which must be
approved by the SB. A time schedule for the implementation of SEARS has also been issued:
(i) The first Phase must be submitted for approval by the SB before October 2003 and
consists of the design and adoption of the general structure of the system, including:
o Written policies concerning risk management;
o Mechanisms and procedures for the identification of risks that affect each of the
areas of exposure;
o Design of the human resources and technical means necessary for the
management of these risks;
o Design of the procedures for controlling these risks;
o Design of the mechanisms that will be used for the adequate control of these risks;
o Mechanisms that will assure a proper internal communication of the policies and
procedures of control;
o Tools that will be used for training and preparing the staff in charge of managing
the risks within the company.
239. Once approved by the SB, the insurer will count on a further ten months for the
implementation of the structure of SEARS.
240. The second Phase consists of the design, adoption and practical use of the methodologies
for the measurement of the risks. Beyond further risks that the insurer might consider, this norm
requires the use of at least the following concepts:
o Credit risk in the insurance business (policyholders, reinsurers, brokers, agents,
other insurers);
o Insurance market risk;
o Insurance related liquidity risk;
o Underwriting risk;
o Pricing risk;
o  Reduction in premiums (commercial discount) risk;
o Concentration risk;
o Risk of asymmetric conditions (coverage, or other conditions of direct insurance
different from conditions of reinsurance);
o Risk of under-reserving;
o Legal risk;
o Operational risk;
o Strategic risk; and
o Reputational risk.
241. It has not yet been disclosed how the implementation of SEARS will be used to determine
the minimum solvency requirements that will be requested from each insurer, which would
pertain to the time when full implementation of a Risk Based Capital environment would be
achieved. To a certain extent, this would arise in a third phase when insurers will need to
implement the quantitative models for those risks identified as measurable, during the second
phase.



- 82 -
Overall Assessment of the Sector
242. In general terms, the SB, and more specifically the "Delegatura de Seguros" within the SB,
is properly developing its controlling function over the activities of the entities that shape the
insurance sector in Colombia. Very recently, law 795/2003 provided the govemment with
flexible regulatory powers in the insurance industry with respect to the establishment of criteria
ruling which technical reserves need to be created by insurers and to determine the minimum
required solvency margin. All these changes are taking place as part of the new trend
emphasizes the regulatory and supervisory activities for an adequate control by insurers
themselves, of the risks underlying all areas within their activity.
243. In the near future the SB should use these new tools and introduce necessary regulations to
require insurers to build up those technical reserves in order to better reflect a prudent estimation
of their liabilities at each moment in time, and, on the other hand, redefine the minimum
solvency margins per line of business (including a revision of the minimum capital requirement).
This would not only reinforce the financial strength of insurers but also serve as a stimulus
towards the introduction of best practices in terms of underwriting, investment of reserves,
reinsurance arrangements, relationship with clients, and consolidation of business growth
strategies. However, for the time being it is advisable to pursue improvements under the present
methodology which uses the European formula for fixing capital and minimum solvency
margins, and a classical reserving approach.
244. A proper implementation of the SEARS scheme requires a significant cultural change on
the side of the insurance industry but also on the staff of the SB, both in terms of broadening the
knowledge base and management style. At present, the market might not be prepared for such a
drastic change. While this phase of analysis might be a good exercise for bringing awareness on
the new priorities that need to be introduced and will certainly have beneficial consequences as it
will encourage the adoption of formal procedures with a stronger emphasis on risk management,
the phase of implementation might come under the present schedule, too soon to have the SB and
the industry count on the necessary resources to guarantee a successful result.
245. There is a very relevant international trend to shift the insurance regulation and supervision
towards a risk based system that will require changes in many countries similar to what the
SEARS attempts to achieve in Colombia. However, the different forums where the discussions
are taking place to set the standards and criteria over which those changes will be based (the
International Association of Insurers Supervisors, IAIS; The International Actuarial Association,
IAA; and The European Union Commission) have not yet reached final conclusions or
recommendations. In that regard it would be prudent to count with such references and
benchmarks before forcing any full implementation of a new system.



- 83 -
Annex 5
THE GOVERNMENT SECURITIES MARKET AND ITS LINKS TO THE DOMESTIC
CAPITAL MARKET
DIAGNOSIS FOR THE MEDIUM TERM FRAMEWORK
246. Three key areas are identified as the main axes to support a comprehensive reform in the
market of public debt instruments:
*  debt market development with special emphasis in the near term, on the definition of an
operational debt issuance strategy;
* strengthening of the money market with special emphasis on the development of local
repurchase agreements and treasury bill markets; and
* a package of actions to improve risk measurement and management by various market
participants. In this last area, improvements in reporting and related analysis of balance
sheet risks of end investors will be a special focus of reform efforts in the near term.
247. Debt Market Development: There are two key priorities in the debt market development
area. Given the importance of being able to build credibility as the large local debt is rolled over,
an explicit operational short-term debt issuance strategy must be expeditiously articulated by the
authorities. This will release time so that work can commence on the second priority: a longer-
term debt issuance strategy. To be effective, any strategy will have to be developed and
approved under strong and clear governance arrangements. The authorities will, as an element of
such a governance arrangement, re-constitute and strengthen the debt management committee
where high-level issues pertaining to this area can be discussed, and conflicts can be resolved.
248. To reduce vulnerabilities in the private sector from the transfer of market risks, the
government has had to limit the debt duration. Although this increases interest rate refinancing
risk for the authorities, the ability of the private market to absorb and manage these risks needs to
now be explicitly taken into account in the formulation and design of the debt issuance strategy.
249. The authorities currently decide on instruments and amounts to issue very shortly before
each auction. Transparency and predictability is sacrificed both by this practice, and by the
recently introduced global limit for the auctions. Currently market perception is that the funding
strategy is driven by short term shifting views on interest rates. This increases uncertainty in the
market and impacts funding costs. The authorities will develop a clearly formulated funding
strategy at least for the year 2003, to be discussed by the debt management committee and
approved.
250. Money Market Development: An essential building block to support risk measurement and
management, is development of the money market. Instruments such as T-bills or CDs are the
natural instruments to be held in the portfolios of money market mutual funds. The lack of
money market development has been due in part, to the debt issuance strategy that has not
focused adequately on development of the short term T-Bill market. At another level the
presence of two major liquidity providers, the Treasury (DTN) and the Central Bank (BR), with
different conventions in such key areas as haircuts for market risk, has also had an impact. DTN



- 84 -
and BR alone, account for almost 80 percent of all activity in Colombia's RP markets. Beyond
this, the nature of repo contracts (known as "repo", "simultanea" or "fondeo abierto") themselves
are not adequately harmonized. Tax, accounting, and legal uncertainties also have hindered repo
market development. Finally, the absence of money market cash instruments also hinders the
development of safe and sound hedging markets given that derivative contracts must be settled
with cash prices which are reliable and have integrity.
251. In the near term, immediate priority needs to be given to the development of the RP
markets. Actions would include: fostering adoption of a master repo agreement, harmonization
of market conventions (e.g. haircuts); and efforts to clarify the tax, accounting, and legal
framework for repo's. Subject to a number of considerations, including the conservation of
human resources in the Ministry of Finance, and the need to assure more effective day-to-day
monetary policy, consideration might be given to a gradual transfer of government cash holdings
into the Central Bank account. Such a transfer could help reduce the presence of the public
sector in the RP markets, and allow for a more even distribution of liquidity, given the very
restrictive counterpart policies that the DTN must employ.
252. In the medium term there a new approach to the short-term T-bill market is warranted.
There is a need to establish a revolving T-bill program of significant size in maturities of 90,
180, and 360 days. This is not just a question of lifting the issuance limits for T-bills set by the
BR (the "cupo"), based on arguments relating to the avoidance of refinancing risk and crowding
out, but on changing the current incentives of the DTN to develop this market. As noted, the
DTN is a net placer of funds in the money markets and seen in isolation, this funding source is
not needed. Although implementation of a T-bill program may reduce duration of the debt and
increase refinancing risk, it can substantially help in reducing the interest-rate risks being
transferred to the so-called money market funds.
253. When coupled with regulatory reforms applicable to the funds so as to distinguish a money
market mutual fund from other funds in terms of the liquidity and duration of the assets, it is
clear that these entities would be the natural buyers of short term securities. The claim that
issuance of T-bills will crowd out private issuers from the market by possibly inhibiting the use
of CDTs and other bank liabilities that make up the deposit (DTF) rate, seems questionable. This
is because the vast majority of funds are in effect owned and operated by Fiduciaries or
management companies which are themselves part of banks. It is also clear that at times the T-
bill cut off rate may exceed the DTF rate. In this context it is important to point out that at times
the RP rates of the Central Bank have exceeded the DTF rate.
254. First, in the near term there is a need to introduce a package of measures relating to the
capital regime, risk management guidelines and reporting practices while continuing to
strengthen and broaden the valuation framework. The SV started with the issuance of new
capital regulations for independent broker dealers that corrects problems with the definition of
capital and also imposes risk related capital requirements. This, coupled with other changes in
the regulatory framework, will also lead to improvements in the solvency of primary dealers.
For funds, actions are being taken to assure that there will be timely reporting of interest rate
risks for all types of funds. For credit entities this information has been available since January
2002.
255. Second, measures are being prepared to improve surveillance of trading and self-regulatory
organizations such as BVC, MEC, DECEVAL, SEN, and DCV. Such actions are intended to
improve the integrity of asset pricing data and of information relating to underlying securities in



- 85 -
custody. To improve surveillance, inspections and enforcement for credit and other institutions,
the BR, SB, and SV are considering expanding agreements (MoUs), which will permit
development of a more unified and coordinated approach. Deploying the capacity and
specialized knowledge available within the BR via use of such staff in surveillance and
inspections, can strengthen these functions rapidly. The nature of disclosures made by different
types of funds, in such areas as investment policies and risks, valuation of units offered, fees,
etc., are all being revised to allow for more effective discipline and monitoring by the market.
Finally, over the longer term, the professionalization of the securities and financial services
industry needs to be continued and strengthened. More stringent certification processes for such
areas as trading, asset management, brokers/dealers, sales of securities and others, need to be
considered. The success in improving the ability of the private sector to bear more risk will also
be a function of the types of instruments they will have available to invest in. This will, in turn,
depend on the progress made in development of all segments of the public debt market including
the T-bills as well as repos. Consistent with this, a special review is needed of all investment
regulations applicable to end investors including the many forms of funds. Special hedging
instruments, such as derivatives traded over the counter or on the exchange, will become relevant
once the liquidity of the cash markets is improved and when indices with integrity are developed
with which to settle such contracts.



Annex 6
DETAIL OF ACTUAL REFORMS AND POTENTIAL PROPOSALS COMPRISING THE ONGOING
POLICY DIALOGUE WITH THE GOVERNMENT UNDER THE MEDIUM TERM PROGRAM
INITIAL REFORMS                                                        SUBSEQUENT REFORMS UNDER DISCUSSION/CONSIDERATION
Banking Regulation and Supervision                                                           Banking Regulation and Supervision
Approval of najor reforms to the Financial System Law                                        Progress achieved in the full implementation and regulatory enforcement of the Financial System Law
New Financial System Law enacted tncluding reformsfor (a) ensuring bank board independence and
strengthening the code of conductfor managers and directors, (b) a sanctions regime regarding  Decrees for implementing the funancial reform law are adopted, and circulars are issued by the SB including
accountability of bank adrnunistratnve officers, Board directors, auditors and other officials, (c)for the  amendments to adapt existing regulations for the supervision of financial conglomerates and group related
consolidated supervision of economic groups, SB's powers extended to inspect companies not directly  parties, to international standards
subject to SB supervision, (d) a regime establishedfor conflict of interest breaches involving operations
with subsidianes or related institutions, (e) clanty is made regarding SB's powers to impose penaltiesfor  A settlement window of lower cost and earlier in the daily cleanng and settlement cycle is designed to
non conpliunce with previously issued SB instructions tofinancial institutions, and (f) SB autonomy is  prevent bunching and default nsk
granted in taking regulatory action including bank interventions and application of sanctions
As a result of a program initiated by the SB, measures are adopted to reduce regulatory costs imposed by the
Bank boards required to approve by unanituty, any lending or deposit taking transactions with  SB's information disclosure requirements, as necessary
shareholders and their relatives, exceeding 5% of bank ownership An article requiring information
transparency and disclosure to clients, by credit institutions is established in the new law  Authonty is  The application and enforcement of the financial system law is achieved via demonstrative actions such as
given to SB to evaluate investments of allfinancial institutions' capital abroad The institutionalfunction  (a) integration in the sequencing of prompt corrective actions, cease & desist orders, directives, and
of 'client advocate' is legislated                                                           pecuniary sanctions withsn an intemally consistent framework, and (b) development of procedures and
handbooks by the SB relating to enforcement, remedial actions and graduated sanctions The effectiveness
The SB has formally initiated the development of a Strategic Plan including upgraded supervisory  of supervision is improved via progress on benchmarks under the SB's 2003-06 Strategic Plan such as  00
processes and policies, manuals and procedures, nsk rating methodologies to assess entities, and increased  implementing (i) nsk ratings for institutions in the financial system, (ii) consolidated examunation of a  a'
capacity to recruit, traLn, compensate and retain bank examiners under a sustainable career program  major financial group, (ii) implementation of remedies, (iv) dissemunation of best standards for internal
govemance, nsk management and intemnal controls, and (v) approval of SB investments under its
The nornative classfication of cooperative credit institutions is adjusted to clarify SB supervisory  development program
authority including licensing over those institutions accepting depositsfrom 3rdparties (t e, non members
or the public). Regulation implemented requiring cooperatives to maintain a liquidityfund    A policy options paper is issued with recommendations of reform for the financial transactions tax and other
compulsory regulations, addressing distortionary effects on the financial system.
The SB has (a) updated regulations to enhance nwandatory anti-money laundering systems in thefinancial
sector, and (b) issued regulations requirngfinancial institutions to directly submut information on
transactions in cash to the MoF's Ann-Money Laundenng monitoring Unit
The regulatory authority of the Central Bank, in the areas of large payment systeni transuctions, is
confirmed via the modification of thefinancial system law. SB given powers to suipervise credit and debit
card companies
SB initiates a program to appraise opportunities to rationalize regulatory reports and reduce regulatory
costs
Banking Resolution                                                                           Banking Resolution
Regulations issued to improve compulsory proceduresfor asset and liability transfer and 'carve-outs'  A financial sector stability review to assess future banking system health using projections for future growth,
from failing insttutions, through securitization of such assets utilzing trust mechanismis Measures tnclude  effect on bank cash flows, and risks of the government debt market, is completed, and policy
incorporation of addinonal guarantees by FOGAFIN under asset transfers, conIplemented with use of  recommendations and actions including reinforcement of resolution strategies under a contingency plan
deposit mnsurancefunds and bonds ruised in thefinancial market A new intervention tool (progressive  approved
carve-outs) is included to permit voluntary liquidation offinancial institutions, protect savers and
investors
MoF, issues a letter of commitment and a directive to undertake a stocktaking review of financial sector
stability since the cnsis, including risks of weak institutions under low growth scenanos, banking sector
actual cash flows, govemment debt market expansion (and associated fiscal nsks to banks), and



Annex 6
DETAIL OF ACTUAL REFORMS AND POTENTIAL PROPOSALS COMPRISING THE ONGOING
POLICY DIALOGUE WITH THE GOVERNMENT UNDER THE MEDIUM TERM PROGRAM
INITIAL REFORMS                                                      SUBSEQUENT REFORMS UNDER DISCUSSION/CONSIDERATION
contingency plans to resolve or address potentially adverse developments
Legal authonzation given to CISA to use policy tools to have asset disposition accelerated and channeled
VLa asset sales, securitization or other mechanisms CISA is legally authorized to take on enhanced asset
management and trusteefunctwnsfor transfers of assets and liabilitiesfromfailing institutions and may
administer such assets and liabilities under management contracts Banks and fiduciary companies are
perniutted to offer, respectively, asset administration and trust arrangements to conduct loan portfolio
managementfor banks under liquidation,
Legal authonzation given for deposit insurance coverage to be made moreflexible and allow exclusion of
co-insurance deductible, so as to protect goodfaith depositors. Ex-post risk-based rebates implemented
under the deposit insurance premium structure
Formal approval given for IFI to undertake 2d tier operations only, and operate under a pnvate legal
framework For some key State banks (IFI and Banco Agrano), lending rates and/or budget transfers by
law nustfully cover all operational and financial costs
Actions completed in the divestment and/or dismantling of insolvent State banks
Approval of (a) the transfer of selected assets and liabilities of IFt and selected operations and
adnunistrativefunctionsfor absorption nto Bancoldex and liquidation of IFI's remaining assets, and (b)
authonzed both the privatizatton of Bancafe and the contracting of an investmentfirm to manage the                                                                                       oco
privatization process                                                                     __
Housing Finance                                                                            Housing Finance
Enactment of a new Civil Procedures Code to streamlineforeclosure related judicial procedures to obtain  Reform of FRECH implemented accordmg to the results of a study led by a working group, in order to
mortgage credit collateral in a more timely manner. Under thefinancial system reform law, the Borrower  become a more effective hedging tool for banks exposed to market nsks
has also issued regulations to (a) extend micro credit to the housing sectorfor underserved segments of
the Borrower's populanon, (b) permit banks to operate in the housing lease markets as well as in the  Assessment made of the temporary UVR swap program and proposed reforms in regards of its capacity to
housing mucro credit market, and (c) allowfinance companies tofind micro credit operations with credit  restore trust of the mortgage demand, and its efficiency, equitability and fiscal management as a housing
linesfrom commercial banks                                                                 policy tool
Under thefinancial system reform law, leasing operations arefacaitated as a new housingfinance  Progress is achieved in increasing the competitiveness of the mortgage industry and the affordability of new
instrument and as a remedy to cases of delinquent mortgage loans Second tier State banks are permitted  loans with policies such as (i) licensing of competng mortgage lenders requmng a specific regulatory
to rediscount leasing operations to the pnvate banking sector                              framework for non-depository institutions, (n) separating fees charged for extemalized services related to
mortgage lending, and (im) development of a regulatory framework to better inform mortgage borrowers
Operanonal guidelines issuedfor (a) a new swap program to protect mortgage lenders against inflation  Regulations of secondary mortgage markets are improved according to intemational best practices including
nsk applied to the next 40,000 eligible housing loans directly contracted by Fogafin with eligible  measures such as (i) harmoruzed regulations applied to secuntization companies and credit institutions for
borrowers, through partner lending institutions, and managedfor risk using reserves and hedging  nsk-adjusted capital adequacy taking into account rating differences for each tranche in mortgage secunties,
instruments, and (b) allowing the FRECH program's accumulated liquidfunds to be deployed for use in  (n) improved oversight of secuntizatlon companies, (iii) simplified regulations for mortgage bonds, (iv)
swapping monrgage securities into treasury securities (which can be used with repo contracts)following  adjustment of valuation methodologies to mortgage secunties' charactenstics (cash-flows, callable options,
established pnrcng rules                                                                   UVR), and (v) inclusion of securitization companues as repo market participants
Actiuanal assessment completed for the revision of the guarantee programfor VIS moartgage secunties  Study is led by MoF to assess the tax treatment of the overall mortgage finance industry, and proposing
measures to make it more progressive and efficient (for households, investors, lenders, govemment)
Operational procedures and methodologies improved for secuntization of nsky assets from non-performing
mortgage loans (structunng agents, rating agencies)
Alternatives developed for the lack of liquidity attached to UVR-indexed mortgage secunties



Annex 6
DETAIL OF ACTUAL REFORMS AND POTENTIAL PROPOSALS COMPRISING THE ONGOING
POLICY DIALOGUE WITH THE GOVERNMENT UNDER THE MEDIUM TERM PROGRAM
INITIAL REFORMS                                                        SUBSEQUENT REFORMS UNDER DISCUSSION/CONSIDERATION
Improved infrastructure for the development of micro-finance, applied to housing
Creation of a national housing information center (e g, at Dane) capable of collecting reliable data from
multple sources, conduct surveys and provide information on a cost recovery basis, on housing markets and
pnces, particularly useful for mortgage lenders, borrowing households, secuntization companies, investors.
real estate professionals, financial regulators, rating agencies, housing policy makers
Insurance Sector and Non Banks                                                               Insurance Sector and Non Banks
Regulations issued providingfor. (a)flexible regulatory powersfor overseeing the Insurance industry with  The new insurance nsk based solvency regulations are phased into practice in a manner that ensures full
respect the establishment of solvency margins and technical reserves, (b) an increase in the minimum  acceptance and absorption by the sector, based on progress in industry and supervisory actuarial and nsk
capital requirementfor insurers and reinsurers in line with international standards, and (c) establishing  management capacity The SB sets up working groups to develop methodologies and adopt measures to
separate capital requirementsfor the different lines of insurance (property, life, accident, etc  manage nsk in the insurance indusuy in accordance with IAIS intemational guidelines and future adopted
standards.
A forwial proposal is presented by the SB to MoF regarding differential solvency ratios by line
Progress is achieved in the implementation or modification of insurance regulations such as. (a) upgrading
An insurance sector regulatoryframework diagnostic is completed by an independent consultant, including  solvency margin standards and methodologies, including provisions for market nsks, (b) norms to upgrade
review of prudential standards and regulations and review of AIS core principles in the insurance  the calculation of technical reserves for uneamed premiums, (c) methodologies for calculating mathematical
industry. for government consideration                                                       provisions and mortality tables in the life branch to include known changes in mortality rates or interest rate
changes, and (d) aligning the technical discount rate to long term market comparators to calibrate premium
SB authonzed to supervise representation offices offoreign reinsurance companies, and SB arranges a  levels and reserve requirements                                                         o
register of reinsurance companies and representation offices of overseas reinsurance companies that                                                                                          o
operate in the Colombian market.                                                             Advances made in regulations to restnct "fronttng" operations whereby registered pnmary insurers retain
little or no underwriting nsk.
A fomial policy proposal is presented to MoF making more flexible the insurance investment regime for
funding technical reserves.                                                                  Review of regulation for the pensionstretirement annuity market offered by the insurance industry, including
actuanal and prcing methodologies, is done and new regulation issued as necessary
A schedule of sanctions is established for breaches of minimum solvency requirements or in the required
level of insurance reserves.                                                                 Progress is made in upgrading regulations for catastrophic nsk reserves to allow their udlization for major
events, with reserve replenishments achueved according to a graduated schedule
The coinnussions structure of investment Tnrst Funds is normalzed to discount managementfees as an
expense of the managedfitnd                                                                  Progress made in updating accounting nomis for reinsurance contracts to recognize finitelfinancial
reinsurance treaties as contracts without full nsk transfer characteristics
For invested Tnrst Funds, a regulation replaces the specified lima ts on investment instrunents, with
internal investment nsk management systems subject to non objectton by the SB                Industry perceived regulatory obstacles reviewed,as pertauung to fiduciary trust companies, including
application of financial transactions tax, sales tax on commussion revenues, capital requirements, munYmax
limuts on allowable managed funds for individual parties, and management of venture or small enterpnse
investment funds
Progress is made in regulatory developnments specifying value at nsk (VAR) and duration gap
methodologies for measunng risk, and applied to AFPs and Trusts
Using VAR methodologies, the AFP portfolio benchmark is modified to reflect market dynamics such as
market risk and actual investment opportunites.
The AFP fund limit for investing in foreign securities is reviewed for consideration of regulatory change
Regulations on SB filings required from Trusts and AFPs are simplified to reduced regulatory costs to the
industry



Annex 6
DETAIL OF ACTUAL REFORMS AND POTENTIAL PROPOSALS COMPRISING THE ONGOING
POLICY DIALOGUE WITH THE GOVERNMENT UNDER THE MEDIUM TERM PROGRAM
INITIAL REFORMS                                                      SUBSEQUENT REFORMS UNDER DISCUSSIONICONSIDERATION
The Capital Markets                                                                        The Capital Markets
The SV, the SB and the Central Bank have issued a common securities andfinancial asset valuation  A New Securities Law Is presented to Congress for approval and includes:
methodologyfor unrfying mark-to-market regulations. A memorandum of understanding has been signed  a  New corporate governance norms including the role of the Board, management, auditors, and others
between the SV and the SB to harmonuze the regulatoryframeworkfor collectivefunds. prudential  b  Secunties issuance norms and disclosure requirements with rationalized procedures for issuance.
regulation, andjoint activities of supervision between the two institutions                 c    Qualificadon of standards for industry professionals and entrants
d    Regulations for public market issuance and pnvate placements.
e Graduated sanctions and penalty schedules
Valuation standardsfor treasury secunties and external debt securities are established      f   Estabhshing effective checks and balances within the mutual funds industry,
g. Regulatory environment for invesutent banks and licensing
Regulation on norons governing broker/dealer investment propnetary positions, capital at risk, regulatory  h.  Secunty transaction netting, use of repos, and a central counterparty nsk facility
capitalfor own positions, is presentedfor consultation with the mnarket                     i    New issues of secunties are dematerialized and managed as book entry in electronic custody
j    Umform rules for borrowing and lending of secunties.
The SV is reorganized in order to create a mutualfimds division, and intermedianes and markets ditvsion  k  Licensing of relevant activities and functions
(to regulate entry and exit), and a supervision division (focused on surveillance and enforcement)  1.  Improvement in negotation and trading systems to increase transparency and price formation
A common regulatory and supervisory framework for the mutual funds and investment funds industry is
established Fiduciary Trust institutions and specialized investment funds under SB's supervision, and
mutual funds under SV's supervision, are placed under a uniform framework.                    00
Risk management strengthened through requirements to calculate VaR for funds of fiducianes, pension
funds, insurance companues, and mutual funds administered by istitutions regulated by the SV. Common
monitonng system for nsk management of financial and secundes entities is established between the SB and
sV
To prevent payment system risks, contractual obligations under repo transactions (the full cycle covered) are
legislated as being fully legally binding and equivalent to separate but simultaneous contracts for the initial
exchange of assets for a short term loan and the repurchase of assets with repayment of the loan.
The SV is modemized and reengineered to improve market monitoring systems, self regulation of
exchanges, clearance and settlement systems, regulatory coordination with SB, development of operational
manuals, and strengthenmng of technical skills for surveillance and enforcement of market acdvities
The Government Debt and Money Markets                                                      The Government Debt and Money Markets
To inprove the government secunties market. (a) the Central Bank's Board has issued regulatons  Debt management committee established to set policy within a medium term framework.
allowing said institution to purchase on-the-run securities (t e securities in a specific matunty range most
recently issued by the Treasury or open for issue), (b) the SV has issued revised regulationsfor Pnmary  Issuance strategy for government debt developed and discussed by debt management committee Guidehnes
Dealer operations, and (C) the MoF has issued a regulationfor valuation of domestic Treasury securities  for valuation of other public secunties and pnvate fixed income instruments implemented
Valuation comuttee established under MoU signed between SV and SB                          Progress is made in adopting neasures to enhance the efficiency of the repo market (and borrowing and
lending of securities).
Progress is made in implementing a new collateral system for BR operadons
Progress is achieved in implementing iegulations/circulars clanfying the accounting treatment for forced
investments



-90 -
Annex 7
ANNEX 7: TaXmETABLE OIF KEY IPOCESSENG EVIENTS
Time taken to Prepare:
(Identification to Negotiations)    9 months
Prepared by:                        Government and World Bank Staff
Identification Mission Departure:   November 12,2002
Preparation Mission                 January 20, 2003
Management Review Meeting           March 6, 2003
Regional Operations Committee       March 17, 2003
Appraisal:                          March 24-26, 2003
Negotiations:                       March 27, 2003
Board Presentation:                 April 24, 2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness:      April 27, 2003
Closing Date:                       December 31, 2003



- 91 -
Annex 8
COLOMBIA: FUND RELATIONS NOTE
International Monetary Fund
Public Information Notice (PIN) No. 03/09                            700 19h Street, NW
January 23, 2003                                                     Washington, D. C. 20431 USA
Colombia: Public Information Notice
On January 15, 2003 the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
concluded the Article IV consultation with Colombia.'3
Background
The Colombian economy has staged a steady, albeit slow recovery since the 1998-99
crisis. Macroeconomic stabilization has been achieved, and robust fiscal and structural
policies during most of the period since then have allowed the country to avoid some of
the difficulties faced by other economies in the region. This is all the more remarkable
since Colombia also has had to contend with a costly internal conflict that disrupts
economic processes and distorts resource allocation.
However, the economic situation worsened in the first half of 2002. Peace negotiations
with the guerillas broke down in February, after which violence escalated. Economic
activity has remained sluggish, and the fiscal consolidation has gone off track.
Exacerbated by increased contagion from other countries in the region, concerns about
fiscal solvency led to increased pressure on the peso from mid-year and a loss of external
market access.
After taking office in August 2002, a new administration took determined action to
quicken a resolution of the internal conflict, reverse the fiscal deterioration, and safeguard
macroeconomic stability, which had come under threat. At the same time, a two-year
economic program has been designed, under which the government aims to achieve fiscal
consolidation and effect critical structural reforms, so as to lay the basis for strong and
sustained growth and a better distribution of income and social services.
Under Article IV of the IMFs Articles of Agreement, the IMF holds bilateral discussions with members, usually every year. A staff
team visits the country, collects economic and financial information, and discusses with officials the country's economic developments
and policies. On return to headquarters, the staff prepares a report, which forms the basis for discussion by the Executive Board. At the
conclusion of the discussion, the Managing Director, as Chairman of the Board, summarizes the views of Executive Dtrectors, and this
summary is transmitted to the country's authorities. This PIN summarizes the views of the Executive Board as expressed during the
January 15, 2003 Executive Board discussion based on the staff report.



- 92 -
Execunfve Board Assessnment
Directors commended the new government's swift and comprehensive action to face a
difficult domestic and external situation. A deterioration in the domestic security situation
last year, together with the turbulence in international financial markets and a weakening
of the public finances, had exerted pressure on the peso and had resulted in a temporary
loss of market access. Directors strongly welcomed the new government's rapid and
determined actions to reverse the fiscal slippages and safeguard macroeconomic stability,
advance institutional and economic reforms, and accelerate resolution of the internal
conflict. In particular, Directors were encouraged by the measures already taken, and the
strong domestic ownership in support of further reforms, that will allow Colombia to
lastingly improve its debt dynamics and prospects for growth and employment. They saw
Colombia's recent return to the capital markets as a recognition of the improved
economic policies and the reform momentum created by the government.
Directors supported the authorities' plan to reduce the fiscal deficit sharply in 2003-)4
and welcomed their commitment to take the measures needed to ensure public debt
sustainability. In particular, they welcomed the recent passage of tax reform that will help
underpin the lower deficit, as well as the effort to mobilize broad public support for
spending measures. While the program provides for fiscal consolidation to continue over
the medium term, it will, nevertheless, remain important that the authorities stand ready
to take additional measures, as needed, to address risks that could affect the public
finances, including those from security-related spending. Directors welcomed the
government's commitment and preparedness to take action in this regard. Looking ahead,
they saw a need for further efforts to strengthen the tax base. This would include a
reduction in the dispersion of VAT-rates, while, over the medium-term, efforts should
aim at alleviating the need to resort to ad-hoc measures, such as the financial transaction
tax.
Directors supported the authorities' decision to finance the fiscal program for 2003
entirely from the domestic market and from increased borrowing from multilateral
lenders. They underscored the importance of advancing the structural reforns that will
help secure this multilateral financing. Directors also noted the efforts underway to
reduce the vulnerability of Colombia's debt structure. Going forward, it will remain
important to continue to implement policies aimed at reducing the vulnerability of the
public debt to shocks, which will require, in addition to fiscal consolidation, the pursuit
of sound policies that help avoid volatility of exchange and interest rates. A few Directors
encouraged the authorities to introduce collective action clauses in sovereign bond
contracts.
Directors were encouraged by the authorities' commitment to wide-ranging structural
reforms, which will be key to underpin the fiscal consolidation effort over the medium
term. They welcomed the recent approval in congress of the reform of the general
pension system, and looked forward to the next step, which will include reform of the
special pension regimes. They also highlighted the importance of reforms to put the
health system on a sound financial footing. Directors supported the high priority assigned
by the new administration to modernizing and streamlining the state and introducing
greater flexibility in public spending. They looked forward to sustained implementation



- 93 -
of reform plans in these areas, building on the ongoing initiatives to close existing
vacancies and reduce staffing through attrition, and the impending adoption of a Fiscal
Responsibility and Transparency Law.
Turning to monetary policy, Directors commended the central bank for the high
credibility that it has established after having presided over a period of significant
disinflation. They noted that the continued skilful management of the inflation targeting
framework in the period ahead will need to balance carefully the risk that the recent peso
depreciation may fuel higher inflation against the still large unused capacity in the
economy. In this regard, Directors recommended that the authorities should be ready to
act promptly to signs that inflationary expectations could become embedded. Some
Directors expressed concern that the central bank's policy rate is negative in real terms.
Directors welcomed the significant progress achieved in strengthening the banking
system, including the recent legislation to further strengthen the safeguards, and the
authorities' commitment to refrain from introducing new subsidy programs for distressed
borrowers. They recommended continued vigilance in the period ahead, especially with
respect to the mortgage institutions, and encouraged the authorities to strengthen the
regulation of securities firms and brokerages. Directors commended the authorities for
their exemplary and comprehensive efforts to combat money laundering and the
financing of terrorism, and encouraged continued efforts against terrorist assets.
Directors emphasized that increased labor market flexibility will be key to address
Colombia's high unemployment and support the government's social equity objectives.
While welcoming the recent reform of the labor code, they encouraged the authorities to
continue to work toward addressing remaining problems, in particular the backward
indexation of the minimum wage and the high payroll charges, which tend to exclude
workers from the formal sector.
Directors considered that Colombia's floating exchange rate regime was appropriate and
had helped strengthen the country's ability to respond to shocks, and that Colombia's
increasingly diversified exports are competitive at the current exchange- rate. They
commended the authorities for progress in liberalizing the trade regime and encouraged
them to phase out remaining import restrictions. A number of Directors underscored the
improved export prospects that Colombia would gain from faster trade liberalization by
its trading partners.
Directors encouraged the authorities to accept the obligations of Article VIII of the
Fund's Articles of Agreement as soon as possible, and eliminate the few remaining
exchange restrictions.
For questions please contact Mr. R. Rennhack, Division Chief, South/Central American,
Western Hemisphere Department, IMF, ext. 37350.



- 94 -
Coloinmibia
Status of Wonrd Banmik OperaAosns
(US$ Millions)
Colombia: RB1D Opertions as off Janu&ary 31, 203
Proiect                         Loan Amount Disbursed  Approved  Closing
AGRICULTURE TECHNOLOGY                     51.00       45.04   20-Apr-95 3 1 -Dec-03
SANTAFE I (WATER/SUPPLY)                   58.00       45.20   16-Nov-95  30-Jun-03
SANTAFE I (WATER/SUPPLY)                    87.00      64.84   16-Nov-95  30-Jun-03
URBAN ENVIRONMENT TA (TAL)                 20.00       18.57    16-Jan-96 31-Dec-02
REGULATORY REFORM T.A.                      12.50      9.51    25-Feb-97  30-Jun-03
CO FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT            15.00      7.66     20-Jun-97 31 -Dec-03
CO PASTO EDUCATION                          7.20       4.90     6-Nov-97  30-Jun-03
CO ANTIOQUIA EDUCATION                      40.00      30.32    6-Nov-97  30-Jun-03
CO URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE                     75.00      35.68    11-Jun-98  30-Jun-04
PEASANT ENTERPRISE ZONES (LIL)              5.00       2.97     26-Jun-98 31-Dec-03
CARTAGENA WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE           85.00      22.11    20-Jul-99 31 -Dec-04
CO RURAL EDUCATION                          20.00      3.07     11-Apr-00  30-Jun-04
SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT       5.00        1.76    2-May-00 15-Dec-05
CO- COMMUNITY WORKS (MANOS A LA OBRA)      100.00      20.60   11-May-00 30-Nov-03
CO PUBLIC FINANC. MANAGEMENT PROJECT 11     35.47      2.68    22-Mar-01  31-Oct-06
CO- HUMAN CAPITAL PROT.- CASH TRANSFERS    150.00      28.06   29-Mar-0l 31-Dec-04
CO WATER SECTOR REF ASSISTANCE PROJECT      40.00      2.16     25-Oct-01  30-Jun-07
2ND MAGDALENA MEDIO PROJECT (LIL)           5.00       2.78     27-Sep-01  28-Feb-04
CO JUDICIAL RESOLUTION IMPROVEMENT PRJ.     5.00       0.55     8-Nov-01  30-Jun-05
CO STRUCTURAL FISCAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN       400.00     340.00    18-Dec-01 31-Mar-03
CO PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIPS                  32.00      2.90     22-Jan-02 30-Sep-07
PRIVATE SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE       2.00        1.72    13-Feb-95  31-Oct-98
CO-HIGHER EDUCATION - IMPROVING ACCESS      0.09       0.09      9-Oct-01 21-May-03
TOTAL                                    1,250       693



- 95 -
Annex 10
Colombia
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of June 30, 2002
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                       Disbursed
FY Approval    Company        Loan   Equity  Quasi Partic. Loan   Equity  Quasi Partic.
2002           BCSC              0.0     7.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0
2002           Bavaria          70.0     0.0   30.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0
1969/85/88/93/95 CF del Valle    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
2001           CHMC              0.0    10.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    4.0    0.0     0.0
1974/01        Cementos Caribe   4.1    10.0   0.0    13.0    4.1   10.0    0.0    13.0
1963/90        Coltejer          6.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    6.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
1995/99        Corfinsura       25.0    1.5   23.5     0.0    0.0    1.5   23.5    0.0
2002           Inversura         0.0    15.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0
1987           PRODESAL          0.0    0.6    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.6    0.0    0.0
1977/89/92/94/96 Promigas        5.0    0.0    0.0     8.3    5.0    0.0    0.0    8.3
0/94/95        Promisan          0.0     0.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2     0.0    0.0
2002 Proteccion        0.0   10.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
1996 Proyectos         0.0    5.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     5.0    0.0    0.0
2002 SIG              75.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
1999 Surenting         0.0    5.1    0.0    0.0     0.0    2.5    0.0    0.0
2001 Tolcemento        3.3    0.0    0.0    10.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Total Portfolio:       188.4   65.0   53.5    32.0   15.1   23.8   23.5   21.3
Approvals Pending Commitment (US$ '000)
Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic.
2001 CCGF             -      19.0    -      -
2002 Bavaria          -      -       -    200.0
2002 Omimex Oil      30.0    -       5.0    -
2001 CHMC             -      19.4   10.0    -
Total Pending Commitment    30.0   38.4    15.0  200.0



- 96 -
Aminex li
Colombia at a g1ance
Ltlln    Lercr     -
POVERTY End SOCIAL                                            tAntsi     mlddlo-
CotWtbb     8 Ccflhb.  Inc1a       Oov1tio     dlcmond-
20W
Population, mid-year (tnilofs)                         43.0        524    2164                   Ufe expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas meh0od, US$)                    1,890      3,560     1,240
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       81.5      1,862    2677
Averga annual growth, 1l85.1
Popultion (%)                                           1.8        1.5       1.0     G                                G
Labor force (X)                                         2.7        2.2       12      GNI                              Gross
perprmy
most rcci wIImci (1tt ycr mvollaW, 8Isas0)                                           captta                       enrollment
Poverty (% of populaton below naffonalpovel lln9)
Urban population (% of total populatbon)                 75         76        46
Ufe expectancy at birth (years)                          72         70        69
Infant mortality (ar 1,00 Ive births)                    20         29        33
Chgd malnutrWton (% of chtldren under 5)                  7          9        11           Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% ofpopulaton)       91         85        so
lliiteracy(%ofpopulatfonagel5+)                          8         11        15
Grossprimaryenrollment (%of'schoolsge population)       112        130       107               Colomnl
Male                                                  112        131       107              Lower-middlo4nome group
Female                                                112        128       107
KEY ECONOIIC RATIOS and LONGI-TERM TREWDS
1881      19l1      2m0       2011
Economc rottoac
GDP (USS bilflons)                            36.4     41.5       83.2      82A
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                  20.6      15.9      13.4      14.9                     T
ExportsofgoodsandservAces/GDP                 11.9     21.3       19.9      19A                       rade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    17.0     23.4       13.7      15.3
Gross national savings/GDP                    16.5     23.1       12.3      14.3
Current account balance/GDP                   -4.7      5.7        0.4      -22       Domestic                    Investent
Interest payments/GDP                          1.3      3.4        2.5       2.5     savings
Total deWbGDP                                 24.0      41.5      41.0      45.1
Total debt servIce/exports                    20.7      36.3      29.9
Present value of dabt/GDP                       ..        ..      402
Present value of debt/exports                   ..       ..      193.7
Indebtedness
19814-9  19101M      20         2M0     20014
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   3.8      2.5       2.6       1.4       2.3          -     Colombia
GDP par capIta                        1.7      0.6       0.7      -0.3       0.6                Lower-midlle-income group
Exports of goods and servIces         9.4      4.8       3.3       4.1       2.5
STRUCTURE of tho ECONPOkY
1o81     1991       201       2C1=      Groth of Inveetmant and GDP (%)
(X ot GDP)
Agriculture                                   19.8      17.4      13.4      13.0     20
Industry                                      31.5     37.1       30.1      29.9      o
Manufacturing                               21.9      20.9       15.9      163  *2     97 9               b             01
Services                                      48.7     45.4       56.5      57.1    w4o
Private consumption                           72.5     67.4       64.6      63.6     40
General govemment consumption                 10.4       9.2      21.8      21.1               --GDI         -*-GDP
Importsotgoodsandservces                      15.4     13.9       196       19.0
(aveage -nnual growth)                     1081-        4 t"1S   2=0        2001     Growt of asporto end impot (%)
Agriculture                                    3.3      -1.8       4.7       0.1     is
Industry                                       5.2       1.2       4.4      *0.1              -     _
Manufacturing                                 3.9     -21        10.5      .0.8     o-
Services                                       32       3.8        1.2       2.1
Pnvate consumption                             2.8      1.9        2.6       1.9
General govemment consumpfion                  4.4       9.6      -2.1       0.3    .30
Gross domestrc Investment                      0.6     *0.3       12 3       9.6              -     Exports     Imports
Imports of goods and serves                    0.8      6.3        4.4      112
Note. 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamondis show four key Indicators In ths country (in bold) compared with K Income-group average If data are msng, the diamond wUil
be Incomplete.



- 97 -
Colombia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001      Inflation (%)
DJomestic p7rices
(% change)                                                                       25
Consumer prices                             27 3     26.8        827                       675   5 
Implicit GDP deflator                        22.8    26 0       13 6      7 6     15
Govemment finance                                                                 s
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                               o
Current revenue                                       14.1      11.8     13.3            96    97    98     99o  so     o
Current budget balance                         ..     4.8       -5 2      -5.0                 GDP deflator -"0-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         .     2 6       -6 0      -6.1                 GW d_ator     C
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1981     1991      2000      2001     Export and Import leels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         3,195   7,653     13,115   12,309     20,000
Coffee                                    1,423    1,336     1,069      764
Petroleum                                    36    1,460     4,569     3,083    15,000
Manufactures                                928    2,400     5,190     5,606
Total imports (cif)                         5,199   4,963     11,538   12,834     10,000)
Food                                        319     280      1,428     1,578           _    98   7         _ 9 
Fuel and energy                             726     284        234      189
Capital goods                             1,859    1,565     3,414     4,468       o   _        o_
Export pnce index (1995-100)                  8       59       247       243           95   90   97   go   99   oD   o
Import price index (1995--100)                 7       63       193       209                *Exports      Elniporta
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                       118       94       128       116
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                              11       1991      2000      2001     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services              4.678    9,115     15,624   14,932     2
Imports of goods and services              6,215    6,633     14,400   15,840
Resource balance                           -1,537   2,482      1,224     -908     o
Net income                                  -427   -1,832     -2.530    -2,975
Net current transfers                        243     1,697     1,662    2,094     -2 I   I    I    I
Current account balance                    -1,721   2,347       356     -1,789
Financing items (net)                       1,284    -298       513     2,955
Changes in net reserves                      437   -2,049      -869     -1,166      .
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$mfllons)          ..       ..      9,006   10,245
Conversion rate (DEC, localfS$)              54.5   629.3    2,087.6   2,299.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000      2001
(US$ mlions)                                                                      ComposttIon of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        8.716   17,201    34,081   37,129
IBRD                                     1,164    3,728      1,920    2,006                       A 2,006
IDA                                         21       14         7         7               G 3,795        B 7
Totaldebtservice                            1,120    3,755     5,171
IBRD                                       161      798       368       365                  2
IDA 
Composition of net resource flows                                                  F 10,453
Official grants                              7       68        79
Official creditors                         2T7     -150       102       203
Private creditors                         1,127    -270       728                                            D 20,I6I
Foreign direct investment                  265      457      2,376    2,328
Portfolio equity                             0        0        26     3,380
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0       60       350       635     A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              251      301       266       368     B - IDA   D- Olher muthlateral  F - Private
Pnncipal repayments                         77      492       243       233     C - IMF                     G - Short-temi
Net flows                                  174     -191        24       135
Interest payments                           85      307       127       133
Net transters                               89     -498      -103         3
Development Economics                                                                                               9/14/02



I



MAP SECTION






IBRD 26153
78-                   74- 
JAMAICA2  OA INICAN REP
C O L O M B I A                    JX      12 <7AU Corrbboon See  Oceanc
9  >  (    ~  ~   ~  ~  ~ ~ ~~AN TA,  GUIAN
Santo M o       /      /     /   m  _
Borronquil                     EUAO
AT L ANl T                        ECUADOR
W X O C~~~~~~~r                         BRAZIL<)/
oV-rtg,,,,(/$gCo togen
\CSNT<  OO %  g A RT I'  MA,oc A  .  VENEZUELPocA c
PA N5 AMA    Mooeno       @     CA     RE'
/coPDoB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OII
*       /7~~~~one,                                       -
o a e o n   CXE3P1  t 9  tINDIN6^ARCX t   1$0H   V I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cd an ote D nomto Ah. on
0                            KILO2;.(102  M E I A   of ME terS
A~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n enosmn or acetac /tFornco   AX
)  Ntht 8 .3 NATIONAL CAP*rAL
DEARTENT-CAPITALS  PAN       R   U          V E N  E Z U E L A
IV ERS
LW ~~          AMAZNA
c  M  E T      A             Z'A    IL 4
i1~~~~~~4 NAIOA CPTA                 ; 
-O' ~ ~    DEATMN CAIA5t U A   D                        = R  0
-*-  DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES  >  ./       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILE
-*- IN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TERNTOABUDRIS /j
AUUS I L 9









Typs. !&     ",  iZ <



