Page  1
CONFORMED 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7167-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan) 
 
between  
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 28, 2003 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7167-CO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 28, 2003, between the REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter, dated March 31, 2003, from the 
Borrower: (i) describing its macroeconomic framework and a program of actions, 
objectives and policies for financial reform, covering financial sustainability, institutional 
reform and management of public liabilities (the Program), which Program consists of 
actions that have already been taken as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to the 
satisfaction of the Bank, (the First Phase of the Program), and actions and policies that 
the Borrower intends to take and adopt in the near future; (ii) declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the objectives of the Program; and (iii) requesting assistance from the 
Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; 
(B) 
the Borrower has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework 
satisfactory to the Bank; and  
(C) on 
the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the First Phase of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making 
the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the First Phase of the Program, referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is 
made.”; 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is 
not the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Loan Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the 
Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the 
Loan Account the currency of such deposit account as shall be required 
to deposit the withdrawn amount into such deposit account.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the First Phase of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 
 
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
Page  4
-
3
-
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“BANCAFE” means 
Banco Cafetero
,
the Borrower’s Bank  mainly 
serving the Colombian coffee sector; 
(b) “BANCOLDEX” 
means 
Banco de Comercio Exterior
,
the Borrower’s 
foreign trade bank; 
(c) “Central 
Bank” 
means 
Banco de la República, 
the Borrower’s central 
bank; 
(d) “CONPES” 
means 
Consejo Nacional de Política Económica y Social,   
the Borrower’s highest national planning and government advisory committee on issues 
related to economic and social development; 
(e) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(f) “FI” 
means 
Institución
 
Financiera Supervisada, 
the Borrower’s 
Financial Institution subject to SB’s (as hereinafter defined) supervision, as set forth in 
Decree 663, dated April 2, 1993;
 
(g) “FOGAFIN” 
means 
Fondo de Garantías de Instituciones Financieras
,
the Borrower’s deposit  insurance agency; 
(h) “FRECH” 
means 
Fondo de Reserva para la Estabilización de la Cartera 
Hipotecaria
,
the Fund Admnistered by the Central Bank for the Stabilization of the 
Portfolio of the Mortgage Banks; 
(i) 
“IFI” means 
Instituto de Fomento Industrial, 
 the Borrower’s Industrial 
Development Bank; 
(j) 
“Law 794-2003 means 
Ley por la cual se modifica el
 
Código de 
Procedimiento Civil
,
the Borrower’s Law that amended its Civil Procedure Code, dated 
January 8, 2003, duly published in the Borrower’s official gazette on January 9, 2003; 
(k) Law 
795-2003 
means 
Ley de Reforma al Estatuto Orgánico del Sistema 
Financiero, 
the Borrower’s law that amended its Financial Sector Law, dated January 14, 
2003, duly published in the Borrower’s official gazette on January 15, 2003; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(l) 
“MH” means 
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público,
 the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit; 
(m) 
“Peso” or “P$” means the lawful currency of the Borrower; 
 
(n) “SB” means 
Superintendencia Bancaria, 
the Borrower’s 
Superintendency of Banks; 
 (o) 
“ST” 
means 
Patrimonio Autónomo para Recepción de Activos y Emisión 
de Títulos Valores,
 the Autonomous Financial Trust for Receiving Patrimonial Assets and 
Issuing Securiti
es in the Borrower’s territory; and
 
(p) “SV” 
means 
Superintendencia de Valores, 
the Borrower’s Securities 
Superintendency. 
ARTICLE
 
II
 
The Loan 
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred fifty 
million Dollars ($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of one hundred forty-eight 
five hundred million Dollars ($148,500,000) from the Loan Account in support of the 
First Phase of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request 
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in the Central Bank, a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All 
withdrawals of the amount referred to in paragraph (a) above shall be deposited by the 
Bank into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
Page  6
-
5
-
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of said fee.  
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07.  Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full 
on May 15, 2014. 
Section 2.09. (a)  The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
Page  7
-
6
-
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Section 2.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity 
of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions 
and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program (including any 
action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement). 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 3.02.  Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Events of Suspension 
Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, 
adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
(d) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action listed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE V 
Termination
 
Section 5.01. The date August 28, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
 
Carrera 7ª. No. 6-45, Piso 3 
 
Bogotá, Colombia 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
MINHACIENDA 
 
43289 MHAC CO 
57-1-350-9344 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
By /s/Bernardo Ortiz Bravo 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/David de Ferranti 
Regional Vice President 
 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
Tobacco,  manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
 
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and 
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery  
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or 
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including 
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
First Phase of the Program 
 
1.   
The Borrower has enacted Law 795-2003 to regulate, 
inter alia
:
(a) the  
independence of decision making by FIs’ board of directors; (b) the enhancement of the 
existing code of conduct for managers and directors at FIs; (c) the integration of sanction 
rules applicable to administrative officers, board directors and auditors at FIs; (d) the 
powers of SB to conduct supervision of  financial groups (including the authority of SB 
to inspect companies in those financial groups not directly under its supervision); (e) the 
prevention of conflict of interests related to the operations of FIs; (f) the enhancement of 
SB’s mechanisms to intervene FIs and apply sanctions; (g) FIs’ obligations to directly 
report information on financial cash transactions to MH’s anti-money laundering 
monitoring unit; (h) the compulsory procedures for asset-liability transfers and for carve-
outs from failing banking institutions; (i) FOGAFIN’s issuance of guarantees backed 
with deposit insurance funds; (j)  FOGAFIN’s  powers for swapping bonds issued by ST 
with FOGAFIN bonds; (k) the increase of access to segments of the population with 
limited or no access to financial services with respect to housing micro-credit; (l) the 
participation of banks in the housing lease market; (m) MH’s powers to establish 
solvency margins and technical reserves of the insurance industry; (n) the minimum 
capital requirements for insurers and re-insurers; and (o) MH’s powers to establish 
minimum capital requirements for the different business lines of insurance. 
2.  
The Borrower, through SB, has issued 
Circular Externa
 Number 046, dated 
October 29, 2002, which strengthens existing regulations that prevent money laundering 
in the Borrower’s financial sector. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through MH, has issued a commitment letter to the Bank dated 
March 28, 2003, to undertake a stocktaking review of the Borrower’s financial sector, 
including, inter alia, a review of: (a) the risks affecting weak banking institutions under 
low economic growth scenarios; (b) the banking sector  cash flow generation; (c) the 
Borrower’s public debt securities held by commercial banks and the possible risks 
affecting said banks as holders of said debt securities; and (d) contingency plans to 
address any potential risks caused by internal and/or external factors affecting the 
financial sector. 
4. 
The Borrower: (a) through IFI’s shareholders assembly of January 27, 2003, has 
approved the transfer of IFI’s selected assets and liabilities to BANCOLDEX; (b) through  
CONPES Document Number 3214, dated January 9, 2003, has requested FOGAFIN to 
commence the privatization process of BANCAFE; and (c) through FOGAFIN has 
selected an investment firm that will carry out said privatization. 
Page  14
-
13
-
5. 
The Borrower: (a) has enacted Law 794-2003 to, 
inter alia,
 streamline banking 
foreclosure related judicial proceedings, and therefore execute collaterals in a timely 
manner; and (b) through MH, has issued Decree Number 710, dated March 20, 2003, 
establishing procedures for finance companies (
compañías de financiamento
 
comercial
)
to obtain financing from commercial banks so as to increase their micro-credit lending. 
6. 
The Borrower: (a) through FOGAFIN, has issued operational guidelines for a 
new swap program to protect mortgage borrowers against the risks of inflation; and (b) 
through the Central Bank, has adopted and published on its web site procedures for 
swapping of mortgage backed securities through the FRECH fund in order to acquire 
more liquid treasury securities. 
7. 
(a) The Borrower, through SB, has issued Circular Number 33, dated August 2, 
2002 to update and adjust market valuation regulations; (b) the Borrower, through SV, 
has issued Resolution Number 0550, dated August 2, 2002, to regulate a common 
securities and financial asset valuation methodology to unify market pricing norms; and 
(c) SB and SV have signed a memorandum of understanding dated November 13, 2002, 
inter alia
,
to carry out a joint supervision and surveillance of FIs and securities’ brokers 
and dealers in accordance with the procedures set forth therein. 
8. 
(a) The Central Bank’s board has issued the procedures for said institution’s 
purchase of 
títulos valores de la serie más reciente emitida
 (on-the run treasury 
securities); (b) the Borrower, through MH, has issued Resolution Number 001, dated 
January 2, 2003, to regulate, 
inter alia
,
primary dealer operations; and (c) the Borrower, 
through SV, has issued Resolutions Number 0964 and 1047, dated December 13, 2002 
and December 30, 2002, respectively, to regulate the valuation of domestic treasury 
securities. 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
WB76939 
M:\COLOMBIA\PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN\NEGOTIATED LOAN 
AGREEMENT-board.doc 
June 2, 2003 12:20 PM
 
