                                            Documentof
                                          The World Bank

                                   FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY




                                                                             ReportNo.29654-YU




                                    PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                              OF THE

                    INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                              TO THE EXECUTIVEDIRECTORS

                                         ONA PROPOSED

    SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO)

       INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR 12.3 MILLION(US$18 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO

                                 SERBIAAND MONTENEGRO


                                           August 9,2004


SouthEastEuropeCountry Unit
PovertyReductionandEconomic ManagementUnit
Europeand CentralAsia Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bankauthorization

                          Currencv Eauivalents
                 (Exchange Rate Effective July 31,2004)

                   CurrencyUnit =Euro (EUR)
                           1EUR =US$1.20

                         GovernmentFiscalYear
                         January 1-December 31

                          Weights andMeasures
                             Metric System

                      Abbreviations andAcronyms
AML     Anti-Money Laundering
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
C B M   Central Bank of Montenegro
CSA     Civil Service Agency
DPR     Agency for Public Revenues
EA      ExtendedArrangement
EAR     European Agency for Reconstruction
EPCG    Electric Power Company o f Montenegro
EU      EuropeanUnion
FIU     Financial Intelligence Unit
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
HIF     Health Insurance Fund
HIL     Health Insurance Law
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IMF      International Monetary Fund
KAP     Podgorica AluminumPlant
MIER    Ministry for International Economic Relations
MoF     MinistryofFinance
M o H   MinistryofHealth
N B S   National Bank o f Serbia
PAYGO   Pay-As-You-Go
PIF      Pension Insurance Fund
P I 0    Pension Insurance Fund
SAC 1   First StructuralAdjustment Credit
SAC 2    Second Structural Adjustment Credit
S A M    Serbia andMontenegro
TA       Technical Assistance
TSS      Transitional Support Strategy
UNDP    UnitedNations Development Program
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
VAT     Value Added Tax

                                                          FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                       SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO
             SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO)

                                           CREDIT SUMMARY


             Borrower:                   Serbia andMontenegro
             Amount:                     SDR 12.3 million (US$lS million equivalent)
             Terms:                      Modified IDA terms with a 20 year maturity, including a
                                         10year grace period, with no acceleration clause.

             Objectives andDescription:  The proposed Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC
                                         2) aims to support the Government o f the Republic o f
                                         Montenegro, in the implementation o f key structural
                                         reforms to promote growth and to support further fiscal
                                         consolidation. The program to be supported by the
                                         proposed operation intends to achieve these objectives
                                         through specific reforms in the areas o f (i)the financial
                                         sector; (ii)the energy sector; (iii)pension and health
                                         sectors; and (iv) public administration.

             Benefits:                   The structural reform program to be supported by the
                                         proposed SAC 2 will build on reforms supported by the
                                         first Structural Adjustment Credit. The financial sector
                                         reforms would help to promote growth through increased
                                         (and increasingly efficient) financial intermediation.
                                         Pension, health and public administration reform would
                                         ultimately support ongoing fiscal consolidation. Energy
                                         sector reforms would support both growth and fiscal
                                         consolidation by overcoming episodes o f supply shortfall
                                         and ensuring the financial self-sufficiency o f energy
                                         utilities.  Increased    institutional  transparency  and
                                         accountability and increased focus on implementation
                                         capacity are themes which thread through each o f the five
                                         policy areas. SAC 2 will also provide crucial financing to
                                         help close Montenegro's budgetary gap in a sustainable
                                         fashion.

             Risks:                      Despite recent progress in implementing structural
                                         reforms and stabilization policies, the size and scope o f
                                         Government intervention in the economy remains large,
                                         while the capacity o f public sector institutions to
                                          implement an ambitious reform agenda, while much
                                          improved over the past few years, remains relatively
                                         weak. The process o f building strong institutions with the
                                          capacity and incentives to carry out the formal elements

This document has a restricted distributionandmay be usedby recipients onlyin
the performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

                                of reform i s a medium-termendeavor. The ability o f the
                                Government to stay the course as they implement the
                                reform program will be challenging. The risks involved
                                with the weak policy making capacity are exacerbatedby
                                the uncertain political      environment.     The present
                                constitutional arrangements in the union o f Serbia and
                                Montenegro require harmonization o f trade, customs, and
                                excise regimes of the two republics, which has proven
                                challenging. The constitutional arrangements also allow
                                either republic the possibility to hold a referendum on
                                opting out o f the union. Other potential risks are posedby
                                the lack o f reliable macroeconomic statistics including
                                national accounts, balance o f payments, monetary, and
                                other statistics needed to guide macroeconomic policy
                                making.
  Schedule o fDisbursements:    The full Credit i s expected to be disbursed in two equal
                                tranches o f SDR 6.15 ( U S 9 million equivalent each), the
                                first tranche upon effectiveness o f the Credit and the
                                second tranche upon compliance with the agreed release
                                conditions.
  Poverty Category:             Not applicable.
  Project IDNumber:             PO74908
  Map:                          IBRDNo.31506Rl




This operation was prepared by a team including Bruce Courtney (Task Team Leader); Zoran
Anusic, Loraine Hawkins, Peyvand Khalegian, Marina Petrovic (ECSHD); Michael Edwards
(ECSPF); David Kennedy (ECSIE); Tony Verheijen, Lazar Sestovic (ECSPE); Branko
Radulovic (ECCYU). Legal and Disbursement support were provided by Gennady Pilch
(LEGEC) and Joseph Formoso (LOAG1). The peer reviewers were Jos Verbeek (AFTP1) and
Norman Hicks (Consultant). Processing assistance from Nancy Davies-Cole and Kathryn
Riverais gratefully acknowledged.

                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION
                                           PROGRAMDOCUMENT
                ONA PROPOSEDSECOND STRUCTURALADJUSTMENTCREDIT
                                    (REPUBLIC OFMONTENEGRO)
                                   TO SERBIAAND MONTENEGRO

                                                         Contents




I. THEECONOMY................................................................................................................        1

II. THEGOVERNMENT'SSTRUCURALADJUSTMENTPROGRAM............................                                                           5
      THE FINANCIALSECTOR.......................................................................................................    6
      THEENERGY   SECTOR........................................................................................................... 8
      PUBLICADMINISTRATIONREF0....................................................................................... 16

III. THEPROPOSEDCREDIT............................................................................................. .21
      RATIONALEFORBANK~NVOLVEMENT                  ................................................................................ 21
      BENEFITS  AND RISKS.......................................................................................................... 21
      COORDINATIONWITH THE IMF...........................................................................................           22



TEXT TABLE

Table 1:Serbia andMontenegro, KeyEconomic Indicators andProjections ..............................                                 .19




ANNEXES
      Annex 1:            Key Economic Indicators
      Annex 2:            Status o fAssociation Group/lFC Operations
      Annex 3:            Timetable ofKeyProcessingEvents
      Annex 4:            Letter ofDevelopment Policy
      Annex 5:            Program PolicyMatrix
      Annex 6:            Serbia andMontenegro at a Glance
      Annex 7             IMF-WBRelations Summary


                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                        PROGRAMDOCUMENT
          FORA PROPOSEDSECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                                  (REPUBLICOFMONTENEGRO)
                                   TO SERBIAAND MONTENGRO

1.       This report constitutes the Program Document on a proposed Second Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC 2) to Serbia and Montenegro (SAM)' in the amount of SDR
12.3 million (US$18 million equivalent) to support Montenegro's structural reform
program.2 The Credit would be on modified International Development Association
(IDA) terms, with a final maturity of 20 years and a grace period of 10 years, with no
acceleration ~lause.~ would be disbursed in two tranches: SDR 6.15 million upon
                           It
effectiveness o f the credit and SDR 6.15 million upon compliance with the agreed second
tranche release conditions. This report should also be read in conjunction with the
Transitional Support Strategy Update (TSSU) o f the World Bank Group (the Bank) for
Serbia and M~ntenegro.~The proposed SAC 2 completes the TSS program. A new CAS
for FY05-07 i s currently under preparation.


                                         I.THEECONOMY
2.       SAM and its two constituent republics began the transition to a market
economy under very difficult social and economic conditions. Four decades o f
inefficient economic management and institutional policies were followed by trade
shocks stemming from the break-up of the Socialist Federal Republic o f Yugoslavia in
  1991. Then, for nearly a decade following this break-up, regional conflicts and
international isolation further crippled the economy and delayed the start of transition to a
market economy. By2000 recorded per capita GDP inS A M hadfallen to about one half
o f its 1989 level, external debt exceeded 130 percent o f GDP, and annual inflation was
over 113 percent. Despite recent achievements in macroeconomic stabilization and
structural reforms, S A M and its two constituent republics are still grappling with the
legacy o fthe past as they continue the transition to a market economy.

 'Formerly known
~~




                    as "the Federal Republic o f Yugoslavia" (FRY). The Constitutional Charter o f Serbia
and Montenegro was enacted by the Parliament o f Serbia, the Parliament o fMontenegro and the Parliament
o f the FederalRepublic o f Yugoslavia effective February 4, 2003 and, as o f that date, the FederalRepublic
o f Yugoslavia has changed its name to "Serbia and Montenegro." Inthis document, all references to S A M
which predate the change o fname shouldbe understoodto refer to FRY.

   Due to the highly devolved nature o f S A M (most areas o f economic policy are inthe competence o f the
member states) and the different starting points, needs and pace o f reforms in the two member states, the
Bank's assistanceprogram for S A M is being designed around member state-specific operations. Therefore,
for the purposes of this document, the term "Government" would designate the Government o fMontenegro,
unless otherwise specified.

   Modified IDA terms for S A M were agreed by the Board in the context o f the discussion o f S A M ' s
membership and the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (Report No. 22090-W, June 26,2001).

  Report No. 27048-W, February, 18,2004.

                                               2



3.      In the late 1990s the Government of Montenegro, with the support of the
international community, began concerted stabilization efforts and launched a
structural reform program. Federal elections in October 2000, and Serbian
parliamentary elections in December 2000, brought to office reform-oriented
governments with a mandate to bring greater democracy, modernization and integration
with the international economy. InJanuary 2001, Serbia's new government launched its
own ambitious stabilization and reform program. The economic programs of both
republics were supported by the TMF, the World Bank and other donors and rested on
three pillars (i)  prudent macroeconomic polices; (ii)    market-oriented structural reforms,
including extensive price and trade liberalization; and (iii)          significant financial and
technical support from donors.

4.      One cornerstone of the Montenegrin program was the adoption of first the
DM and then the euro as the sole legaltender inthe republic. InNovember 1999the
Montenegrin Government declared the German Mark(DM) an official parallel currency.
One year later, inNovember 2000, the new Central Bank o f Montenegro (CBM) declared
the DM the sole legal tender in the Republic.' The stabilization efforts succeeded in
laying some initial foundations for economic recovery by curtailing inflation which fell
from 128 percent in 1999 to 25 percent in2000. Since 2002, inflation inMontenegro has
been held to single digits. In Serbia, the dinar was made convertible for current account
purposes in late-2000 and has since remained on a slightly depreciating path versus the
euro.6InSerbia, inflation also declined rapidlyand reached single digits in2003.

5.      The macroeconomic policies of S A M were supported by three successive
programs with the IMF. The first program, the Emergency Post-Conflict Facility, was
approved in December 2000 and was followed by a Stand-by Arrangement o f SDR 200
million approved in June 2001. A three year ExtendedArrangement (EA) of SDR 650
million was approved in May 2002 and spans the period through March 2005. Such an
arrangementwas a prerequisite for implementingthe significant debt reduction negotiated
with the Paris Club in November 2001. The Paris Club agreement cut the net present
value o f eligible debt by 51percent upon approval o f the EA, and could cut a further 15
percent inthe event o f a successful completion o f the EA in2005. An agreement with the
London Club was reached in July 2004, cutting the net present value o f eligible debt by
62 percent.

6.      Fiscal policy has been in line with IMF programs. The consolidated budget
deficit in S A M rose from 1percent o f GDP in2000 to 4.5 percent o f GDP in2002. This
increase (which was in line with plans and financed by donor support and privatization
proceeds) was driven by a combination of more realistic budgeting o f commitments, the
bringing on budget of quasi-fiscal activities, the restoration of debt service and public

 OnJanuary 1,2002, the euro replaced the DMas Montenegro's official currency.

  Given the much higher inflation in Serbia compared to the EU, this has implied a substantial real
appreciationo fthe dinar.

                                                     3


investment, and several one-off transition costs. In 2003 the consolidated S A M budget
deficit was scaled back as structural reforms began to support a phased reduction o f
overall expenditure as a share o f GDP. The deficit i s estimated at about 4.2 percent of
GDP in2003 and is budgeted to fall to 3.4 percent of GDP in2004. InMontenegro, the
consolidated budget deficit was cut from about 8 percent o f republican GDP in2000 to
about 5.2 percent in 2003. The renewal o f outlays to cover expenditures on Union-level
functions placed new pressure on fiscal accounts in 2003. Excluding these outlays, the
underlying budget deficit for 2003 fell to about 3 percent of republican GDP.
Montenegro's 2004 Budget envisages a consolidated deficit o f 4.4 percent o f republican
GDP, or 1.6 percent of GDP excluding the outlays to cover expenditures at the Union
level.

7.      In parallel to stabilization policies, S A M governments have implemented a
program of "first generation" structural reforms. Reforms proceeded at different
paces inthe two republics. Beginningin 1998, the Government o fMontenegro launched a
concerted reform effort with the support o f a number o f donors. Montenegro had
gradually obtained de facto autonomy in foreign trade, adopted its own customs
administration and established a liberal trade regime. By mid-2000, the Government o f
Montenegro had reduced the average tariff to about 3 percent7 Montenegro adopted a
phased removal of price controls. Montenegro's privatization program was renewed in
1999. The program relied on a mass privatization for small stakes inselected enterprises.
This program was completed in2001 when vouchers were distributed to all citizens and
widespread share ownership was established.A privatization council was also established
in 1999 to oversee the tenders and auctions in large enterprises. The CBM was
established at end-2000 and the restructuring and privatization of the bankingsystem was
launched. In 2003, Montenegro's largest bank was sold to a foreign strategic investor
through a transparent international tender. A reform o f the tax system was undertaken
includingthe introductiono faVAT in2003.

8.      The Government of Montenegro also implemented a reform program
supported by SAC 1, covering reforms in (i)public expenditure management; (ii)
pensions; (iii) the energy sector; (iv) labor markets; and (v) the business
environment. One key feature o f the program was the enactment o f a law on pension
disability insurance which adjusts key parameters o f the pension system to better align
entitlements to available resources. The new labor law significantly increases labor
market flexibility. The enactment of new enterprise, bankruptcy, and securedtransaction
laws create a more favorable business environment. The enactment o f a new energy law
provides a basis for the development o f a regulatory framework, together with energy
industryrestructuring andliberalization. Also residentialpower tariffs were increased and
seasonal tariffs were unifiedby canceling the lower summer tariffs. Residential tariffs are
now are amongst the highest in South East Europe and are at a level sufficient to cover
marginalcost.


  Following negotiations with Serbia in 2003 to harmonize the tariff rates of the two republics,
Montenegro's average tariffwill rise to 7 percent by end-2005.

                                                  4



9.       Stabilization and reform have supported four years of economic growth.
S A M ' s real GDP recovered from the sharp 16 percent contraction of 1999 (at the time o f
the Kosovo conflict), growing by 5 percent in 2000 and averaging about 4 percent per
annumsince then.Basedonpreliminarydata, the recent PovertyAssessment suggeststhis
growthhas ledto a decline inabsolutepoverty from 2000 to 2002.

10.      Despite four years of growth, living standards remain low relative to
historical standards and popular expectations. In2003, recorded GDP inMontenegro
was less than 60 percent o f its 1990 level. InMontenegro available estimatesindicate that
GDP growth has been modest in the past three years, unemployment has remained
extremely high, andjob creation has been negligible. Most estimates indicate that GDP
growth has averaged a sluggish 2.5 percent per annum since 2000 while the official
unemployment rate has remained over 20 percent. The Bank's recent Poverty Assessment
found that absolute poverty affects every tenth person in both Serbia and Montenegro.'
Inequality has remained moderate by regional standards in both republics. As a result
poverty i s shallow with a poverty depth o f about one percent o f GDP. About 25 percent
o f the populationo f Montenegro have a consumption level less than 50 percent above the
poverty line. This suggests that even small economic shocks can have potentially large
effects on poverty. A positive shock, such as sustained economic growth, i s likely to
result in a disproportional decline inpoverty, while a negative shock, such as a recession,
i s likelyto result ina disproportional increase inpoverty.

11.      Exports, in both republics, remain extremely low. SAM's exports in2000 were
also less than 40 percent o f comparable 1990 levels. At 19 percent o f GDP in2003, S A M
exports were only one third to half the ratio o f GDP in other transition countries with a
similar population level. Export growth has been sluggish despite obvious "catch-up
potential". In fact, exports o f goods and services as a share o f GDP fell from 2000 to
2003. Poor export performance i s certainly one o f the primary causes of S A M ' s
expanding extemal current account deficit which reached 8.5 percent o f GDP in2003. In
Montenegro, despite considerable improvement in the tourist sector, Montenegro's
external current account deficit remains unsustainably large (averaging about 10 percent
o f GDP in2002 and 2003).9

12.      Investment and savings rates also remain low. Following a decade o f
underinvestment, SAM's investment/GDP grew from 14.2 percent in2000 to a projected
15.1 percent in 2003. The latter level, being extremely low by regional standards,



  The absolute poverty lines were calculated using the local cost o f the mini"food basket that meets
nutritionalrequirements and follows the consumptionpatters o fthe populationo f each republic. Using2002
data, the poverty threshold was 2.40 a day in Serbia (at market exchange rates) and 3.50 a day in
Montenegro.

   Montenegro's balance o f payments data has been unreliable. The CBM is now receiving technical
assistance from the IMFandUSAID.

                                                    5


suggests much potential for expansion." A failure to achieve such expansion would
likely impair growth prospects. Duringthe same period, recorded gross national savings
actually declined from 10.4 percent o f GDP in2000 to 5.7 percent in2003.''

13.     Clearly neither republic of S A M has fully overcome the daunting legacy the
past. This legacy includes years of economy-wide decapitalization, a banking sector
driven to severe insolvency, and a poorly governed and ineffective public sector. Even
after efforts o f recent years, a critical mass o f reforms may not have been reached in
either Republic. While transition reforms have progressed in both republics, they are
incomplete, were not always plannedin an integrated fashion and were introduced with
inadequate attention to implementation capacity. InMontenegro, the massive presence o f
the public sector in the economy continues with 40 percent o f the economy still in State
hands. The size and scope o f government interventioninthe economy remains large and
the capacity o f public sector institutions to implement reforms remains weak. The reform
effort o f recent years has improved governance, public sector transparency and financial
discipline, butmore needs to be done ineach ofthese areas. One o fthe key challenges the
Government o f Montenegro now faces is building strong institutions with the capacity
andincentives to carry out the recently adopted formal elementsofreform.

14.     A stable macroeconomic framework will be a crucial element of
Montenegro's SAC 2 reform program. Given the virtual absence of monetary and
exchange rate policy inMontenegro, restoring macroeconomic stability and a sustainable
external balance will require continued fiscal adjustment. In this context, continued
compliance with the IMF's three-year Extended FundFacility (EFF) for both Republics
will be crucial. Compliance with this program is a prerequisite for implementing the
second 15 percent debt reductionnegotiatedwith the Paris Club inNovember 2001.


       11.THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCURALADJUSTMENTPROGRAM


 15.    The proposed SAC 2 aims to build on and consolidatea number of reforms
supported under SAC 1 and under programs supported by other donors. SAC 2
also aims to launch initial reforms in the health sector. The operation proposes to
cover four broad policy areas (i)consolidating reforms in the financial sector; (ii)
implementingthe restructuring of the energy sector; (iii)            continuing the implementation
o f pension reforms and initiating health sector reforms; and (iv) strengthening the
transparency, accountability, and effectiveness o f public administration. The financial


 lo is the lowest level inthe non-CIS non-Turkey part ofECA, where investment to averaged 24
   This
percent o f GDP in 2003. The values for the remaining countries inthat group range from 19.5 percent in
Bosnia and Herzegovina to 31.3 percent inSlovakia. The average inthe CIS was about 22 percent of GDP,
with only Uzbekistanbelow SaM levels.

 l1 thegradualregularizationofexternaldebtreducedtheroleofdebtservicearrearsasasourceofBOP
   As
financing (the share of debt inarrears was reduced from 90 percent at end-2000 to 40 percent at end-2002),
the decrease insavings on a commitment basis would have been less than reported on a cashbasis.

                                             6


sector reforms would help to promote growth through increased (and increasingly
efficient) financial intermediation. Pension, health and public administration reform
would ultimately support ongoing fiscal consolidation. Energy sector reforms would
support both growth and fiscal consolidation by overcoming episodes o f supply shortfall
and ensuring the financial self-sufficiency of energy utilities. Increased institutional
transparency and accountability and increased focus on implementation capacity are
themes thread through each of the five policy areas.


THEFINANCIAL     SECTOR

16.     With active bilateral donor support, the Government and the CBM have
already established a solid track record of financial sector reform. The CBM has
developed its bank supervisory and regulatory competence with a great deal o f technical
assistance from USAID. The CBM has also effectively implemented a number o f
measures which have sharply reduced the number o f off-shore banks domiciled in
Montenegro and otherwise stemmed money laundering activities. The Government of
Montenegro, in cooperation with the CBM, has introduced a 5,000 deposit insurance
scheme. Overall, the CBM has developed a robust prudential environment within which
banks operate.

17.     Montenegro's banking system is comprised of 10 banks, with about 350
million total assets (about 25 percent of GDP) as of end-2003. The Government holds
a majority interest in two banks and similarly, a direct or indirect minority ownership in
five additional banks. During 2003 one new bank was opened, one was closed and
another sold to a foreign bank, demonstrating that both entrance and exit requirements
function reasonably well. Total banking system assets increased by 40 million or about
13 percent in 2003 (excluding frozen foreign currency exchange savings) whilst the
nominal growth o f loans exceeded60 percent duringthe same period. It i s noteworthyas
well that classified (or Category 3, 4 and 5) loans decreased as a percentage of total
capital andreserves at end-2003. At the same time, the rate o f growth o f Special Mention
(or Category 2) loans eclipsed the robust rate of nominal loan growth. The sharp increase
in overall criticized (Categories 2, 3, 4 and 5) assets may be attributed to creditors
experiencing difficulties to enforce their collateral positions through the courts and/or the
CBM's more aggressive approach towards asset classifications.

18.     The Government successfully sold the largest bank, Montenegrobank, inJuly
2003 to a foreign bank after carving out a large amount of non-performing assets.
The Privatization Council will soon launch a tender to engage a Financial Advisor to
assist in the privatization o f Podgoricka Bank, the largest bank remaining wherein the
state has direct majority ownership. The IFC i s expected to soon obtain a 10 percent or
larger equity stake inPodgoricka Bank and will provide an on-site advisor to assist inthe
bank's privatization.

19.     Despite progress in financial sector reform, Montenegro's banks have yet to
demonstrate a consistent record of prudent credit risk underwriting. As o f end-2003

                                             7


all banks in Montenegro met the prescribed 8 percent solvency ratio, though solvency
decreased at five banks owing to the substantial increase in loans extended in2003. The
sharp increase inlending coupledwith the increase incriticized assets is a concern.

Reform Objectivesand SAC 2 Measures

20.     Building on the progressthus far, the next round of financial sector reforms
the Government is pursuing includes (i)managing and beginning to resolve the
assets carved-out from Montenegrobank and transferred from the failed banks; (ii)
divesting a majority stake in the remaining large state-owned bank; and (iii)
implementing measures to further restrict off-shore banking and money laundering
activities.

21.     With SAC 2 support, the Government will move aggressively to resolvenon-
performing assets carved out of the banking sector. The Government has a clear
fiduciary duty to recover as much as possible from these assets. The Public Debt Law
enacted in October 2003, acknowledges this responsibility. As the interim agent for the
Government, the CBM retained all records from the approximately 730 million (more
than 50 percent of 2003 GDP) in assets carved out o f Montenegrobank and transferred
from several failed banks. The CBM conducted a detailed inventory of these assets and
transferred all physical and electronic records o f the assets to the Ministry of Finance
(MoF) inM a y 2004. Inaccordance with the Public Debt Law, a divisionwithin the M o F
has recently been established to resolve the assets transferred from the CBM. This
division, with the assistance o f USAID has undertaken a thorough triage process,
separating each asset file received according to its potential for collectability. Following
this triage exercise, the new MoF division will either contract out the management or
otherwise sell by public auction, the assets estimated to have the highest potential
collectability (so called `unimpaired' assets). Likewise, the Government will adopt and
publish a transparent mechanism to facilitate the resolution of those assets from bankrupt,
state- or socially-owned enterprises estimated to offer less collectability (the so called
`impaired' assets). More broadly, the M o F has pledged to adopt a more robust and
systematic approach to the Ministry's oversight and control of the seven banks wherein it
has a direct and/or indirect equity interest.

22.     The Government will continue the privatization of state-owned banks with
the support of SAC 2 and other donors. Podgoricka Bank is currently the third largest
bank inMontenegro and is 56 percent directly ownedby the Government and20 percent
indirectly owned through state-owned enterprises and the Pension Insurance Fund (PIO).
Following the implementation of pre-privatization measures and a restructuring o f the
bank's Board of Directors, all shares in Podgoricka bank directly owned by the
Government of Montenegro will be offered for cash sale through an international tender,
inaccordancewithbest international practices.

23.     SAC 2 will support the Government's efforts to continue the strengthening of
supervisory enforcement regarding off-shore banking, anti-money laundering

                                              8


(AML) and overall prudential compliance at banks. The Republic of Montenegro
enacted a new Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Law in September 2003 and in close
collaboration with the CBM have begun moving assertively to close down off-shore
banks operating in Montenegro. Measures adopted in the past two years include (i)         the
C B M ordered all domestic banks to close account relationships with Montenegrin off-
shore banks; (ii)   the MoF stopped issuing off-shore banking licenses; (iii) banking
                                                                                 the
law was amendedto require all banks to be licensed and supervised bythe CBM; and (iv)
the C B M endeavored to physically inspect the premises of known off-shore financial
institutions. Moreover, consistent with the AML legislation, the Government established
a Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) which i s adequately financed in the 2004 budget,
appointed an FIU director, recruited staff, and developed and published implementing
AML regulations. The FIU is receiving technical assistance from the United States
Treasury. The FIU will apply for membership in the Egmont Group in 2005. The
Government will submit evidence that the FIUperforms functions inaccordance with the
Egmont Group definition o f a Financial Intelligence Unit. Inthe event that there are any
off-shore centers still claiming to be domiciled in Montenegro, the Government is
committedto subject them to investigationand/or appropriate legal action.


THEENERGY       SECTOR


24.      The energy sector has been a constraint to growth and macroeconomic
stability. Further reforms are needed to overcome episodes o f supply shortfall and to
ensure the financial self-sufficiency o f energy utilities. The energy sector has been a drain
on fiscal resources, and, despite recent reforms, it will continue to be a fiscal burden
unless hrther reform o f tariffs i s undertaken. Further tariff reform will become
increasingly important since substantial investments will be requiredin the energy sector
over the medium-term. The vertically integrated power utility, Electric Power Company
o f Montenegro (EPCG), has suffered from poor cash flow which resulted in power
outages inthe past.

25.      Significant progress has been made in energy sector reform under the
program supported by SAC 1. Average residential power tariffs were increased from
2.4 cents/kWh in 2000 to 4.1 cents in 2003 and are now at a level sufficient to cover
marginal cost. Seasonaltariffs were also unified in 2003 by canceling the lower summer
tariffs. This i s justified from an economic point o f view given that the power system is
capacity constrained insummer.

26.      Other aspects of the SAC 1 program laid the foundation for further energy
sector reform. The Republic o f Montenegro enacted the Energy Law in June 2003. The
Law provides a basis for the development o f a regulatory framework and the
establishment o f an independent regulator. The Energy Law also lays the foundation for
restructuring o fEPCG.

                                            9


Reform Objectives and SAC2 Measures

27.    The Government is now focusing on effective implementation of the
provisions of the Energy Law and extending the reform of power tariffs to the
largest consumer of electricity in Montenegro. The SAC 2 program would (i)
strengthen the financial viability of EPCG; (ii)support EPCG commercialization;
and (iii)ensure affordability for poor energy consumers. These energy sector reforms
will support both of the broader objectives SAC 2 of promoting economic growth and
supporting fiscal consolidation. Further tariff increases and regulatory development
would help to make Montenegro's power industry financially self sufficient (i.e., no
longer dependent on budgetary support) and provide a basis for investments in capacity
and/or imports, both of which would contribute to sustained system`security and support
economic growth. EPCG commercialization would unlock efficiency gains which would
allow lower power tariffs for a given security o f supply and support the competitiveness
of Montenegrinindustry inan international context. The Government will also undertake
reassessment o f our social safety net for energy consumers to ensure that it i s optimally
designed.

28.     The main short term measure required to strengthen EPCG financial
viability is an increase of the Podgorica Aluminum Plant (UP) power tariff. SAC 1
didnot focus onhighvoltage customers. KAP is byfar the largest consumer of electricity
inMontenegro. It accounts for nearly half of total energy consumption inthe Republic,
but it makes up only 30 percent of EPCG revenue. In2003, KAP paid1.8 cents/ kWh.
This is well below the marginal cost of supply. This low power tariff for KAP not only
strains the cash flows of EPCG, it also jeopardizes system security in Montenegro. A
move to economic pricing (at marginal cost, which in the Montenegrin context is the
import price) would not be feasible, at least inthe short term, before the restructuring and
privatization o f KAP take place. Yet, as long as KAP's power tariff remains below the
economic tariff, KAP continues to enjoy an implicit subsidy. This implicit subsidy has
been about US23 million per annum inrecent years, or about 1.7 percent o f GDP. Inthe
Government's view this hasbeenjustifiable giventhe importance o fKAP to the economy
(KAPmakes up about 50 percent ofMontenegro's merchandise exports), andthe limited
short term alternative employment options for the KAP labor force and the labor of
companies in the KAP supply chain. However, the Government does recognize that the
low power tariff for KAP forces EPCG to charge higher tariffs to others, including small
business, andthus diminishesprospects for promising sectors o f the economy.

29.     With some essential investment, KAPcould afford a higher power tariff than
it currently does. With support from EBRD, the Government plans to privatize KAPby
end-2004. The Government recognizes that only a strategic investor would be able to
make the requisite investmentsneeded to improve KAP's energy efficiency. Duringthe
first quarter o f 2004, the Government retained two international consulting companies
expert in aluminum and energy industries to advise on the KAP electricity pricing issue.
Following the recommendations o f these reports, and the privatization advisor financed
byEBRD, the Government has adopted a privatization strategyfor KAPwhich envisages

                                                  10


that by end-2004 a legally binding medium-term (e.g., five to seven years) electricity
price contract between EPCG and KAP would be signed. This agreement will have a
floor price for 2005 of US$2.4 centskWh. Beyond2005, the average power price paidby
KAP would exceed US$3.0 centskWh and would be higher depending on the
international aluminum price and the dollar/euro exchange rate. These measures would
support KAP commercialization and privatization and support the financial sustainability
o f EPCG by phasing out the implicit subsidy to KAP.12In the long-term, KAP should
continue to operate only if its economically viable (i.e., profitable at economic power
prices).

30.     In order to strengthen the financial viability of EPCG more generally, an
energy regulator was established in early 2004, consistent with the provisions of the
Energy Law. The new energy regulator i s benefiting from technical assistance and
support from DFID and USAID. The energy regulator will begin issuing licenses to
industryparticipants later this year andwill also develop secondarylegislation, including
an enduser tariffmethodology, byMarch2005.

31.      The Government has engaged international consultants to advise on EPCG
commercialization and restructuring, consistent with the Energy Law. This law
requires functional unbundling (through accounting and management separation) by
January 2005, and envisages subsequent legal unbundling. A Restructuring Steering
Group comprising representatives of EPCG and the Government has been formed,
together with a number o f working groups to implement restructuring by the target date
(i.e., functional unbundlingby January 2005). In addition, the Government has begun to
plan for next steps after unbundling and in considering privatizing EPCG within in the
next few years. A draft EPCGPrivatization Strategy was preparedinApril 2004.

32.      To cushion the impact of higher prices introduced in 2002 on Montenegro's
poorest citizens, the Government introduced a discount for low income families. The
program covers the first 500 kWho f monthlyconsumption for those families eligible for
the main means-tested social assistance program (the Material Assistance for Families).
The Government will continue to monitor the impact of energy prices on the welfare o f
the republic's poorest citizens, and consider further mitigation measures which might be
required.

The Pension and Health Sectors

33.      Prior to the reforms supported by SAC 1, the pension system experienced
serious fiscal difficulties, triggered both by demographic and economic factors. An
aging population and the erosion of the contribution base triggered by economic
stagnation and a growing shadow economy, both contributed to a decline in the system
dependency ratio to 1.3 workers per pensioner. The age dependency ratio (the ratio o f the


 l2The implicitsubsidyto KAPfromelectricitypriceswouldfallfromUS$23.4 millionperannumin2003
to US$3.6 million in2009 under the assumption o f constant electricity import prices.

                                                  11


over-65 year old population to the 15-65 year old population) grew to exceed 20 percent.
Both indicators are similar to those found in neighboring countries. However, with a
replacement rate o f 85 percent, a low retirement age o f 55 for women and 60 for men,
wage indexation o f benefits, and loose standards for disability eligibility, the pension
system became unsustainable. By 2002, pension expenditure reached 16 percent o f GDP.
Pension contributions and budget transfers to the PI0 were insufficient and the pension
deficit reached 3 percent of GDP in2002.'3

34.     With the support of SAC 1 reforms, key parameters of the pay-as-you-go
(PAYGO) system have improved the near-termfiscal balance and set the stage for
the possible future introductionof a multi-pillar system. These reforms embodied in
the Pension Insurance Law enacted in September 2003. The law tightened keyparameters
o f the existing PAYGO system. These changes (effective in January 2004) (i)               increased
the retirement age by five years for men and women (65 and 60 respectively) over a ten-
year period; (ii) the calculation period from ten best years to full career over a 15
                 widened
year period; (iii) changed the indexation pattern from wage to a combination of wages
andprices; (iv) introduced a point formula and loweredthe accrual rates from more than
2 percent to 1 percent per year of service; (v) tightened disability conditions; and (vi)
eliminated most social-related benefits from the pension system. These changes should
lower the pension deficit to less than 1percent o f GDP in2005 and eliminate the pension
deficit by 2007. The declining patho f the pension to GDP ratio will eventually create the
fiscal space for the next round of reform which could eventually involve the introduction
of funded pillars. The Pension Insurance Law and other recently enacted legislation on
tax and social contribution collection also envisage a full transfer o f collection and
control responsibility to the Agency for Public Revenues(DPR) in2005.

35.      The Government is now initiating a number of reforms in the health sector.
In2002, public expenditure on health care was more than 7 percent of GDP andtotal
health care expenditure was nearly 10 percent o f GDP. The Government faces the
challenge o f establishing institutional capacity for policy formulation, regulation and
governance inthe health sector. The constitutionadopted inFebruary2003 confirmed the
autonomy o f each constituent republic in this (as in most other) area of policy. For
Montenegro this reinforced the urgency o f adopting the legal, regulatory and institutional
framework needed to replace hctions formerly carried out by the Federal Republic o f
Yugoslavia and transitional arrangements for managing health financing and
pharmaceuticals supply. Key gaps inthe legal and financing framework included: how to
regulate the emerging private sector; how to regulate the relationship between public and
private sector; and how to allow public financing o fprivate as well as public services and
enableprivatehealthinsurance to develop.




l3 July 1,2004, thepensioncontributionratewas24percentofgrosssalaries, splitequallybetween
   Until
employees and employers. The employer rate was reduced from 12percent of gross salaries to 10.8 percent
on July 1,2004 and will be further reducedto 9.6 percent inDecember 2004.

                                                12


36.      One of the key reasons for the high level of health care expenditure is high
pharmaceutical expenditure and medical supplies. This doubled in nominal terms
between 2001 and 2003 and had grown from 20 percent o f Health Insurance Fund (HIF)
expenditure in2000 to nearly30 percent in2003.

37.      The lack of transparency in the pricing process from procurement through to
reimbursement has been a serious problem. Montefarm, a state-owned monopoly, is
the public pharmaceutical wholesaler andpublic pharmacy retailer. Montefarmmaintains
close relationships with its suppliers. Around 70 percent o f the drugs by value in
Montenegro are manufactured in Serbia. Many of these are produced by Hemofarm, one
o f the largest manufacturers o f drugs in Serbia. The remainder are imported from abroad.
These are generally drugs that are under patent elsewhere and for which Serbian
companies do not have a license to manufacture. Montefarm is autonomous from the
M o H andHIFand lacks adequateextemal accountability. These arrangementswere put in
place initially as a transition measure to assure supply o f drugs inMontenegro duringthe
period o f sanctions and conflict over the past decade. The HIF and Ministry o f Health
(MoH), until2004, obtained limited data onthe prices andvolumes o f drugs the HIFpays
for. As a result, these institutions were not able analyze the causes of the growth in
pharmaceutical expenditure, forecast future expenditure, or identify how best to intervene
to manage and controlthe population's drugsbill.

Reform Objectivesand SAC2 Measures

38.      SAC 2 will support reforms in both the pension and health sectors. The key
objectives o f the pensions reform are (i) ensure the effective implementation o f the
                                                to
reforms introduced in 2003 aimed at improving the transparency and management of
public finances; and (ii) fbrther lay the ground work for the next stage o f pension
                             to
reform envisaged in the Law on Pension Insurance, through the drafting o f new
legislation to regulate voluntary pension funds. The Government is also launching
reforms in the health sector in accordance with the Montenegro Health Sector
Development Strategy adopted in November 2003. This strategy seeks to put inplace a
framework to strengthen the financial sustainability, efficiency, quality and governance
for health insurance andhealthcare. The Government's health reforms would also seek to
introduce transparencyand improved management o fpharmaceutical expenditures.

39.      To ensure the effective implementation of the transfer of tax and social
security contribution collection to DPR in 2005 intensive cooperation will be needed
between a number of Government entities. While the unification o f tax and social
security collection creates an opportunity to address problems in the existing revenue
collection reporting and enforcement arrangements, the transition to the new system and
the shift o f responsibility create risks o f a reduction in effectiveness o f current collection
system, especially given concerns about the ability o f DPR to canyout its new
responsibilities. Also, the benefit side o f the pension regime (and increasingly also o f the
health regime) rely on timely and accurate data o f individual contributors. The
Government adopted an action plan inMarch 2004 to mitigate the transitional risk o f the

                                               13


unification o f registration and reporting o f tax and social security contribution collection.
The action plan establishes a working group which will draft a new law to ensure the
effective implementation o f these matters. This new law on consolidated reporting and
control on social security contributions, personal income tax and surtax will be enacted
by end-2004. By2005 DPRwill be fully equippedto collect, control andenforce pension
and other social contributions as well as forward contributions paid to the social security
funds in a timely manner. By 2006 DPR will prepare corresponding reports on
personified contribution payment. In the interim period, the proposed legislation will
require that DPR establish (i)central database o f insured individuals and contribution
                                 a
payers; (ii) procedures for updating individual data; (iii) dissemination requirements
                                                             data
to extra-budgetary funds; (iv) procedures for one-stop registration o f newly insured
individuals and contribution payers; and (v) other procedures required for the smooth
operation o f the consolidated administrative system. The law will also harmonize
provisions on social security contribution control currently scattered throughout several
other relevant laws. The proposed new law would supercede the old laws and eliminate
the conflicting discrepancies.

40.     The Pension Insurance Law envisages the eventual introduction of
mandatory second and voluntary third funded pension pillars in Montenegro. The
law stipulates that the funded pillars will be regulated by separate legislation to be
adopted inthe future. The Government has decided that a voluntary pension pillar should
be introduced and regulated well in advance o f the mandatory second pillar in order to
allow the pension find industry (including regulatory institutions) to develop in
Montenegro. By end-2004, the Government will draft legislation to establish the
voluntary thirdpillar.

41.      The Government adopted the new framework laws (The Law on Heath
Protection and the Law on Health Insurance) in June 2004, covering health
insurance and health care. These new laws create conditions for the implementation
of health reforms directed at improving financial sustainability, controlling quality,
and creating appropriateregulatory conditions for private sector development.

42.      The new Law on Health Protection provides the basis for planning and
regulation of a network of healthcare providers that can in future include both
public and private providers. It also lays the foundations for changes in the
organization o f primary healthcare to introduce a gate-keeping role for primary care
doctors, accompanied by patient choice o f doctor. It also provides a basis for shifting a
larger share of patient care out o f hospitals and into the primary care level. Additionally,
it lays the foundations for a system of licensingof doctors and accreditation ofhealthcare
providers, inline with EUpractice, so as to encourage quality improvement. The new law
also clarifies the boundary between public and private medical practice, an important
measureto prevent corruption andprotect patients' access.

43.      The new Health Insurance Law establishes the Health Insurance Fund as an
 autonomous agency. It also defines the governance and supervision arrangements for the

                                                   14


HIF on a basis that mirrors those inthe new pension insurance law and is substantially
aligned with the new Law on State Administration (enacted in 2003). The new Health
Insurance Law creates foundations for improving financial sustainability on the
expenditure side through some modest reductions in the benefits package, and through
provisions that will permitnewmethods o fprovider payment, andthrough provisionsthat
will allow more cost-effective indications/criteria for various health benefits. On the
revenue side, the new law provides the basis for improvedcontrol and enforcement, inthe
context o f planned unification o f collection o f all social contributions and taxes in the
DPR.

44.     The Government will now move to more standard arrangements for the
management of pharmaceuticals, in line with changes required to bring
Montenegro's market regulation and pharmaceutical regulation into line with
international practice and EU requirements. Standard policy prescriptions for
managing pharmaceutical expenditure through the introduction o f competition and
improved control o f distribution, dispensing and prescribing, would be difficult to
implement inMontenegro immediately because (i) legal andregulatoryframework to
                                                              the
ensure the safety and quality o f pharmaceuticals entering Montenegro and to regulate,
prescribe and dispense drugs i s not yet in place; (ii)             the HIF and MoH lack the data
necessary to formulate policy; and (iii)        although the new Law on State Administration
and new intemal audit function of the MOF create a framework for external
accountability for public sector institutions, the relevant laws do not directly apply to
Montefarm nor do they apply infull to the public healthcare institution^.'^

45.     The Ministry of Health has prepareda new draft Law on Medicinal Products
and a Law on Medical Devices, that mirrors the provisions of a similar Laws
developed for Serbia with the support of the European Agency for Reconstruction
(EAR). The draft laws bring Montenegro's pharmaceuticals regulation into line with
international practice and EU requirements, and provide a compatible legal framework
with that which will prevail in Serbia. The laws was adopted by Government as a
working draft inJune andwere submittedfor public consultation. They are expected to be
enactedbyend-2004.

46.     The Government is taking several concrete steps to put in place the
prerequisites for future measures to control pharmaceuticals expenditure. It i s now
implementing a pharmaceutical information system to enable monitoring o f drug prices,
quantities and types o f drugs, andto track supplies from the point o fprocurement through
to prescribing and dispensing. By April, all public pharmacies incorporated this new
system which captures complete data on prices, types and quantities o f positive list
pharmaceuticals purchased, distributed, prescribed, and dispensed. The HIFhas begunan
analysis o f the data and have found the new system i s already having an impact on
reducing pharmaceutical expenditure. The HIF i s now focusing on improvements in


14 The former FRY Federal Drugs Law continues to apply intheory, but this law is out o f date; moreover,
Montenegro does not have a regulatory institution to enforce its provisions.

                                                   15


budget planning for 2005. By end-2004, the Government will adopt an implementation
plan for the new Law on Medicinal Products and will enact necessary changes to
organizational statutes and charts, and draft necessary bylaws, decrees, and contracts to
bring the existing public drug regulation, procurement, distribution, and reimbursement
systems (involving the MOH, the new Medicines Agency, Montefarm, and the HIF) into
line with the new legal framework, including the Public Procurement Law, Law on State
Administration, and the new Laws on Health Protection, Health Insurance, Medicinal
Products andMedicalDevices.

47.     On their own, these measures are not likely to have a substantialimpact on
pharmaceuticalprices,though the introductionof a comprehensivepharmaceuticals
information systemacts as a deterrent to some forms of fraud and abuse. Alongside
these measures, the Government will need to develop a policy on how to reduce
pharmaceutical prices, through either competitive procurement or transparent price
regulation (or a combination o f both). However, the measures outlined above are
necessary pre-requisites for a progressive opening o f the market to competition, and for
development o f strategies to identify and reduce wasteful and irrational use o f
pharmaceuticals. These developments have begun in 2004 with the introduction o f a
pharmaceuticals information system and a first attempt at international tendering for
pharmaceuticals and medical products, and they will continue beyond the timeframe of
the SAC 2. The Bank's new Montenegro Health Systems Improvement Project will
continue to support the Government's reform efforts through TA. These measures ideally
will be supplementedbymore general public sector financial management reforms inthe
medium-term, including development o f external and improvement o f internal audit for
public sector institutions.

48.     The Government launched a tax reform plan in 2004 which included
reductions in employer contributions to the pension and health funds.15 A
Supplementary Budget was adopted in June 2004 together with the new laws on Health
Protection and Health Insurance. The Government envisages these rate reductions as a
first step in a medium-term effort to reduce the tax burden and public expenditure in
relation to GDP. The Government i s committed to ensuringthat fiscal transfers from the
Central Budget to the Health and Pension Funds would cover any loss o f revenue
resultingfrom the rate reductions. The Government will ensure that the 2005 Budget Law
will allocate adequate budgetary transfers to the health and pension systems that the
indicative three year fiscal framework which will be adopted with the 2005 budget will
layout a path o f fiscal policy consistent with an elimination o f the budget deficit by 2008
while ensuringthe financial sustainability ofthe pensionandhealth systems.




l5The social contribution rates to the pension and health funds and the personal income tax were all
reduced by 5 percent effective July 1,2004 and a further 5 percent effective December 1,2004.

                                              16


PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONREFORM

49.     The Government launched the process of public administration reform in
2003 in response to an unsatisfactorysituation in the public administration,which
had gradually deteriorated in the 1990s. Instead o f rationalizing the complex
government structure, with a large number o f ministries and other public bodies relative
to the size o f the republic, many new ministries and other public bodies were established,
thus increasing the cost o f the administrative system. These developments also brought
about a further fragmentation o f the administrative organization. Furthermore, the
politicization o f higher civil service ranks became endemic and had an adverse effect on
the functioning o f the overall public administration system. As a result o f the above,
Montenegro's public wage bill became swollen and grew to be one o f the highest inthe
region. As an initial response to this unsustainable situation and consistent with the goal
o f reducing the tax burden and public expenditure in relation to GDP, the Government
has announced a reduction o f public employment by 4,200 staff by end-2004. These
redundancies will mainly affect the police force and teachers, which constitute the largest
number o fpublic service employees.

50.     The public administrationreformstrategy adopted in summer 2003 sets out
an ambitious structural and legislativereform program for the reorganizationand
reorientationof the state administration. The principles set out inthis strategy are to
create a professional, effective, transparent, client oriented and affordable system o f
public administration. The Government has designed, with the assistance o f EAR, an
ambitious legislative and institutional reform agenda to achieve these objectives. The
Law on State Administration andthe Law on Inspection Scrutiny were enacted insummer
2003. The Law on State Administration foresees the reform o f the structures o f
ministries, with policy-making fbnctions to be separated from service delivery and
regulatory functions by summer 2004. The Law on Inspection Scrutiny sets out modem
principles and procedures o f inspection oversight o f public administration and private
companies and citizens. Furthermore, the Law on General Administrative Procedure and
the Law on Administrative Dispute (Judicial Review) were adopted inOctober 2003.

Reform Objectives andSAC2 Measures

51.     The reforms supported by SAC 2 would (i) depoliticize top level posts and
establish a merit-basedcivil service system; (ii) reformthe policy process to control
the fiscal cost of the public administration; and (iii) develop the accountability
system, by strengthening an independent internal control function in the state
 administration (administrative accountability), by developing of the administrative
court system (judicial accountability) and by improvingexternaloversight through
the Ombudsmaninstitution(parliamentaryaccountability).

 52.     To depoliticize top level posts and establish a merit-based civil service
 system, the Republic of Montenegro enacted, in March 2004, two key pieces of
 legislation:the Law on CivilService andthe Law on Salaries. The implementation o f

                                             17


these laws will be carried out over 2004 and 2005 with technical assistance from EAR
and UNDP. Recruitment by open competition will become mandatory for all Assistant
Minister and Secretary-General appointments in the state administration under the new
Law on Civil Service. Furthermore, the contracts o f such officials will be concluded for a
period that goes beyond the mandate of any individual government, thus firther reducing
the risk o f politicization. Necessary secondary legislation on appointment procedures will
be adopted by autumn 2004. These by-laws will clearly regulate the position o f managers
of agencies including appointment, dismissal, and performance evaluation. These by-laws
would provide the basis for the reduction o f the current high levels of politicization. A
Civil Service Agency (CSA) will be established and staffed by autumn 2004 and will be
charged with implementing the horizontal human resource management system by end-
2004. The creation o f the CSA is an essential element o f the institutional architecture for
effective civil service management. The competencies of the CSA in relation to the line
ministries must be clearly defined. The Government will also adopt by end-2004 the
procedures for appointment, dismissal and performance assessment o f top career officials
and heads of agencies. The Government must ensure that these regulations will be
effectively applied, including clear guarantees for merit based recruitment. A
performance assessment system will also be introduced and piloted in three key
ministries.

53.     The enactment of the Law on Salaries will improve the incentive system for
the civil service. Inparticular, the new law will lead to the de-compression o f the pay
system, create a coherent pay system across the whole civil service, and create a system
where pay levels would be based on characteristics o f the job to be performedrather than
subjective criteria (academic degrees, years o f service, etc.). Furthermore the current
system o f allowances will be rationalized, retaining only a performance based allowance,
which will be linked eventually to the performance appraisal system. A new salary system
will be introduced with the 2005 budget. This new system will increase the base pay-real
pay ratio to 80 percent and provide for an effective de-compression o f salaries inthe core
civil service within the overall constraints of the path o f fiscal consolidation envisaged in
the macroeconomic framework.

54.     In relation to the reform of the policy process, the Rules and Procedures of
the Government will be amended by end-2004 to introduce a mandatory
methodology for fiscal impact assessment which will be required to accompany all
draft legislation in future. The UNDP is providing training to key civil servants on this
methodology. This new methodology will help to change the existing practice whereby
laws and policies are occasionally introduced without budgetary means available for their
implementation. This tightening o f the fiscal impact assessment requirements for draft
laws and policies will be the first step towards the phased introduction o f a
comprehensive impact assessment system that would include environmental, economic
andsocial impact assessment.

55.     Finally, SAC 2 would support reforms aimed at strengthening the
accountability system in Montenegro. The Ombudsman office has been established and

                                                   18


effectively staffed. By end-2004, the Ombudsman office will become fully operational
and its first report will be submittedto Parliament. By autumn 2004, the administrative
court and a special appellate court will be established, as envisaged by the Law on Courts
(enacted in 2002). Incombination, these measures should provide the basis for reducing
abuse of office and corruption in Montenegro, and also create a more responsive and
client oriented administration.

Medium-termprospectsandFinancingRequirements

56.     Sustainable growth in Montenegro and S A M is achievable under continued
decisive reforms and substantial support from donors and creditors. Growth in
SAM'6 beginning in 2004 i s projected at around 4.5 percent per year a modest
acceleration to the 3.0 percent estimated for 2003. Near-term growth i s expected to be
driven by exports, a more vibrant SME sector (including tourism in Montenegro), and
greater donor andbank financing o f investments. These factors are expected to outweigh
anypossible contractionary impact of further fiscal adjustment.Medium-termgrowthwill
also be drivenby greater productivity and enhanced financial intermediation, the entry o f
new firms, infrastructure rehabilitation, and further investments in new productive
capacity. Recovery i s likely to take time, even with strong reform and concessional
assistance. Export performance will be essential to growth and macroeconomic
sustainability. Exportshave been growingmuchmore slowly than GDP and thus the ratio
o f exports to GDP has fallen by 10percentagepoints since 2000. This trend couldreverse
in2004. Near-term export recovery will be supported by the restoration and creation of
new business contacts (includingthrough new bilateral free trade agreements inthe SEE
region and autonomous trade preferences granted by the EU), some financial re-
intermediation, and greater access to export credits. Inlater years, export recovery could
be supported by a recovery in the economies o f key partners, deepened trade integration
(including through the EU Stabilization and Association and World Trade Organization
accession processes), rehabilitation o f infrastructure, productivity improvements, and
higher foreign direct investment.

57.     Medium-term growth in SAM will depend on increased and more effective
investments.Gross domestic investmentas a share ofGDP is expectedto rise from about
15 percent in2003 to 21 percent in2007. Donor funding will probably continue to play a
significant role in closing the gap between national savings and investment needs. The
primary overall investment needs are in the enterprise sector (including agriculture,
finance, andtourism inMontenegro), where modestly higher investments should beginto
follow from recent and ongoing reforms to improve the business environment, to
privatize enterprises in a way which i s conducive to attracting new investors, and to
restore the public confidence needed for revival of the banking sector. In parallel, and
supported by public sector saving, a strengthened banking system, and an increase in
enterprise profitability, gross domestic savings i s projected to increase from -7.0 percent


16Thelack of reliable and dis-aggregated national account data inMontenegro precludes a rigorous analysis
of growth prospects for Montenegro specifically. Thus the text here focuses on SAM.

                                                            19


of GDP in2003 to 2.5 percent in2007. As savings growth modestly outstrips investment
growth, SAM's current account deficit (including grants) is expected to decline from 8.8
percent o f GDP in2002 to around 7.5 percent in2007.


Table 1:Serbia and Montenegro, Key Economic Indicators and Projections
                                                2000   2001   2002   2003    2004    2005   2006    2007

National Accounts

GDP (US$ millions) 11                           8603   11577  15662  20729   23346  23550   24905  26464
Real GDP growth("A)                               5.0    5.5    4.0     3.0    4.4     4.5    4.5     5.0

Investment (% o f GDP)                           14.2   13.6   16.1   15.1    16.6    17.2   19.3    20.9

Gross Domestic Savings (% o f GDP)               -2.7   -7.2   -7.0    -6.8   -4.0    -2.5    0.1     2.5

Public Sector Balance (as % o fGDP)

Expenditures                                     37.6   40.3   47.3   46.8    47.0    44.9   42.4    41.6
 oiw public investment                            3.1    1.6    3.4     2.1    2.9     4.0    4.7     4.5
Revenue before grants                            36.7   38.9   42.8   42.6    43.6    42.4   41.5    40.8
Deficit before grants                             0.9    1.4    4.5     4.2    3.4     2.5    0.9     0.8

External Accounts (as % o f GDP)

Exports o f goods andservices                    29.6   23.7   20.7    19.2   20.4    22.8   24.0    25.5
Imports o f goods and services                   46.5   44.6   43.8   41.9    41.2    42.8   43.5    44.2

Current account balance, (millions o f US$) 21   -339   -528  -1384  -2121   -2234   -1972  -2002   -1988
Current account balance, as % o f GDP 21         -3.9   -4.6   -8.8   -10.2    -9.6   -8.4    -8.0   -7.5

Indebtedness

TDOIXGS 31                                             261.5  220.9   184.6  160.6   133.1   128.7  135.2
TDOIGDP                                                101.4   76.0    62.4   53.7    48.4   48.3    54.3
TDSIXGS 31                                                      3.4     6.5     9.9   11.0    10.9   10.2




Retail price inflation (e.0.p.)                 113 5   39.0   142      7 6     8 5
                                                                                .. 5.0         5.0    5.0
llGDP estimates exclude Kosovo.
21After grants.
3/Exports include workers' remittances andnon-factor income.

58.          Continued fiscal consolidation in both republics will be critical over the next
few years. In both republics, the limited domestic sources o f budget financing and the
reduction in external financing to more sustainable levels will require a continued phased
reduction in fiscal deficits. Bank adjustment credits and other donor support will smooth
the temporary adverse effects of this fiscal adjustment. Despite a large increase inpublic
debt service payments and the continued progress in bringing quasi-fiscal activities on
budget, the implementation o f a high quality fiscal adjustment could decrease SAM's
consolidated fiscal deficit (excluding official grants) decrease persistently from 4.5
percent o f GDP in 2002 to less than 1 percent o f GDP in 2006 and beyond. Deficit
reductions in the outer years would be supported by deeper savings resulting from
reforms and improvements intax administration. InMontenegro, fiscal policy i s the only
substantial macroeconomic policy tool available given the current exchange rate regime.
As mentioned above (paragraph 48), the Government o f Montenegro is committed to a
patho f fiscal policy which will eliminate the budget deficit by 2008.

                                                   20


59.     External financing requirements will remain large.17 The macroeconomic
scenario outlined above will require substantial capital inflows to S A M . The envisaged
high current account deficits in the medium-termand the expiration of the Paris Club
grace periods demonstrate the importance o f continued external assistance for
sustainability of the reform process. Between 2004 and 2007, gross external financing
requirements are estimated at about US$2.6 billion per year for S A M . On an average
annual basis, these resources are needed to finance US$1.5 billion o f current account
deficits (excluding interest and official transfers),                  US$O.1 billion in increased
international reserves, and the remainder o f US$1.O billionto service foreign debt. These
needs are projected to be met from several sources. With good progress on reforms,
foreign direct investment and other private sector finance could grow to average US$1.O
billion per year. The remaining US$1.6 billion o f average annual financing will need to
come from official bilateral and multilateral sources. Although the next CAS for S A M
will provide a more detailed discussion concerning the financing plan and the possible
Bank involvement, preliminary projections suggest that the Bank program would
represent about 10 percent o f this financing for S A M . Overall donor assistancewill need
to include adequate provision o f quick disbursing funds strongly tied to reform
performance ineachrepublic.

60.     SAM's debt service indicators are expected to decline significantly but to
levels that are still high. SAM's total external debt i s expected to fall further to 54
percent o f GDP in 2007. S A M ' s ability to maintain a relatively stable ratio of debt to
GDP despite relatively large current account deficits, will initially be facilitated by the
high degree of average concessionality of official external financing, and later by
increasing inflows o f private capital. The ratio o f total debt service to exports would
fluctuate around 10percent inthe period2004-2007.

61.     Sensitivity analyses demonstrate the vulnerability of SAM's outlook to
external shocks and slippages in reform effort. A variety o funforeseen external shocks
couldraise SAM's debt service obligations or reduce the amount o f resourcesavailable to
pay the debt, particularly if they occur simultaneously. These include a slower than
expected export growth and higher foreign interest rates. However, the biggest threats to
sustainability would come from sustained delays in reform and fiscal consolidation or
from a policy mix which would reduce SAM's external competitiveness. By slowing
GDP and export growth and raising borrowing requirements, such developments could
cause public and external debt service payments to reach unsustainable levels. These
illustrative scenarios indicate the importance o f appropriate macroeconomic policies,
sustained reform effort, and strong donor support. The financing provided by the Bank
and other donors provides an added cushion against external shocks, while the focus of
the proposed Bank program on strictly monitored policy-based lending gives maximal
support to the reforms and fiscal consolidation needed to achieve sustained growth and
improveddebt sustainability.


l7Again, giventhe lackofreliablemacroeconomic data inMontenegro, the analysisherefocuses onSAM.
The projections presented here take into account the effects o fthe recent London Club agreement.

                                           21




                             111.THE PROPOSEDCREDIT


62.    This section provides a summary of the proposed Credit including (a) Rationale
for Bank Involvement; (b) Benefits and Risks; (c) Coordination with the IMF; (d) Board
Conditions, Tranche Triggers and Supervision; (e) Implementation; (0 Financial
Arrangements; and (g) Poverty Implications.


RATIONALE FORBANKINVOLVEMENT


63.     The Transitional Support Strategy (TSS - Report 22090-YU, June 26,2001)
for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY, now the Serbian and Montenegro
(SAM)) proposeda broadprogramof support for FYO2-04 focusedheavilyon policy
reform. Up to US$540 million in IDA resources were allocated over the FY02-FY04
period, with actual lending determined by policy performance. The TSS envisaged up to
80 percent o f commitments in the form o f adjustment credits to support critical policy
reforms. Due to the highly devolved nature o f S A M and the different starting points and
pace o f reforms inthe two constituent republics, the reform agenda areas described inthe
TSS entail differentiated reform programs in each republic. Thus, the TSS Updates o f
July, 18 2002 and February 18, 2004 confirmed the approach whereby the policy reform
program - and the Bank's planned adjustment lending - were structured to address the
specific needs o f each republic. This approach envisioned credits provided to S A M and
on-lent to the republics, to back primarily republic-level reforms. Such a differentiated
approach addresses the different starting points, reform challenges and pace o f reforms in
the two republics and avoids the risk o f delaying disbursements to one republic due to a
laggedreformeffort inthe other.

64.     Progress in stabilization and structural reformhas been substantial in both
republics and the Bank has supported the reform agenda through a number of
adjustment operations. Consistent with the strategy laid out in the TSS, by end-June
2004 US$315 million for Serbia and US$15 million for Montenegro has been directed
toward adjustment credits. These quick disbursingfunds have been crucial for closingthe
financing gap in both republics while facilitating the design and implementation o f a
critical set o f structural reforms. The Bank has supported the reform program in the
Republic o f Montenegro thus far by a single multi-sector adjustment operation
(Montenegro SAC 1).Montenegro SAC 1closed on January 30,2004.
BENEFITSAND RISKS

65.     SAC 2 builds on and consolidates reforms supported by MontenegroSAC 1.
The two-tranche operation, focuses on two broad themes (i) to promote growth
                                                               reforms
and (ii)  reforms to support further fiscal consolidation. The financial sector reforms
would help to promote growth through increased (and increasingly efficient) financial
intermediation. Pension, health and public administration reform would ultimately

                                             22


support ongoing fiscal consolidation. Energy sector reforms would support both growth
and fiscal consolidation by overcoming episodes of supply shortfall and ensuring the
financial self-sufficiency o f energy utilities. Increased institutional transparency and
accountability and increasedfocus on implementation capacity are themes thread through
each o f the five policy areas. SAC 2 will also provide crucial financing to help close
Montenegro's budgetary gap.

66.      The proposed SAC 2 also comes with a number of potential risks. Despite
recent progress inimplementing structural reforms and stabilization policies, the size and
scope o f government intervention in the economy remains large, while the capacity of
public sector institutions to implement an ambitious reform agenda, although much
improvedover the past few years, remains relativelyweak. The process o fbuildingstrong
institutions with the capacity and incentives to carry out the formal elements o f reform is
a medium-term endeavor. The ability o f the Government to stay the course as they
implement the reform program will be challenging. The risks involved with the weak
policy making capacity are exacerbated by the uncertain political environment. The
present constitutional arrangements in the union o f Serbia and Montenegro require
harmonization o f trade, customs, and excise regimes o f the two republics. This has
proven challenging thus far. The constitutional arrangements also allow either republic
the possibility to hold a referendum on opting out o f the union. Other potential risks are
posed by the lack of reliable macroeconomic statistics including national accounts,
balance o f payments, monetary, and other statistics needed to guide macroeconomic
policy making. Given Montenegro's exchange rate regime, unforeseen external
imbalances would lead to downward pressure on the money supply which could have a
deflationary impact. Various external shocks could strain Montenegro's ability to
maintain a sustainable macroeconomic framework. Any interruptions in donor flows
would exacerbate the fragility both o f the balance of payments and the financing of the
budget deficit.

67.      On balance, the risks are outweighed by the potential benefits to be derived
by continuing to improve and strengthen the economy, by providing needed
budgetary support, and by creating a more secure and consistent foundation for
other donors to provide similar support. Recovery will remain difficult and will not be
possible without adequate and timely support from the Bank and other donors. These
benefits will be felt not only in Montenegro and S A M , but also in the wider South East
European region, as a more rapid and sustainable recovery in S A M would enhance its
ability to become a stabilizing force inthe region.


COORDINATIONWITH THE IMFAND OTHERDONORS
68.      The proposed project has been developed in close collaboration with the IMF
and other key international donors. The Government's overall reform program has
been designed within a framework for macroeconomic stability consistent with S A M ' s
Extended Arrangement (EA) approved by the IMF in May 2002. SAC 2 and the EA
complement each other. Several bilateral and multilateral donors are providing important

                                             23


financial and technical assistance in all four areas supported by SAC 2. They include the
European Commission, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, UK
DFID,USAID, US Treasuryandthe UNDP.

BoardConditions

69.     The overall program to be supported by the proposed credit i s outlined in the
Government's Letter of Development Policy (Annex 4), and the policy conditions and
performance benchmarks are set out inthe Policy Matrix o f KeyReforms (Annex 5).

FinancialArrangements

70.     CreditAmount, Borrower, Terms, Tranching. The proposed SAC 2 Credit (SDR
12.3 million, US$18 million equivalent) will be made to SAM, representedby the S A M
Ministryfor International Economic Relations (MER). The ultimate beneficiary will be
Montenegro, representedby the Ministryo f Finance of the Republic o f Montenegro. The
Credit will be on modified IDA terms, with a maturity o f 20 years including a grace
period of 10years, and no acceleration clause. It is proposed to disburse the Credit intwo
equal tranches.

71.     Disbursement and Credit Management. The S A M MIER will open andmaintain
a special Deposit Account inthe NationalBank o f Serbia (NBS) on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Upon Credit Agreement effectiveness, and with the
submission by the Borrower (SAM MER) o f a withdrawal application, the proceeds o f
the Credit will be deposited by the Association into the Euro Deposit Account o f the
S A M MIER in the N 3 S . Based on the enactment o f a S A M law approved by the
Government o f the Republic o f Montenegro (a condition o f Effectiveness), the Borrower
will transfer to a deposit account o f the Republic o f Montenegro (represented by the
Central Bank of Montenegro (CBM)) the euro equivalent o f the proceeds o f the Credit
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. The CBM, through its role as
the fiscal agent o f the Government o f Montenegro, will inturn open a deposit account for
the Ministry of Finance o f the Republic o f Montenegro. If, after deposit in the Deposit
Account, the proceeds o f the Credit are used for ineligiblepurposes (ie., to finance items
imported from non-member countries, or goods and services from the Association's
standard negative list), the Association will require the Borrower to either (i) the
                                                                                 return
amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (ii) the amount directly to
                                                             refund
the Association.

72.     Implementation, Monitoring and Supervision. Duringthe preparation o f SAC 2,
the Association has assisted the Government o f Montenegro in achieving the timely
implementation o f the agreed reforms. Through regular reviews, the Association will
monitor the general progress o f Montenegro's reform program, and more specifically the
implementation o f agreed benchmarks described in the Development Credit Agreement
andLetter ofDevelopment Policy. This will require regular supervision conductedjointly
bystaffofthe BankOffice inBelgrade andheadquarters-basedstaff.

                                                24



73.     Reporting, Accounting and Auditing. The S A M MER, with the assistance o fthe
National Banko f Serbia, the Central Bank o f Montenegro, and the Ministry o fFinance o f
the Republic o f Montenegro, would maintain records of all transactions under the Credit
in accordance with sound accounting practices, and in a form acceptable to the
Association. The Association will exercise its rightto receive audit reports on the Deposit
Accounts, according to the terms of reference acceptable to the Association. The audit
will examine and report on the disbursements from the deposit accounts until such time
that all the credit proceeds have been fully utilized. The audit o f the Deposit Accounts
(including other deposit accounts) is to be conducted on an annual basis, with the first
audit for the period to December 31, 2004 and subsequent audits are to be conducted
annually untilall balances inthe deposit accounts (including deposit accounts) have been
filly usedfor eligible expenditures, and these audit reports are due within four months of
the end o fthe financial year.

74.     CZosingdate. The closingdate o fthe Credit will beDecember 31,2005,

PovertyImplications

75.     The Government's structuralreformprogramsupported by SAC 2 will have
an important impact on poverty and will support the goals set out in Montenegro's
recent PRSP.l* The Government of Montenegro has demonstrated a clear concem for
managing any negative social impacts o f reforms. In recent years the Government has
implementeda number of measures to improve the targeting of social welfare programs.
The PRSP process has been a collaborative effort between the Government and NGOs.
The authorities are also working with the Bank and other donors to develop the data and
analytical capacity required to ground future adjustment operations in a deeper
understanding o f various policies on the living standards o f the poor. One area where
Montenegro's PRSP needs further strengthening is its lack o f alignment with the budget
process. The implementation o f SAC 2 will coincide with Bank assistance in
strengtheningthis alignment.

76.     Each o f the reform areas to be supported in SAC 2 are included inMontenegro's
PRSP. As the Poverty Assessment emphasized, the shallowness o fpovertyinMontenegro
suggests that even small economic shocks can have potentially large effects on poverty. A
positive shock, such as sustained economic growth, is likelyto result ina disproportional
decline in poverty, while a negative shock, such as a recession, i s likely to result in a
disproportional increase inpoverty. The financial sector and energy sector reforms inthe
SAC 2 program will enhance prospects for growth and thus poverty reduction by
improving access to finance and overcoming episodes of energy supply shortfalls. The
energysector, pension and health, andpublic administration reforms should contribute to
a reduction in non-poverty related public expenditure which would should help ensure
that the process of fiscal consolidation does not rely on reductions in social transfers to


   Montenegro's PRSP was discussed at the World Bank's Board inMarch 2004.

                                           25


the poor. Successful fiscal consolidation would leave the Government ina better position
to mitigate negative external shocks and thus cushion their effects poor. Health reforms
should eventually lead to more affordable pharmaceutical prices. Public administration
reform should contribute to a more efficient government increasingly capable o f
implementing well targeted social welfare programs.

EnvironmentalImpact

77.    The proposed SAC 2 is not expected to result in any negative impact on the
environment. For the purposes o f Operational Policy 4.01, it has been placed inCategory
U,whichdoesnotrequireanenvironmental assessment.

                                                             26                                                    Annex 1
                                                                                                              Page 1of 3



                                    Serbia and Montenegro: Key EconomicIndicators

                                                      Actual                         Estimated                Projected
                Indicator                  1998     1999     2000     2001    2002    2003     2004    2005    2006     2007
Nationalaccounts(as % of GDP) a
Total Consumption                               98     102       103     107     107      107     104     102      100      98
Gross domestic fixed investment                 12      13        14      14      I 6      15      17      17       19      21
 Governmentinvestment                            2       2         3       2       4         2       3      4        5       5
 Privateinvestment                              10      11        11      12      12       13      14      13       15      16

Exports(GNFgb                                   22      21        30      24      21       20      20      23       24      26
Imports(GNFS)                                   32      35        47      45      44       42      41      43       43     44
Gross domesticsavings                            2      -2        -3      -7      -7      -6.8    -4.0   -2.5      0.1     2.5
Gross nationalsavings'                                   4        I O      9       I         6       7      9       11      14
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                      13584     9841     8603   11577   15662     20729  23346   23550    24905   26464
(US$ million at currentprices)
GNPper capita(US$,Atlas method)                                         1270    1410     1910   2400    2820      3010   3150
Realannual growth rates(%, calculatedfrom 1998prices)
 Gross domesticproductat marketprices                     ..     5.0     5.5     4.0       3.0     4.4    4.5      4.5     5.0
 Gross Domestic Income                                    ..     5.0     5.5     4.0       1.9     3.2    4.7      4.4     4.9
Realannual per capita growthrates (%, calculatedl?om 1998prices)
 Gross domesticproductat market prices                           5.5     5.7     4.3       3.2     4.3    4.4      4.4     4.9
 Total consumption                                               5.2     13.1    7.8       6.3     2.6    1.9       1.8    2.2
 Privateconsumption                                              19.1    15.1    6.6       6.7     2.1    2.6      4.0     2.0
Balanceof Payments(US$ millions)
 EXPOI~S (GNFS)~                              3947    2147      2547    2743    3241     3970    4767    5373     5981    6755
   MerchandiseFOB                             3033    1676      1923    2003    2412     2917    3483    3935     4380    4964
 Imports (GNFS)~                              5270    3538      4004    5160    6857     8675    9625   10076    10824   11703
   MerchandiseFOB                             4849    3295      3711    4837    6320     7957    8805    9245     9946   10770
 Resourcebalance                            -1323    -1391     -1457   -2417   -3616     -4705  -4858   -4703    -4843   -4948
 Net currenttransfers                          655     668      1119    1915    2343     2821    3099    3238     3288    3455
 Current account balance                      -660    -764      -327    -528   -1384     -2121  -2234   -1972    -2002   -1988
 Netprivate foreign direct investment          113     112        25     165     562      1395    713    11x1     1000     900
 Long-termloans(net)                            25      12       213     299     378       707    847     351      639     640
  Official                                                                                 774    535     283     IO87    1367
  Private                                                                                  -67    312      68     -448    -727
 Other capital(net, incl mom &omissions)       407     529       335     459    1260      1289    716     650      684     728
 Changeinreservesd                             115     111      -246    -395    -816     -1270     -42   -210     -321    -280
Memorandum items
Resourcebalance(% ofGDP)                       -9.7   -14.1     -16.9   -20.9   -23.1    -22.7   -20.8   -20.0    -19.4   -18.7
Annual dollar-valuegrowthrates
 Merchandiseexports(FOB)                              -44.7      14.7     4.2    20.4     20.9    19.4    13.0     11.3    13.3
 Merchandiseimports(CIF)                              -32.0      12.6    30.3    30.7     25.9    10.7     5.0      7.6     8.3

                                                                          27                                                 Annex 1
                                                                                                                        Page 2 of 3

                                   Serbia and Montenegro: Key Economic Indicators
                                                      (Continued)


                                                           Actual                                Estimate               Projected
                 Indicator                   1998        1999              2000    2001    2002   2003     2004   2005    2006    2007

Public finance (as % of GDP at market pricesf
Current revenues                                                             36.7    38.9    42.8    40.9    43.8   42.8    41.6    40.8
Current expenditures                                                         34.5    38.7    43.3    41.9    44.0   40.8    37.6    37.0
Current account surplus (+) or deficit(-)                                     2.2     0.2    -0.5    -1.0    -0.2    2.0      4.0    3.8
Capital expenditure                                                           3.1     1.6     3.4      2.5    3.0    4.1      4.8    4.6
Overall balance                                                 ..........   -0.9    -1.4    -4.5     -4.0   -3.7   -3.7     -3.6   -2.6

Monetary indicators
 M2IGDP f                                                                       ..   14.0    18.6    23.1    19.2   20.0    20.4    21.3
 Growtho f M2 (%)                                                                       ..   73.4    47.6    -5.6   15.5     12.0   14.4

Price indices( 400)
               ..
 Merchandise export price index
 Merchandise import price index
 Merchandise terms o f trade index
 Real exchange rate (US$ILCU)g

 Real interest rates
 Consumerprice index (% change)                 29.8        42.4             69.9    91.1    21.2    11.1     7.2    7.1      5.0    4.6
 GDP deflator (%change)                                         ..           88.3    91.7    25.5     15.0    8.7    6.3      5.0    4.5


a. ExcludingKosovo
b. "GNFS"denotes "goods and%on-factorservices."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes useo fIMFresources.
e. Consolidated generalgovernment.
f. Comprises Serbiandinar-denominatedmoney supply only
g. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase inUS$ILCU denotes appreciation.

                                                                                                                     Annex 1
                                                            28                                                    Page 3 of 3
                                Serbia and Montenegro: Key Economic Indicators


                                                         Actual                        Estimated         Projected
               Indicator                 1998    1999       2000      2001      2002    2003      2004    2005    2006   2007

Total debt outstandingand                                         ..    11740    11913    12934    12538   11407   12037  14360
disbursed(TDO) (US$m)a


Net disbursements (US$m)a                                                            ..   637.0    1107.6   816.4  953.3   629.0


Total debt service(TDS)                                                      ..    184      452      774      947   1020   1088
(US$m)a

Debt anddebt service indicators
(%)
  TDOIXGSb                                                        ..     261.5   220.9     184.6    160.6    133.1 128.7  135.2
  TDOIGDP                                                         ..     101.4    76.1      62.4     53.7    48.4   48.3   54.3
  TDSIXGS                                                                    ..     3.4     6.5       9.9    11.0   10.9   10.2
  Concessional/TDO                                                           ..   22.0      25.7     30.7    41.2   44.3   38.1


IBRDexposure indicators(%)
  IBRDDSlpublic DS                                                           ..   41.4      10.9      6.0     13.9  13.3    13.4
  Preferredcreditor DSlpublic                                                ..     2.8     22.4     22.0     18.9  26.9   53.0
  DS (%)'
  IBRD DS/XGS                                                                ..     1.4      0.6      0.5      1.4    1.3    1.3
  IBRD TDO (US$m)d                                                ..     1840    2175      2162     2162    2126   2166   2236
    O fwhich present value of
    guarantees(US$m)
  Share ofIBRDportfolio (%)
  IDA TDO (US$mld                                                            0      167     265      559      638    643    648


IFC (US$m)
  Loans
  Equityandquasi-equity   I C


MIGA
  MIGA guarantees(US$m)



a. Includespublic andpublicly guaranteeddebt, private non-guaranteed, useofIMF creditsandnet short-
   term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exportsofgoodsandservices, includngworkers' remittances.
c. Preferredcreditorsare defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral developmentbanks,the IMF, andthe
   Bank for Intemational Settlements.
d. Includespresent value ofguarantees.
e. Includesequity andquasiequity types ofboth loan and equity instrumnts.

                                                      29                                                    Annex 2
                                                                                                         Page 1of 2

                            Serbia and Montenegro IBRDADAProgram Summary
                                                            -

                              Proposed IBRDADABase-CaseLending Program'

Fiscal year    Proj ID                                             US$(M)           StrategicRewards b lmplementationb
                                                                                          (HIWL)        Risks (H/ML)

2004           Energy Efficiency                                   21.o                      H               M
               Environment (Montenegro)                             7.0                      H               M
               RealEstateCadastre                                   30.0                     H               M
               SAC 2 (MONTENEGRO)                                   18.0                     H                H
               Transport Rehab                                      55.0                     M               M
               PensionSystem Admin (Montenegro)                     5.0                      M                H
               HealthSystem (Montenegro)                            7.0                      H                M

Overall Result                                                      143.0


1. FYO5-FY07CAS is under preparation. It isto be completed by end of calendaryear 2004

                                     30                             Annex 2
                                                                  Page 2 of 2

                            (as ofAugust 8,2004)
         CAS Annex B3 (IFC & MIGA) for Serbia and Mont
           Serbia and Mont IFC and MIGA Program, FY 2002-2005
                          -

IFC approvals (US%m)                              32.46 9.00 0.00

Sector (%)
Finance & Insurance                                 26  100
Food& Beverages                                     21
Plastics & Rubber                                    53
Total                                              100  100     0  0

Investment instrument(%)
Loans                                                76   89
Equity                                               14   11
Quasi-Equity                                         11
Other
Total                                                25   11    0   0

MIGAguarantees (US$m)                              0.00 0.00 0.00

                                    31                        Annex 3
                                                             Page 1of 1
                       Timetable of Key Processing Events


IdentificationMission:    October 2003

I C MReview:              November 25,2003

Preparation Mission:      December 2003

Pre-Appraisal:            February2004

ROC Meeting:              March 15,2004

Appraisal:                March2004

Negotiations:             July 2004

BoardPresentation:        September2004

                                                                         Annex 4
                                     32                                  Page 1 of 14



Scrbia and Montenegro (SnIlQ
SecondStructural Adjustment Credit Republic ofMontenegro
                                         -


Mr.Janes Wolfeilsoh
President
The World Bunk
1818 13 StreetN.W.
WashingtonD.C.20433, USA

Dear Mr.Wolfensoh,

                                      1. Introduction

    We appreciate this opportunity to myuest support from the World Rank for the
implcmcntation o f thc Kepublic of Montenegro's current medium-term economic reform
program. Thc Council of Ministers of Serbia and Montencgro ( S a ) and the governments
of the two constitucnt member states believe that it is best to continue the practice of
seeking World Bank support for the reform efforts o f thc two constituent member statcs
separdkly, not only because the two member states face a &lTetent sct o f refomi
chulleiiges andpriorities, but also inrecognition of thc specific nature of SaM. Most areas
of economic policy are inthe competence ofthe constituent member states,

     It has beentwo years since we wrote to you in rekrence to thc set of multi-.wtaral
reforms inMontenegro supportcd by the World Rank's fust Structural Adjustment Crcdit
 (SAC 1). This Letter of Development Policy describes the con: elements of the current
 economic reform progam of the Republic of Montenegro which we hope will be
 supported by a Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 2). l h i s program of reforms
 seeks to buildon the ret'omiprogramsupported by SAC 1.

     We arc committed to continuing to pursue a rapidand comprchcnsivc transl'ormation
 to a market economy in order to achievc sustained and rapid growth, We recognize thut
 restoring growth will require u sustainable macroeconomic framework underpinned hy a
 pathof' fiscal consolidation. The policy reforms outlined inthiv letter are focused on four
 meas which wc believe are the most critical for achieving these two objectives in
 Moutenep - financial sector, energy, pension and health, and public W s t n t i o n . Our
,;reform program is being implemeuted in the context o f a macroewnomic framework
 supported by a three year Ih.11: Extended Fund Facility which was approvcd by the IMF
 BoardanMay 13,2002.

      As you are  R W V ~ ,the Parliaments of the member states of the union of Serbia and
 Montenegro approvcd a Constitutional Chattcr inl-kbnlury 2003, which provides thc legal
 framework for rel3tions at the unionlevel. l'he ConstitutionalCharter effectively transfers
  a number uf responsibilities to the member states. The implcmentation of all reforms

                                 33

which would bc supported by SAC 2 would be the responsibility of the Republic ol:
Mantcnegro.

                            11.   Macroeconomic Framework

   3aM iindits two constihient member stales beganthe Wition to amkct ccouomy
under vcry difficult social and economic conditions. Four decades of inefficient economic
maniigcment and institutionat policies were followed by the trade shocks stemming tiom
the break-up of the Socialist Fedcral Republic of Yugoslavia in 1991. Then, I"ncarly a
decade following this break-up, regional conllicts and international isolation fbther         .
cripplcd the cconomy and delayed the start of transition to a market cconomy. By 2000         1.
recorded per capita GDP had Eallcn to about one half ol' its 1980 Lcvel, external debt
exceeded 130 percent of GDP, and annual inflation was over 113 percent. Despite recent
achievenients inmucroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms, we are still grappling
with the legacy of the past decade.

     In the Late 1990s the govcmment of Montenegro expanded its defacto autonomy to
most mus of economic policy and began concerted stabilizationefforts and launched a
 structurul rcformprogram. The economic programs of both membcr states were supported
  by the W, the World RPuk and other donors and restcd on three pillars: (i)prudent
  macroeconomic polices; (ii)  market-orientedstructml reforms, including cxtansivc price
  und eade liberalization; and (iii)
                                   significant financial and technical support Fromdonors.

      One comerstone ol'the Montenegrin pn)gmwas the adoptionof first the DMin 1999
  und then the Euro as legal tendcr. These stabili7ation efforts succeeded in laying the
  foundation for economic recovery by curtailing inflation which fell from 128 percent in
  1990 to 25 percent in 2000. Since 2002, infkdtion in Montenegro has been held to single
  dig!ts.

      The macroeconomic policies of SaM wcre supported by three successive programs
  with the IMF. 'l'he fmt program with SaM was approved in December 2000 and was
  followed by ti stand-by arrangement approved in June 2001. We are now more than two-
  thirds of the way through a three yew Extended Arrangement of SDR 650 million
  approved inMay 2002 and spanningthe periodthrough March2 0 5 . Such unarrangeinent
  was a prerequisite for iniplernenting the signiti'icant debt reductionwhich wc negotiated
  with the Paris Club inNovemher 2001. The consolidated fiscal deficit inSaM rose from 1
  percentol' GDP in 2000 to 4.5 percent of GDP in 2002. This hicrcase (which was in line
  with plans and financed by donor support and privatization proceeds) was driven by a
  combination of more redistic budgeting of commitments, the bringingon budget o f some
a,quasi-fiscal activities, the nstorarion of debt service and public investment, and several
' one-off transition costs. In2003 we have beguna path of gradual fiscal consolidation as
   structural reforms begin to support B phased rcduction of ovcrall expenditure as a share of
   GDP. The consolidated budget deficit inSaV is cstitnated at about 4.2 pcrcent of GDY in
   2003 and budgeted to fall to 3.4 percent of GDP in2004. InMontenegro, our consolidated
   budget deficit was cut from about 8 percent 01' republicun GDP in 2000 to about 3.3
   pcrcent in2003, excludingproject loans.

                                                                    Annex 4
                                                                    Page 3 of 14
                                34

   Inparallcl to stabilization policies, the Montenew government hm implemented an
extensive program of structural reforms. Wc enacted a lnw on pensiondisabilityinmanee
which adjusts key parameters of the pension system to better dig1 entitlements to
available resources. We enacted a new labor law which significantly incretucs labor
markct flexibility. We have imphnenb-                                                   t
business environment inciu3ing the cnactmcnl of ncw enterprise, bankruptcy, and secured
transaction laws. We have introduced important reforms in the energy sector, elaborated
below. We successfilly introduced R VAT in 2003. We also successfully sold the largest
bank inMontenegro to a forcign strate& investor in 2003 andhave undertaken a number
of finmcial sector reforms, etaboratcd below.

    Strong implemcntution of stabilization policies and structural reforms hbrought
visiblc progrcss while laying the foundations for a more sustained recovery. Both member
states hdve now enjoyed 4 consecutive yew of real CIDP growth, increastxi living
standards and a reduction of poverty. The external debt of SaM hay bcen reduced from
 131 percentof GDP at end-2000to less than 70percent of GDP at end-2003.

    Nevertheless we continue to face a number of challenges, despite the progress
deucriM above. Even following the reduction in the ratio of external debt to GDP, SaM's
 external debt nmainshigh. SruM's current account deficit also remains too high, at about
 10percent of GDP in 2003. We will continue to require substantial capital inflows inthe
 years to come. Bctween 2004 and 2007, SaM's gross external financing requirements are
 estimated at about IJS$2.6 billion p r year. On an average annual basis, these resources
 arc needed to finance US$1.5 billion currcnt account deficits (excluding intern? and
 official transfers), US$O.1billioninincreased inlemationalreserves, and USSI.O billionto
 servicc external dcbt. We expcct our financing needs lo bc met by several sourccs. With
 continued progress on reform, foreign direct investment and othm private sector liiiance
 could grow to avcrage USS1.0 billion per ycar. The reinainingUSfl.6 billion of average
 mnual financing is expected to come from official bilateral 4 multilateral sources. We
 hope the that World Bank programgenerally, and the proposedadjustlncntoperationmore
 specifically, would contributeto this linancing.

      We are coniruined to continue pursuing a set of sttuctural reforms aimed at improving
 macro-financial sustainability and at removing key bottlenecks to growth of output and
 employment, We q e c t the refonns outline4 below will help Montenegro achievc
  sustained growth and fiscal consolidation. Details of the policy reForms to tc undertaken
  are outlined below.


'                               III. SectorReform
                                     Financial

      Context. Since the establishment in March2001 of the Central Bank of Montenegro
  (CBM), the central bank has presided ovcr Montenegro's transition to the Eiuo as its
  official currency. With ac3iv-z bilateral donor support, thc CBM has also developed its
  bank supervisory and regulatory competencc and taken a numbcr of steps to shdrply
  reduce !he number of off-shore b&          domiciled in Montenegro and otherwise stcm
  money laundering activities. Again with active bilateral donor support, the governnient ol:
  Montenegro in cooperation with the CBM have been introducing a deposit insurance

                                                                        Annex 4
                                     35                                 Page 4 of 14


system. The legislationwas cnacted in 2003 and the DepositInsurance Fundis expectedto
he fully operating by end-2004. Ovcmll, the CBM hay dcvelopcd a robust prudential
environment within which bankscan operate.

                         I I>
(about 27 percent of GDP) as of September 2003. In2003 one new bank was chartered
and two others ceased operations, demonstratingthat both entrance and exit requirements
functionwell. Banks' assets increasedby 14 pcrcent year-on-year, whilst non-performing
loans increased 49 pcrcent during the same pcriod, to about 27 percent of capital and
reserves. The sharp increase in non-performing assets can generally be attributed to two
factors: (i)creditors experiencing great difficulties to enforce their collateral positions   ,
                                                                                             ..
though the courts, and, (ii) centml bad`s more aggressive approachrecently to assct
                             the
classitications.

     As of end-September all banks inMontcnegm metthe prescribedlcgalrequirementof
 8 percent capitalization, though solvency decreased at eight banks owing to a 69 percent
increasein risk-weighting loans extendedduringthe past OUT quarters. The sharp incrcasc
 in lending coupled with the increase in non-performing loans is a concern to us. We
 recognize that banks have not yet demonstrateda consistent record o f prudent credit risk
 undermitiny,

     We sold the largest bank, Monteiiegrobanka, in July 2003 to a straiegic foreign
 iiivestor aftcr carving out a large mount o f non-pertiinning assets. We have retained
 bilateral donor support to assist in the privatization uT Podgoricka banka, the k i t largc
 bank where the state hasa dircct majority owncrship.

     Keforms supporfed by SAC 2. Building on the progress thus far, \he next round of
 financial sector reforms we are pursuingincludes a number o f measure for which we are
  seekingsupport.frvm SAC 2, including: (i)  managing and resolvingthe assets canted-out
  from Montene@obanka and transferred from the hiled banks; (ii)divcstiny u majority
  stake in the remaining state-owned bank; mid (iii)implementing mcasures to further
  restrictmoney laundering uctivities.

      We will move aggressively to resolve non-performing assets carved out of the
  bankingSector. We have a clcaz fidwiay duty to recover as much as possible h m these
  assets and we are lcgally requiredto do so under the Public Debt TAW   enacted in October
  2003. As the intcrim agent for the Govemmcnt, the CBM retained all rewrds from the
  upproximatelyEuro 730 million (more than 50 percent of 2003 GDP) inassets carved out
  of Montenegrobanka and transferred from sevcral failed banks. In accordance with the
 ,;Public Debt Law, the CBMconductcd a detailedinventory of these assets and transferred
  all physical and tleclronic records ofthe assets to the Ministry of Finance (Mol?) inMay
  2004.

      We recently established, in accordance with the Public Debt Luw, a division within
  the MoF which will has a suitable mandate, full-time st&,   and budgct for the purpose of
   resolvingthe assets transferred from thc CBM.This division, with the support ofUSATD,

                                                                           Annex 4
                                                                           Page 5 of 14
                                   36


undertook a thorough triage process in June and July 2004 on each asset file reccivd,
wherein each a s & w a separatcd according to its potential for collcctability.

                                     ,me newiy wiii conttact out the management and
disposition of, or otherwisesell by public auction, the unimpairedassets transferred fiom
the CBM. We will adopt and publisha transparent mechanismwhich will facilitate the
rcsolutionof the impaired assets truiisferrcd from CBM.

    We will continue thc privatk+tion ol' state-owned banks. Podyoricka Bmka is
currently the third largest bank in Montcnegro and is 56 percent direclly owned by the
govermcnt und 20 percent indirectly owncd through state-owned entcrprises and the
Pension Insurance Fund @IF). Following thc implementation by Podgoricka Ranka of
preprivatization ineasures and a restructuring of the Board of Directors, rill shares in
Podgoricka Bankadirectly owned by the Government of Montenegm will be offered for
cash sale via international tendcr, inaccordance withbest practice,

     We intend to further strcngthcn supervisory enforcement regarding anti-money
 laundering (AMI,) and o v m l l prudential compliance ut banks. We enacted a new Anti-
 Money Laundering(AML) t a w inSeptember 2003. In addition, the BankingT,aw was
 amended in2002 to require ullbanks to be licenscdandsupervised by the CUM.

     W c will continue to makc B coiicertcd a1Tw-t in 2004 to implement the AML
 lcgislation. We established a Financiul Intelligence Unit (FIU)' which is udcquatety
 fmanced inthe 2004 budget, and we huve appointed the FIU director who has hired stalF'
 mddeveloped AML regulations.Laterthis year the Fluwill apply for membership inthe
 Egmont Group, We will submit evidence that the FTUperforms functions inaccordance
  with the Epont Group definition       of Financial Intelligence Unit. We ure determined to
  ensure that bunk and non-bank financial institutions will comply with all AMI,
  regulutions. 1n"the cvcnt thut the= my ot'f-shorc centers still claim to be domiciled in
  Montenegro, we will subject them to investigation and/or appropriatc legal action.

                                       IV.EnergySector

     Context. We recopkc that the energy sector has bcen a cunsbaint to growth aud
  inacrocconolrric stability, t.'urthet reforms are needed to overcome episodes of supply
  shortfall and to ensure the financial self-sut-liciency of energy utilities. The energy sator
  has been drain on fiscal resources. and, despite recent reforms, it niay continue to be
             H
  without further reform o f tarifs. Further tariff reform will bccomc increasingly important
;sincesubstantialinvestmentswillbcrequiredintheenergsectoroverthemcdium-term.
  'lhc vertically integrated power utility, Elw3ric Power Company of Montenegro (EPCG),
  has suffered from poor cashflow which resulted inpoweroutages inthe past.

      We hdve made significant progress in energy sector reform under the program
  supported by SAC 1. Under the SAC i program we increased rcsidentinl power tarilfs
  from2.4 euro cenls/kvJh in2000 to 4.1 euro cents in2003. Ourresidmtial tariff. are now

  'The official namefor tho FfU b "Administrationfor Anti-Money LoundL?ing Prevention."

                                                                       Amex 4
                                                                       Page 6 of 14
                                      37

are amongst the highest in South East Europe and are at a level sufficient to cover
marginal cost. We also unified      seasonal tariffs by canceling the lower summer tariffs.
'i'his is jutified from tin economic point of view giventhat the power system is capacity
consaained insummer.

      We have made substantid progress under the SAC 1 progrm in other aspects of
energy sector reform. We enactcd the Energy Law in June 2003. The Law provides a
basis for the devclopment o f a regulatory framework and the establishment of an
independent regulator. The Energy Law also lays the foundation for restructuring of
 EPCG.

       Reforms supporirJ by SAC 2. We are now focusing on implcmcntiny the Lncrgy
 Law and extending the reform of power taritl's to the largest consumer o f electricity in
 Montenegro. The energy reforms which we proposc be support by SAC 2 woulJ: (i)
 strengthen the financkl viability of EYCG; (ii)      support EPCG wtnmercialkation; and
 (iii)ensun?affordabilityforpoorenergyconsumers.Theenergysectorreformsweare
 carrying out will support both of the broader objcctives of promoting economic growth
 and supporting fiscal r;onsolidation. Further tariff increases and regulatory development
 would help k)inakc our powcr industry financially self sufficient and provide a basis for
  invcstmmts in cupacity and/or imports, both ol' which would contribute to sustained
  system security and support txouomic growth. EPCG commercialization would unlock
  efficiency gains which would allow lower powcr tariffs for a given security ofsupply and
  support the competitiveness of Moutenegrin industry inan intcrnatiional context. We will
  also undertakereassessmentof our social safety net for energy consumers to ensure that it
  is optimally designed.

         Our refvrni program under SAC 1 did nut focus on high voltage customers. The
   Podgorica Alumhuni Plant (KAP) is by 1.x the largest consumer of electricity in
   Montencgro. I t accounts for nearly half of total energy consumptioninthe republic, but it
   makes up only.30 percent of EPCG revenue. In 2003, KAP pnid Eur01.X cents/ kWh.
   ' h i s i s wcll below thc marginalcost of supply. A new contract was signed in2004 which
   rctroactively increasedthe 2003 price to Euro 2.2 cents / kWh,This low powcr tariff for
   KAP strains the cashflows of EPCG.

         The main short term mwure required to strengthen EPCG financial viability is an
   increase of the KAP power tariff. I t is unlikely that a move to full economic pricing
   would be feasible, ttt lcast in the short term, before the restructuring and investments
   required tu increase efficiency of Khp take place. We think this is justifiable from an
   economic point of view, given thc importance or KAP to the wnomy, and the limited
 ,,short-term alternative employment optionv for the KAPlabor force andthe labor related
   to companies in the W supply chain.

         Nevertheless, we recognite that U P could pay a higher power tariff banit currently
   docs l'ollowing essential investments. We plan to privatize KAP by end-2004. We
   rctained two wrnpanies expert in album and encrgy industries to advise on the
    pricing issue. Following the recommendation ut' these experts and the privatization
    advisor for KAP, we have adopted a privatization strategy for KAP which envisages that

                                                                         Annex 4
                                                                         Page 7 of 14
                                     38
by end-2004 a legally binding mcdium-t"        (e.g. five to seven yew) electriciv price
contract between EPCG and KAP would be signed. We will thcn ensure that by end-
2004, such ai electricity pricc agrement between EPCG and KAP will be signed. This
agreement will have a floor priw for 2005 paid to EPCGof USS2.4 cents / kwh.Beyond

(taking domestic and importedelectricity inaccount) would be no LessthanUS$3 cents/
kWh and would be higher depending on the intcrnational aluminurn price and the
Dollarfiuro exchange rate. We believe that thcsc measures would support KAP
commercialization and privatization and support the financial sustainability of EPCG.

     Inorder to strengthenthe financial Viability of EPCGmore generally, we established
the cnergy regulator ttnd appointed the dircctor of the energy regulator in early 2004. The  .
                                                                                             ,


new energy regulator is benefiting from technical assistance and support tiom bilclterd
donors. Thc cncrgy regulator just began issuingLicenscs to industry participants slnd will
also devclop secondary legislation, including an end user tariff mcthodology, by March
2005.

      We    havc   also   engaged international     consultants  to advisc      on EPCG
commercialization and restructuring, consistent with the Energy Law. This law rcquircs
 runcliond unbundling (through accounting and managcment scparation) by January
 2005, und envisages subsequent legal unbundling. We formed a Restructuring Steering
 Group comprising representatives of EPCG and the Government, togethcr with a number
 of working groups     LO  implement restructuring by the target date (is. functional
 unbundlingby January 2005). Tn addition, we have begun to plan for next steps after
 unbundlingand in consideting privatizing EPCG within in the uext few years, A clruft
 EPCG PrivatimtionSlrdtegy was prepuredinApril 2004.

      To cushion the impact of higher prices introducedin 2002 on Montenegro's poorest
 citizens, we introduceda discount for low income families. The programcovers the tkst
  500 kWh o f monthly c.cmsuniplion ibr those l'milies eligible for the mainmeans-tcstcd
 social assistance program (the Material Assislance for Familie$). The Govcrnmcnt Will
  continue to monitor the iniptict of energy prices on the welfare of thc rcpublic's poorest
  citizens, and cousider further mitigationmeasures which might bc rcquired.

                                      V. PensionReform

       Contar. We launched a reform of the pcnsion system in 2002 with the support of
  SAC 1. Prior to this reform, our pension systcm experienced serious fiscal difhdties,
  triggered both by demographic and economic factors. An aging population and the
 wosion of the contributionbase triggwd by economic stagnation and a growing shadow
'economy, boulcontributed toadecline inthc systcmdependencyratioto 1.3 workers per
  pensioner. The age dependency ratio (the ratio of the over-65 year old population to the
  15-65 year old population) grew lo exceed 20 percent. Bothindicators arc similar to those
  found in neighboring countries, By 2002, pension expenditure rcachcd 16 percent of
  GDP. Pension contributions(the rate is 12 percent of gross salaries for employees, and
  10.8 pcrccnt for employcrs), accountcd for some 60 percent of pension reyenua. The
  remaining revenues consisted of required mandatory transfer from the budget for statc

                                                                      Amex 4
                                 39                                   Page 8 of 14
employces' contribulions and citizcns eligible for privileged categories' benefits (military
personnel, police officers, World War U veterans, and public servants retired undcr
special rules). We had ditficulties in covcriig some of these obligations and thus tht:
pensiondeficit widenedto almost 3 percent of GDP in2002. The replacement rdtes oT 85
pacent was more- 3                                                                       tor
women and 60 or men, wage indexation of benefits, and loose standards for disability
eligibility, causedour pensionsystcm to h m e unswtainnble.

    We began the first phase of pension rcform in 2002, supported by SAC 1. The
 financial flows stabilized in2003 andthe pension dcficit dropped to 1.6percent of GDP.
During this firs? phase 01'  reform we focused on reswcturing pension finance and on
reducingarrears.

     Our initial restructuring effort culmiiiated with thc enactment of the new Pension      '


 Insurance Law in ScptelntWr 2003. We chose to rcform our c x k j n g pay-as-you-go
 (PAYGO) system and set the stage for the futurc introduction of a multi-pillar system.
 'lhe law tightenedkey paramctcrsof the existing PAYGO system inan eflFort to improve
 the near-term fiscul balance. These changcs effective in Janu~vy2004: (i)increasedthe
 retiremcnt age by five years for menand women (65 and 60 respectively) over a ten-year
 period; (ii)widened the calculation period Gom ten bes? years to full career over il. 15
 year period; (iii) changed the indexation paitem from wage to a combination of wages
 a dpnccs; (iv) introduced a point formulaandloweredthe accrual rates frommorethan
 2 percent tu 1 percent per year of service; (v) tightened disability conditions; and (vi)
 eliminated most social-related bcnefits from the pcnsion system, We expect these
 changes inparametersto lowcr the pension dcficit to less than 1 percent of GDP in2005
  and to eliminate the pension delicit by 2007. 'fie declining path of pcnsionto GDP ratio
  will eventually create the liscal space for the ncxt roundof reform which could include
  the introductionof h d c dpillars. Tho Pensioninsurance Law and other recently enactcd
  legislation on tax and social contributioncollection envisage o fidl transfer of collection
  and cvntrol responsibility to the Agency fur Public Revenues (DPR) in 2005. For
  pensions, a trpnsition period is establishedfor 2004 when collection is to be donejointly
  by the PI0 andthe DPR.

      Reforms supported by SAC2. We seek thc support o f SAC 2 to eILsurethe cfkctive
  implementation of some of the reforms introduced in 2003 aimed at knproving the
  tnnsparcncy and managcment o f the pension component of public finances. We also
  wouldlike SAC 2 to support our cfYorts to fiuthcr lay the ground work for the next stage
  of pension reForm envisaged in the Law on Pension Insurance, through the drafting of
  new legislationto regulate voluntary pcnsionh d s .

       We have taken steps to improve budgetary execution, but some probIems issues
, remain We will continue to address these issues in 2004 by ensuring no new
  intergovenunantal arrears on pensioncontributions are incurred Also we will itemizeall
  required transfers from the budgct for all privileged and special categorics of
  txmliciaries, and we will regularly report to the PI0 on public sector employees' wages
  and contributions paid.

                                       40                                    Annex 4
                                                                             Page 9 of 14

    The full transfer of tax and social security contribution collection to DPR in2005 is a
process that goow well beyond centralizing the flows of contributions in the Trensury,
envisaged by the tax p d u r e s laws. Effective control of social security contributlons
requires a prompt and effective flow of information of social security contributions to all

quartcrly, personified reporting and a ccnval database of insured iudividuals cud
contributionpqms.

     We have adopted PD action planfor the unificationof registration and reportingof tax
and social security contribution collection, The action plan establishcs a working group
led by the Deputy Prime Minister for Financial Systems and Public Expcnditurc. This
goup will draft a ncw law to ensure the effective implementation of these matters. This
new law on consolidated reporting and control on social sccurity contributions, personal
incomc tax and surtax will be enacted by end-2004. Uy 2005 DPR will be fully equipped
to collect, control und enforce pcnsion and other social contributions as well us forward
contributions paid to the social secutity funds in u timely manncr, By 2006 DPR will
preparecorrcsponding reports on personified contribution payment. Inthe interimperiod,
 the proposed legislation will require that DPK establish (i)central databases of insured
                                                               a
 individualsand contribution payers; (ii)   procedures for updating individual data; (iii)
                                                                                         data
  disseminntion rquirements to extxu-budgetary funds; (iv) procedures for one-stop
 registration of newly insured individuals and contribution payers; and (v) other
  prweduresrequircd for the smooth operation of the consolidated administrativc system.
  We will also ensure measures to harmonize provisions on social security contribution
  coutrol in this pmpoutxl law. Currently such measures      OFC scattercd throughout scvcral
  other relevant laws. The proposed new law would supercede the old laws and eliminate
  the conflicting discrepancies.

       As mentioned above, the Pension Insurance Law envisages the eventual introduction
  of mandatory second and voluntary third funded pensionpillars inMontenegro. 'Ihe law
  stipulatcs that t$e funded pil.la13will bt regulated by separate legislationto be adopted in
  the hture. We have decidcd that a voluntary pension pillar should be introduced and
  regulated well in advance of thc mandatory second pillu in order to allow the pension
  fund industry(including rebulatory institutions) to develop inMontenegro. We will begin
  drafting a law on voluntury pension h d s in 2004. Thc Government intends lo adopt the
  draft legislation by year-end.

                                       V1. HealthReform


:* GDP and totul healthcue expenditure was nearly 10 perccnt of GDP. l'he Constitutional
       Context. In2002, our public expenditure on health care was more than 7 percent of

   Charter adopted in February 2003 confumed the autonomy of each constitucnt member
   state in this (as in most other) area of policy. For Montcnegro this reinforccd the urgcncy
   o f adopting the legal, regulatory and institutional framework needed to replace functions
   formerly carriedout by the Federal Rcpublic of Yugoslavia and transitional arrangements
   for managing health linancing and pharmaceuticals supply. Key gaps inthc cxisting lcgal
   and financing framework include: how to regulate the emerging private sector; how to
   regulate the rclationship between public and private sector; and how to allow public

                                                                            Annex 4
                                        41                                  Page 10 of 14

financing of private as well as public services and enable private health insurance to
develop.

     One of the key reasons for our high level of health carc expenditure is high
psince m c m c u
   n u            1
       2001 and gmwn fiom 20 perccnt of Healthlnsurancc Fund (HE) expenditure in
2000to ncarly30 pwccnt in2003.

     Wc recognize that the lack of transparency inthe pricing process from procurement
through to reimbursement is a serious problem. Montefarm, a statcswned monopoly, is
the public pharmaceutical wholesaler, distributor and public p b c y retuila.
Montcfarm maintains close relationships with it4 suppliers. Around 70 percent of the
drugs by value in Montenegro are manufactured in Serbia. Many of these are produced
 by Hemopharm, one of the largest manufacturers of drugs in Serbia The remainder ate
 imported from abroad. These am generally dtugs that are under patent elsewhere undfur
 which Serbian companies do not have a license to manufacture. Monteram is
 autonomous from the MoII and FTTF and lacks adequatc cxternal accountubility. These
 urranyementswere put inplace initially as a transition measure to assure supply ol*drugs
 in Montenegroduring the periodof sanctions and conflict ovcr the past decde. At end-
 2003, the HIF and Ministry of Health (MoH) obtained limited data on the prices and
 volumes of drugs they paid for. As a result, lhese institutions were not able analyze the
 causes of the growth in pharmawuticd expenditure, forecast future expenditure, or
  identify how best to intervene to reduce the population's drugs bill. This situation has
  beeniinproved as elaboratedbelow.

      Reforms supported by SAC2. We are now launching an ambitious sct of reforms in
  thc hcdth scctor. Wc adoptcd the Montenegro Health Sector Dcvclopinent StTatagy in
  November 2003 which seeh Lo put in place a framework to strengthen the financial
  sustainability, efficiency, quality and governance for health insurance and health care.
  Our reforms would also seek to introduce transparency and imprvved ?management of
  pharmaceutical expenditures.

      We adopted new framework laws (The Law on HcathProtedon and the Law un
  IIeulth Insurance) in June 2004 covering health insurance and health carc. These new
   laws create conditions for the implanentation of hcalth reforms directed at improving
   linancial sustainability, controlling quulity, andcreating appropriate regulatory conditions
   for privatc scctor development.

       The Law on I-IedthProtection providcs the basis for planning and regulation of a
 ,;network of healthcare providers that can in future include both public and private
   providers, It also lays the ioundations for changes in the organization of primary
   healthcare to inlroduce a latgrrr role for primary carc doctors, accompunied by patient
   choice of doctor. It also provides a basis for shifting a larger sham o f patient care out of
   hospitals to the primury-care level. Additionally, it lays the foundations for a system of
   licensing or doctors and accreditation o f healthcare providers, in line with EU practice su
   as to encourage quality improvement. The law also clarifies the boundary between public

                                                                        Ancex 4
                                  42                                    Page 11 of 14


and private medical practice, m important measure to prevent cornrption and protect
patients' access.

    The new 13caltli Insurance Iaw (HTL) cstablishes the Health InsuranceFund(W)as
an autonomous wency. It{                                            * .
the HEona basis that mirrorsthose for the PI0 and is substantidly alignedwiththc new
Law on State Administration (enacted in 2003). The IIIL creates foundations for
improving financial sustainability on the expenditure side through some modest
reductions inthe benefits package, andthoughenablingprovisions for new methodsof
provider payment, and for indicationdcritcxia for various heatthbenefits. Onthe revenue
side, thc Law providesthe basis for inipmved control and enforcement, inthc context o f
planned unification of collectionof all social contributions and taxes inthe DYR,

    Now that the new Constitutional Charter is in place and now that we have enacted
 new framework laws, we will move to more standard armngmentsfor the management
 of pharmaceuticals, in linc our cfIorcs to bring Montenegro's market regulation and
 pharmaceutical regulation into line with EUrequirements.

     We believe that standard policy prescriptions for managing ptwmmutical
 expenditure through the introductionof competition and improvedcontrol of distribution,
 dispensing and prescribing, would be difficult to implement in Montenegro immediately
 because: (i)the legal and reflalory framework to ensure the safety and quality of
 pharnzoceuticals entcring Montenegro and to regulate, prescribe and dispense dugs i s not
 yet inplace; (ii)  the HF and MoH lack the data necessary to formulate policy, and (iii)
 although the ncw Law on State Administration and new internal audit function of the
 MOF create a framework for external accountabilily for public sector institutions, the
 relcvmt laws do not directly apply to M o n t c f m nor do they apply in full to the public
 healthcare institutions.

     We have prepared a d d t Law on Medicinal Products and we now prcpaMg a draft
 Law on Mcdical Devices. Thcse draft laws would bring Montenegro's pharmaceuticals
 regulation into line with EU requircments, and would provide a compatible legal
 framework with that which will prevai! in Serbia. The draft Law on Medicinal Producqs
 was approved by Government inJune 2004 and is undergoing public consultation. We
 will enact this law hy the end of 2004.

     To put in place the prerequisites for future mmures to coi~trolpharmuceuticals
 expenditure we are laking scveral concrete steps. We are now implementing a
  pharmueuticalinformation system to embk monitoringof drug prices, quantities and
  types ol'drugs, and to truck supplies from thc point of procurement through to pmsaibing
;anddkFensiny. ByApril, allpublicpharmaciesincorporatedthisnewsystem which
  captures complete data on prices, types and quantities of positive List pharmaceuticals
  purchased, distributed, prescribed, and dispensed, Also, by end-2004, we will adopt an
  implementation plan for the new Law on Medicinal Products and enact necessary bylaws
  and d e " to bring the existing public drug procurement and distribution system (via
  M0nt.f")     into line with the new lcgal framework, includingthe Public Procuremmi

                                      43                                 Annex 4
                                                                          Page 12 o f 14

Law, Law on State Administration, and the now Laws on Health Protection and
Medicinal ProduL* andMcdical Devices.                                -
    We recognize that on their own, these measures are not iikely to have an substantial

phurmaceuticals information system may act as a deterrent to some forms of fiaud and
abuse. Alorysidc these measures, we will need to develop a policy on how b reduce
pharmaceutical priccs, through either competitive procurement or transparent price
regulation(or a combination of both). ln addition, we need to adopt one of two b r o d
altemutives for improving efficiency and control over the supply chain: either 10
strengthenaccountability, transpatency and intemal cmtrol within the public distribution
sys?em, or alternatively to move to competitive, private wholesale and retaildistribution.
This policy devclopment would take placc by end-2004, We expect to bcncfit on these
matters from Molltenejyo Health Systems hprovcment Project. These measuresideally
need to be supplemented by more gentxd public sector ftnancial management reforms in
the medium-tcrm, including development of extemal and improvcmLnt or internal audit
for public sector institutions.

      We launched a tax reform plan in 2004 which includcd rcductions in social security
contribution rilesmdpersonal income tax rates by 5 percent effective July 1,2004 and
another 5 percml effective Dccmbcr 1,2004. A Supplementary Budget was adoptedin
June 2004 togehher with thc ncw laws on HealthProtection and Health Insurance. We
envisage these ratc rcductions as a first s?ep in a medium-term effort to rcducc the tax
burden and public mpenditutc in relation to GDP. We ure committed to ensuring that
 fiscal transfers friom the Central Budgetto the HealthandPensionFundswould cover any
 loss of revcnue resulting from thc ratc reductions, We will ensure that the 2005 Budget
 T,aw will allocate adequte budgetary transfers to the health and pension systems that the
 indicativc three year fiscal framework which will be adopted with the 2005 Budget will
 layout a path ofjiscal policy consistent with an elimination of the budget deficit by the
 2008 while aiswing the fmancial sustainability ofthe pensionandhealth systems.

                             VII. PublicAdministrationReform

       Context. We launched the proccss of public administration reforin in 2003 in
 response to an unsaliufdctory situation hthe public administration, which had grhiilly
 deteriorarcd in the 1990s. Instead of rationalizing the complcx government stmctute, with
 a large number of ministries and other public bodics relative to the size of the republic,
 mpny ncwministries andother public bodieswcrc established, thus increasing the cast of
 the administrative system. These developments also brought about a l'wihet
 dkagmcntation of the administrative organization. l:urthcrmorc, thc politicization o f
;higher civil service ranks became cndcmic and had an adverse eflect on the functioning
  o f thc overall public administrationsystem. As a result of the above, our public wage bill
 became swollcn and grew to be one o f the highcst in the region. We are responding to
  lhis unsustainablc situation through a package of measures including a reduction of
 public employment of aroundfour thousandthis year.

                                                                         Annex 4
                                        44                               Page 13 of 14

    Our public administrationrcform strategy, adopted in Summer 2003, scts out an
ambitious structural and legislative reform program fur the re-organization md re-
orientation of the state administration.The principles sct out inour public administration
reform strategy are to create a professional, effectivc, transparent, client oriented and

and institutional reform agenda to achieve these objcctives. The Law on State
Administration and the Law on lnspcction Scrutiny were enacted in summer 2003. 'lhc
Law on State Administnition foresees the reform o f the structures 01' minisbies, with
policy-making !?unctions to be separated from savice delivery and regulatory Cunctions
by Summer 2004. The Law on Lnspection Scrutiny sets out modern principles and
procedures of inspection oversight of public administration and private companies and          1
citizens. Furthemore, the Law on General Administrative P r d u r e and the Law on
Adinilistrative Dispute(Judicial Rcvicw) were adopted inOctober 2003.

     Reforms supported by SAC2. The reforms for which we are seeking support from
SAC 2 would: (i)depoiiticizc top level posts and establish a merit-based civil service
 system; (ii)reform the policy process to control the fiscal cost of the public
 administration; and (iii)dcvclop the accountability system, by strengthening an
 independent intemal control function in the state administration (administrative
 accountability), by developing of thc administraljve court systemCjudicial accountability)
 and by improving external oversight through the Ombudsmaninstitution (Parliamentary
 accountability).

      To the depoliticizaiionof top levcl posts andthe establishment of a "it-based     civil
 service system, we enacted in March2004       *NOkey pieces of legislation: thc Law on Civil
 Scrvice and the Law on Salaries. The implemcntation of these laws will be carried out
 over 2004 mid 2005. Recruilnient by open compctition win become mandatory for all
 Assistant Minister and Secretary-Generul appointments in thc state adminialration under
 the ncw Law on Civil Scrvice. Furthermore the contracts o f such oficials will h
 concluded for a!'period that goes beyond the mandate of any individual govemmenl, thus
  furthcr reducing the risk o f politicization. We will adopt iiccessarysecondary legislation
  on appointment procedures by the middlc of 2004 which clearly regulates the position of
  managers of agencies including appointment, dismissal, and performance evaluation.
  These provisions would provide the basis for die reduction o f the current high levels of
  politicization. A Civil Service Agency (CSA) will be established and staffed by Autumn
  2004 and will be charged with implementingthe horizontalhuman resource munagement
  system by end-2004, We view the creation of the CSA as an essential element of the
  institutional architectm for effective civil service management. We will ensure that the
  competencies of thc CSA in rcIation to the line ministries art?clearly datinecl. We will
 ;also adopt by end-2004 the procedures for appointment, dismissal and performance
  mcssment of top career officials and he& of agencies. We will ensure that these
  regulations will be effectively applied, including clear guarantees for merit based
  recruitment. We will also introduce and pilot a perlbmianct assessment system in 3 key
  ministries.

      The enactment of the Law on Salaries will improvc the incentive system for the civil
  scrvice. In particular, the new law will lead to the de-comprcssion o f the pdy system,

                                   45                                   Annex 4
                                                                         Page 14 of 14


creatc a cohercnt pay system acmss the: whole civil service, and crate R systun wherc
pay b e l s would be hascd on characteristics of the job to be performed rather than
subjective criteria (academic dcgrees, years of service, etc.). Furthermore the currcnt

which will be linkcd eventually to the performance appraisal system. We will introduce il
new salary systemwith h e 2005 budget.This new systemWill incrcasethe base pay-real
pay ratio to 80 percentand provide for an efkdivc de-comprcssion of salaries inthe core
civil service within the overall constraints of the patho f fiscal consolidation envisagcd in
our macroeconomic framework.

    In relation  LU the recorm of   the policy process, we will amend the Rules and           .
Procedures of the Govcrnment by end-2004 to introduce a mandatory methodology for
fiscal impact assessment which will be required to accompany all drafi legislation in
future. This would help to change thc existing prdcticc whereby laws and policies a n
kequently introduced without budgetary means available for their implementation. lhis
tightening of the fiscal impactiwessmcntrequirementsfor &aft laws andpolicies will be
the first step towards the phased introduction of ti comprehensive impact uvessment
systemthat would include environmental, economic und social impact assessment.

    Finally. wc are making progress on &strengthening the accountability system in
 Montenegro. The Ombudsman office has been established and effectively dd.By
 end-2004 the Onibudsmanofice will becomc fully operational andits fust reportwill be
 submitted to Puliament. By July 2004 wc will establish the administrative court and a
 special appellate court as envisaged by the Law on Courts (enacted in 2002). In
 combination, these measures should provide the basis for improving professionalism in
 civil Yemice and rcducing the risk for corruption in Montenegro, and also create a mure
 responsive and client orientedadrnhistriition.

                                     Vm. CONCLUSION

     We arc aware that OUT ambitious gods will require B concetted effort. At the surne
 time, we arc confiden! that this letter outlines ti coherent r c f o n agenda that includes
 critical policy priorities. We are wonvintxdthat these reforms are esscntiul to achieving
 sustained growth and fiscal consoliciation. 'In closing, we would like to reiterate that the
 continue support of the World Bank and the internationalcommunity will be essential for
  achieving these ambitious goals.


                                                                          ,/'



  Ana Reg6viC
  Assist&   Miniskroflntemutional EconomicRelations
  Serbia and Montenegro

       .+
       YA
       3
       3




       Y
4 %    m
       0
 d     .3




       %
       .% 3Q




               h0
                Y

L)    cc
      0

u
L 2




       W
       c?
       m

E



3
3




c
3
6)
Y

                                                                 53                                                                 Annex 6
                                                                                                                                Page 1of 2

                   Serbia and Montenegro at a glance                                                                                     7/14/04


                                                             Serbia Europe 8        Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                and   Central     middle-
                                                       Montenegro        Asia      income       3evelopmentdiamond`
2003
Population,mid-year(millions)                                    8.3      473        2,655                         Life expectancy
GNI percapita(Atlas method, US$)                               1,910     2,570       1,480
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                  15.8    1,217       3,934                                -

Average annual growth, 199743
Population(%)                                                              0.0         0.9
Laborforce (%)                                                             0.2         1.2      ;NI                                      Gross
                                                                                                Jer                                    primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199743)                                            :apita                                nroliment
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                             52        63          50                                I

Life expectancyat birth(years)                                    73        69          69                                -
Infantmortality(per 1,000 livebirths)                             16        31          32
Child malnutrition(% ofchildren under 5)                            2                   11                Accessto improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwater source("A ofpopulation)                 98        91          81
illiteracy (% ofpopulationage f5+)                                           3          10           -
Grossprimaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)                99       103         112                    SerbiaandMontenegro
    Male                                                          99       104         113              -Lower-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                        99       102         111

KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                    1983        1993     2002         2003       Economicratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                                         15.7       20.7
GrossdomesticinvestmenffGDP                                                16.1        15.3
Exportsof goods and services/GDP                                          20.7         19.8                             Trade

Gross domesticsavings/GDP                                                  -7.0        -6.8
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                                                   7.2         5.7                               T
Currentaccount balance/GDP                                                 -8.8       -10.2
InterestpaymentslGDP                                                        0.6         1.2      Domestic                            Investment
Total debtiGDP                                                             76.0        62.4      savings                   .'
Total debt servicelexports                                                  3.5         6.7
Presentvalue of debtiGDP                                                                                                  i



Presentvalue of debtlexports
                                                                                                                      Indebtedness
                                      1983-93 199343            2002     2003       200347
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                           ._      0.5         4.0       3.0         4.6              -Serbia        andMontenegro
GDP percapita                                                                                            __Lower-middle-incomegroup
Exportsof goods and services                                     12.3      27.7        12.4


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                    1983                  2002        zoo3      1 Growthof      investmentandGDP(YO)
(% of GDP)                                                                                              -
Agriculture                                                                                       A0

industry
    Manufacturing
Services
Privateconsumption                                                         88 7        882      -40-
General government consumption                                             183         186
importsof goods and services                                               438         41 9                      -GO1           -O-GDP




 (average annualgrowth)                          1983-93 199343           2o02        2003        Growth of exportsand imports(%)

Agriculture                                                                               ..   y-                                               II
 Industry
    Manufacturing
Services
 Privateconsumption                                                         6 3         6 5       0,
Generalgovernment consumption                                              116          4 5
 Gross domestic investment                                                 34 4         7 2                  ----Exports        -O-lmports
 Importsof goods and services                                              263         229


 Note: 2003 data are preliminaryestimates.
    The diamonds show four key indicators inthe country (in bold)comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing,the diamondwill
     be incomplete.

                                                  54                                                                Annex 6
                                                                                                                Page 2 of 2


                                                                                    Serbiaand Montenear

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                         1983  1993  2002    2003
Domestic prices                                                      , Inflation (%)              1
(% change)
Consumer prices                                       21.2    11.1
ImplicitGDP deflator                                  25.5    15.0

Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Currentrevenue                                        43.9    42.4     I          98    84      W      01       02     03
Currentbudget balance                                   0.6   -0.9              -GDP        deflator --O-CPI
Overallsurplus/deficit                                -3.4    -3.9

TRADE
                                         1983                                                                            I
                                               1993   2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                            Exportand import levels (US$mill.)

Total exports (fob)                                  2,412   2,917        M OT
 Food
 Other fuel
 Manufactures
Total imports(cif)                                   6,320   7,957
 Food
 Fueland energy                                                                                                          I
 Capital goods
                                                                                                  w     01
Exportpriceindex (1995=100)                                                     87   98    84                   02

Importpriceindex (1995=100)                                                          .Exports          mlmports      O3
Terms of trade (1995=100)

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                         1983  1993   2002    2003      1
(US$ millions)                                                            Currentaccount balanceto GDP (%)               I
Exportsof goods andservices                          3,241   3,970
Importsof goodsand services                          6,857   8.675
Resource balance                                     -3,616  -4.705

Net income                                            -111    -237
Netcurrent transfers                                  2,343   2,821

Currentaccount balance                               -1,384  -2,121

FinancingItems(net)                                   2,200   3,391
Changes in net reserves                               -816   -1,270

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ mi/lions)                 2,280   3,550
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                       64.2    57.5

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                         1983  1993   2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                           1Compositionof 2003 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debtoutstandingand disbursed                   11,912 12,925
  IBRD                                                2,175   2,162
  IDA                                                   167     265                                    A 2,162

 Total debtservice                                      188     453
  iBRD                                                   75      43                                               265
  IDA                                                     0       1                                              c 819

 Compositionof netresourceflows
  Official grants
  Officialcreditors                                     242     774                                               1,131
  Privatecreditors                                              -59
  Foreigndirectinvestment
  PorLfolioequity                                                                                   E:3,121
 Wolid Bank program
  Commitments                               0     0                       A. IBRD                         E Bilateral
                                                                                                              ~

   Disbursements                                                 98       8 IDA
                                                                            -        D Other multilateral
                                                                                      -                   F Private
                                                                                                            -
   Principalrepayments                                    0       0       C-IMF                           G Short-ten
                                                                                                               ~


   Netflows                                                      98
   Interest payments                                     75      44
   Nettransfers                                                  54


 DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                              7/14/04

                                       55                                        Annex 7
                                                                              Page 1of 2




Press ReleaseNo. 04/109                                       International Monetary Fund
FOR IMMEDIATERELEASE                                          Washington, D.C. 20431USA
June 7,2004


         IMFCompletesThirdReviewandApprovesUS$147Millionunder
                 ExtendedArrangementwith Serbia and Montenegro

The Executive Boardofthe International Monetary Fund(IMF) today completed the third
reviewof Serbia andMontenegro's economic performance underthe Extended
Arrangement. The decision will enable Serbia and Montenegro to draw SDR 100million
(about US$147 million) from the IMFimmediately.

Inits decision, the ExecutiveBoardalso grantedthe request for awaiver for the
nonobservanceofthe end-December 2003 performance criteriononnet bank credit to
government, andapproved the rephasing o f disbursements.

The ExtendedArrangementwas approved on May 14,2002 for atotal equivalent to
SDR 650 million (about US$953 million) to support Serbia and Montenegro's economic
program in2002-2005 (see Press ReleaseNo. 02/25). So far, Serbia and Montenegro has
drawnSDR 300 million (about US$440million)from the IMFunder the Extended
Arrangement.

Followingthe Executive Boarddiscussion, Anne Krueger, First DeputyManaging
Director andActing Chair, said:

"Serbia andMontenegro has made good progress inlowering inflation, attracting foreign
direct investment, and strengtheningforeignreserves, while macroeconomic policies are
broadly on track. To strengthen growth and improve the external position, which
continues to be vulnerable to adverse shocks, macroeconomic policies should be geared
toward restrainingdemand, and structural reforms expedited to enhancethe economy's
supplyresponse.

"Against this background, the authorities' macroeconomic policies and structural reform
agenda contained inthe 2004 economic program appropriately focus on reducing the
current account deficit, enhancing growth prospects, and correcting the existing fiscal and
external imbalances. The authorities intendto broadenthe political support to accelerate
the pace of structural reforms.

                                          56                                      Annex 7
                                                                               Page 2 of 2
"The authorities will tighten fiscal policy in2004 andshift spendingfrom current to
investmentuses. However, the fiscal tighteninginSerbiarelies entirely onrevenue
increases, leaving the expenditures at a highlevelinrelationto GDP. Placingthe fiscal
accounts on a sustainablepathwill require streamliningo f spending, particularly cuts in
subsidies, and containment o f growth inwages and social transfers.

"The monetary authorities intendto maintaintight credit conditions with a view to
achieving the inflation objective and safeguardingofficial foreign reserves. Wage
restraint will bekeyto improving external competitiveness, while containing inflationary
pressures. With continued high, albeit slower, credit growth, bank supervision should be
vigilant, with strict enforcement ofprudential regulations to ensurethat newlendingis
sound.

"Structural reforms need to pick uppace. Inthe bankingsector, privatizationo fthe
nationalized banksi s critical to buildinga healthy system. Privatizationandrestructuring
o fnonperformingstate enterprises are also a priority. Inaddition, rapidprogress i s needed
onthe much-delayed legislative agenda, to ensure successfulimplementationo fthe VAT
in2005, set the basis for ahnctioningbankruptcyprocess, facilitate arestructuringofthe
energymonopolies, andestablish aproper regulatory framework for that sector. These
keystructural reforms, as well as additional measuresto improve governance and
strengthenpublic institutions, shouldhelppromote privatesector development.

"It is important that the authorities continue to negotiate ingood faithwithLondonClub
and other creditors to restructure their debt on terms comparable to those grantedbythe
Paris Club. The success will depend crucially on the authorities' credibility inforcefully
implementingthe policy framework," Ms. Krueger said.




Contact persons:
        Ms. Piritta Sorsa (psorsa@imf.org, 202-623-8657),
        Mr.BalazsHorvath(bhorvath@imf.org, 202-623-8529)

