                           Document of
                        The World Bank




                                              Report No:ICR0000196




        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-39830)




                             ON A

                            CREDIT

              IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.3 MILLION

                 (US$18 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                              TO

                THE REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO

                            FOR A

            SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT




                        March 15, 2007




ECSPE Macro2

ECA

      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
    Exchange Rate Effective March 15, 2007
         Currency Unit = Euro
             Euro 1.00 = US$ 1.3029
            US$ 1.00 = Euro 0.7675


                 Fiscal Year
           January 1 ­ December 31




      Vice President: Shigeo Katsu

    Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos

     Sector Manager: Bernard G. Funck

Program Team Leader: Abebe Adugna

 ICR Primary Author: Ivailo Izvorski

                                Republic of Montenegro
                       Structural Adjustment Credit 2 (SAC 2)



                                        CONTENTS




1. Basic Information
2. Key Dates
3. Rating Summary
4. Sector and Theme Codes
5. Bank Staff
6. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
8. Assessment of Outcomes
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
11. Lessons Learned
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)
Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
Annex 4. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)
Annex 5. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/ Stakeholders
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents
MAP

1. Basic Information
                                                                 Structural Adjustment
Country:               Montenegro           Program Name:        Credit 2 (SAC 2)
                                                                 (Montenegro)
Program ID:            P074908              L/C/TF Number(s):    IDA-39830
ICR Date:              01/28/2007           ICR Type:            Core ICR
                                                                 FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument: SAL                     Borrower:            YUGOSLAVIA/REPUBLIC
                                                                 OF MONTENEGRO
Original Total
Commitment:            SDR 12.3M            Disbursed Amount:    SDR 12.3M

Implementing Agencies

Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review: 11/25/2003           Effectiveness:     12/17/2004         12/17/2004
Appraisal:          03/17/2004       Restructuring(s):
Approval:           09/16/2004       Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:           12/31/2005         09/30/2006


3. Rating Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance      Indicators      QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating:
Potential Prob. Program at any
time (Yes/No):                  No            Quality at Entry (QEA):         None

Problem Program at any time
(Yes/No):                       Yes           Quality of Supervision (QSA):   None

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:        Satisfactory


4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      20                20

Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance                          10               10
Banking                                                                25               25
Health                                                                 20               20
Power                                                                  25               25
                                                       Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Administrative and civil service reform                 Primary           Primary
Public expenditure, financial management and
procurement                                             Secondary         Secondary

Law reform                                              Primary           Primary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization   Primary           Primary
Health system performance                               Primary           Primary


5. Bank Staff
                        Positions                           At ICR         At Approval
Vice President:                                        Shigeo Katsu      Shigeo Katsu

Country Director:                                      Orsalia           Orsalia
                                                       Kalantzopoulos    Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:                                        Bernard G. Funck Bernard G. Funck
Program Team Leader:                                   Abebe Adugna      Bruce J. Courtney
ICR Team Leader:                                       Abebe Adugna
ICR Primary Author:                                    Ivailo V. Izvorski

6. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for Bank
assistance)


Montenegro (together with Serbia as the remaining part of former Yugoslavia until its independence in
2006) began its transition to a market economy in the late 1990s under difficult economic and social
conditions. Decades of economic mismanagement and the wars of Yugoslav succession halved real GDP
by 2000 from a decade before, boosted inflation to 110 percent a year and caused external debt to rise to
130 percent of GDP.

The authorities began implementing a program of macroeconomic stabilization in the late 1990s, anchored
in the adoption of the Deutsche Mark (Euro) as sole legal tender. Fiscal retrenchment was supported by an
IMF program and helped reduce the fiscal deficit from 8 percent in 2000 to about 5 percent in 2003.
Inflation fell to single digits by 2002 and further thereafter. In parallel to stabilization efforts, the
authorities commenced a program of structural reforms, and these were supported by the SAC1. The
SAC1 was in line with the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (for Serbia and Montenegro) prepared in
June 2001 and updated in August 2002 and February 2004. The SAC1 focused on reforms to enhance
fiscal sustainability and help create conditions for private sector-led growth through reforms of public
expenditure management, pensions, the energy sector, labor markets and the business environment. The
SAC2 sharpened the focus of Bank support in the first three of these areas, while including support for
reforms in the financial sector and the public administration.

Stabilization efforts and structural reforms helped the economy recover, but growth and living standards
remained low. Real GDP growth averaged only 2.5 percent a year during 2000-2004, and absolute
poverty affected about one-tenth of the population. Exports and saving remained low, resulting in a large
current account deficit of about 10 percent of GDP in 2002-03. Against this context, further structural
reforms were needed, supported by the SAC2.


6.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


This Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 2) supports the Government of the Republic of
Montenegro in the implementation of key structural reforms to promote growth and support further fiscal
consolidation. The Government's program works to achieve these objectives through specific reforms in
the areas of (i) the financial sector; (ii) the energy sector; (iii) pension and health sectors; and (iv) public
administration. The financial sector reforms seek to resolve non-performing assets carved out of the
banking sector; complete the privatization of large banks; and strengthen supervisory enforcement
regarding anti-money laundering, off-shore banking, and overall prudential compliance of banks. The
energy sector reforms seek to: restructure the electricity company; establish an effective energy sector
regulator; and increase electricity tariffs to the Podgorica Aluminum Company. The pension and health
reforms seek to: improve the efficiency of social insurance administrative systems; create the foundations
for improved management of pharmaceuticals expenditure; and establish a framework for strengthening
financial sustainability, efficiency, quality, private participation and governance for health insurance and
health care. The public administration reforms seek to: de-politicize top level posts and establish a merit
based civil service system; reform the policy process; and strengthen the accountability system.


6.3 Revised Program Development Objectives and Key Indicators (if applicable, as
approved by original approving authority) and Reasons/Justification


The objectives were not revised.


6.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The SAC2 supported the authorities in four policy areas: (i) the financial sector; (ii) the energy sector; (iii)
pension and health; and (iv) public administration. Each of these policy areas is described briefly below.
In addition, as with all structural adjustment (development policy) credits, the SAC2 required that the
borrower maintain a satisfactory macroeconomic framework, although there were no tranche conditions
linked to specific macroeconomic outcomes.

(i) Financial Sector: In the financial sector, the government program supported by the SAC 2 sought to
resolve the assets carved-out from Montenegrobank and transferred from the failed banks, divest a
majority stake in the remaining large state-owned bank, and implement measures to further restrict off-
shore banking and money laundering activities.

(ii) Energy Sector: In the energy sector, the credit aimed to improve the financial and operational
sustainability of the electricity company (Elektroprivreda Crna Gora, EPCG), support its
commercialization, and help ensure that the potential adverse impacts of increased electricity tariffs on the
poorest consumers are mitigated.

(iii) Pension and Health Sectors: The SAC2 supported the authorities in carrying out pension reform with
the following key objectives: (a) ensure that the parametric and structural changes introduced in 2003 help
improve the transparency and management of public finances; and (b) carry out further reforms envisaged
in the Law on Pension Insurance through the drafting of new legislation to regulate voluntary pension
funds. The Government also aimed to reform the health sector in accordance with the Montenegro Health
Sector Development Strategy adopted in November 2003. This strategy sought to put in place a framework
to strengthen the financial sustainability, efficiency, quality and governance for health insurance and
health care. The government's health reforms also aimed to improve transparency and the management of
pharmaceutical expenditures.

(iv) Public administration: The reforms supported by the SAC2 sought to: (a) depoliticize top level posts
and establish a merit-based civil service system; (b) reform the policy process to control the fiscal cost of
the public administration; and (c) develop the accountability system, by strengthening an independent
internal control function in the state administration (administrative accountability), by developing of the
administrative court system (judicial accountability) and by improving external oversight through the
Ombudsman institution (parliamentary accountability).

The program design linked well the policy areas supported and the credit's development objective.
Restructuring of the financial sector, including by completing privatization to foreign direct investors, has
strengthened financial intermediation, supporting growth in economic activity. Improving the financial
and operational sustainability of the EPCG has helped overcome power outages (which had hampered
growth) and reduced the drain on fiscal resources, although no fiscal impact assessment of this operation
has been undertaken. Reforms of pensions and health have contributed to improve fiscal transparency and
management of fiscal resources. By introducing longer-term reforms of the public administration, the
SAC2 sought to ensure that the quality of public administration is improved and that fiscal resources are
utilized in an efficient manner.


6.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)


The policy areas were not revised.


6.6 Other significant changes (in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements
and schedule, and funding allocations)


The credit's closing date was extended twice: once from the original closing date of December 31, 2005

until June 30, 2006, and the second time until September 30, 2006. There were no other significant
changes.


7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Program Performance
Number
of
tranches:

 Tranche Amount:              Expected              Actual
                           Release Date: Release Date:             Release Floating Restructured

       1             9.00      09/30/2004          12/27/2004      Regular     No          No
       2             9.00      09/30/2005          12/29/2006      Regular     No          No
Tranche Release binding Conditions
 Tranche Condition                             Text of Condition                             Status:

       1           1       The Borrower has maintained a macroeconomic policy
                          framework.                                                       Met

                           The FIU has become operational through the adoption of
       1           2      implementing regulations, the appointment of its Director,       Met
                          staff and operating budget.
                           The Government has retained international consultants and
       1           3      has made a decision on a multi-year electricity pricing path for Met
                          KAP.
                           The Government has adopted an action plan for the

       1           4      unification of registration and reporting of tax and
                          contribution collection, and has undertaken measures in          Met

                          accordance with the schedule stipulated in this plan.

       1           5       The Government has approved a draft law on medicinal
                          products for public consultations.                               Met

                           The HIF, Montefarm and health institutions have fully
                          implemented a pharmaceuticals information system,

       1           6      satisfactory to the Association, in at least70 percent of public
                          pharmacies, which captures complete data on prices, types and    Met

                          quantities of positive list pharmaceuticals purchased,
                          distributed, prescribed, and dispensed.

       1           7       The Republic of Montenegro has adopted a Law on Health
                          Insurance, satisfactory to the Association.                      Met

       1           8       The Republic of Montenegro has adopted a Law on Health
                          Protection, satisfactory to the Association.                     Met

                           The Republic of Montenegro has adopted a Law on Civil
                          Service which clearly delimits the boundaries between

       1           9      political appointees and career civil servants. The law also has
                          established the main conditions for the development of a         Met

                          professional civil service, with career development based on
                          performance.
                           The Republic of Montenegro has adopted a Law on Salaries
       1          10      which establishes a framework for the decompression of the       Met
                          salary system and the creation a transparent reward system

       2           1       The Borrower has maintained a macroeconomic policy
                          framework satisfactory to the Association.                       Met

       2           2       A newly established Government of Montenegro division or        Met

                            agency has contracted out the management and disposition of,
                            or otherwise sold by public auction, the unimpaired assets
                            transferred from the CBM
                             Following the implementation by Podgoricka Banka of pre-
                            privatization measures and a restructuring of the Podgoricka
       2            3       Banka Board of Directors, all shares in Podgoricka Banka       Met
                            directly owned by the Government of Montenegro have been
                            offered for cash sale through international tender.
                             The FIU has applied for membership in the Egmont group
                            and the Government of Montenegro has submitted to the
       2            4       Association satisfactory evidence that the FIU has begun to    Met
                            perform functions in compliance with the Egmont group
                            definition of a Financial Intelligence Unit.
       2            5        A restructuring plan of EPCG has been implemented.            Met
                             KAP and EPCG have signed a multi-year power purchase
       2            6       agreement which provides for a phased tariff increase in the   Met
                            medium term, and which is satisfactory to the Association.
                             The Republic of Montenegro has enacted a law on

       2            7       consolidated reporting and control on social security
                            contributions, personal income tax and surtax, satisfactory to Met

                            the Association.

       2            8        The Republic of Montenegro has enacted a law on medicinal
                            products, satisfactory to the Association.                     Met

                             The Government of Montenegro has adopted an
                            implementation plan related to the Law on Medicinal
       2            9       Products, Law on State Administration, Public Procurement      Met
                            Law, Health Care Law, and Health Insurance Law, and other
                            related laws.
                             The Republic of Montenegro has adopted the Budget Law for

       2            10      2005 which ensures adequate budgetary transfers to the health
                            and pension systems, and has adopted an indicative three year  Met

                            fiscal framework.

       2            11       A new salary system for civil service has been introduced
                            with the 2005 Republic of Montenegro Budget.                   Met

                             The Civil Service Agency has been established and staffed,

       2            12      competencies of the CSA in relation to other ministries and
                            agencies of the Government of Montenegro have been clearly     Met

                            defined and the horizontal HRM system is operational.

Comments

There were two extensions of the closing date (see Section 6.6).


7.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation


Factors outside government control affected macroeconomic outcomes but had little impact on
program implementation. A strong increase in prices for imported oil and natural gas contributed to
widen the current account deficit in 2005 relative to 2004. The deficit in 2005 was also larger than
projected at the time of Credit approval, but such a comparison needs to be made with caution, as the
initial projections were for Serbia and Montenegro combined.

Factors within government control contributed to delays in meeting one of the benchmarks, with
increased political attention to preparing for the independence referendum held in May 2006 served to

somewhat relegate the economic policy dialogue to a second place. The fact that there was a single bidder
(Rusal of Russia) for the aluminum smelter KAP put Rusal in a strong negotiation position vis-à-vis the
government. The government had to make a difficult trade-off between offering concessions to Rusal (a
failure to sell KAP would have entailed large economic and social costs, with KAP contributing
40 percent of export earnings and employing more than 15000 workers) on the one hand, and improving
the financial position of EPCG on the other. Other than on this condition, government commitment to the
program was good, as has been progress toward the medium-term goals of the operation in each area.

The benchmark (second tranche condition 6) required the signing of a multi-year power purchase
agreement (PPA) between the KAP and the energy company EPCG which provides for a phased tariff
increase and requires the KAP to import increasingly larger amounts of electricity for its own
consumption. Delays related to the factors listed above resulted in two extensions of the Credit's closing
date. Ultimately, the multi-year PPA was signed by September 30, 2006.

The authorities suggested there was lack of clarity in the Minutes of Negotiations on whether the average
price condition referred to the average of the domestic and imported price that KAP pays, or just the
domestic price. The Minutes of Negotiation are indeed ambiguous and the Bank accepted the authorities'
interpretation that the former definition applies. The authorities also pointed out that the Bank had not
responded to a draft PPA submitted in October 2005, which indicated that the application of the formula
pricing would start in 2007 instead of in 2006 as originally intended. This was indeed a legitimate point:
the Bank team did not respond formally to the authorities. Without underplaying the importance of this
issue, this was not the key factor for the delay in meeting the benchmark: the major reason was the lack of
a multi-year PPA.


7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


M&E design: The program document contains a framework of "expected medium-term results."
Although the name suggests these are to monitor progress some time after Credit closing, most of the
"expected results" were very specific and appropriate to judge outcomes. Lack of Economic and Sector
Work before the Credit was prepared, and absence of reliable data on many of the areas SAC2 supported,
made it difficult to prepare a more detailed results framework. The indicators for monitoring outcomes
were reasonable, but could have been enhanced with an explicit indicator for measuring EPCG's financial
performance (energy component) and an explicit indicator for recovery on the 'impaired assets' (financial
component). For pensions and health (where numerical indicators were not appropriate), the qualitative
indicators used were adequate. A qualitative indicator could have been used to measure progress on public
administration reform (e.g., "the number of people above a certain level who left the civil service").

M&E implementation: Supervision missions paid attention to the "expected medium-term results" and
the numerical indicators and did not focus solely on achieving the benchmarks. Implementation would
have been strengthened had the authorities appointed a coordinator to regularly monitor and update the
indicators on the part of the government. Another shortcoming reflected delays in receiving data on some
of the indicators.

M&E utilization: The team regularly used the M&E framework to work with the authorities and advise
on policy actions.


7.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if applicable)


A new CAS is under preparation and the stronger fiscal position compared to when the last CAS was
prepared means that the government is unlikely to request adjustment lending. However, the reforms
supported by the SAC2 will be/have been followed within investment operations. In the financial sector,
the FSAP completed in October 2006 is likely to be followed by technical assistance, as discussed with the
central bank governor and the minister of finance in January 2007. A new energy project was recently

approved, supporting improved efficiency and reliability of the power system. Pension and health projects
are also ongoing.


8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)


The SAC2 objective to support the government in implementing key structural reforms to promote growth
and facilitate fiscal consolidation is highly relevant. This objective is similar to the overall objective under
the new CAS and is confirmed by recent analytical work (including the PEIR and the CEM). The specific
policy areas the SAC2 focused on are one of the most relevant to meeting the objective, as they combined
the introduction of institutional changes and adoption of laws with policy reforms. The sparing use of core
'benchmarks' was appropriate given the level of government capacity at the time of Credit approval. The
implementation arrangements were appropriate, but could have required more involvement from the
government in monitoring progress toward meeting the objective and the medium-term results.


8.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between policy actions supported by the operation
and outcomes)


The SAC2 achieved its objectives in supporting the implementation of key structural reforms to promote
growth and further fiscal consolidation. Progress toward the medium-term results expected from the
operation has been good, with factors other than the SAC2 contributing substantially. Thanks to the
authorities' efforts and with the global economy expanding at the fastest pace in decades, growth in
Montenegro has begun to strengthen, the macroeconomic framework has improved and fiscal
consolidation has been strong. The reforms supported by the SAC2 should help strengthen growth over
the medium term and ease fiscal pressures, provided further reform efforts are sustained. That such efforts
are likely to continue is seen from ongoing progress in the areas supported by the SAC2 since the Credit
closed. Progress includes further work on resolving the 'unimpaired' non-performing assets, preparation
for an FSAP follow-up and the start of implementation of the electricity pricing formula. The 2007
budget, adopted after the Credit closed and agreed with the IMF, should further support macroeconomic
stability, while ensuring adequate funding for the pension and health sectors.


8.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance and achievement of PDOs)
Rating: Satisfactory


The credit's overall rating is satisfactory. This reflects the ratings on the individual components, the high
relevance of the objectives for improving living standards, and the likelihood that the reforms will not be
reversed. On the latter, the authorities are building on progress achieved to deepen and broaden the scope
of structural reforms.

A. Macroeconomic Performance. This component is rated satisfactory. The rating balances the
much better outcomes on inflation, the fiscal deficit and inflows of foreign direct investment, with real
GDP growth broadly in line with the projection, and a larger current account deficit than projected at the
time of Credit approval (Table 1). Real GDP growth rose from 2.5 percent on average during 2000-2004 to
about 5 percent on average during 2005-2006. The latter outcome is moderately faster than the 4.5 percent
projected at the time of Credit approval, supported by macroeconomic stability, fiscal adjustment and large
inflows of FDI. The stable macroeconomic environment and progress in advancing structural reforms has
boosted fixed investment to about 24 percent of GDP by 2006, above the 19 percent projected at the time
of Credit approval. Helped by the adoption of the DM (then the Euro) as a sole legal tender in 1999 and
fiscal adjustment, inflation fell from about 25 percent on average in 2000 to 2.7 percent in 2006, as

measured by the retail price index. The slowdown in inflation is substantially larger than projected in the
President's report and is remarkable given the sharp increases in prices for imported energy in recent years.

The current account deficit widened to about 11 percent of GDP in 2006 from 8 percent in 2004 and
compared with 8 percent projected for 2006 at the time of Credit approval. The difference between
outcome and initial projection reflects smaller net income inflows, while the merchandise trade deficit was
about 1 percent of GDP smaller than projected. These differences aside, the large current account deficit
is a source of concern, as is the undiversified structure of exports. Concerns about the external shortfall
are mitigated by large inflows of foreign direct investment, which amounted to 23 percent of GDP in 2005
and are estimated at about 15 percent of GDP in 2006, well above initial projections. (Net of privatization
receipts, inflows of greenfield foreign direct investment were still very large, averaging 11 percent of GDP
a year during 2005-2006, three times as large as projected in the President's report.)

Fiscal consolidation helped reduce the fiscal deficit to near balance in 2006 from about 2.7 percent in
2004, reflecting in equal part expenditure containment and stronger revenues following the introduction of
the VAT in 2003. In addition, the government reduced the stock of past-due obligations from E100
million at the end of 2004 to E10 million at the end of 2006. Progress on fiscal consolidation
notwithstanding, spending remains high relative to GDP, and the composition of spending needs to be
revamped to help support economic growth and poverty reduction.


                               Key Macroeconomic Variables: Projections vs. Outcomes 1/
                                        (In percent of GDP unless indicated otherwise)


                                                                                    2004         2005    2006

               Real GDP growth (in percent)      projected                            4.4          4.5     4.5
                                                 actual/estimate                      3.7          4.3     5.5

               Gross domestic investment         projected                           16.6        17.2    19.0
                                                 actual/estimate                     19.8        22.1    23.5

               Retail inflation (in percent)     projected                            7.2          7.1     5.0
                                                 actual/estimate                      3.1          3.4     2.7

               Fiscal balance                    projected                            -3.7        -3.7    -3.6
                                                 actual/estimate                      -2.7        -1.6    -0.2

               Current account balance           projected                            -9.6        -8.4    -8.0
                                                 actual/estimate                      -7.8        -8.5   -10.8

               Net exports (GNFS)                projected                          -20.8        -20.0   -19.4
                                                 actual/estimate                    -17.5        -19.0   -18.9

               FDI, net                          projected                            3.1          5.0     4.0
                                                 actual/estimate                      3.7        22.9    15.4
                                                    o/w privatization-related            0       12.9     3.7

               External debt                     projected                           53.7        48.4    48.3
                                                 actual/estimate                     43.1        46.6    45.2


               1/ Projections as per the President's report. The data in the report are for the combined
               economy of Serbia and Montenegro. The outcome data are for Montenegro only, but for 2003
               and 2004 need to be interpreted with caution.


B. Financial Sector. This component is rated satisfactory. The rating reflects the fact that all
benchmarks have been met, with the one on privatization substantially exceeded, but progress on resolving
the non-performing assets has been slow, with little movement on the more challenging 'impaired assets.'

B1. Resolve the non-performing assets carved out of the banking sector. It was estimated at the time
of Credit approval that the book value of the non-performing assets (carved out of Montenegrobank to
enable its privatization and transferred to the government together with assets of several failed banks)

amounted to E730 million, with estimated recovery of about E20 million. An Asset Resolution Unit
(ARU) was set up in the Ministry of Finance in 2004 and separated the assets into a group with higher
probability of collection ('unimpaired assets', largely real estate), and a group with a smaller likelihood
('impaired assets'). About E11 million was collected in 2004-06 from the sale of 'unimpaired assets' (E1.4
million in 2004, E1.9 million in 2005 and E7.6 million in 2006), equivalent to about 1 percent of GDP.
The unit estimates that 2-3 years more will be needed to resolve the remaining 'unimpaired assets.' By
contrast, the resolution of the 'impaired assets' has been delayed because of staffing constraints and
political sensitivities. An alternative way of resolution was suggested to the government both in the
program document and during supervision missions (sell packages of assets to qualified external parties),
but the authorities have chosen not to pursue this route.

B2. Continue with the privatization of the state-owned banks. Societe Generale from France bought
in September 2005 a 64.3 percent stake in Podgoricka Banka (PB) for Euro 14.2 million. Beyond meeting
the Credit's benchmark on privatizing PB, the authorities sold the government stakes in the largest bank in
the country, Komercijalna Banka, and in Niksicka Banka. With these sales, all direct government stakes
in commercial banks have been sold. Government-owned companies, including the EPCG, own small
stakes in some banks. Privatization of these state-owned companies should proceed in line with the
government privatization plan. All told, about three-fourths of banking sector assets is now foreign-
owned, and the bulk of the rest is owned by private domestic investors.

B3. Strengthen further the supervisory enforcement regarding off-shore banking, anti-money
laundering (AML) and overall prudential compliance at banks. The authorities have implemented the
AML law and closed all off-shore banks in Montenegro. The Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) became a
member of the Egmont Group in June 2005 and functions in accordance with the Group's definition of a
Financial Intelligence Unit.

C. Energy Sector. This component is rated moderately satisfactory. The rating reflects the fact that
all benchmarks have been met and reforms introduced are unlikely to be reversed. One of the core
benchmarks was met with delay, however, due to increased political attention to the May 21, 2006
referendum and the KAP privatization.

C1. Strengthen the financial viability of the EPCG. To achieve this goal, the Credit's emphasis was
correctly on increasing the power tariff paid to the EPCG by the Podgorica Aluminum Plant (KAP), the
largest single user of electricity in Montenegro (accounting for about half of total energy consumption).
Based on work by international consultants, the government and the IDA agreed that the Credit's
objectives would be achieved by a multi-year power purchase agreement (PPA) to be signed by the KAP
and the EPCG. The agreement was included in the KAP privatization strategy and stipulated for a phased
price increase for the electricity supplied by the EPCG to the KAP, and for the KAP to gradually increase
the share of electricity it imports. Despite delays in signing the PPA between the EPCG and the KAP, the
EPCG reported that payment discipline has significantly improved after the privatization, resulting in
improving EPCG's cash flow. Nevertheless, EPCG financial performance remains a concern due to,
among others, high commercial losses in its power networks and delays in formulating new unbundled
tariffs that provide for full cost recovery.

C2. Support EPCG commercialization. The functional unbundling of the EPCG was completed in early
2005 (transmission, generation, distribution and supply). The government intends to complete financial
and accounting unbundling in 2007, a delay of about a year relative to initial plans. Through the
Emergency Stabilization of Electricity Supply Project (expected to close in early 2007), the Bank has
helped finance the setting up of financial management information systems in the EPCG, and these should
help facilitate the financial and accounting unbundling. There is a modest risk, however, that the
unbundling will not proceed in a timely manner and be delayed beyond the ECSEE Treaty compliance
requiring the financial, accounting and legal unbundling of transmission.

D. Pensions and Health. This component is rated satisfactory because the benchmarks have been

completed, with stronger efforts on pensions and healthcare than targeted under the Credit, and progress
toward the medium-term results has been good. The reforms under the SAC2 aimed to support the
government's effective implementation of the pension reforms introduced in 2003 and help advance the
agenda further by drafting a new law on voluntary pension funds. The government's health strategy
supported by the SAC2, aimed at ensuring the financial sustainability, efficiency and improved
governance of health insurance and health care. In both areas, with the support of the SAC2, the Republic
of Montenegro:

D1. Enacted a law on consolidated reporting and control on social security contributions, personal
income taxes and surtax. The "medium-term result" of transferring tax and social security contribution
collection and reporting to the Department of Public Revenues (DPR) has been achieved. The government
is working on implementing fully the law, with immediate efforts focused on increasing the reporting
frequency by the DPR to the pension fund from once a year to monthly, and strengthening the capacity of
the pension fund to prepare monthly statements for users.

D2. Beyond commitments under the SAC2, enacted a law on voluntary pension funds. The challenge
with implementing the law, as in all other countries in transition, is to ensure the proper conditions for the
effective functioning of the pension funds.

D3. Enacted a law on medicinal products. The law was enacted on December 14, 2004, well ahead of
the original closing date for the second tranche. This brought Montenegro's regulation in line with
international best practice and EU requirements, thus meeting one of the expected medium-term results.

D4. Adopted an implementation plan related to the Law on Medicinal Products, the Law on State
Administration, Public Procurement Law, Health Care Law, and Health Insurance Law, and other related
laws, covering changes required in the organization and operation of the Ministry of Health, Montefarm,
and the Medicines Agency of the Government of Montenegro, satisfactory to the Association. The plan
was adopted by the Government on October 6, 2005. There is progress toward the latter two of the three
components of the expected medium-term result that "pharmaceutical prices in Montenegro are consistent
with international benchmarks, new drugs enter the market promptly, competition is encouraged and the
supply of all types of medicinal products is improved." It is unlikely that the measures under the SAC2
will, on their own, have a measurable downward impact on pharmaceutical prices. The authorities will
need to introduce additional steps, including either competitive procurement or transparent price regulation
(or a combination of both).

D5. Ensured that the 2005 budget law provided adequate budgetary transfers to the health and
pension systems, and adopted an indicative three year fiscal framework. Cuts in payroll contribution
rates in 2004 resulted in shortfalls of the health and pension funds. Supported by the SAC2, the 2005
budget planned increased planned transfers to the health fund from Euro 1.7 million in 2004 to E7.2
million (actual outcome of E6.5 million). For the pension fund, the 2005 budget increased transfers from
E37.3 million in 2004 to E61 million (actual E44.4 million). The 2005 budgetary transfers are adequate,
as are those in the 2006 and 2007 budgets.

E. Public administration. This component is rated moderately satisfactory. The rating balances
the fact that all benchmarks were met and progress was reasonable toward one of the three stated medium-
term results, with faltering progress on the other two. The SAC2 focused on introducing new laws and a
new government entity essential for advancing public administration reform. More specifically, with the
support of the SAC2, the Republic of Montenegro:

E1. Adopted a Law on Civil Service. The Law brought Montenegro closer to European standards by
clearly defining the boundaries between political appointees and civil servants and establishing the main
conditions for the development of a professional civil service. The law required open competition to be
the default method of recruitment, set the conditions for strengthening the Civil Service Agency (see
below), and introduced a new classification system for public employees, including a clear career

advancement system based on performance. Progress toward one of the expected medium-term results
(reduce the turnover in the top levels of the civil service) is good, based on anecdotal evidence, but the
result at this time is largely due to political continuity in the governing coalition after the latest election
than due to the law. Another expected medium-term result was that promotion and recruitment decisions
in the civil service will be based on merit. Progress toward this result has been faltering, with pay and
promotion based on merit not yet a reality. The first performance assessments (these should be the basis
for pay and promotion decisions) left a lot to be desired in terms of quality. The shortfalls reflected lack of
cooperation from most government ministries and inadequate preparation of the assessment forms in
advance by the Civil Service Agency.

E2.Adopted a Law on Salaries. The law establishes a framework for wage decompression and the
creation of a transparent reward system. There has been modest progress toward decompression (one of
the expected medium-term results): the ratio of the highest to the lowest salary was increased from 4.1
before the law to 5.1 in 2006. The latter ratio is much lower than the one expected during Credit
preparation and the ratios in Serbia and most OECD countries (all about 8). An additional shortcoming of
the law is the retention of the seniority allowance (rather than folding it into the base wage), with a
negative impact on motivating younger civil servants.

E3. A new salary system was introduced with the 2005 budget. The system was based on the Law on
Salaries adopted prior to board submission. The law required a new ranking of all employees (introduced
through new staffing and organizational plans, also called "systematization"). The government approved
the systematization acts for most ministries for the 2005 budget and for the ministry of economy in
February 2006. Work in the ministry of interior is still ongoing because of delays in setting up a special
civil service ranking. In 2006 the government introduced an increase in the "base rate of labor," a measure
that lifted all salaries by the same percentage, thus missing an important opportunity to further decompress
the salary structure.

E4. The Civil Service Agency has been established and staffed. The Agency was set up in September
2004 and its competencies with respect to the other government ministries and agencies have been clearly
defined. In practice, however, staffing levels are lower than necessary to ensure smooth functioning, and
the subordinate status of the Agency (initially within the Ministry of Justice and since late 2006 under the
supervision of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Public Administration) has sometimes undermined its
ability to push reforms through the government. A resource management system is also operational, but
further cooperation from government ministries is needed to strengthen the database underpinning the
system.

F. All non-core benchmarks have been met, except the one on the social safety net, see above. By
introducing a mandatory methodology for fiscal impact assessment of all new draft legislation, the
authorities should be able to better control the fiscal cost of the public administration. The legal
framework of the accountability system has been strengthened by the establishment of an Administrative
and Appellate Courts and the office of the Ombudsman.


8.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The Credit helped strengthen the conditions for reducing poverty by supporting macroeconomic stability
and structural reforms. Poverty declined during the life of the Credit, but the reforms supported by the
SAC2 were not expected to have an immediate direct impact on reducing poverty and improving living
standards. The effect is more medium-term in nature, by strengthening growth, ensuring that fiscal
consolidation does not affect transfers to the poor, and leaving the budget in a better position to mitigate
negative shocks through a comprehensive means-tested social safety.

The Credit was not expected to result in any negative impact on the environment, and for the purposes of
OP 4.01 was placed in category U, which does not require an environmental assessment. The Credit did
not have any gender impact


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional
development)

The institutional development impact of the Credit is modest, reflecting the limited extent to which it
helped the country use more effectively its human, financial and natural resources, and the conscious
decision to focus the operation on predominantly discrete policy changes. The institutions and laws
supported by the Credit should ultimately have a measurable institutional development impact, provided
the government perseveres with structural and institutional reforms. The Credit's institutional impact
reflected the establishment and staffing of the Civil Service Agency, steps in restructuring the EPCG, and
adoption of laws to help advance pension, health reform and public administration reform.

Close coordination with partners helped leverage the Bank's work under the SAC2. The reform program
and macroeconomic framework were consistent with the country's IMF arrangements. The European
Commission provided technical assistance in all four areas supported by the Credit. Other donors focused
on reforms in the individual areas, with key roles played by the DfID, the USAID, the European Agency
for Reconstruction and the UNDP.




(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

N/A.


8.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)


Neither a survey nor a stakeholder workshop was held.


9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible


The risk is rated low because the reforms implemented under the SAC2 are robust and unlikely to be
reversed. Moreover, the authorities intend to build on what has been accomplished under the new CAS.
The reforms supported by the SAC2 are closely linked to commitments by the authorities to the EU under
the Stabilization and Association Agreement now negotiated. As EU accession remains a key priority for
the authorities, these reforms will be further strengthened rather than reversed. The government is also
committed to continuing its engagement with the IMF and secure stable access to financial markets,
factors underpinning a stable macroeconomic framework.

That said, as the Credit was prepared there were concerns about the sustainability of reforms in the
pension, health and the energy sector. However, these risks have been largely allayed by the policy
actions supported by the SAC2, the planned follow-up and the government's reiterated commitments. As
discussed in Section 7.4, follow-ups are planned for the financial, energy, pension and health sectors. As
elsewhere in the region, there are risks that a future government may embark on fiscal expansion. Given
the likely adverse macroeconomic effects of such a decision (including but not limited to higher inflation

and loss of confidence, and delays in the EU integration process), it is more likely that future governments
will stay the course of prudent fiscal policies.


10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory


The overall quality at entry is rated satisfactory, reflecting the following factors. The SAC2 was a core
component of the Transitional Support Strategy that governed Bank operations before the CAS for 2005-
07. The SAC2 fully reflected Bank priorities and was also fully consistent with the country priorities as
pro-actively identified by the Bank. Complementarity with investment operations was noteworthy. The
project was developed in close collaboration with the IMF and other key international donors, and donors
provided substantial support in the areas supported by the SAC2. Focusing on advancing discrete reforms
and institution strengthening in the Credit was appropriate given Montenegro's level of development and
was carefully presented in the program document. Lack of substantial analytical work to guide the
preparation of the Credit made the team's work more challenging, and the team worked hard to ensure that
this would not jeopardize quality. Implementation and M&E arrangements were appropriate (but see
Section 7.3), but in retrospect more emphasis could have been placed on ensuring that the government take
the lead in monitoring its own performance and provide all data needed to judge progress. The President's
Report notes the key risks facing the Credit, and correctly predicted that the increased political attention to
preparing for the independence referendum held in May 2006 might relegate the economic policy dialogue
to a second place.


(b) Quality of Supervision
(including M&E arrangements)
Rating: Satisfactory


The quality of supervision is rated satisfactory, reflecting the following factors. The Bank team focused
not only on achieving benchmarks, but on the Credit's development impact and medium-term results, with
staff in the field offices in Belgrade and Podgorica playing a very strong supporting role. Sector staff were
pro-active in their supervision efforts, and sector staff from sectors participated in all supervision
missions. The Bank team showed flexibility in dealing with some specific situations, such as the one that
arose in interpreting the minutes of negotiations (see Section 8). The change in TTL shortly after Credit
approval and change in sector staff during the Credit implementation did not have a negative impact on
supervision efforts. The ISRs were filed regularly and staff was candid in assessing performance. The
final ICR mission took a comprehensive look at the achieved benchmarks and progress toward medium-
term results.

The satisfactory quality of supervision is also reflected in the decision to expend the Credit in small steps
to help the government achieve the difficult benchmark on energy. After an initial extension of 6 months
to bridge over the May 2006 referendum, the Credit was extended by an additional 3 months to give the
authorities the time to demonstrate political commitment in agreeing a PPA with KAP, with the clear
indication that no further extensions would be forthcoming.

There was slippage in one instance, when the Bank team did not respond formally to a proposed shift in
the timetable of the application of the formula pricing from 2006 to 2007 and did not indicate to the
authorities whether this change was acceptable. Without downplaying the slippage, it was not material for
the delay in meeting the benchmark.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


In view of the satisfactory rating for ensuring quality at entry and supervision, the overall Bank
performance is rated satisfactory.


10.2 Borrower Performance




(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 (Note: The Borrower of legal record is Serbia and Montenegro, represented by the Ministry of
International Economic Relations. The ultimate beneficiary is Montenegro, represented by the Ministry of
Finance of the Republic of Montenegro.)

The Government performance is rated moderately satisfactory. The rating balances, on the positive
side, the ultimate achievement of all core benchmarks and good overall progress toward the medium-term
results in most areas, with delays in achieving the benchmark on energy pricing (resulting in two
extensions of the Credit closing date), lack of progress in resolving the 'impaired' non-performing asset,
and lack of data on the financial performance of the EPCG during supervision and ICR missions.

The Government was actively involved in the identification and preparation of the SAC2, demonstrating
ownership (despite weaker capacity at the time of Credit preparation) and good commitment to the
proposed program. During the appraisal mission, the Government and the Bank reached understanding on
all but one element of the program, including the policy matrix. Preparation has been substantially
facilitated by the fact that the SAC2 built on reforms supported under the SAC1. The government remains
committed to deepening and broadening the reform agenda, with critical bank support.

Implementation was affected by the political attention to the independence referendum held in May 2006
that somewhat relegated economic policy dialogue to a second place and contributed to the delay in the
conclusion of the PPA between the KAP and the EPCG. This, in turn, has had an adverse effect on
improving the financial performance of the EPCG. Also, political sensitivities made it difficult to achieve
progress on resolving the 'impaired assets' carved out of Montenegrobank and some other banks.
Moreover, a general shortcoming was that the government did not take a pro-active role in monitoring the
achievement of benchmarks and progress toward the medium-term goals.




(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


                    Implementing Agency                                          Performance
Ministry of Finance

The Implementing Agencies performance is rated satisfactory

The division of responsibilities within the government was appropriate and performance of the individual
ministries was broadly satisfactory. The Ministry of Finance was responsible for implementing reforms in
the financial, pension and health sectors, together with ensuring a stable macroeconomic framework. (But
broader government support was needed for resolving the non-performing assets.) The Ministry of Justice
was responsible for public administration reform. The government, the newly established energy regulator
and the EPCG were jointly responsible for reforms in the energy sector. In the latter case, despite initial
progress, the restructuring of the EPCG and tariff reforms were delayed.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


In view of the moderately satisfactory rating for the government, and the larger weight that rating assumes
in the overall division of responsibilities, the overall Borrower performance is rated moderately
satisfactory.




11. Lessons Learned
(both operation-specific and of wide general application)


A strong analytical basis is needed to design effective operations. At the time of Credit preparation,
ESWs focused on Serbia and Montenegro combined. The team, to its credit, carried out analytical work
during the project preparation. As future Credits will tackle more complex issues, they will require firm
analytical background ahead of time.

Small steps in extending the Credit's closing date can be effective in helping the government achieve
a difficult benchmark. The initial extension by 6 months helped bridge over the May 2006 referendum.
It was followed by an extension of 3 months targeting a specific action with the clear understanding that
no further extensions will be forthcoming.

Reform implementation crucially depends on an effective champion. In the energy sector, strong
initial progress was made with the establishment of the new Energy Regulatory Agency (ERA), functional
unbundling of EPCG and signing and ratifying the ECSEE Treaty. There were subsequent delays in
development of unbundled tariffs, advancing EPCG's restructuring and development of a national energy
strategy, demonstrating that strong commitment to the reform process and closer cooperation between the
Government, the EPCG and the ERA are essentials for developing an efficient and competitive energy
market in Montenegro.

A pro-active role for the government in monitoring agreed outcome indicators and achieving
benchmarks is crucial. This should help ensure smooth implementation of the project, build government
capacity and strengthen cooperation with the Bank.


12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The comments have been reflected in the text.



(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis


Program Development Objectives (from Program Document)

This Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 2) supports the Government of the Republic of
Montenegro in the implementation of key structural reforms to promote growth and support further fiscal
consolidation. the Government's program works to achieve these objectives through specific reforms in the
areas of (i) the financial sector; (ii) the energy sector; (iii) pension and health sectors; and (iv) public
administration. The financial sector reforms seek to resolve non-performing assets carved out of the
banking sector; complete the privatization of large banks; and strengthen supervisory enforcement
regarding anti-money laundering, off-shore banking, and overall prudential compliance of banks. The
energy sector reforms seek to: restructure the electricity company; establish an effective energy sector
regulator; and increase electricity tariffs to the Podgorica Aluminum Company. The pension and health
reforms seek to: improve the efficiency of social insurance administrative systems; create the foundations
for improved management of pharmaceuticals expenditure; and establish a framework for strengthening
financial sustainability, efficiency, quality, private participation and governance for health insurance and
health care. The public administration reforms seek to: de-politicize top level posts and establish a merit
based civil service system; reform the policy process; and strengthen the accountability system.


Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving authority)

The objectives were not revised.


(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                                                                   Formally       Actual Value

  Indicator           Baseline Value           Original Target Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
                                                   approval documents)               Target      Completion or
                                                                                     Values       Target Years

Indicator 1 :    Macroeconomic Stability: A stable macroeconomic environment as indicated by single digit
                 inflation and low fiscal deficit
Value
(quantitative    2003: Inflation 6.7          Continued low inflation
or               percent 2003: Fiscal         Continued low fiscal deficit
Qualitative)     deficit 5 percent of GDP

Date achieved            01/01/2004                      09/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 Financial Sector: Amount of cash/ assets recoveries derived from the sale of a Non
Indicator 2 : Performing Loans (NPLs) of Montenegro Banka Increased competition in the banking
                 sector/privatization of PB
                 Amount of cash/asset
Value            recoveries from NPLs = 0     Amount of cash/asset recoveries

(quantitative Increased competition in        from NPLs= 8million euros

or               the banking sector--         Increased competition in the

Qualitative)     Podgorica Banka state-       banking sector--Podgorica Banka

                 owned                        privately owned

Date achieved            01/01/2004                      09/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :  Energy Sector: The performance of EPCG improves/ losses are cut The average power price
               paid by KAP increases to at least 3 US cents / kWh from 2006
Value
(quantitative 2003--KAP paid 1.8        KAP pays at least 3.0 cents/kWh
or             cents/kWh                after 2005
Qualitative)
Date achieved         01/01/2004                    09/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 4 :  Pensions and Health: DPR collects all tax and social contributions. Supply and prices of all
               types of medicinal products are improved The HIF is adequately funded
Value                                   DPR collects all tax and social
(quantitative Govt budget allocation to contributions. No good supply
or             HIF                      and prices data Increased budget
Qualitative)                            allocation to HIF
Date achieved         01/01/2004                    09/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
               Public Administration Reform: Turnover in top civil service positions reduced Recruitment
Indicator 5 : and promotion in civil service based on merit Incentive system improved through salary
               decompression
                                        Turnover in top civil service
Value                                   positions reduced Recruitment
(quantitative                           and promotion in civil service
or             No good data             based on merit Incentive system
Qualitative)                            improved through salary
                                        decompression
Date achieved         01/01/2004                    09/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                  Original Target Values        Formally       Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator    Baseline Value        (from approval          Revised Target      Completion or Target
                                        documents)                Values                  Years
Indicator 1 :   The Civil Service Agency has been established and staffed
Value                           The Civil Service Agency
(quantitative orNo Civil            been established and
Qualitative)    Service Agency has
                                staffed
Date achieved     01/01/2004            09/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

Not Applicable

Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title               Unit        Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Husam Mohamed
Beides                 Sr Power Engineer           ECSSD

Miroslav Frick         Operations Analyst          ECSSD
David Kennedy          Sr Energy Econ.             ECSIE
Tiana Mitrovic
Kocovic                E T Consultant              ECSPE

Alexander Pankov       PSD Specialist              ECSPF
Marina Petrovic        Operations Officer          ECSHD
Aleksandra Rabrenovic Consultant                   ECSPE
Lazar Sestovic         Research Analyst            ECSPE


(b) Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs


No.     Date ISR                                                Actual Disbursements
        Archived              IP                   DO                 (USD M)
 1     12/27/2004    Satisfactory         Satisfactory                             9.47
 2     04/22/2005    Satisfactory         Satisfactory                             9.47
 3     10/03/2005    Satisfactory         Satisfactory                             9.47

 4     06/13/2006    Moderately           Moderately
                     Unsatisfactory      Unsatisfactory                            9.47

 5     09/12/2006    Satisfactory         Satisfactory                             9.47


(c) Staff Time and Cost


                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                  USD Thousands
                                              No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                    consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY02                                                           0.00
                    FY03                                       10                64.28
                    FY04                                       45               220.95
                    FY05                                       11                51.51
                    FY06                                                           0.00
                    FY07                                                           0.00
                                      Total:                   66               336.74
Supervision/ICR

FY02                     0.00
FY03                     0.00
FY04                     0.00
FY05              21     73.05
FY06              14     60.61
FY07               4     21.41
        Total:    39    155.07

Annex 4. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

Not Available

Annex 5. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

Not Available

Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                                REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO
                                    MINISTRY OF FINANCE

Ref No. 1978/1
Podgorica, 13 March 2007

WORLD BANK GROUP

Mr. Robert A. Jauncey
Senior Country Officer for Montenegro
Southeast Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Group

Regarding the Implementation Completion Report (IDA 39830) on the Credit in the Amount
of SDR 12.3 Million (US$18 MILLION EQUIVALENT) to the Republic of Montenegro for
a Second Structural Adjustment Credit dated October 5, 2006, we would like to inform you
that we have reviewed the Report and bellow are our suggestions:

1. In the Section B ­ Financial Sector, B2, among other things it is stated that "the authorities sold
stakes in two smaller banks and are in the process of selling the government stake in the largest
bank in the country, Komercijalna Banka". Further down it reads "but the government still holds
minority stakes in six banks, and the authorities intend to continue the process of divestiture".

The banking sector privatization process has been completed with the sale of stakes at the
Niksicka banka, after which the state no longer maintains any direct ownership as far as the
banking sector is concerned. The state remains indirect owner of a small package of stakes in the
banking sector through its ownership in larger public companies such as Electric Power
Company, Railways, Jadran Shipyard. Privatization of these companies is expected to start in
near future. This will be specified in the Privatization Plan and by privatization of these
companies the banking sector privatization will be finalized.

2. As for the Section E ­ Public Administration, E4, The ministry of Justice suggested that the
following text is added: "Supervision of the legality and expediency of the Montenegro's Human
Resources Development Directorate is no longer under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice.
In line with the new Decree on Amendments and Modifications of the Decree on State
Administration Organization and Operations (Official Gazette of the Republic of Montenegro, No.
72/06), this Agency's work is supervised by the Ministry of Interior Affairs and Public
Administration.

Besides the comments stated above, we support and fully agree on the content of the
Implementation Completion Report on the Credit granted to the Republic of Montenegro for a
Second Structural Adjustment Credit.

                                                                                            Minister,
                                                                  Igor Luksic (Signature and stamp)
 ______________________________________________________________________________

Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/ Stakeholders

Not Available

Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

