                                                                                  37928
 Republicof Montenegro-Second StructuralAdjustment Credit (Credit No. 3983-YF)
                     Releaseof the Second TrancheFull Compliance

                                 TrancheReleaseDocument

1.      On September 16, 2004 the Board o f Executive Directors approved the Second
Structural Adjustment Credit for Serbia and Montenegro (Republic o f Montenegro) (SAC 2,
IDA Credit No. 3983-YF) in the amount of SDR 12.3 million (US$ 18 million equivalent).
The Credit, which was declared effective on January 27, 2005, has two equal tranches o f
SDR 6.15 million (US$9 million equivalent). The first tranche was disbursedon December
27, 2004. All conditions for the release o f the second tranche have been met. The closing
date for the Credit is September 30,2006.

2.      This memorandum summarizes the progress in the execution o f the reform program
andthe actions taken by the Government of the Republic of Montenegro to meetthe specific
conditions for the release o f the second tranche. The memorandum concludes that the
conditions for the release o f the second tranche have been met and satisfactory progress has
beenmade inthe policy areas mentioned inthe Letter o f Development Policy (LDP). Inlight
of this satisfactory performance, the Government o f the Republic o f Montenegro i s being
informed that the secondtranche o fthe Credit i s being released for disbursement.

                                     I. BACKGROUND

3.      On May 21, 2006, Montenegro held a national referendum in which 55.5 percent o f
the registered voters voted for independence. The referendumpaved the way for Montenegro
as a new independentstate, ending the loose federation with the Republic o f Serbia that had
been inplace since 2002. The Republic of Montenegro officially declared its independence
on June 3,2006.

4.      On July 17, 2006, the Government o f Montenegro submitted its application for
membership in IBRD, IDA, IFC, and MIGA. On July 19, 2006, the Bank country
management sought approval o f the Executive Directors for continued Bank Group activities
in Montenegro, pending the finalization of Montenegro's membership.               The Board
subsequently granted approval for the continuation o f Bank Group activities inMontenegro
during the interimperiod.

5.      The Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 2) has provided financial support to
the Government of the Republic of Montenegro's stabilization program, and helped
implementcritical structural reforms insupport oftransition, fiscal consolidation and growth.
The operation intended to achieve these objectives through specific reforms in (i)the
financial sector; (ii) energy sector; (iii) pension and health sectors; and, (iv) public
                      the                     the
administration.

                         11.     RECENT   ECONOMICPERFORMANCE

6.      The Republic of Montenegro inherited a legacy of four decades o f inefficient
economic management and institutional policies that stifled private sector-led growth. For

                                                         2


nearly a decade following the breakup o f the former Socialist Federal Republic o f
Yugoslavia, regional conflicts and international isolation crippled the economy and delayed
the start of the transitionto a market economy. Since 1997, however, Montenegro, with the
support o f the international community,'                   has been engaged in a long series o f
macroeconomic stabilization, and market-oriented structural reforms.

7.       With the implementation of currency and fiscal policy reforms, Montenegro has
succeeded to rein in inflation and bring about considerable macroeconomic stability. In
parallel, it also implemented a number o f structural reforms, including price and trade
liberalization, privatization, public administration reform, financial sector reform, pension
reform, and labor market and business environment reforms, which have supported modest
economic growth and transition. The government has recently updated its Economic Reform
Program for 2005-2007 to guide the implementation o f the remaining structural reforms.

8.       Recent macroeconomic developments have been favorable. Real economic
growth, although still sluggish, has steadily improved (from 2.3 percent in 2003 to 3.7
percent in2004 to an estimated 4 percent in2005). Inflation was reduced from 25 percent at
the end of 2000 to about 2.4 percent at the end of 2005, mainly due to the adoption of the
euro as sole legal tender ("euroization").             I t s principal human welfare indicators such as
poverty, life expectancy, and adult literacy have remained moderate and stable.

9.       Fiscal developments have been broadly favorable. Montenegro's consolidated
government budget deficit was reduced from about 5 percent of republican GDP in 2002 to
about 2 percent in 2005. The fiscal consolidation i s approximately equally split between
expenditure reducing and revenue increasing measures. The introduction of VAT in 2003
has supported a relatively high revenue-to-GDP ratio while reductions in transfers and
interest payments helpedlower public expenditures. Going forward, further cuts inthe wage
bill, transfers to households and public enterprises, and interest payments are needed to
reduce the remaining deficit and to create a fiscal room for increased public investment.

10.      The recorded current account deficit (before grants) has declinedfrom about 20
percent of GDP in 2002 to 11 percent in 2005 but it remains largeS2Montenegro's
merchandise exports are not diversified and remain largely dominated by the export o f
aluminum, which accounts for almost 50 percent o f merchandise exports. Imports remain
high at around 56 percent o f GDP in 2005. While it is not unusual for transition countries
such as Montenegro to run a high current account deficit to facilitate capital replacement,
there i s a need for Montenegro to adjust to a lower current account deficit especially inview
o f a continuing shift from grants to non-concessional loan financing. With regard to debt,
Montenegro's total public debt remains moderate at about 42 percent o f GDP, with foreign
debt accounting for about 33 percent of GDP.


' Main  donors in Montenegro include the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the
European Agency for Reconstruction (EAR), World Bank, and the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP).
 Montenegro's Balance of Paymentsdata are unreliable. For 2002-04, imports are probably overestimated since
a significant proportion is actually "exported" onwards to Serbia. Also some o f the financing items in the
capital account, such as the FDI data, may not be reliable.

                                               3


11.     Looking ahead, Montenegro faces the challenge of increasing growth within the
framework of "euroization". Sluggish growth and relatively highunemployment appear to
be symptomatic of inadequate structural flexibility in the economy, including in labor
market, business environment, and infrastructure.     Further structural reforms focused on
these areas will therefore be crucial to speeding up growth and reducing unemployment,
while further enhancing macroeconomic stability through a tighter and sustainable fiscal
policy. The Bank programs continue to support these goals.

               111.    PROGRESS INIMPLEMENTING THE REFORMPROGRAM

12.     In 2003, the Government of the Republic of Montenegro formally adopted its
Economic Reform Agenda (ERA) covering the period 2003-2007, and a Poverty Reduction
Strategy (PRSP) aimed at reducing poverty. The ERA established a broad strategic vision o f
a liberalized, market-based economy, on which subsequent economic reforms have been
based. The ERA has recently been updated to guide the economic reform program for the
period2005-2007.

13.     The Government o fthe Republic of Montenegrohas achieved satisfactory progress in
carrying out structural reforms under its past and current development lending operations,
SAC 1and SAC 2. Under SAC 1, the Government implementeda reform program covering
reforms in(i) public expenditure management; (ii)   pensions; (iii) energy sector; (iv) labor
                                                                  the
markets; and (v) the business environment. The enactment o f a law on pension disability
insurance adjusted key parameters o f the pension system to better align entitlements to
available resources. The revised labor law significantly increased labor market flexibility.
The enactment of new enterprise, bankruptcy, and secured transaction laws created a more
favorable business environment. The enactment of a new energy law provided a basis for the
development o f a regulatory framework, together with energy industry restructuring and
liberalization.

14.     SAC 2 built on and consolidated a number o f reforms supported under SAC 1 as well
as programs supported by other donors. The operation covered four broad policy areas: (i)
consolidating reforms in the financial sector; (ii)implementing the restructuring o f the
energy sector; (iii)continuing the implementation o f pension reforms and initiating deeper
health sector reforms;     and (iv)strengthening the transparency,       accountability, and
effectiveness o f public administration. The financial sector reforms helped promote growth
through increased (and increasingly efficient) financial intermediation. Pension, health and
public administrationreform primarily supported fiscal consolidation. Energy sector reforms
supported both growth and fiscal consolidation by overcoming episodes o f supply shortfall
and ensuringthe financial self-sufficiency o f energyutilities.

             IV.    PROGRESS   AGAINSTSECOND TRANCHE          RELEASE CRITERIA

15.     The Government has maintained a satisfactory macroeconomic policy framework as
agreed with the Bank and the IMF. The IMF had a single program for Serbia and
Montenegro, but program performance has been separately monitored for each republic, the
Republic o f Serbia and the Republic o f Montenegro. The IMF successfully concluded the
Sixth and final review o f the extended three year facility (2002-2006) for Serbia and

                                                  4


 Montenegro inFebruary 2006. The most recent IMF mission to the Republic o f Montenegro
 inJune 2006 concluded that the macroeconomic program is broadly on track.3 As outlined
 above, the macroeconomic environment o f Montenegro remains stable, with declining fiscal
 deficits, low and stable inflation (2-3 percent), and steadily improving growth.

  16.     Progress against specific secondtranche release criteria as set out inSchedule 2 o f the
 Development Credit Agreement i s described below:

          Condition 1. A newly established Government o f Montenegro agency or department
          of the Ministry o f Finance has contracted out the management and disposition of, or
          otherwise sold by public auction, the unimpaired assets transferred from the Central
          Bank o f Montenegro to the Government o f Montenegro, all under terms and
          conditions and inaccordance withprocedures satisfactory to the Association.

  17.     This condition has been met. An asset management unit was established at the
 Montenegrin Ministry of Finance (MOF) in2004 inaccordance with procedures satisfactory
 to the Association.     Since 2004, the unit has recovered about euros 8 million (euros 4.1
 million in 2004, 2 million in2005, and 2 million in 2006) or about % percent o f GDP. The
 unit is working to ensure further asset recovery through organizing auctions of loans and
 equities, and real estate properties.

          Condition 2.       Following the implementation by Podgoricka Banka o f pre-
          privatization measures and a restructuring o f the Podgoricka Banka Board o f
          Directors, all shares in Podgoricka Banka directly owned by the Government o f
          Montenegro have been offered for cash sale through an international tender, in
          accordance with best international practices, and under terms and conditions and in
          accordancewithprocedures satisfactory to the Association.

  18.     This condition has been met. Preparation for the sale of Podgoricka Banka (PB)
 started in September 2004. Following a competitive selection procedure, an international
privatization advisor was engaged by end-January 2005 to assist the authorities putting upthe
bank for sale. Due diligence was completed by the end o f the first quarter of 2005, reflecting
the audit results for 2004. The bank was offered for sale through international tender on June
24, 2005. The tender closed by September 30, 2005, after which France's Societe Generale
bought the majority share inPodgoricka Banka for euros 14.2 million.

          Condition 3. The Financial Intelligence Unit has applied for membership in the
          Egmont group and the Government o f Montenegro has submitted to the Association
          satisfactory evidence that the FIUhas begun to perform functions incompliance with
          the Egmont group definition o f a Financial Intelligence Unit and in a manner
          satisfactory to the Association.

  19.     This condition has been met. An anti-money laundering law was adopted in2004.
The Montenegrin Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) submitted application for membership to


~~       ~




   Montenegro applied for membership in the IMF in July 2006, and membership decisions are under
consideration, A successiveIMFprogram couldbe defined after membership decisionsare made.

                                                       5


the Egmont Group in February 2005. The application was considered during the Egmont
Group's June 2005 annual meeting, and Montenegro became the member o f the Egmont
Group in Washington on June 29, 2005. In addition, the Montenegrin Government made
amendments to the anti-money laundering law to include prevention o f financing o f terrorist
activities, which were subsequently endorsed by the Montenegrin Parliament. Membership
intheEgmont Group includes exchange ofconfidentialinformationonmoney laundering.

         Condition4. A restructuring planfor the Electric Power Company ofMontenegro
         (EPCG) has been implemented, ina manner satisfactory to the Association.

20.      This condition has been met. The decision to functionally unbundle EPCG was
made by the EPCG Board in December 2004. Since then, the functional unbundling of
EPCG's generation, transmission, distribution and supply businesses have moved forward.
The different businesses have been established as cost centers, and a decentralized
management structure has beenput inplace. Currently, EPCG i s working on the drafting of
unit level business plans, rationalizing functions within cost centers, and upgrading
employees' skills. A system o f transfer pricing i s being put in place, which will facilitate
accounting separation from the year 2007 onwards. Going forward, it i s intended that the
EPCG businesses will be legally separated (Le., established as subsidiaries within a holding
company structure) by 2007 at the latest.

         Condition5. The Podgorica Aluminum Plant (KAP) and EPCGhave signed a multi-
         year power purchase agreement which provides for a phased tariff increase in the
         mediumterm, andwhich is satisfactory to the Association.

21.      This condition has been met. The Government of the Republic of Montenegro and
IDA agreed atarget power purchaseprice, which was defined inthe PrivatizationStrategy of
KAP. Potential bidders for KAP were advised to use the target price as a minimum.Requests
for expressions o f interest inKAP were issued in2004. Negotiations betweenthe prospective
owner o f KAP and the Government o f Montenegro were completed in December 2005. In
September 2006, KAP and EPCG signed a multi-year Power Purchase Agreement covering
2006-2010. According to this Agreement, KAP pays 20.44 /MWh for a maximum o f
1,204,762 MWh power supplied (which represents about 2/3 o f the power needs o f KAP) in
2006. However, from 2007 onwards power price will be determined by the LME formula4
that depends on international prices and the DollarEuro exchange rate. In2009 and 2010, the
quantity o f electricity which EPCG delivers to KAP will be reduced to 903,570 MWh and
601,555 MWh, respectively. The LME formula pricing will also be adjusted for the changes
inthe price index ofpower energy on Leipzig Stock Exchange duringJanuary 2006-January
2009, thereby allowing for a phasedelectricity tariff increase over the mediumterm.




4The formula is as follows: PE= PC + ((LME-1550)*0.024)(middle exchange rate USD), where PC= USD
24.39 per M W h converted into euros at the middle exchange rate from the quotation list o f the European
Central Bank on the invoice day. Ifthe calculation is lower than EUR 20.44, the floor price of EUR20.44 shall
be applied; LME=average primary aluminum price at the London Metal Exchange inthe month for which the
invoice is submitted for supplied power; and the middle exchange rate is based on the quotation list o f the
European Central Bank on the invoice day.

                                                 6


         Condition 6. The Republic of Montenegro has enacted a law on consolidated
         reporting and control o f social security contributions, personal income tax and surtax,
         satisfactory to the Association.

22.      This condition has been met. The law on consolidated reporting and control o f
social security contributions, personal income tax and surtax was approved by the
Government, and subsequently enacted by the Montenegrin Parliament in May 2005. The
law harmonizes provisions on social security contribution control and collection, currently
scattered inseveral pieces o f legislation. The implementation o f the law i s scheduledto start
in2006.

         Condition 7. The Republic of Montenegro has enacted a law on medicinal products,
         satisfactory to the Association.

23.      This conditionhas beenmet. The Law on MedicinalProducts andMedical Devices
was enacted on December 14, 2004.             The Law brings Montenegro's pharmaceutical
regulation into line with international practice and EU requirements. Prior to its enactment,
three amendments were presentedto the Law with respect to the use o f languages o f ethnic
minorities for medicines labeling.

         Condition 8. The Government of Montenegro has adopted an implementation plan
         related to the Law on Medicinal Products, Law on State Administration, Public
         Procurement Law, Health Care Law, and Health Insurance Law, and other related
         laws, covering changes required in the organization and operation o f the Ministry of
         Health, Montefarm, and the Medicines Agency within the Ministry o f Health,
         satisfactory to the Association.

24.      This condition has been met. The Ministryof Health (MOH) took a leading role in
drafting the Implementation Plan. All laws were examined, and most recent reforms inthe
health sector involving functional or organizational changes in the MOH, Montefarm (the
government pharmaceutical agency) and the Medicines Agency were consolidated into the
Implementation Plan. A draft Implementation Plan, which consisted o f a schedule for
developing by-laws and regulations as well as obtaining facilities, staff, and budget for the
proposed new Medicines Agency, was prepared by the Ministry o f Health in April 2005.
The Parliament of Montenegro subsequently adopted the Plan on October 5,2005. The plan
i s satisfactory to IDA, and its implementationwill be facilitated by the IDA-supportedHealth
Project inMontenegro.

         Condition 9. The Republic of Montenegro has adopted the Budget Law for 2005
         which ensures adequate budgetary transfers to the health and pension systems, and
         has adopted an indicative three year fiscal framework, all satisfactory to the
         Association.

25.      This condition hasbeenmet. In2004, state budget transfers to the HealthInsurance
Fund (HIF) and the Pensions Fund (PIO) amounted to euros 1.72 million and euros 37.72
million, respectively. These transfers were inadequate. In2005, with the support o f SAC 2,
the Budget Law planned to transfer to the Health Insurance Fund(HIF) and Pensions Fund

                                                 7


(PIO) euros 7.23 million, and euros 61 million respectively-a significant increase relative to
2004. The execution o f the 2005 Budget has resulted in the actual transfer o f euros 6.5
million to the HIF and euros 44.4 million to the Pensions Fund. These were adequate
budgetary allocations.

        Condition 10. A new salary system for civil service has been introduced with the
        2005 Republic o f Montenegro Budget, which has increased the base pay to real pay
        ratio to at least 80 percent and provides for an effective de-compression o f salaries in
        the core civil service, andis satisfactory to the Association.

26.     This condition has been met. The implementation of the new Law on Salaries o f
Civil Servants and Employees was introduced with the 2005 Republican budget.                The
implementation o f the Law has been linked to the implementation o f the Law on Civil
Servants and Employees, which required that new ranking structure be introduced in
Ministries and agencies (called "systematization").     Most Ministries and agencies have had
their new Systematization Acts adopted and approved by the Government.                With the
exception o f the Ministry o f Interior, Ministryo f Economy, and Ministry o f Culture, all other
ministries and agencies have implemented the new Law on Salaries.             The Ministry o f
Interior, in accordance with the Law on Civil Servants and Employees, i s creating a special
civil service ranking structure at present, which upon completion would be followed by
implementationo f the new Law on Salaries, as prescribed by the Article 9, paragraph 2 o f the
Law on Salaries. The Government remains committed to full implementation o f the new
Salary Law in all ministries and agencies with the 2006 budget. The 2005 budget has also
satisfactorily increasedthe base pay to real pay ratio to 90 percent, beyondthe program target
of 80 percent.

        Condition 11. The Republic of Montenegro Civil Service Agency (CSA) has been
        established and staffed, competencies o f the CSA in relation to other ministries and
        agencies o f the Government of Montenegro have been clearly defined and a human
        resources management system has become operational, all o f the above actions being
        satisfactory to the Association.

27.     This condition has been met. The Government created a Civil Service Agency
(CSA) in September 2004 to strengthen the reform management and create specialized
expertise. The CSA, reporting to the Ministry o f Justice, i s responsible for human resource
management and development. After initial difficulties getting started, the CSA i s now
effectively performing its duties o f managing recruitment into the civil service and
coordinatingtraining o f civil servants-activities   which were done ina decentralized manner
previously. The Agency has been satisfactorily staffed. Competencies o f the CSA inrelation
to other ministries and agencies have beenclearly defined and the horizontal humanresource
management system i s now fully operational.

                                       V.     CONCLUSION

28.     In view of the overall performance and progress with the implementation of the
program supported by the Credit, and incompliance with the specific conditions of release as

                                              8


described in paragraphs 15-27 above, the Association has informed the Borrower of the
availability o f the second tranche inthe amount o f SDR 6.15 million.

