Page  1
30904 
UPDATED PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT 
 
C
ountry Name: Serbia and Montenegro (SaM) 
Project Name: Montenegro
—Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 2) 
Region: Europe and Central Asia 
Sector: Economic Management 
Project ID: PE-P074908 
Borrower: Government of Serbia and Montenegro 
Implementing Agency: Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Montenegro 
Environment Category: C 
Date This PID Prepared: November 2004 
Projected Appraisal Date: March 2004 
Projected Board Date: September 2004 
 
Country Background 
1. Under the present federal structure of SaM, the two constituent republics—the Republic of Serbia and 
the Republic of Montenegro—are macroeconomically autonomous and are responsible for nearly all 
aspects of economic policy. The proposed operation will focus on Montenegro, the smaller of the two 
republics. 
 
2. The 1990s was a lost decade for SaM. Although the country started the period relatively well integrated 
with the world economy and with higher standards of living than most other transition economies, the SaM 
economy was devastated as a result of armed conflicts, international sanctions, and trade shocks stemming 
from the break-up of the SFRY during the 1990s. 
 
3. By the time of the Federal elections and Serbian parliamentary elections in the last quarter of 2000, 
which brought to office reform-oriented governments with a mandate to bring greater democracy, 
modernization and integration with the international economy, Montenegro had already made significant 
progress in stabilizing the economy and implementing a reform program. In November 1999 the 
Montenegrin Government declared the German mark (DM) an official parallel currency. One year later the 
new Central Bank of Montenegro (CBM) declared the DM the sole legal tender in the republic. During 
1999 and 2000, the Government of Montenegro financed its budget deficit with substantial foreign grants. 
 
4. The Montenegrin Government has made significant progress in structural reforms since 1998. 
Montenegro had gradually obtained de facto autonomy in foreign trade, adopted its own customs 
administration and established a liberal trade regime. By mid-2000, the Government of Montenegro 
reduced the average tariff to about 3 percent. The Montenegrin Government has also liberalized prices; 
undertaken a mass privatization program; restructured and privatized nearly all commercial banks; and 
enhanced the transparency and management of public expenditure. 
 
5. Montenegro’s stabilization efforts succeeded in laying the foundation for economic recovery by 
curtailing inflation which fell to 25 percent in 2000 from 128 percent in 1999 (and well below the 115 
percent recorded in Serbia in 2000). By 2002, inflation in Montenegro had fallen to single digits. Real GDP 
rebounded from the steep 9 percent decline in 1999 (which reflected the impact of the Kosovo conflict), 
growing by 4 percent in 2000. 
 
6. Nevertheless, subsequent economic performance has been disappointing. While most macroeconomic 
statistics in Montenegro are either not available or are unreliable, available estimates indicate that GDP 
growth has been modest in the past 3 years, unemployment has remained high, and job creation has been 
negligible. In addition, external and fiscal imbalances have remained unsustainably large. 
 
7. While transition reforms have progressed, they are incomplete, were not always planned in an integrated 
fashion and were introduced with inadequate attention to implementation capacity. The size and scope of 
Government intervention in the economy remains large and the capacity of public sector institutions to 
Page  2
implement reforms remains weak. The reform effort of recent years has improved governance, public 
s
ector transparency and financial discipline, but more needs to be done in each of these areas. One of the 
key challenges the Government now faces is building strong institutions with the capacity and incentives to 
carry out the recently adopted formal elements of reform. 
 
8. The authorities realize the significance of the satisfactory progress in these policy areas for placing the 
country on a sustainable growth path and are determined to collaborate with international financial 
institutions towards successful implementation of their reform agenda. To this end, the Government in 
cooperation with the IMF and the World Bank has formulated a medium-term stabilization and reform 
program for 2002-05, which has been supported by a three-year Extended Arrangement approved in May 
2002. Attaining sustainable growth and improved living standards, low inflation, and a viable external 
position constitute the main objectives of the program. As was envisioned in the Transitional Support 
Strategy agreed with the Government, the proposed operation will focus on key medium-term structural 
and institutional reforms and complement the macroeconomic program supported by the IMF. 
 
Objectives 
9. This operation aims to assist the Government of Montenegro to undertake key structural reforms to 
promote growth and to support further fiscal consolidation. 
 
Description 
10. The program to be supported by the proposed operation intends to achieve these objectives through 
specific reforms in the areas of: (i) the financial sector; (ii) the energy sector; (iii) pension and health; and 
(iv) public administration.  The SAC 2 program will build on reforms supported by the first Structural 
Adjustment Credit. The financial sector reforms would help to promote growth through increased (and 
increasingly efficient) financial intermediation. Pension, health and public administration reform would 
ultimately support ongoing fiscal consolidation. Energy sector reforms would support both growth and 
fiscal consolidation by overcoming episodes of supply shortfall and ensuring the financial self-sufficiency 
of energy utilities. Increased institutional transparency and accountability and increased focus on 
implementation capacity are themes thread through each of the five policy areas. SAC 2 will also provide 
crucial financing to help close Montenegro’s budgetary gap in a sustainable fashion. 
 
Financing 
11. It is anticipated that the operation will be in the amount of around US$18 million equivalent disbursed 
in two equal tranches. 
 
Implementation 
12. As a result of the highly devolved nature of SaM and the different starting points and pace of reforms in 
the two constituent republics, the proposed operation will focus on the Republic of Montenegro. The 
Ministry of Finance of Montenegro will serve as the main Government counterpart which will ensure the 
overall coordination among several other agencies involved in the program: the Ministry of Labor and 
Social Affairs, the Pension Fund, the Ministry of Economy, the Electric Power Company of Montenegro 
(EPCG), the Ministry of Health, and the Health Insurance Fund. Reforms to be supported under the Bank 
operation will be implemented through a variety of mechanisms, including inter-agency working groups. 
Bank experts will assist the relevant officials and working groups. 
 
Sustainability 
13. Key to the sustainability of the proposed operation will be strong progress on the overall structural 
reform agenda and maintenance of macroeconomic stability. Both of these are supported under the 
proposed operation. 
 
Poverty Category 
14. The operation will support immediate and longer-term poverty reduction through its support for 
macroeconomic stability which will reduce the risk of shocks which could adversely affect the living 
standards of the poor and through its support for economic growth. 
Page  3
Environmental Aspects 
15. The Loan focuses primarily on promoting sustainable economic growth and no environmental issues 
a
re foreseen.  In accordance with the Bank’s operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 
8.60), no environmental category rating is required. 
 
Contact Point
:
Bruce Courtney 
Program Team Leader 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
Washington, DC 20433 
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5242 
Fax No.: (202) 614-7776 
 
