Page  1
27573 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT 
 
Country Name: 
Serbia and Montenegro (SaM) 
 
Project Name: 
Montenegro—Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 2) 
 
Region: 
Europe and Central Asia 
 Sector: 
Economic 
Management 
 Project 
ID: 
PE-P074908 
 
Borrower: 
Government of Serbia and Montenegro 
 
Implementing Agency: 
Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Montenegro  
 Environment 
Category: 
C 
 
Date This PID Prepared: 
December 2003 
 
Projected Appraisal Date: 
March 2004 
 
Projected Board Date: 
May 2004 
 
Country Background
 
 
1. 
Under the present federal structure of SaM, the two constituent republics—the Republic 
of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro—are macroeconomically autonomous and are 
responsible for nearly all aspects of economic policy.  The proposed operation will focus on 
Montenegro, the smaller of the two republics. 
 
2. 
The 1990s was a lost decade for SaM.  Although the country started the period relatively well 
integrated with the world economy and with higher standards of living than most other transition 
economies, the SaM economy was devastated as a result of armed conflicts, international sanctions, and 
trade shocks stemming from the break-up of the SFRY during the 1990s.   
 
3. 
By the time of the Federal elections and Serbian parliamentary elections in the last quarter of 
2000, which brought to office reform-oriented governments with a mandate to bring greater democracy, 
modernization and integration with the international economy, Montenegro had already made significant 
progress in stabilizing the economy and implementing a reform program.  In November 1999 the 
Montenegrin Government declared the German mark (DM) an official parallel currency.  One year later the 
new Central Bank of Montenegro (CBM) declared the DM the sole legal tender in the republic.   During 
1999 and 2000, the Government of Montenegro financed its budget deficit with substantial foreign grants. 
 
4. 
 The Montenegrin Government has made significant progress in structural reforms since 
1998.  Montenegro had gradually obtained de facto autonomy in foreign trade, adopted its own 
customs administration and established a liberal trade regime.  By mid-2000, the Government of 
Montenegro reduced the average tariff to about 3 percent.  The Montenegrin Government has also 
liberalized prices; undertaken a mass privatization program; restructured and privatized nearly all 
commercial banks; and enhanced the transparency and management of public expenditure.   
 
5. 
Montenegro’s stabilization efforts succeeded in laying the foundation for economic 
recovery by curtailing inflation which fell to 25 percent in 2000 from 128 percent in 1999 (and 
well below the 115 percent recorded in Serbia in 2000).  By 2002, inflation in Montenegro had 
fallen to single digits.  Real GDP rebounded from the steep 9 percent decline in 1999 (which 
reflected the impact of the Kosovo conflict), growing by 4 percent in 2000. 
 
6. 
Nevertheless, subsequent economic performance has been disappointing.  While most 
macroeconomic statistics in Montenegro are either not available or are unreliable, available estimates 
indicate that GDP growth has been modest in the past 3 years, unemployment has remained high, and job 
Page  2
creation has been negligible.  In addition, external and fiscal imbalances have remained unsustainably 
large. 
 
7. 
While transition reforms have progressed, they are incomplete, were not always planned in an 
integrated fashion and were introduced with inadequate attention to implementation capacity.  The size and 
scope of Government intervention in the economy remains large and the capacity of public sector 
institutions to implement reforms remains weak.  The reform effort of recent years has improved 
governance, public sector transparency and financial discipline, but more needs to be done in each of these 
areas.  One of the key challenges the Government now faces is building strong institutions with the 
capacity and incentives to carry out the recently adopted formal elements of reform. 
 
8. 
The authorities realize the significance of the satisfactory progress in these policy areas for placing 
the country on a sustainable growth path and are determined to collaborate with international financial 
institutions towards successful implementation of their reform agenda.  To this end, the Government in 
cooperation with the IMF and the World Bank has formulated a medium-term stabilization and reform 
program for 2002-05, which has been supported by a three-year Extended Arrangement approved in May 
2002.  Attaining sustainable growth and improved living standards, low inflation, and a viable external 
position constitute the main objectives of the program.  As was envisioned in the Transitional Support 
Strategy agreed with the Government, the proposed operation will focus on key medium-term structural 
and institutional reforms and complement the macroeconomic program supported by the IMF. 
 
Objectives 
 
9. 
This operation aims to assist the Government of Montenegro to undertake key structural reforms 
to promote growth and to support further fiscal consolidation. 
 
Description 
10. 
To achieve these objectives, the proposed operation aims to build on and consolidate a 
number of reforms supported under SAC 1.  The proposed operation also aims to support initial 
reforms in the health sector and public administration.  More specifically, the operation proposes 
to cover five policy areas: (i) consolidating reforms in the financial sector; (ii) implementing the 
restructuring of the energy sector; (iii) continuing the implementation of pension reforms; (iv) 
initiating health sector reforms; and (v) strengthening the transparency, accountability, and 
effectiveness of public administration. The financial sector reforms would help to promote 
growth through increased (and increasingly efficient) financial intermediation.  Pension, health 
and public administration reform would ultimately support ongoing fiscal consolidation. Energy 
sector reforms would support both growth and fiscal consolidation by overcoming episodes of 
supply shortfall and ensuring the financial self-sufficiency of energy util
ities.  Increased 
institutional transparency and accountability and increased focus on implementation capacity are 
themes thread through each of the five policy areas. 
 
Financing 
11. 
It is anticipated that the operation will be in the amount of around US$19 million 
disbursed in two equal tranches. 
Implementation
 
12. 
As a result of the highly devolved nature of SaM and the different starting points and 
pace of reforms in the two constituent republics, the proposed operation will focus on the 
Republic of Montenegro.  The Ministry of Finance of Montenegro will serve as the main 
Government counterpart which will ensure the overall coordination among several other agencies 
Page  3
involved in the program: the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, the Pension Fund, the Ministry 
of Economy, the Electric Power Company of Montenegro (EPCG), the Ministry of Health, and 
the Health Insurance Fund.  Reforms to be supported under the Bank operation will be 
implemented through a variety of mechanisms, including inter-agency working groups. Bank 
experts will assist the relevant officials and working groups. 
Sustainability 
13. 
Key to the sustainability of the proposed operation will be strong progress on the overall 
structural reform agenda and maintenance of macroeconomic stability.  Both of these are 
supported under the proposed operation. 
Poverty Category 
14. 
The operation will support immediate and longer-term poverty reduction through its 
support for macroeconomic stability which will reduce the risk of shocks which could adversely 
affect the living standards of the poor and through its support for economic growth. 
Environmental Aspects 
15. 
The Loan would have no direct impact on the environment and (in line with operational 
OD4.02 and 8.60) has been placed in category C, which does not require an environmental 
assessment. 
 
Contact Point
: 
   Bruce Courtney 
   Program Team Leader 
      
   The World Bank 
   1818 
H 
Street 
N.W. 
   Washington, 
DC 
20433 
   Telephone 
No.: 
(202) 
458-5242 
   Fax 
No.: 
(202) 
614-7776
 
