                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 36288-ML

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-40440)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$16.5 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                          REPUBLIC OF MALI

                                                 FOR A

                      FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC IV)




                                             August 16, 2006




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4
Country Department 15
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective June 7, 2006)

                                   Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                                       CFAF 511 = US$ 1
                                             US$ 1 = CFAF 511

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1       December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAISFF  Support Unit for Computerization of Government Fiscal and Financial Depts. (Cellule d'Appui à
        l'Informatisation des Services Fiscaux et Financiers)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CGSP    General Control of Public Services (Contrôle Général des Services Publics)
CMDT    Mali's Cotton Ginning Company (Compagnie Malienne pour le Développement des Textiles)
DNCF    Financial Control Department (Direction Nationale du Contrôle Financier)
DNB     Budget Department (Direction Nationale du Budget)
DNTCP   Treasury and Public Accounting Dept. (Direction Nationale du Trésor et de la Comptabilité Publique)
EPPFMC  Economic Policy and Public Finance Management Credit
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
HUICOMA Mali's Commercial Vegetable Oil Company (Huilerie Commerciale du Mali)
IAS     International Accounting Standards
IMF     International Monetary Fund
INPS    Social Security Agency (Institut National pour la Prévoyance Sociale)
MEF     Ministry of Economy and Finance
MRSC    Cotton Sector Restructuring Department (Mission de Restructuration du Secteur Coton)
MTBF    Medium-term Budget Framework (at overall government level)
MTEF    Medium-term Expenditure Framework (at sector level)
ON      Niger River Irrigation Office (Office du Niger)
PAG     Governmental Action Plan to Modernize and Strengthen Public Finance Management
PASAOP  Assistance Program for the Agricultural Services and the Producer Organizations (Programme
        d'Appui aux Services Agricoles et aux Organisations Paysannes)
PDI     Institutional Development Program
PRGF    Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRODEC  Ten-year Educational Program (Programme Décennal d'Education)
PRODESS Ten-year Health and Social Program (Programme Décennal de la Santé et Program Social)
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
ROC     Regional Operations Committee
SAC IV  Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit
SOE     State-Owned Enterprise
TA      Technical Assistance




                                 Vice President:         Gobind T. Nankani
                              Country Director:          Nils O. Tcheyan
                               Sector Manager:           Robert R. Blake
                            Task Team Leader:            Christina A. Wood

                                             MALI
          MALI: FOURTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC IV)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Borrower Assessment of SAC IV Implementation Completion                 31

Project ID: P083272                                                  Project Name: MALI: SAC IV
Team Leader: Christina A. Wood                                       TL Unit: AFTP4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: August 16, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: MALI: SAC IV                                             L/C/TF Number: IDA-40440
   Country/Department: MALI                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (65%); Agro-industry (12%); General finance sector
                            (12%); Law and justice (7%); Irrigation and drainage (4%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P); Macroeconomic management
                            (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (S); Regulation and competition
                            policy (S); Decentralization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/18/2004                                     Effective: 05/12/2005                05/12/2005
     Appraisal: 02/10/2005                                         MTR:
      Approval: 03/22/2005                                      Closing: 01/16/2006                 01/16/2006



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF MALI/MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:               Nils O. Tcheyan                                A. David Craig
Sector Manager:                 Robert R. Blake                                Robert R. Blake
Team Leader at ICR:             Christina A. Wood                              Zeljko Bogetic
ICR Primary Author:             Sati Achath


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC IV) supported the authorities' objectives and policies
elaborated in the 2002 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and the Bank's 2003 Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS). The PRSP was endorsed by the Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) boards
and was supported by the donors. Its strategy rested on: (i) accelerating shared, private-sector led growth;
(ii) strengthening institutions, governance and participation; (iii) developing human resources and access to
basic services; and (iv) strengthening basic infrastructure and productive economic activities. The project
expounded mainly on the first two pillars of the PRSP. Also, by helping promote growth and strengthen
expenditure execution, it supported poverty reduction and social objectives.

The key instruments of the CAS included: (i) support via Structural Adjustment Credits (SAC); (ii)
community driven development operations supporting productive sectors and fight against HIV/AIDS; and
(iii) traditional investment operations targeting specific needs in transport and private sector development to
enhance the competitiveness of Mali's economy. The Mali SAC IV, therefore, represented a central
instrument of the on-going CAS to support the macroeconomic stability and public sector management.

Specifically, the SAC IV in support of the authorities' reforms aimed at:

(i) contributing to broad-based growth and poverty reduction by strengthening fiscal policy and
financial sector underpinnings of stable, long-run growth. Fiscal policy would be strengthened, inter
alia, by developing medium-term expenditure policy consistent with poverty reduction objectives;
strengthening the link between the PRSP and the budget; and limiting budget transfers to parastatal
enterprises (e.g., cotton company). Financial sector reform would be advanced by taking steps towards
strengthening of the financial system (e.g., preparing the ground for the clean up of bad loans) and limiting
the risk of bank insolvency. This was expected to result in greater access to credit and broader financing
alternatives to Malian entrepreneurs and farmers thereby promoting financial deepening and economic
growth.

(ii) improving efficiency, accountability, and transparency in public expenditure management. This
would be achieved by strengthening budget preparation, execution, and controls, increasing transparency
and disclosure including at decentralized levels, and helping ensure better monitoring of and access to basic
services by the poor.

The objectives were clear, important to the country's economic and social development, and realistic in
scale and scope. They were also timely and appropriate to the needs of the Borrower. The project was
fairly straight forward, and the activities and their projected execution were clearly defined.

The project took into account the following lessons learned from the SAC III for the Bank's future
adjustment operations:

     ·    In countries with weak institutional and administrative capacity, development policy operations
          focusing on a limited structural reform agenda are more likely to succeed than ambitious or
          complex operations;
     ·    Restructuring and/or privatization of State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) should be planned over the
          medium term rather than short-term periods; the focus should be on best practice in privatization;



                                                       - 2 -

         and single adjustment operations may not be the best way of achieving specific privatization
         objectives;
     ·   Effective coordination with the IMF and other donors is critical; and
     ·   Ensuring that key implementing institutions have adequate resources is important for
         implementation.

The SAC IV was built directly on these lessons by focusing on: (i) selective and limited agenda; (ii)
one-tranche design of the operation and emphasis on actions before disbursements; (iii) coordination with
the IMF; and (iv) coordination with other technical assistance (TA) operations (e.g., financial sector
project) designed to build capacity.

As explained in Section 5, the project was demanding for both the Borrower and the Bank, because of two
main challenges. First, there were difficulties and/or friction involved in the dialogue between the Borrower
and the Bank on the cotton price mechanism--for the Government especially, it was politically a very
sensitive issue in the context of presidential election scheduled for 2007. Second, there was a deterioration
of international cotton price, against the backdrop of the high price of cotton set through the old price
setting mechanism, which resulted in increasing the Government budget deficit. These two challenges
slowed the momentum of the SAC IV.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

In support of the authorities' reforms, the SAC IV had the following two components:

Component 1: Strengthening fiscal policy and financial sector underpinnings of stable, broad-based
                 growth and poverty reduction.

A. Fiscal policy.

(a) Improving the Alignment between the PRSP, the Medium-term Expenditure Framework (MTEF),
the Macroeconomic Framework, and the Annual Budget.

A tight link would be established between the PRSP and the budget and, in particular, through the
alignment with the financial envelopes set in the MTEF. As a first step, the Government had prepared in
September 2004, a report that analyzed the sectoral allocations for the 2005 budget according to the
priorities established in the PRSP. In spite of a slight decrease in the proportions of total budgetary
resources allocated to health and education, the 2005 budget ensured the coverage of the updated needs of
the education and health sectors specified for 2005 in their respective sector MTEFs.

(b) Strengthening the overall fiscal discipline.

A clear and transparent transitional mechanism would be developed en route towards a sustainable phase
out of budget support for loss-making parastatal enterprises (e.g, cotton company). In this context, the
operation would support implementation of the producer price-setting mechanism developed under the SAC
III. SAC IV would build on the SAC III reform agenda and the on-going agriculture investment project
(Agriculture Services and Producer Organizations Project-PASAOP) to begin to address these fiscal
implications of the cotton sector reform, but would leave much of the capacity building and related



                                                      - 3 -

activities to a parallel Agricultural Competitiveness and Diversification Project. Finally, budget arrears to
the social security fund (estimated at CFAF 10 billion, about 0.4 percent of GDP) would need to be
gradually cleared with assurances that new arrears would be prevented. These twin pillars would help
strengthen fiscal policy underpinnings of growth and poverty reduction.

B. Financial Sector.

Because of the short time frame of its implementation, SAC IV covered only the first steps of a broader,
medium-term effort, which included: (i) completing the clean up of bank portfolios and the completion of
bank privatization; (ii) fully restructuring the insurance sector; (iii) strengthening micro-finance industry;
and (iv) reforming the pension system. These first steps were: (i) the audits (according to International
Accounting Standards­­IAS) of bad loans of commercial banks; (ii) the elimination of discriminatory tax
treatment of the leasing industry; (iii) the implementation of the domiciliation of insurance companies'
premiums; and (iv) the audit of the Government's arrears to Social Security Agency (Institut National pour
la Prévoyance Sociale- INPS).

Component 2: Strengthening public expenditure management, transparency and controls.

This component sought to formulate and agree on measures to improve the practice of public accounting,
budget execution and monitoring, strengthen controls, and, particularly important, increase transparency of
expenditure transactions, thereby limiting opportunities for corruption and leakages. The operation
supported needed improvements in key aspects of public expenditure management, which had been well
documented (Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), SAC III, and the other donors'
diagnoses). Measures included: (i) strengthening of an interconnected information system at the central
level and setting up an integrated information system at de-concentrated levels; (ii) improving budget
reporting; (iii) setting goals and benchmarks for information interconnectivity between central and
de-concentrated levels of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) and between the MEF and other
ministries; and (iv) raising disclosure requirements at decentralized levels for the 2005 budget in order to
improve transparency and accountability of expenditure allocation and execution at the point of service
delivery.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The project's overall quality at entry received a `Satisfactory' rating from the Quality Assurance Group
(QAG). All aspects were rated as Satisfactory, except the Structural, Financial and Macroeconomic
aspects which were rated Marginally Satisfactory.

QAG remarked that:

         "The Bank faced the difficult challenge of supporting a country whose macroeconomic
         management has been reasonable, and whose management of public resources has been on the
         whole sound, without a sufficient body of economic analysis to draw on. The panel found that the
         Bank's and the task team's response to this challenge was reasonable. The operation succeeded in
         supporting actions that will cause no harm, while maintaining incentives for actions that may have
         a positive efficiency impact--even if the relationship between efficiency and growth is unclear and
         tentative. Since what is being rated here is the operation, and not the country assistance strategy



                                                     - 4 -

        nor the body of AAA underlying it, the panel decided to rate this operation Satisfactory.

        "Mali faces tremendous development challenges: (a) concentration of exports in just three
        commodities (gold, cotton and livestock); (b) an agriculture vulnerable to rainfall and weather
        related shocks; and, (c) its landlocked state entailing dependence on the political stability of its
        neighbors. The country's per capita income is less than half Sub-Saharan Africa's average and
        about 60 percent of the population lives below the poverty line. In this context, rapid and sustained
        growth is obviously essential for attaining Mali's development objectives. Political and social
        stability in the country, and the positive effects of the 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc helped
        accelerate growth to 3 percent in per capita terms. In assessing the Mali Fourth Structural
        Adjustment Credit, the panel was therefore particularly interested in understanding the exact
        reasons that made this growth possible, assessing its sustainability' and, equally important,
        understanding the growth strategy the Bank sought to support for the country.

        "After reviewing the explanation provided by the task team about the detailed growth analytics and
        the impact of the Mali SAC IV on the sustainability of the fiscal and, therefore, macroeconomic
        situation, the panel would like to acknowledge that strictly speaking such analysis does not fall
        within the scope of an admittedly transitional operation. But at the same time it should be
        recognized that this is an important shortcoming, which plagues most aspects of Malian
        development, and therefore deserves to be considered in this context.

        "Strong aspects included: Responsiveness to country needs, speed of preparation, and ability to
        prepare an adjustment operation without the benefit of sufficient economic work and sector work to
        underpin the Bank understanding of Mali's growth challenges. The choice of a one-tranche design
        was appropriate.

        "This operation highlights the importance of country economic work, especially to think through a
        growth strategy or spell out more explicitly what obstacles would remain in devising one,
        consulting as needed with DEC. This is particularly important in the Sahel context, where a
        number of constraints to growth prevail."

As mentioned in the earlier section, the project objectives were consistent with the CAS and the
Government's priorities and met the critical needs of the macroeconomic, financial, and cotton sectors.
During preparation of the project, lessons learned from SAC III were considered and incorporated into the
project design.    The major risk factors taken into account while preparing the project, in order of
importance, were as follows: external, institutional, and political.

    ·   External risks stemmed mainly from the well-known vulnerability of the Malian economy to
        vagaries of weather and commodity price fluctuations as well as regional crises (e.g., Côte
        d'Ivoire). Mitigating these risks was expected to remain difficult over the horizon of the project.
        But by relaxing the authorities' budget constraint, supporting the Government's reform, including
        indirect support to the transport diversification and trade facilitation activities (including customs
        reform), the project aimed to be broadly consistent with policies and initiatives to reduce Malian
        economy's structural vulnerabilities over the medium term. Predictable and timely donor support
        and coordination were also to be key in this regard.

    ·   Institutional risk comprised the threat of weak capacity and governance to program
        implementation. This risk of slower-than-required program implementation stemming from



                                                     - 5 -

         capacity constraints would be reduced through continued technical support by the Bank and other
         donors to strengthen capacity. Project design also included strengthening growth-critical areas such
         as prudent fiscal policy and financial sector development. Moreover, by building on the good
         record of policy reform in public expenditure management, the Credit itself would contribute to the
         institutional strengthening of various agencies involved in public expenditure management.

     ·   Political risk remained that the Government's commitment to the continued reforms, including
         privatization and liberalization program (banking, cotton, transport, telecommunication sectors)
         could be insufficient. In order to minimize the risk of implementation fatigue, which could cause a
         loss of momentum in reform implementation, the operation was to be constantly monitored by the
         country team, and also through the Bank's dialogue with the authorities in order to detect problem
         areas early on, and adjust the Bank response as needed. Finally, and perhaps most importantly,
         given the low international cotton prices, there was a key political risk that prevailing world cotton
         prices remain so low that they would dictate a sharp downward adjustment in local producer
         prices, an adjustment that could prove politically extremely difficult.

Quality of Design. The SAC IV was envisaged as a transitional instrument towards a possible PRSC and
was built on the lessons of the SAC III, while supporting some elements of the wider policy agenda and
providing a framework for the medium-term policy dialogue with the authorities. As a result, the SAC IV
was designed as a limited, one-tranche operation with most policy actions to be completed before
disbursement. As such, the emphasis was on short-term actions mostly implementable by end-December
2004 that in some cases represented just an early step (e.g., audits of the commercial banks) in a wider
menu of reforms with significant medium-term impact (e.g., clean-up of banks' portfolios and strengthening
of the financial system). This design was expected to give the Bank the needed flexibility to strike a balance
between the support of the ongoing reforms in the short term while assisting the authorities to advancing
towards a wider reform agenda (and possible PRSC support) in the medium term. Cotton sector reforms
under the credit were focused on those areas which had an impact directly on the budget (i.e., the cotton
price mechanism).

It is worth noting that SAC IV was the last structural adjustment operation of the Bank. It was originally
designed as a structural adjustment operation. Because of the delay in resolving the outstanding issues (see
Section 5), the project delivery to the Board was also delayed, and by that time, there were no more
structural adjustment operations, and Development Policy Loans/Credits (DPLs/DPCs) had come into
existence with slightly different requirements. SAC IV was, however, "grandfathered" (exempted) from
following the DPC requirements under OD 8.60, and allowed to follow the SAC guidelines. The task team,
however, adapted it to include some of the DPC features such as performance indicators matrix and
identifying triggers for the succeeding operation.

Accordingly, the SAC IV identified certain triggers over the horizon of about six months after the
completion of the SAC IV. The purpose of these triggers was to identify a few critical measures and
activities and provide a clear sense of direction and priority for key reforms. These measures also signaled
to the authorities the level and nature of the Bank support that would likely follow upon their
implementation. These measures contained a "minimum package" of actions that would be necessary to
continue dialogue with another SAC and a set of "high case" actions over and above this minimum
package, which would provide a basis for concrete dialogue towards a PRSC.




                                                     - 6 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Overall, the outcome of the project objectives was satisfactory. The major outcomes and achievements
of the project are as follows:

Component 1: Strengthening fiscal policy and financial sector underpinnings of stable, broad-based
                 growth and poverty reduction.

A. Macroeconomic Framework and Fiscal Policy

(i) Macro-economic Framework:

The 2005 budget execution was satisfactory. Expenditure targets were broadly in line with program
targets, agreed with the IMF, despite revenue shortfalls that resulted in slight reductions in current
expenditures. GDP growth was 5.4 percent in 2005, only slightly lower than the program due to effective
macroeconomic management of various exogenous shocks. The pickup in inflation was due to food market
imbalance stemming from the 2004 drought. The draft 2006 budget is consistent with PRSP priorities
within the prudent macroeconomic framework. In general, the shares of the total budget allocated with the
sectors of health and education progressed in 2006 (7.8% against 6.8% in 2005 for health and 16.9 against
15.3% in 2005 for education). The 2006 Budget was prepared under the assumption of an economic
growth of 6% in real terms, mainly drawing on a recovery in the primary sector (+10.4% in 2006 against
-4.1% in 2005).

(ii) Sector Medium-term Expenditure Frameworks:

(a) The 2005 budget arbitration concerning the Ministry of Education on the MTEF 2005-2008 was
implemented with the objective of ensuring consistency between the sector policy and the budget. The
objectives of the MTEF were incorporated in the 2005 Budget Law. The budget of the Ministry of
Education was carried out in accordance with the forecasts of the Budget Law for the part financed by its
own resources. The education sector medium-term expenditure framework was updated for 2006-2008.
The aim was to provide the financial framework for the development of the phase of the education sector
investment project. The MTEF supported the budgetary negotiations for the development of the 2006
Budget. The MTEF was consistent with the MTBF of Ministry of Economy and Finance.

(b) The MTEF 2005-2007 of the Ministry of Health was satisfactorily implemented. The mechanisms for
systematic annual updates were defined. The health sector MTEF for 2006-2008 was updated, consistent
with the second phase of the ten-year program for health and social development (PRODESS). The 2006
tranche of the MTEF is incorporated in the 2006 Budget Law. The MTEF was consistent with the
Medium-term Budget Framework (MTBF) 2006-2008 of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. It was
useful for preparing the second phase of the PRODESS.

(c) The Ministry of Equipment and Transport prepared its first MTEF for the period 2006-2008. This
exercise benefited from the experiences of the health and education sectors. Overall, the framework rests on
realistic programming of the public expenditure in the infrastructure sector. However, the exercise was not
able to provide a detailed financing structure of various components of selected programs. The authorities



                                                    - 7 -

continue efforts at strengthening the respective sector MTEFs.

(iii) Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper:

The report on the second year of implementation of PRSP was elaborated, taking into account the results of
the national workshop on the indicators for the monitoring-evaluation of the PRSP, as well as the
recommendations of the joint World Bank/IMF evaluation of the report on the first year of implementation.

(iv) Programming and monitoring of public investments:

The Ministry of Planning completed the testing of the system for programming and monitoring of public
investments, and made it compatible with that of National Budget Department (DNB). The new system is
envisioned to result in more efficient, computerized transferability of data to the budget, contributing to
greater consistency and coherence between the two planning instruments.

B. Fiscal Risks of the Cotton Sector and the Office du Niger (ON)

(i) Minimizing the fiscal risks of the cotton sector:

In January 2005, the Government signed a protocol defining an improved producer price setting
mechanism, together with the CMDT and farmer organizations, that would be in force until CMDT's
scheduled privatisation in 2008. A special feature of the new price mechanism is its objective to minimise
budget risks through setting the initial price in April each year within a conservative range (CFAF 160-175
per kilogram), reviewing price parameters in August for possible revision of the producer price depending
on cotton market developments, and distributing the sector's gross (as opposed to net) income to producers
(60%) and the CMDT (40%). In January 2005 the Government adopted an updated timetable for cotton
sector reforms with the objective of supporting the funding of CMDT crop season campaigns,
implementating support measures for the farmers, and privatizing the CMDT in 2008. To strengthen
producers' ability to participate in sector decision making, the authorities implemented an information
awareness session with farmers on the content of the validated proposals from the study on the producers'
inter-professional association.

In April 2005 the committee in charge of setting the cotton producer price fixed the initial producer price at
160 CFAF per kilogram for the 2005/06 season, according to the price setting mechanism. That initial
price was the lowest in the range allowed by the price protocol, and represented a 24 percent drop from the
previous year's producer price. This sent a strong signal at the beginning of the production season, of
prudent price setting in line with international cotton market conditions. In August 2005, as required by the
price mechanism the committee reviewed cotton market parameters and determined that the producer price
could remain at 160 CFAF per kilogram. The market-oriented price has greatly reduced the risk of large
financial losses in the sector and thus the risk to the state budget.

(ii) Support of the reforms of the ON:

With the intention to develop a master plan for the zone under ON's control and to promote, through
private investment, a large expansion in land under irrigation, within the SAC IV time horizon, the
Government: (a) prepared a Contract Plan for 2005-2007 acceptable and consistent with the reforms under
implementation; (b) adopted a financing mechanism for irrigation; and (c) adopted a decree authorizing the
issuance of land titles for the Koumouna experimental perimeter. It is expected that such measures could
encourage better participation of producers in the management of the irrigation infrastructure and also



                                                       - 8 -

promote private investments in the area.

C. Financial Sector

In the commercial banking sector,the Government completed an audit of non-performing loans of all
commercial banks with the view of developing a cleaning up strategy. The Government is currently
negotiating with commercial banks for implementing clean up operation.

In the insurance sector, the authorities commenced implementation of the recommendations of the
diagnostic study on the domiciliation of insurance policies, as a first step towards improving the health of
the insurance sector. The diagnostic study found that, contrary to regulations, a large number of insurance
policies are held abroad and in many instances the obligation to hold a local insurance policy is not
respected. Implementation of the study's recommendations started with the issuance in September 2004 of
an Action Plan and a calendar for their implementation. The'implementation committee met regularly to
guide and monitor implementation progress. The implementation of the recommendations of the study will
contribute to increase the level of business of the insurance industry and pave the way for the restructuring
of insurance companies. The impact is already visible: for example, insurance companies have noted an
increase in business particularly with respect to mining.

Regarding equipment leasing, in order to eliminate the discriminatory fiscal constraints such as double
taxation in this sector, the Government launched a study of the fiscal regime applicable to the leasing
companies. On that basis, the intention is to revise the law on leasing activities. However, no concrete
action has materialized so far from this study.

Regarding pension system, the Government launched a study of its debt to the private sector social security
institution; it also launched actuarial studies of the private and public sector institutions with a view to
modify the main parameters to reduce the imbalances.

Component II: Strengthening Public Expenditure Management, Transparency and Control.

A. Budget execution and monitoring

Budget execution. The interconnection of key budget-related departments in MEF, including the
establishment of a shared dated base covering all phases of budget execution process (commitment,
confirmation, authorization, payment), has been an important step toward assuring the quality of budget
execution data and of overall budget management.           The interconnection was achieved at the central
government level, and actions toward achieving it at decentralized government level (regional units of the
MEF departments) were initiated. The system is not completely functional because of certain
incompatibilities which were observed during its application at the Treasury, the DNB and the DNCF.
Actions were initiated to establish an automated auxiliary accounting system in the Treasury department.
To facilitate management of procurement costs, a reference list of prices was updated based on a 2004
survey and made available to staff electronically (CD-ROM). This allows the sectoral ministries and the
financial controllers to have a reliable base for analysis during the selection of suppliers of the State for the
procurement of property and services. The market price list is also updated each year. To strengthen
procurement monitoring, terms of reference were prepared to establish a database of information from the
different phases of the procurement process.

Budget control system. The authorities have: (i) introduced monitoring indicators in MEF's Financial
Controls Department to track the quality of control activities and improve effectiveness through
performance-based audit processes; (ii) established a classification system for invoices, and its diffusion to



                                                      - 9 -

staff to facilitate ex-ante controls and reduce the number of payment commitment requests that are rejected;
and (iii) provisioned resources in the 2006 Budget Law to fund actions needed to transform the Accounts
Section of the Supreme Court into an independent Court of Accounts.

Improving the transparency of budget management. The capability to provide data on budget execution
status was enhanced at the central level owing to the progress in interconnecting software and databases of
key MEF departments. This enabled the inclusion of budget execution data in the quarterly information
report produced by the MEF. As regards accountability, the authorities made significant progress in timely
completion of the annual budget execution report (Loi de Règlement)--the 2003 report was submitted to
the National Assembly in December 2004, three months behind schedule, and the 2004 report was
submitted at the end of September 2005 as required by the statute.

With the view to harmonizing donor support, and increasing the efficiency of MEF operations, the
authorities prepared and adopted a Consolidated Government Action Plan to Modernize and Strengthen
Public Finance Management (PAG) over the medium term (2006-2008), which integrates diagnostics and
recommendations of various donor reports.

Decentralization. The Government adopted an Action Plan to consolidate the decentralization process. The
Plan aims to bring government services more in line with local preferences and build local capacity to
manage public resources. The objectives of this action plan are: (i) accelerating the transfer of
responsibilities and resources; (ii) coordinating and harmonizing the existing decentralization activities; and
(iii) strengthening the capacity of the decentralized administration in mobilizing financial resources.
Three sectors have been identified as priorities for decentralization: water supply, health, and education.
Water supply is the sector in which the most progress has been made with decentralization. However, the
central government is experiencing difficulties in implementing decentralization: (i) slow progress in
transferring responsibilities and resources to the local administration; (ii) weak mobilization of local
resources; (iii) poor program coordination between the sector ministries and local administration; and (iv)
incomplete and inadequate legislation, leading to weak coordination in planning and management of
regional and local development.

To support implementation of the Government's decentralization acting plan, the Government organized a
national conference to: (i) validate the recommendations of the diagnosis study on the transfer of
responsibilities and resources to the local levels; and (ii) propose concrete measures for achieving such a
transfer. On the basis of this diagnostic study, a plan for implementing the transfer of resources and
responsibilities was adopted. In particular, the transfer of resources to communities would commence with
the implementation of the 2007 budget, to complement the already effective transfer of competencies in the
health, education and water supply sectors. The transfer of resources would be supported by the
interconnection of the de-concentrated units of the treasury, budget and financial control departments of the
MEF, when it becomes operational.

B. Internal/external Audit and Performance Evaluation

(i) Internal/external audit

The list of indicators to assess the quality of controls has been defined, and the list of supporting
documentation has been implemented through the Decree 1866 of September 24, 2004. This system allows
the authorities to monitor regularly the number of the transactions rejected, the reasons for the rejections,
and the sectors of expenditure which were subjected to rejection.




                                                     - 10 -

C. Transparency and Accountability

(i) Dissemination of information on budget execution

With the aim of promoting transparency in the execution of budget and diffusion of economic and financial
information, quarterly reports containing budget execution information are produced by the MEF and
posted on its website (www.timbagga.com.ml/tresor). A complete site has been developed by the Ministry,
with information on all the central departments of the Ministry.

(ii) Need for accountability

The draft execution law 2003 was adopted by the cabinet on December 15, 2004. It was submitted on time
to the Accounts Department of the Supreme Court, enabling it to prepare the report assessing conformity of
budget execution relative to the corresponding year's budget law.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Based on the discussion in Section 4.1, the achievements of Components I and II are rated Satisfactory.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not Applicable (N/A).


4.4 Financial rate of return:

N/A.


4.5 Institutional development impact:

Modest. The project was instrumental in strengthening Mali's institutional capacity in various sectors, as
demonstrated by the following. However, in view of the fact that some program results (namely, the
information system interconnection and the MTEF) are not yet fully achieved even though the SAC IV
actions were implemented, the institutional development impact is rated Modest. Specific achievements
were as follows:

     ·   New protocol on cotton pricing mechanism: The new pricing mechanism represents a major step
     forward in linking the cotton price more closely to world market developments. For details, see Section
     4.1.

     ·   MTEF: In order to strengthen budget formulation, the Government made progress in
     operationalizing the medium term budget framework during 2004, leading to preparation of the 2005
     Budget Law on the basis of three-year sector resource envelopes furnished by the MEF. Those
     resource envelopes were on a sector basis rather than Ministry basis, which was providing insufficient
     information to some ministries on the budgetary constraints they faced. The two existing sector
     MTEFs, (health and education), are progressively being used each year to prepare sector budget
     proposals and negotiate budget allocations with the MEF, with favorable results. For example, the



                                                    - 11 -

     Health Ministry established mechanisms for the systematic annual updating of their MTEF for use
     during each new budget cycle, and for use as the financial framework for preparing the 2nd phase of
     the ten-year sector development program (PRODESS).

     ·   Public Expenditure Management: The project facilitated efforts toward establishing an integrated
     program for Public Expenditure Management. This contributed to the process of harmonizing donor
     support for PEM.

     ·   Financial Sector: In the insurance sector, as mentioned in Section 4.1, the authorities have
     commenced implementation of recommendations of the diagnostic study on the domiciliation of
     insurance policies, as a first step towards improving the health of the insurance sector. The positive
     impact is reflected by the fact that insurance companies have noted an increase in business, particularly
     with respect to mining.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Mali's economy was adversely affected in 2004 due to the following exogenous factors:

(i) Significant decline in world cotton prices. World cotton nominal prices dropped from 85 cents/pound
in 1995/96 to 69 cents/pound in 2003/04 and then further to 52 cents/pound in 2004/05. This changed the
international environment which, against the backdrop of high local producer prices and excessive
operational costs of CMDT, resulted in significant losses for the CMDT and, therefore, severe budget
deficit for the Government.

(ii) Persistent instability in neighboring Cote d'Ivoire. As a result of the continued civil strife in Cote
d'Ivoire, the Bamako-Abidjan road was closed, and Mali had to divert its trade to other distant ports in the
region, which led to higher transportation cost. This situation had a substantial negative macro-economic
impact on Mali.

(iii) Weakening of the US dollar relative to the Euro in 2004 to which the local currency is pegged,
aggravated the adverse impact of the cotton price decline.

(iv) Increase in oil price. About 30 percent rise in oil prices in 2004 led to declining fiscal revenues.

(v) Other adverse factors included (a) low rainfall, (b) extensive damage of locust infestation on the
agricultural production, and (c) deteriorating terms of trade in the second half of 2004.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

(i) Postponing the privatization of CMDT. In the summer of 2004, the President of Mali informed the
Bank of the Government decision to postpone the privatization of CMDT by two years from 2006 to 2008,
because of: (a) the delay in selecting an investment bank to advise the Government on the privatization; (b)
the need for more time to strengthen producer associations; and (c) the Presidential election scheduled for
the Spring of 2007. This important announcement from the President of Mali was taken as a sign of the
lack of political commitment on the part of the Government for the privatization of CMDT, and contributed
to the delay in processing the operation.



                                                     - 12 -

(ii) Deficit Financing. Internal factors which contributed to the large deficit of CMDT were: (a) CMDT's
high operating costs; and (b) the establishment of the purchase price at an unrealistically high level of
CFAF 210 per kilogram[1] instead of CFAF 190 per kilogram in neighboring countries.

The Government was apprehensive that reducing the price from CFAF 210 to 190 per kilogram after it had
been set would result in a farmer revolt of similar or worse proportions than in 2000. Even though senior
officials had informally acknowledged that the decision to set the price at 210 CFAF was a mistake, and
that the policy was wrong and had detrimental effect on the budget and incentives, there was an obvious
absence of political will to recognize it publicly and reduce the price of cotton. This situation was made
very difficult by the position of a private shareholder of the company, Dagris, which issued a letter to the
Minister of Agriculture stating that Dagris would:

     o   not support a downward revision of the price
     o   absorb any deficit (above 8 billion CFA F), which could result from this price setting.

Dagris' letter was used by the Government during the negotiations to prevent further discussions on a
possible revision of the 2004/05 price for seed cotton. As a result, the 2004/05 price was not revised and
this resulted in an important deficit for the cotton sector. Despite its commitment, Dagris did not provide
the necessary funding to absorb the deficit.

(iii) Price mechanism. Initially, the Government was not willing to accept the range for the initial cotton
price for the 2005/06 season (CFAF 160-175 per kilogram as proposed by the Bank and agreed with all
development partners). The authorities' position was that they did not accept the range as it was too
constraining, citing potential farmer discontent. Instead, they suggested that this should be left to
negotiations among the producers, CMDT and the Government, and defined before the April 2005
campaign.

Because the Government's initial approach would put the burden of the unfinanced gap wholly on the
budget, the Regional Operations Committee (ROC) decided in September 2004 to defer authorizing
appraisal until the Government provided an acceptable response to the concerns raised in the pre-appraisal
Aide-memoire, namely: (i) how the deficit from the 2004/05 season would be covered; and (ii) how the
producer price-setting mechanism would be strengthened to avoid setting an unsustainable price in the
future.

As part of its efforts to meet the appraisal conditions, the Government organized missions in the regions in
late 2004 to explain the implications of the new pricing mechanism to all the stakeholders, especially the
producers, and get their consent for adopting the new mechanism. After receiving the approval of the
stakeholders, and after several rounds of discussions with the Bank and other development partners, the
Government finally reached an agreement on the details of the new cotton pricing mechanism. In late
December 2004 additional external financing was pledged by The Netherlands and the European Union to
cover the projected cotton sector deficit in 2005, thus closing the 2005 budget deficit.

In addition, on January 13, 2005, the authorities signed an acceptable Protocol on cotton pricing. On this
basis, the ROC granted the authority to appraise and negotiate on February 1, 2005. Appraisal and
negotiations took place and were completed during February 7-11, 2005. The Credit was finally approved
by the Bank Board on March 22, 2005, and became effective on May 13, 2005.




                                                     - 13 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

N/A

5.4 Costs and financing:

As planned, the full credit of US$25 million was disbursed in a single tranche.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Likely. The sustainability of SAC IV's achievements is likely, especially in light of the Bank's follow-on
operation, the Economic Policy and Public Finance Management Credit (EPPFMC), which was approved
by the board on January 19, 2006:

    ·   Cotton sector. The cotton price mechanism was implemented for the 2005-06 crop season. There
        is also a proposed trigger for the subsequent operation for its continued implementation for the
        2006-07 crop season. Following extensive consultations with sector stakeholders and donors, the
        authorities finalized the Action Plan for the reform of the cotton sector, including privatization of
        CMDT, and have commenced implementing it.

    ·   Budget execution. The actions under the EPPFMC continue the process of interconnection of key
        MEF departments at the central and decentralized levels, that was initiated in the SAC IV. This
        process is consistent with the Government's Institutional Development Program (PDI) to
        operationalize the decentralization policy comprising de-concentration of central government
        operations (specifically health, education and water supply) to regional departments so as to
        facilitate the operations of local governments. It is also consistent with the coordination framework
        with other external partners supporting Mali's decentralization program, with the Bank focusing on
        public finance aspects in which it has a comparative advantage and other external partners
        focusing on institutional capacity building of the local governments.              Scheduling of the
        interconnection activity under the EPPFMC is in line with the January 2007 target date under the
        PDI for transferring responsibility for health and education programs to the local governments.
        Specific actions under the EPPFMC were: (a) establishment of the institutional framework for
        implementing the public finance action plan; defining the mechanisms for its implementation,
        monitoring and evaluation; and providing adequate resources in the draft 2006 budget for
        implementing the 2006 activities of the action plan (prior action); and (b) steps taken to ensure the
        implementation of 2005 actions from the Modernization Plan that had no budgetary implications.

    ·   Budget control functions. Under the EPPFMC, the authorities are focusing on capacity building
        of audit departments and enhancing performance-based management. The actions for strengthening
        administrative control of the budget include: (a) establishment of a framework for consultations
        between all participating entities in the public expenditure control system;         (b) provision of
        adequate resources (financial and human) for implementation of 2006 activities of the Finance
        Inspection department (IF), as determined by its specific objectives for 2006 and their control
        responsibilities; (c) provision of adequate resources for 2006 activities of the General Control of
        Public Services (CGSP), as determined by their audit and capacity building program for 2006; (d)
        production of semi-annual reports on ex-post (IF and CGSP) administrative control activity; and
        (e) production of quarterly expenditure activity reports on the basis of ex-ante control performance



                                                    - 14 -

         indicators.

    ·    Budgetary transparency and accountability. The EPPFMC supports the systematic and timely
         production of budgetary information so as to strengthen public finance management and
         transparency. The actions included in the policy matrix for this purpose were: (a) establishing the
         website of the MEF along with the institutional framework to daily management and regular
         updating of the site; and (b) completing the compilation of information to be posted on the site,
         including the MTBF of the budget department, and the budget execution status prepared by the
         National Directorate for Treasury and Public Accounting (Direction Nationale du Trésor et de la
         Comptabilité Publique ­DNTCP), disaggregated by Ministry at the engagement and liquidation
         stages.

    ·    Financial Sector.
             Non-performing loans: Strengthening of commercial banks will depend on the outcome of
             discussions between the Government and the banks.

             Insurance Sector: Sustainable because the changes made are irreversible; as the issue was not
             a question of law but a question of implementing existing laws.

             Pension System: Sustainable because the issue is only a matter of the Government paying off
             the arrears.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

N/A.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. The identification process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for interventions in the
macroeconomic, financial, and cotton sectors. The project's objectives were consistent with the
Government's development priorities and the Bank's CAS. During the appraisal, the Bank assessed the
project's risks and benefits.

Preparation of this operation was not easy for the Bank, due to thorny issues in the cotton sector. The task
team had to be tenacious and persuasive in its dialogue with the Government, especially on cotton pricing
mechanism. However, on a technical level, the Bank had a good working relationship with the Government.
The task team worked closely with the Government staff and provided them with extensive assistance,
especially technical advice for setting up the new cotton pricing mechanism.

The task team took a participatory approach in resolving the issues on cotton pricing mechanism. The team
conducted series of round table meetings with the IMF, donors, Government, CMDT, and farmer
representatives, and explained to the farmer representatives (who were part of the Government's
delegation) the rationale for implementing the cotton pricing mechanism. The Government (including the
Prime Minister) also undertook missions to the cotton areas for extensive discussions with the farmers.
Even though the technical discussions took about nine months, at the end, a protocol was signed by the



                                                    - 15 -

Government, CMDT, and farmers agreeing on the cotton pricing mechanism.

The Bank staff maintained a collaborative relationship with the IMF in supporting the Government's
macroeconomic and structural reforms, in line with the guidelines for enhanced Bank-Fund collaboration.
This included regular participation of the Bank staff in the meetings with the Government on the Fund's
program review missions, and the IMF was invited to the Bank's internal review meetings and meetings
with Government. The IMF took the lead in macroeconomic stabilization and the Bank in social and
structural areas, with close collaboration on a few structural areas that had a particular impact on
macroeconomic stability. The Fund's dialogue and conditionality were consistent with the structural
programs agreed with the Bank, and the Bank's dialogue and conditionality had maintained consistency
with the macroeconomic framework endorsed by the Fund.

Likewise, in the area of cotton reform, the Bank had strong collaboration with development partners
including Agence Française de Développement (AFD), United States Agency for International
Development (USAID), European Union (EU), and the Governments of Netherlands, Canada, and Sweden.
However, on the feasibility of a lower producer price as required by the price mechanism, some of the
donors had divergent views from those of the Bank.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory.

After the project became effective in May 2005, and the single-tranche was disbursed soon thereafter, the
need for supervision activities was minimal. The Bank's Bamako Country Office provided quick response
and follow-up on whatever was needed, during this period.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. The
Borrower's commitment to and ownership of reforms and the SAC IV were evidenced by the track record
under SAC III and the IMF-supported Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) program. When the
PRGF, expired in 2003, the authorities reached an agreement on a new PRGF which was approved by the
Fund Board in June 2004. However, slow progress on the cotton sector reforms kept the country from
accessing a wider Bank support in the form of PRSCs.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. In the early stages of project preparation, the Government's commitment to the agreed cotton
sector reform program waned. As a result, in the beginning the task team had difficulty in getting
information on the cotton sector, especially financial information on CMDT. However, this situation
improved considerably during pre-appraisal.

Thus, even though there was some slippage on the implementation of project activities, the Government



                                                    - 16 -

implemented what they had committed to do. For example, the satisfactory implementation of the new
producer price setting mechanism resulting in reduction in budgetary risk of the sector under SAC IV, as
well as adoption of a cotton sector reform program and action plan, demonstrated the Government
commitment to the reform program. Similarly, the fact that the Government not only implemented new
price mechanism but also announced the price for the 2005/06 season at CFAF 160 per kilogram
according, demonstrates the Government's commitment. In addition, the Government made concerted effort
to implement prudent macroeconomic policies in the face of tight budgetary constraints and various
unexpected exogenous shocks.

The Government organized missions to sensitize farmers on the content and the need for cotton sector
reforms, especially the cotton pricing mechanism. The MEF coordinated implementation, which also
involved several line Ministries and agencies. A Technical Committee managed the program supported by
the SAC IV and monitored implementation and impact of the project. It was chaired by the Secretary
General of the Ministry of the Economy and Finance overseeing the SAC IV program, and comprised,
among others, the Mission de Restructuration du Secteur Coton (MRSC) and other relevant government
departments. Quarterly implementation reports prepared by the Technical Committee were submitted to an
Inter-Ministerial Committee chaired by the Prime Minister for analysis and decision before being sent to the
Bank. These reports covered: (i) progress on the jointly agreed key performance indicators; (ii)
macroeconomic developments, particularly budgetary outcomes; and (iii) status of the deposit account. On
a monthly basis, budget revenues and expenditures, reconciled bank accounts and statements of the SAC
IV's deposit account were submitted to the Bank. The Borrower was committed to monitor the impact of its
reform program, particularly those elements supported by the SAC IV.                Periodic information was
submitted to the Bank.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

N/A.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


    ·  When an operation, such as SAC IV, involves both policy reforms and budget support activities,
       there is a need to initiate budget support activities well in advance, so that, even if there is some
       delay in the reform agenda, the funding program will not be affected, and there will not be a
       negative impact on the macroeconomic situation of the country.

    ·  In hindsight, in view of high fiscal risks entailed at that time, it was the correct decision on the part
       of the Bank to limit the focus of the project's cotton sector component on (i) measures to reduce the
       size of the deficit, and (ii) strengthening the cotton pricing mechanism as the first important step of
       the comprehensive cotton sector reforms. SAC IV was designed as a lean and fairly uncluttered
       and uncomplicated structure, with only two development objectives and two components, which is
       quite unusual for many SAC operations.

    ·  The project demonstrated that it is important to adopt a participatory approach and develop a



                                                     - 17 -

         systematic communication channel with the public for the success of these types of operations. The
         Bank spent lot of time and energy to explain the benefits of pricing mechanism to farmer
         representatives, who participated in the team's discussions with the Government. The IMF, donors,
         the Government, and CMDT, were also involved in the process. Further, even the media, especially
         the press, was involved in the communication campaign on disseminating information on the cotton
         pricing mechanism.

    ·    It is important for the Bank to be consistent in its message, which should be based on technical
         considerations.

    ·    For a SAC operation to succeed, it is important to limit the number of conditionalities.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Government's assessment of the SAC IV implementation (attached in Annex 8) concurs with the
Bank's assessment that the SAC IV satisfactorily achieved its aim to consolidate the progress on reforms
undertaken under the SAC III in close partnership with the Government and other donors. The
Government's report indicates that the SAC IV assisted Mali in making progress on its reform agenda and
its poverty reduction objectives, in a difficult economic environment (e.g., the continued crisis in Côte
d'Ivoire), and highlighted the following four lessons (consistent with those highlighted by the Bank):


    ·    While policy based lending is an effective mechanism of support to Mali, a budget support
    operation is not the best mechanism to support privatization of state enterprises in view of the
    complexity of the privatization process which is naturally subject to delays outside the Government's
    control, irrespective of the Government's full commitment.

    ·    It is important to follow best practices in supporting a privatization process, particularly for a
    country like Mali where the investment climate, although improving, is not sufficiently conducive to
    attracting large numbers of potential buyers (as noted in the HUICOMA case).

    ·    It is important to limit the number of reforms in future operations that are strongly focused on
    critical issue areas and that take into account the slow yet deliberate pace of reform implementation by
    the Government.

    ·    Close partnership and coordination with other donors is critical to success of the reform program.

The Government deemed the sustainability of the program to be likely due to the achievement of (i) cotton
sector institutional reforms, (ii) CMDT restructuring and HUICOMA privatization, (iii) rationalization of
public expenditures, and (iv) improved governance.

(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A.




                                                      - 18 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A.


10. Additional Information


The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:

Christina A. Wood (Task Team Leader)
Abdoulaye Konate (Economist)
Sati Achath (Consultant)
Madhu Nair (Consultant)
Glaucia Ferreira (Language Program Assistant)




Endnote:
[1] The producer price of CFAF 210 per kilogram, set in April 2004, was based on a cotton price
assumption of US$0.61 per pound and an exchange rate of US$ = CFAF 544. But the prevailing cotton
price was US$0.53 per pound and the exchange rate was US$1 = CFAF 480.




                                                - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Note: Though not strictly required for this operation, which was initiated prior to OD8.60, the task team opted to
incorporate this matrix which was a specific feature of OD8.60. Many of the actions in the operation are continued
in subsequent operations and, as such, only intermediate impacts could be included in the matrix.

            Theme              Reform Areas/Objectives                Outcome/Impact                   Activities Completed
                                                                           Indicator                       under SAC IV
1: Strengthening Fiscal Policy and the Financial Sector
A. Macroeconomic Framework and Fiscal Policy
Macro-economic Framework      Maintenance of a consistent      Outcome: Macroeconomic              Maintenance of prudent fiscal
                              macroeconomic framework.          stability and debt sustainability. policy within a consistent
                                                                Indicators: 2004 budget            macroeconomic framework
                                                               execution on track and 2005         (conditionality).
                                                               budget in conformity with the
                                                               program.
Medium-term Expenditure       Strengthen the consistency and Outcome: Consistency between The 2005 budget arbitrage has
Framework, Budget and PRSP    coordination between: (i) the     the PRSP, the MTEF and the         been carried out within the
                              Poverty Reduction Strategy        State budget.                      consistent macroeconomic
                              Paper (PRSP); (ii) the            Indicators: Report that analyzes framework, MTEF's financial
                              macroeconomic framework and the sector allocations of the 2005envelopes, the sector priorities
                              (iii) the State budget.          draft budget in line with the       defined in the PRSP, and the
                                                               PRSP priority goals.                recommendations of the
                                                                                                   first-year report on the
                                                                                                   implementation of the PRSP.
Poverty Reduction Strategy    Integrate progressively the      Outcome: Integration of the         The report on the second year of
Paper                         evaluation of the implementationevaluation of the implementationimplementation has been
                              of the PRSP and the budget        of the PRSP into the State         elaborated, taking into account
                              calendar with the goal of taking budget.                             the results of the national
                              into a better account the results Indicators: Formal evaluation      workshop on the indicators for
                              of the evaluation in the         before July each year.              the monitoring-evaluation of the
                              preparation of the budget of the                                     PRSP, as well as the
                              following year.                                                      recommendations of the joint
                                                                                                   World Bank/IMF evaluation of
                                                                                                   the report on the first year of
                                                                                                   implementation.
Sector Medium-term            Strengthen the consistency and Outcome: Education MTEF is            The 2005 budget arbitrage
Expenditure Framework         coordination between: (i) the     consistent with the State budget. concerning the Ministry of
                              Poverty Reduction Strategy        Indicators: MTEF 2005-7            Education on the MTEF
                              Paper (PRSP); (ii) the           validated. Mechanisms for           2005-2008 has been
                              macroeconomic framework and updating defined.                        implemented with the objective
                              (iii) the State budget. Assure a                                     of consistency between the
                              transparency, in the medium                                          sector policy and the budget
                              term, of the sector allocation of                                    (conditionality).
                              public resources.
                              Idem                             Outcome: Health MTEF is             The MTEF 2005-2007 of the
                                                                consistent with the State budget. Ministry of Health has been
                                                                Indicator: MTEF 2005-8             implemented in consistency with
                                                                finalized according to the result the elaboration of the second
                                                                of the budget arbitrage.           phase of the ten-year program
                                                                                                   for health and social
                                                                                                   development (PRODESS);
                                                                                                   mechanisms for systematic
                                                                                                   annual updates have been
                                                                                                   defined (conditionality).




                                                          - 20 -

                                  Idem                              Outcome: Equipment and             The Ministry of Equipment and
                                                                    Transport and Agriculture          Transport has prepared a model
                                                                    MTEFs are consistent with the      for the planning of the MTEF
                                                                    State's budget.                    expense.
                                                                    Indicators: MTEF model
                                                                    finalized. Utilization for the
                                                                    preparation of the 2006 budget.
Programming and monitoring of Improve the current system for        Outcome: Compatibility             System tests were completed for
public investments                programming and monitoring of between the system of the Min. the new computer application
                                  public investments and make it of Planning and MEF.                  which manages the PTI/BSI
                                  compatible with that of DNB.      Indicators: Transferability of the system.
                                                                    data to the NDB system.
B. Fiscal Risks of the Cotton Sector and ON
Minimizing the fiscal risks of    Reduce the fiscal risks from the Outcome: (i) Reduction of           The following actions were
the cotton sector and ON          financial losses of CMDT.         CMDT's deficit. (ii)               taken: (i) Acceptable proposal
                                                                    Privatization of HUICOMA in        on the measures to reduce
                                                                    the near term. (iii) Progress in   CMDT's deficit related to the
                                                                    the privatization of CMDT.         2004-2005 campaign. (ii)
                                                                    Indicators: Making available a Acceptable proposal for the new
                                                                    coherent/credible plan to reduce price mechanism and the
                                                                    CMDT's deficit.                    calculation/management of the
                                                                                                       refund.
                                  Preparation of the                Outcome: More active               Implementation of an
                                  implementation of the cotton      participation of producers in      information session on the
                                  Inter-profession by supporting    monitoring the privatization       content of the validated
                                  the active participation of the   process.                           proposals from the study on the
                                  representatives of the cotton     Indicators: Ad-hoc transitory      inter-profession.
                                  producers in the monitoring of    commission established.
                                  the privatization process.
Mechanism for the                 Agree on a proposal for a price Outcome: A price mechanism           A protocol agreement between
determination of the cotton price mechanism that permits better     that favors the development of     the State, CMDT and producers
paid to the producers             management of the risks for the the sector while minimizing the on the cotton purchase price
                                  budget.                           risks of the CMDT deficit for themechanism was signed by
                                                                    budget.                            representatives of all three
                                                                    Indicators: (i) CMDT's financial parties. It is based on three
                                                                    position in broad balance; (ii)    principles under which the price
                                                                    number of participants trained. mechanism will have to function:
                                                                    Integration of the theme on the    (i) the initial price is fixed, with
                                                                    mechanism into the                 the view towards budgetary
                                                                    communication strategy; (iii)      prudence, at a range of 160 to
                                                                    availability and accessibility of 175 CFAF/Kg and for a three
                                                                    the database.                      year period; (ii) the final price is
                                                                                                       fixed based on a formula for
                                                                                                       sharing the sector's gross
                                                                                                       revenues, calculated on the basis
                                                                                                       of the international market
                                                                                                       prices; and (iii) the price support
                                                                                                       fund is not a "sine qua non"
                                                                                                       condition for the application of
                                                                                                       the mechanism.




                                                               - 21 -

Support of the reforms of the   Development and                   Outcome: Improvement in           An acceptable draft contract plan
Office du Niger (ON)            implementation of a master plan production and productivity of      is available.
                                for the development of the zone -the ON region, and greater
                                Better participation of the       ownership by the population of
                                producers in the management of the ON development process.
                                the irrigation infrastructure -   Major extension of the irrigated
                                Greater contribution of water     areas; improved water revenues;
                                revenues in maintenance           better participation of producers
                                expenditures and the              in the management of the
                                introduction of private           irrigation infrastructure.
                                investment in financing           Indicators: (i) A major extension
                                irrigation.                       of the irrigated areas; (ii)
                                                                  Improved water revenues; (iii)
                                                                  Better producer participation in
                                                                  the management of the
                                                                  infrastructure.
C. Financial Sector
Strengthening of the commercial Improvement in the portfolio of Outcome: Improved portfolio of The audit of the non performing
banks                           the commercial banks.             commercial banks.                 portfolio (defined according to
                                                                  Indicators: Decrease in the ratio the norms of the Banking
                                                                  of non performing loans           Commission) is available
                                                                  compared to the level in June     (conditionality).
                                                                  2004.
Fiscal regime and regulatory    Eliminate the discriminatory      Outcome: Elimination of the       A study of the fiscal regime for
constraints                     constraints on the leasing        discriminatory constraints on the leasing activities has been
                                activities.                       leasing activities.               launched.
                                                                  Indicators: Study completed and
                                                                  considered by the MEF.
The insurance system            Implement the recommendations Outcome: appropriate                  A timetable has been prepared
                                of the study on the Domiciliation domiciliation of the insurance    for the implementation of the
                                of the Insurance Policies.        policies and respect of the       recommendations of the study,
                                                                  obligation to insure.             September 30, 2004. Measures
                                                                  Indicators: Adoption of the legal have been taken to strengthen
                                                                  regulations.                      the regulation of the mandatory
                                                                                                    insurance and domiciliation in
                                                                                                    Mali.
The pension system              The payment of arrears of the     Outcome: Payment of the old       An audit of the payments arrears
                                liquidated public enterprises has arrears of the public enterprises of the State toward INPS has
                                been made.                        liquidated.                       been launched.
                                                                  Indicators: Inscription in the
                                                                  budget of the plan to settle the
                                                                  arrears.
II. Strengthening Public Expenditure Management, Transparency and Control
A. Budget Execution and Monitoring
Budget execution                Better follow-up of               Outcome: Improved tracking of The specifications for the design
                                implementation of the             payables.                         and implementation of the
                                procedures, better knowledge of Indicators: List of payables by     auxiliary accounting have been
                                the eventual incidents, and       category and by age, only for the submitted to the CAISFF.
                                better appreciation of risks.     operations of the central
                                                                  administration, and consistent
                                                                  with the corresponding balance
                                                                  of the Treasury.
                                Better control of procurement     Outcome: Improved follow-up       Terms of reference have been
                                costs.                            of procurement, eventual          prepared for the design and
                                                                  incidents, and risks.             implementation of a database on
                                                                  Indicators: TOR, contracts,       the different phases of the
                                                                  specifications, and               procurement.
                                                                  implementation.




                                                             - 22 -

                              Improve transparency,               Outcome: Procurement costs         The information has been
                              reliability, speed of transactions, controlled/reduced.                integrated into a CD-ROM and
                              and dissemination of informationIndicators: CD-ROM containing distributed though the internet.
                              at the de-concentrated level.       the price information.
                              Make operational the financial      Outcome: Budget information        Terms of reference have been
                              control application within the      available at the de-concentrated prepared and the tender
                              new integrated system.              level.                             launched for the design and
                                                                  Indicators: Validation of the      implementation of the
                                                                  TOR and launching of a tender integration of the current
                                                                  for the preparation of             information systems at the level
                                                                  specifications.                    of the de-concentrated services
                                                                                                     of DNB, DNCF and DNTCP
                                                                                                     (conditionality).
                              Improve tracking; details and       Outcome: A functioning             The inputs and updates of the
                              classification by category (by      financial control application.     financial control application
                              age, by type of beneficiary) of     Indicators: Production of reports have become operational.
                              payables.                           on verification of service
                                                                  delivery.
                              Establish an integrated,            Outcome: The implementation Consultants have been recruited
                              medium-term action plan and a of an integrated action plan.            for the development of an action
                              timetable; implement this action Indicators: Summary report;           plan which integrates the
                              plan.                               action plan available.             recommendations of the different
                                                                                                     studies proposed by the donors (
                                                                                                     conditionality). The study has
                                                                                                     been completed.
Decentralization              (i) Accelerate the transfer of the Outcome: (i) Accelerated            A national workshop to validate
                              resources and competences; (ii) transfer of resources and              the study on the making
                              coordinate and harmonize the        competences; (ii) strengthened     operational of the transfer of
                              existing support on the subject; capacity of the Collectivities in competences was held from
                              (iii) strengthen the capacity of    the mobilization of resources.     October 18 to 21, 2004. A
                              the Collectivities in the           Indicators: (i) Terms of           report on the proceedings of the
                              mobilization of the resources.      reference; (ii) contracts with the workshop has been prepared:
                                                                  consulting firms; (iii) national   this report contains detailed
                                                                  workshop; (iv) thematic guide.     recommendations for the plan to
                                                                                                     transfer the competences.
B. Internal/external Audit and Performance Evaluation
Internal/ external audit      Improve the effectiveness of        Outcome: Improved efficiency       (i) Increase the number and
                              expenditure.                        of expenditure.                    quality of the financial audits
                                                                  Indicators: Activity report.       performed by the Finance
                                                                                                     Inspectorate and management
                                                                                                     audits made by CGSP; (ii)
                                                                                                     complete the audit training for
                                                                                                     inspectors and controllers; (iii)
                                                                                                     improve the information
                                                                                                     technology and transport
                                                                                                     equipment of the entities
                                                                                                     concerned.
                              Improve the performance of          Outcome: Improved                  List of indicators permitting to
                              DNCF.                               performance of DNCF.               assess the quality of controls
                                                                  Indicators: List of indicators;    effected has been defined.
                                                                  Activity report.
                              Improve the documentation for       Outcome: Improved                  The list of supporting
                              justification of expenditures, and documentation for the               documentation has been
                              facilitate ex-ante control.         justification of expenditure.      implemented through the Decree
                                                                  Indicators: Dissemination of the 1866 of September 24, 2004.
                                                                  document list among budget
                                                                  administrators.




                                                          - 23 -

C. Transparency and Accountability
Dissemination of information on Improve the quality of            Outcome: Greater dissemination An information note on budget
budget execution                information, and assure a greater of budget execution among the     execution has been disseminated
                                dissemination of this informationcivil society.                     on the internet (web site:
                                among the civil society groups. Indicators: Quarterly               www.timbagga.com.ml/tresor)
                                                                  information note on the TOFE      and in a paper addressed to the
                                                                  including the status of execution technical and financial donor
                                                                  by budget function and nature of partners (PTF) (conditionality).
                                                                  expenditures.
Need for accountability         Reduce progressively delays in Outcome: Timely submission of The draft execution law 2003
                                the production of draft laws on   draft laws on budget execution    was adopted by the cabinet on in
                                budget execution.                 to the National Assembly.         December 2004.
                                                                  Indicators: Draft law for the
                                                                  2003 execution adopted by the
                                                                  Government and submitted to
                                                                  the National Assembly.




                                                           - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

N/A.




                                      - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A.




                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                             No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                                (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)            Implementation Development
                    Month/Year         Count               Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               May - October                       9     Economist (3), Public
               2004                                      expenditure specialist (2),
                                                         Agriculture sector specialists (3),
                                                         Financial sector specialist (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               February 2005                       7     Economist (2), Agriculture
                                                         sector specialist (2),
                                                         Financial sector specialist
                                                         (1), Consultant (1), Lawyer
                                                         (1)

 Supervision
               March 2005                           1    Economist (1)                           S               S


 ICR
               March 2006                          2      Economist (1), Consultant
                                                          (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                              Actual/Latest Estimate
                                            No. Staff weeks                      US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                             *                        290.06**
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                                           2.23
  ICR                                                                                  23.28
  Total                                                                               315.57
Note: *SAP no longer provides information on staff weeks.
       **Includes amount for Appraisal/Negotiation




                                                         - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.
2. Borrower's Evaluation Report--Rapport d'Achèvement: Quatrième Programme d'Ajustement
Structurel (CAS IV) de l'Association Internationale pour le Développement/IDA-40440)--dated August
2006
3. Program Document for Mali: Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit, dated February 22, 2005 (Report
No. 31609-ML).




                                                  - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower Assessment of SAC IV Implementation Completion


      MINISTERE DE L'ECONOMIE                               REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
             ET DES FINANCES                                Un peuple ­ Un But ­ Une Foi
      ----------------------------------------
       SECREATARIAT GENERAL
      -----------------------------------------




                                      RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMNET

             QUATRIEME PROGRAMME D'AJUSTEMENT STRUCTUREL
              (CAS IV) DE L'ASSOCIATION INTERNATIONALE POUR LE
                                     DEVELOPPEMENT/IDA-40440
                                          (BANQUE MONDIALE)




                                                 Août 2006




                                                  - 31 -

I.       INTRODUCTION

1.1      Origine et historique du programme
Le quatrième programme d'ajustement structurel (CAS IV) vise à renforcer et à compléter, sur une période
de douze (12) mois, les reformes mises en oeuvre sur la période 2002-2003, dans le cadre du CAS III, avec
le soutien des Institutions de Bretton Woods, de la Commission européenne et des Partenaires du secteur
coton (France et Pays Bas) à la suite de la crise économique des années 1999-2000. Dans le cadre du PAS
III, l'appui des partenaires a particulièrement aidé à réduire les coûts et le déficit d'exploitation de la
CMDT en recentrant les activités de la société autour du coton au détriment des missions de service public
et des activités filialisées (transport, encadrement, crédit et distribution d'intrants). Les arriérés de la
société CMDT ont été apurés et un mécanisme de prix flexible basé sur l'évolution des cours
internationaux a été mis en place. La gestion des finances publiques a été renforcée avec l'adoption de deux
nomenclatures budgétaires au niveau central et déconcentré, la rationalisation des dépenses publiques au
niveau global en attendant la priorisation intra-sectorielle et la décentralisation du circuit de la dépense
publique. Au niveau de la gouvernance, le suivi de la loi de finances est désormais encadré par les lois de
règlements avec l'assistance de la Section des Comptes de La Cour Suprême en passe de devenir une Cour
Des Comptes.

La plupart des mesures ont été prises au titre du CAS III et ont permis la relance de la production
cotonnière, une plus grande articulation des dépenses publiques avec les objectifs du CSLP et le
renforcement de besoin de lutter contre la corruption.

Cependant, la croissance économique soutenue de plus de 5% par an, observée sur la période 2001-2003,
résultant de ces efforts, n'a pas donné tout l'impact attendu, en particulier sur la réduction de la pauvreté
dont l'incidence est encore supérieure à 60%. Des mesures d'accompagnement du désengagement de la
CMDT, prévues au titre du CAS III ont été subordonnes à des études exploratoires qui ne sont pas encore
suffisamment prises en charge, ni par le ministère de l'agriculture, ni par le secteur privé. Concernant les
privatisations, elles ont été reportées en 2005 à cause des lenteurs dans les décisions des repreneurs qui
prétextaient des conditions de marché peu favorables, de sorte que le décaissement de la tranche du prêt
CAS III n'a pu se faire qu'à la faveur de la dérogation accordée par le Conseil d'Administration.
S'agissant de la crise sous-régionale qui n'avait pas été approfondie dans le CAS III, le Conseil s'était
préoccupé de son impact sur la situation des finances publiques, de la pauvreté et des échanges
commerciaux intra-régionaux. Le Gouvernement de son côté, avait pris des mesures d'urgences soutenues
par des réductions d'impôts pour les opérateurs les plus exposés et de tarifs de consommation pour les
couches les plus vulnérables, qui à l'horizon2003-2004, ont accentué le besoin de financement de l'Etat.
Enfin, les budgets-programmes des secteurs prioritaires du CSLP ne sont ni accompagnés de CDMT, ni
soutenus par un système efficient de suivi-évaluation des indicateurs de performance du CSLP. Une
évaluation à mi-parcours de la première année de mise en oeuvre du CSLP a été effectuée par les autorités
maliennes, qui ont sollicités la contribution des partenaires pour l'horizon 2004-2006.

C'est pour ces raisons que le Gouvernement a formulé des mesures complémentaires à court terme et a
invité les partenaires à le soutenir dans la mise en oeuvre du CSLP en 2004 : Le CAS IV vise, ainsi, à
consolider et à compléter les mesures du CAS III, en particulier celles liées à l'assainissement et à la
poursuite de la privatisation de la CMDT, au renforcement de la gestion des finances publiques et à la
promotion de la gouvernance.




                                                     - 32 -

Les objectifs du CAS IV s'intègrent dans la vision globale du Groupe de la Banque.

1.2      Performances des opérations similaires
Le CAS III, mis en oeuvre entre 2001 et 2003, a renforcé les programmes de réformes dans le secteur
coton, des finances publiques et de la bonne gouvernance. L'amendement concernait deux conditions de
décaissement liées à la privatisation des unités dans le secteur coton, qui n'étaient pas remplies à cause de
la crise sous-régionale. Alors que le Gouvernement avait amené les entreprises au stade de la vente, les
adjudicataires provisoires ont fait prévaloir les surcoûts dans les transactions de coton, et les effets induits
engendrés par l'impact de la crise sous-régional. L'accent sur le secteur coton et le budget de l'Etat était
justifié par le poids économique du secteur (plus de 10% de contribution au PIB, 20% aux recettes de
l'Etat et 40% aux recettes d'exportation) et les effets induits de la crise cotonnière sur le budget de l'Etat en
relation avec la lutte contre la pauvret. La revue à mi-parcours a eu lieu en juin 2003, suivi d'une mission
d'achèvement en mars 2004, en même temps que la revue annuelle du CSLP. Au cours de ces revues, une
attention particulière a été octroyée à l'impact de la crise sous-régionale, une des préoccupations du conseil
d'administration pendant l'examen du CAS III. Il convient de souligner que les effets primaires de cette
crise ont entraîné l'alourdissement des charges de l'Etat (40 milliards de FCFA de déficit additionnel). Le
système productif a eu également à faire face à des surcoûts liés à l'interruption des voies de
communication avec la Cote d'Ivoire. Les limites du CAS III sont surtout liées au fait que l'impact de ces
faits majeurs n'avait pas été pris en compte dans la formulation du CAS III qui était un appui à la balance
des paiements. Par ailleurs la réforme des finances publiques n'a pas porté sur l'institution de
budget-programmes conformément aux objectifs quantitatifs du CSLP et n'a donné d'orientation quant à la
poursuite des mesures de déconcentration budgétaire et les reformes de marchés publics.


II.      EVALUATION DES OBJECTIFS ET CONTENU DU PROGRAMME

2.1.     Le Cadre Stratégique de lutte contre la pauvreté (CSLP)

Le Mali a élaboré en 2002 un Cadre Stratégique de Lutte contre la Pauvreté (CSLP) qui se fonde sur un
diagnostic de la situation de la pauvreté et une compréhension partagée de ses déterminants fondamentaux.
Il propose une stratégie globale dont l'objectif est de réduire de manière significative l'incidence de la
pauvreté dans le pays dans un horizon temporel de moyen terme. Pour ce faire, une croissance économique
forte, durable et équitable est indispensable dans un contexte de stabilisation macroéconomique.

L'objectif global du Gouvernement, dans le cadre du CSLP, consiste à accélérer la lutte contre la pauvreté,
à travers la mise en oeuvre de trois axes stratégiques, à savoir : (i) le développement institutionnel et
l'amélioration de la gouvernance et de la participation : (ii) le développement des ressources humaines et de
l'accès aux services sociaux de base : (iii) le développement des infrastructures de base et des secteurs
productifs (axe 3). La stratégie du Gouvernement vise à réaliser une croissance économique soutenue,
durable et mieux repartie, dans un environnement juridique et judiciaire favorable à la promotion du secteur
privé et à l'intégration régionale dans le cadre de l'UEMOA et de la CEDEAO.

Les enseignements tirés de la première année de mise en oeuvre de la stratégie révèlent notamment la
vulnérabilité de l'économie malienne face aux contraintes de différentes natures et la nécessité : (i) de
poursuivre les reformes structurelles importantes (en particulier dans le secteur coton) et; (ii) de renforcer
les instruments de pilotage de l'économie et leur utilisation dans le contexte d'une gestion
macroéconomique rigoureuse.




                                                      - 33 -

2.2      Le Quatrième Programme d'Ajustement Structurel (CAS IV)

Le CAS IV sera, à l'instar du CAS III, l'outil de mise en oeuvre du CSLP et du programme d'actions
prioritaires 2004-2006 élaboré à cet effet. L'accent sera mis sur la poursuite et l'approfondissement des
mesures initiées dans le cadre du CAS III. C'est ainsi que la priorité sera accordée à la restructuration de la
CMDT en vue de sa privatisation et à l'amélioration de la compétitivité de la filière. Le CAS mettra
l'accent sur l'accélération des privatisations dans la filière cotonnière et dans les secteurs des équipements
collectifs afin d'éviter des retards additionnels dans le processus des négociations. La privatisation de la
CMDT sera accompagnée d'une stratégie de communication et d'un cadre de concertation entre opérateurs
de la filière d'une part, et entre le Gouvernement et les partenaires au développement d'autre part. Dans le
cadre du CAS III, cette synergie entre partenaires avait déjà montré son efficacité. En 2003, lors de la mise
en place d'un plan de redressement de la filière cotonnière. Le présent programme CAS IV a déjà bénéficié
de concours complémentaires de l'Union européenne et de la Banque africaine de développement (FAD).
C'est dans ce cadre de concertation avec les principaux partenaires de développement du pays, que le
Groupe de la Banque mondiale a été sollicité par le Gouvernement pour appuyer le programme. L'objectif
de ce prêt est d'étendre l'exécution du programme de réformes 2001-2003 sur l'année 2004 et de contribuer
à la couverture du besoin de financement extérieur de l'économie malienne en 2005.

2.3      Le Prêt d'Ajustement Structurel (CAS IV)

Le prêt d'un montant de 16,500 millions DTS vise à appuyer les efforts du Gouvernement dans la mise en
oeuvre de son programme de réformes, sur une période de 12 mois à partir de 2005, en appui au Cadre
stratégique de lutte contre la pauvreté et au plan d'actions prioritaires 2004-2006. Le prêt fournira des
ressources à décaissement rapide pour aider le Gouvernement à accélérer la poursuite des reformes
résumées dans la Lettre de Politique de Développement actualisée ; et planifiées dans la matrice de
mesures. La proposition de financement est conforme à la stratégie d'intervention à moyen terme du
Groupe de la Banque et de la lettre de politique de Développement du Gouvernement du Mali.

Objectifs:

Le quatrième Crédit d'Ajustement Structurel (CAS IV) a appuyé deux (2) séries d'action en cours qui ont
été décisives pour la stratégie de réduction de la pauvreté au Mali : (i) les reformes de restructuration du
secteur coton visant à améliorer l'efficacité et restaurer la croissance économique; et (ii) les reformes de la
gestion des dépenses publiques destinées à améliorer l'efficacité et la transparence des opérations
budgétaires et permettre une réduction plus efficace de la pauvreté.

Le CAS IV avait pour objet d'apporter un appui bien nécessaire à la balance de paiements pour permettre
au Gouvernement malien de combler le déficit de financement causé par une crise récente survenue dans la
filière coton, tout en maintenant le rythme de mise en application de ces reformes et en évitant des coupes
dans les dépenses sociales.

Le crédit a été approuvé le 19 janvier 2006, et est entré en vigueur suite à la ratification de l'Accord de
Crédit de Développement (ACD/DCA) par l'Assemblée Nationale du Mali.

Montant:

Ce crédit était composé d'une (1) tranche unique de 16,500 millions de DTS (équivalent de 25 millions de
dollars des Etats-Unis).




                                                     - 34 -

Le CAS IV a financé des actions engagées pour atteindre les objectifs fixés et les stratégies élaborées par
les autorités en 2002 dans le cadre de la préparation du Cadre stratégique de lutte contre la pauvreté
(CSLP) et au titre de la Stratégie d'assistance au pays (SAP) de la Banque mondiale pour 2003.

Les principaux instruments de la SAP comprenaient: (i) l'appui par le biais des crédits d'ajustement
(CAS); (ii) les actions communautaires en appui aux secteurs productifs et à la lutte contre le VIH/SIDA;
(iii) les opérations traditionnelles d'investissement visant la satisfaction de besoins spécifiques dans le
secteur des transports et le développement du secteur privé dans le but de promouvoir la compétitivité de
l'économie malienne. En conséquence, le CAS IV du Mali constituait un outil indispensable de la SAP en
cours destiné à contribuer à la stabilité macroéconomique et à l'amélioration de la gestion du secteur
public.


Le CAS IV, instrument d'appui aux réformes engagées par le gouvernement, avait pour finalité de:

(i) contribuer à une croissance diversifiée et à la réduction de la pauvreté par le renforcement de la
     politique budgétaire et du secteur financier, gages d'une croissance stable et durable.
(ii) accroitre l'efficacité, l'obligation de rendre compte et la transparence dans la gestion des
     dépenses publiques

Le CAS IV a été directement bâti autour des leçons tirées des expériences passées en mettant l'accent sur,
notamment des décaissements à tranche unique et sur la base des activités menées.


III    EVALUATION DES RESULTATS OBTENUS

3.1      Composantes:

Comme souligné dans la Lette de Politique de Développements (LDP), le CAS IV a appuyé deux (2)
composantes:

     (i) Renforcement de la politique budgétaire et du secteur financier, fondements d'une croissance
         stable et forte et de la réduction de la pauvreté.

         Les politiques macroéconomiques satisfaisantes du Mali ont permis au pays d'atteindre les points
         d'achèvement dans le cadre de l'initiative PPTE originale et renforcée de septembre 2002 et mars
         2003.

     Politique budgétaire:

     (a) Améliorer la cohérence entre le CSLP, le Cadre de dépenses à moyen terme (CDMT), le cadre
         macroéconomique et le budget annuel :

         En septembre 2004, le gouvernement avait préparé un rapport qui analysait les dotations
         sectorielles au titre du budget 2005 sur la base des priorités définies dans le CSLP. En dépit d'une
         légère baisse des ressources totales allouées à la santé et à l'éducation, le budget 2005 a veillé à ce
         que les besoins actualisés des secteurs de l'éducation et de la santé pour 2005 soient couverts dans
         leurs CDMT sectoriels respectifs.

     (b) Renforcer la discipline budgétaire globale :

         Un mécanisme transitoire et transparent serait conçue en vue d'une suppression progressive des
         subventions aux entreprises parapubliques (mise en oeuvre du mécanisme de fixation du prix aux



                                                     - 35 -

         producteurs élaboré dans le CAS III) et la PASAOP serait utiliser pour régler les problèmes
         d'ordre financier liés à la réforme de la filière coton, et le projet sur la Compétitivité et la
         diversification agricole assurera le renforcement des capacités et les activités connexes. Enfin, les
         arriérés dus à l'INPS (estimés à environ 10 milliards de FCFA) devraient être progressivement
         épongés par le budget de l'Etat.

    Secteur financier:

         Les premières étapes du CAS IV pour la mise en oeuvre du volet «secteur financier» comprenaient:
         (i) les audits des créances douteuses des banques commerciales; (ii) l'élimination du traitement des
         primes d'assurances; et (iv) l'audit des arriérés dus par le gouvernement à l'INPS.

    (ii) Renforcement de la gestion des dépenses publiques, de la transparence et des contrôles.

         Cette composante vise à formuler et à adopter les mesures visant l'amélioration de la comptabilité
         publique, du contrôle et de l'exécution budgétaire, le renforcement des contrôles et en particulier
         l'amélioration de la transparence en matière de dépenses, et le renforcement des obligation de
         rendre compte en matière de répartition et d'exécution des dépenses au niveau de la fourniture des
         services.

         Cette composante a cherche à améliorer le lien entre les dépenses publiques et les objectifs
         nationaux de réduction de la pauvreté, et promouvoir une utilisation efficace et effective des
         ressources publiques. Cette composante est jugée hautement satisfaisante, car toutes les reformes
         planifiées ont été pleinement mises en oeuvre dans les détails.

3.2      Réalisation des objectifs et résultats:

La réalisation des objectifs de développement du programme est notée de manière satisfaisante, ceux-ci
ayant été accomplis largement. Il s'agit: (i) du renforcement de la gestion des finances publiques et des
performances du secteur coton en procédant des réformes institutionnelles; (ii) la restructuration de la
CMDT et la privatisation de l'HUICOMA; (iii) les lois de règlements 2002 et 2003 ont été élaboration
avec l'appui de la Section des Comptes de la Cour Suprême.

Les reformes soutenues par le CAS IV visent deux objectifs principaux: (i) renforcer la gestion
macroéconomique dans le contexte de la mise en oeuvre du CSLP; et (ii) contribuer à maintenir une
discipline et une politique budgétaire favorables à la croissance économique équitable et à la réduction de la
pauvreté.

3.2.1    Cadre macroéconomique et reforme de politiques budgétaires

Dans le contexte de la mise en oeuvre de la stratégie de lutte contre la pauvreté, la gestion économique et la
politique budgétaire doivent se situer dans une perspective de moyen terme avec comme préoccupation une
meilleure cohérence entre l'instrument budgétaire et les priorités de développement du pays. L'optimisation
du processus d'allocation des ressources et leur comptabilité avec le cadre macroéconomique d'ensemble,
la sécurisation de l'exécution budgétaire et le contrôle des dépenses publiques contribuent à asseoir les
bases d'une discipline budgétaire globale.

Dans cette optique, et compte tenu des enseignements tirés de la mise en oeuvre du CSLP, le gouvernement
a privilégié une stratégie prudente dans la politique budgétaire pour les années 2004 et 2005. En effet, les
budgets 2004 et 2005 ont été élaborés dans un souci de cohérence du cadre macroéconomique et de prise en



                                                      - 36 -

compte des préoccupations d'accélération de la mise en oeuvre de la stratégie de lutte contre la pauvreté.
Ceci a été rendu possible par la prise de décisions courageuses en termes d'allocations sectorielles de
ressources et le recours aux instruments de programmation stratégiques dans le processus de formulation
du budget de l'état.

Dans le domaine particulier du renforcement du processus de formulation budgétaire, les actions soutenues
par le CAS IV ont concerné l'opérationnalisation des Cadres Dépenses à Moyen Terme (CDMT) dans le
processus de préparation du budget de l'Etat. Les allocations sectorielles des Budgets 2004 et 2005 sont en
effet globalement fondées sur les enveloppes sectorielles fournies par le Ministère de l'Economie et des
Finances et celles en faveur des ministères en charge de l'éducation et de la santé on été arbitrées sur la
base des CDMT sectoriels de ces ministères. Ceci a permis, pour les secteurs de l'éducation et de la santé
de fournir une base réaliste aux stratégies qui seront poursuivies par les deux secteurs en 2004 et 2005,
tout en préservant les objectifs spécifiques du CSLP. En particulier, les efforts ont été poursuivis au
niveau du ministère de la santé en vue d'établir des mécanismes pour l'actualisation annuelle systématique
du CDMT afin de rendre opérationnel dans le processus budgétaire. L'instrument a pour ce faire servi de
base pour le cadrage financier de la seconde phase du PRODESS.

Le processus d'intégration des CDMT sectoriels dans la préparation budgétaire sera renforcé avec d'autres
ministères tels celui de l'Equipement et des transports (qui dispose déjà d'un CDMT qui sera opérationnel
pour le budget 2006) et celui de l'Agriculture qui finalisera son CDMT dans le cadre de l'élaboration du
budget 2006. Le système actuel de programmation et de suivi des investissements publics est en cours
d'amélioration afin de rendre sa prise en compte au niveau de la Direction Générale du Budget (Plan
d'action gouvernemental d'amélioration et de modernisation des finances publiques 205-2008).              Des
actions ont été prises en vue de la mise en place d'une nouvelle application informatique gérant le système
du Programme triennal d'investissement (PTI) et du Budget spécial d'investissement (BSI) et celle-ci est
actuellement en cours de test. Ceci permettra de renforcer la programmation des dépenses publiques à
moyen terme au niveau des ministères sectoriels.

En termes de meilleure intégration du budget et du CSLP, le gouvernement a réalise des progrès importants
dans le sens de l'adoption d'un calendrier de suivi évaluation du CSLP qui permettra l'intégration des
conclusions de l'évaluation du CSLP dans le budget 2006. Le second rapport de mise en oeuvre de la
stratégie est produit et suit le cours de son adoption suivant le dispositif de suivi adopté par le
gouvernement.

3.2.2. Réforme du secteur coton

Dans le cadre du programme du CAS IV, au niveau du secteur coton, le gouvernement a mis en oeuvre les
mesures suivantes :

    o Une proposition acceptée des acteurs de la filière coton et des partenaires des moyens de résorption
        du déficit lié a la campagne 2004-2005.
    o Une proposition acceptée qui a visé à améliorer le mécanisme de prix et à améliorer le
        calcul/gestion de la ristourne à travers la signature, le 13 janvier 2005, d'un protocole d'accord
        entre l'Etat, la CMDT et les producteurs sur le mécanisme des prix. Le protocole d'accord sera
        mis en oeuvre selon les trois principes suivants:
        ·   Le prix initial est fixé, dans un souci de prudence budgétaire, dans une fourchette de 160 à 175
            FCFA/kg et pour une période de trois ans;
        ·   Le prix final est fixé selon une formule pour le partage des recettes brutes du secteur, calculé
            sur la base des prix de marché international;


                                                      - 37 -

       ·   Le fonds de soutien n'est pas une condition «sine qua non» pour l'application du mécanisme de
           prix.

Le Gouvernement a poursuivi ses efforts de réformes dans le secteur coton, grâce à d'autres mesures
supplémentaires:

    o L'application du protocole d'accord entre l'Etat, la CMDT et les Producteurs sur la détermination
       du prix d'achat du coton graine;
    o L'annonce d un prix de base au producteurs de coton pour 2005-2006 qui minimise le risque de
       recours au budget de l'Etat ;
    o L'ajustement à la baisse du prix au producteur dans le cas où les projections de paiement au
       producteur sont inférieures au prix de base, tel qu'envisage dans le protocole d'accord sur le
       mécanisme de prix ;
    o La privatisation de HUICOMA a lieu en 2005.

3.2.3. Réforme de la gestion des dépenses publiques et amélioration de la transparence

    o Au cours des trois dernières années, le système budgétaire du Mali a connu des améliorations
       importantes. Les efforts des autorités ont été concentrés sur la conception et la mise en place
       d'instruments de gestion qui, pour l'ensemble, sont aujourd'hui opérationnels. On peut citer
       notamment : (i) l'interconnexion au niveau central des structures-clés du Ministère de l'Economie
       et des Finances qui interviennent dans le processus budgétaires (DGB, DNCF et DNTCP) dont la
       portée est fondamentale sur la fiabilité des données budgétaires; (ii) l'adoption d'une nomenclature
       budgétaire complète qui permet une présentation des allocations budgétaires selon les normes
       admises au plan international; (iii) la mise en place d'une nomenclature budgétaire et comptable
       des collectivités territoriales cohérentes avec la nomenclature budgétaire et celle recommandée au
       niveau de l'UEMOA ; (iv) la conception d'outils à la disposition des administrateurs de crédits et
       des contrôleurs financiers afin d'améliorer l'exécution du budget de l'Etat. Ces outils sont
       aujourd'hui opérationnels et méritent, soit d'être intégrés et internalisés par les acteurs budgétaires
       dans une optique de gestion, soit améliorés dans une perspective ultime d'amélioration générale de
       l'efficacité de la dépense publique.
    o Adoption par le Gouvernement en juillet 2005 d'un Plan d'Action d'Amélioration et de
       Modernisation des Finances Publiques (PGAM/FP) 2005-2008; D'une manière générale dans le
       domaine de la gestion budgétaire, le gouvernement a disposé au cours des dernières années d'un
       ensemble d'études et de diagnostics qui lui ont permis de mieux appréhender les forces et les
       faiblesses du système budgétaire du Mali. Aussi s'est-il attelé à élaborer un plan d'action
       d'ensemble qui propose sur le moyen terme des réformes de renforcement de modernisation de la
       gestion budgétaire. Son intérêt est de donner une perspective à la sécurisation du processus
       budgétaire dans son ensemble et de constituer un signal dans le sens de la volonté du gouvernement
       d'organiser l'appui au CSLP dans le cadre de l'appui budgétaire dans son ensemble et de
       constituer un signal dans le sens de la volonté du gouvernement d'organiser l'appui au CSLP dans
       le cadre de l'appui budgétaire direct. Le plan d'action adopté pour répondre aux objectifs
       ci-dessus énoncés s'est articulé autour de deux horizons dans un souci de gradualité dans la mise
       en oeuvre des réformes et de cohérence avec la vision de moyen terme. Un grande attention sera
       accordée à trois éléments complémentaires qui sont: (i) la fiabilité des données budgétaires et de
       l'exécution budgétaire ; (ii) le renforcement des opérations de contrôle et; (iii) l'amélioration de la
       transparence de la gestion budgétaire et l'obligation de rendre compte.
    o Concernant le renforcement des opérations de contrôle les efforts ont été concentrés sur: (i) la mise




                                                    - 38 -

        en place au niveau de la Direction Nationale du Contrôle Financier (DNCF) d'un Manuel de
        Procédures et d'indicateurs permettant d'apprécier la qualité des contrôles et d'en améliorer
        l'efficacité (contrôle a priori fondé sur la performance) et (ii) l'établissement et la diffusion auprès
        des gestionnaires d'une nomenclature des pièces justificatives qui devrait contribuer à faciliter le
        contrôle a priori et à diminuer les rejets des demandes d'engagement et de paiement des dépenses ;
        et l'organisation en décembre 2005 de la formation des cadres de l'Inspection en SYSCOA, Audit
        et Analyse financière, et des équipements informatiques. Par ailleurs, il est à noter que le Contrôle
        Général des Services à bénéficier d'un renforcement dans le domaine des audits financiers (ainsi
        que la Section des Comptes de la Cour Suprême) avec un taux d'exécution de son programme de
        contrôle de 88%.
    o En termes d'amélioration de la transparence de la gestion budgétaire, les outils permettant la mise à
        disposition, sur demande, des données relatives aux dépenses de l'Etat on été renforcés ainsi que
        les capacités des unités centrales et déconcentrées. Ceci a contribué à améliorer la note
        trimestrielle qui intègre désormais la situation d'exécution du budget des secteurs prioritaires.
        Cette note, produite par le Ministère de l'Economie et des Finances, s'appuie sur la disponibilité de
        l'information sur l'exécution budgétaire rendue fiable par l'interconnexion informatique entre les
        Directions Nationales du Budget, du Contrôle Financier et du Trésor et de la Comptabilité
        Publique. Cette note est actuellement publiée sur internet.
    o Concernant l'obligation de rendre compte, les progrès ont été importants dans le domaine de la
        production des projets de lois de règlement au Mali. Le Gouvernement a en effet introduit le projet
        de loi de règlement de l'année 2004 (tout comme celui de 2003) au parlement en décembre 2005, ce
        qui a constitué un pas important dans le sens du respect des délais légaux (retard de trois mois).
        Les dispositions sont d'ores déjà prises de dépose le projet de loi de règlement 2005 au plus tard de
        31 décembre 2006.


IV. LEÇONS APPRISES/PRINCIPAUX FACTEURS AFFECTANT LA MISE EN OEUVRE ET
    LES RESULTATS

5.1     Leçons apprises:


Le CAS IV a permis au Gouvernement de faire avancer son agenda de réformes et ses objectifs de réforme
sur la pauvreté dans le contexte d'un environnement économique difficile (crise ivoire). Les leçons apprises
de cette opération sont:

    ·   Le prêt sur base de politique a été un mécanisme efficace de soutien au Mali, mais les crédits
        d'ajustement structurel peuvent ne pas être les meilleurs mécanismes d'appui au désengagement
        des entreprises publiques. La privatisation est un processus complexe naturellement exposé à des
        retards, même si le Gouvernement est pleinement engagé pour le résultat.
    ·   Accent sur les meilleures pratiques de privatisation:
        Ceci est particulièrement important dans un pays comme le Mali dont le climat d'investissement,
        bien qu'en amélioration, n'est pas encore fortement propice à l'attraction d'un grand nombre de
        soumissionnaires (privatisation de HUICOMA).

    ·   Maintien d'un accent sur un nombre limité de réformes:
        Pour l'assistance future doit être fortement centrée, compte tenu de l'importance des réformes du
        secteur et le rythme lent mais délibéré du programme de réforme du Gouvernement.

    ·   Un partenariat efficace avec les bailleurs de fonds: L'importance de la coordination étroite avec
        les bailleurs de fonds est critique.



                                                      - 39 -

5.2      Facteurs principaux affectant la mise en oeuvre et les résultats:


Les fluctuations des cours mondiaux du coton, du pétrole et des taux de change, ainsi que de la plupart des
produits d'exportation du Mali, ont eu un impact sur les recettes et les dépenses du pays. Ceci vaut
particulièrement pour le prix du coton, qui ont une influence sur le volume des exportations du coton, et par
la même sur les recettes d'exportation perçues.

Autres facteurs:

    -    La volonté politique de mettre en oeuvre les réformes ;
    -    L'adhésion des acteurs;
    -    Pour assurer la réussite des opérations au titre du CAS, il importe de limiter le nombre de
         conditionnalités (comme le CAS IV qui a été conçu comme outil assez simple et ne comprenant que
         deux objectifs de développement et deux composantes);
    -    Bouclage des besoins de financement.


V.       DURABILITE

La durabilité de l'impact du programme est considérée probable grâce notamment: (i) aux réformes
institutionnelles au sein de la filière coton; (ii) à la restructuration de la CMDT et à la privatisation de
l'HUICOMA pour améliorer leur capacité de planification et de gestion; (iii) les dépenses publiques sont
rationalisés et déconcentrés; et (iv) le bonnes pratiques de la gouvernance sont renforcés et généralisées. La
stratégie du Groupe de la Banque Mondiale est conçue pour soutenir le CSLP et la Lettre de Politique de
Développement actualisée 2002-2004 (LDP) du CAS IV.




                                                     - 40 -

- 41 -

