Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4044 MLI 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated March 25,  2005
Page  2
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4044 MLI 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated March 25,  2005, between Republic of MALI (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter of development 
policy (the Letter of Development Policy), dated February 11, 2005, describing a program of 
actions, objectives and policies designed to strengthen its fiscal and financial sector, 
underpinnings of shared, long-term growth, and improving efficiency, transparency and 
accountability in public expenditure management  (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof;  
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
(C) 
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in a single 
tranche as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is 
made.”; 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of 
the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Credit.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 
9.07.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
Page  4
-
3
-
(a) 
“BCEAO” means “
Banque Centrale des Etats de l’Afrique de l’Ouest”
,
the 
common central bank of the Borrower and the other member states of UEMOA (as hereafter 
defined); 
(b) 
“CFA Franc” means 
Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine,
 the 
currency of the Borrower; 
(c) 
“CMDT” means 
Compagnie Malienne pour le Développement des Textiles, 
a
textile developing share holder company where the Borrower holds the majority of shares, 
established and operating pursuant to 
Ordonnance 
No. 4/CMLN dated January 30, 1975
,
published in the Borrower’s legal gazette No. 21 dated March 1, 1975, pages 1,012 through 
1,016; 
(d) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(e) “DNB” 
means 
Direction Nationale du Budget
,
the Borrower’s directorate, within 
MEF (as hereinafter defined), responsible for the budget; 
(f) “DNCF” 
means 
Direction Nationale du Controle Financier
 of MEF 
 
(as hereinafter defined); 
(g) “DNTCP” 
means 
Direction Nationale du Trésor et Comptabilité Publique
,
the 
Borrower’s directorate, within MEF, responsible for Treasury and public accounts; 
(h) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year, covering the period from 
January 1 to December 31; 
(i) “HUICOMA” 
means 
Huilerie Commerciale du Mali
,
a
state enterprise 
established and operating pursuant to 
Ordonnance
 79-15/CMLN dated March 12, 1979;  
(j) 
“Letter of Development Policy” means the Borrower’s letter referred to in 
paragraph (A) of the Preamble to this Agreement; 
(k) 
“Medium-Term Expenditure Framework” or “MTEF” means the Borrower’s 
medium-term expenditure framework; 
(l) “MEF” 
means 
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances, 
the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Economy and Finance; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(m) 
“PRODEC” means 
Programme Décennal de Developpement de l’Education
,
the 
B
orrower’s long-term education policy program pursuant to the November 1, 2000 policy letter 
referred to in Recital (A) of the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association dated February 1, 2001; 
(n) “PRODESS” 
means 
Programme de Développement Sanitaire et Social,
 the 
Borrower’s long-term health and social policy program adopted on October 21, 1998; 
(o) 
“PRS” means the Borrower’s Poverty Reduction Strategy, as detailed in the 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper covering the period from 2002 to 2006 and adopted on 
May 29, 2002; and 
(p) 
“UEMOA” means the 
Union Economique et Monétaire Ouest Africaine,
 the 
West African Economic and Monetary Union, established pursuant to a Treaty dated  
January 10, 1994 completing the Treaty constituting the West African Monetary Union (WAMU) 
dated November 14, 1973, for the promotion of regional integration among its member states, i.e., 
the Republic of Benin, Burkina Faso, the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire, the Republic of  
Guinea-Bissau, the Republic of Mali, the Republic of Niger, the Republic of Senegal and the 
Republic of Togo. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to sixteen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in 
support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain at BCEAO, a deposit account in 
Francs CFA on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  All withdrawals from the 
Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  If the 
Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
Page  6
-
5
-
notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount 
of said payment, or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account 
for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 16, 2006 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent  
(1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date of 
this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by 
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of 
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time 
be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 1, and August 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each February 1 and  
August 1 commencing August 1, 2015 and ending February 1, 2045. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on February 1, 2025 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.  
 (b) 
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
Page  7
-
6
-
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail, as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than  
six (6) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination  
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance, or the 
representative thereof, is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
BP 234 
 Bamako 
 
Republic of Mali 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(223) 222 1914 
 
For the Association: 
International Development Association  
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
Telex:   
 
    Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
    (202) 477 6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALI 
 
By /s/ Abdoulaye Diop  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ A. David Craig 
Authorized Representative 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another credit or a loan; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 
728.43 
  Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is 
a
party);  
6. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if 
such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that corrupt 
or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of 
the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
The Borrower has: 
Part A
:
Budget Policies and Financial Sector
1. 
maintained a satisfactory macroeconomic framework;  
2. 
prepared, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnished to the 
Association, a report on the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework for the education sector, for 
Fiscal Years 2005-2007; 
3. 
adopted the Ministry of Health’s Medium-Term Expenditure Framework for the health 
sector, for Fiscal Years 2005-2009, consistent with the second phase of the PRODESS, and 
defined the mechanisms for its updating pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 11 of the Letter 
of Development Policy; 
4. 
finalized the terms of reference for the audit of non-performing loans made by 
commercial banks and initiated the tendering procedure for the selection of auditor(s) 
to carry out said audit pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 16 of the Letter of 
Development Policy; 
Part B
:
Public Expenditure Management, Control and Transparency
5. 
prepared terms of reference, acceptable to the Association, and launched the bidding 
process for the preparation of 
cahiers des charges
 for the integration of the information systems 
used within MEF at the level of the 
services 
déconcentrés
 of the DNB, DNCF and DNTCP, 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 28 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
6. 
completed a study, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, to prepare an 
action plan designed to integrate the recommendations of various studies funded by donors for the 
strengthening of budget management, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 29 of the Letter of 
Development Policy; and 
7. 
disseminated through the internet, and other means of communication, a quarterly 
bulletin, on budget execution, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 31 of the Letter of 
Development Policy. 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
 
