Page  1
1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1589 
Project Name 
MALI:  SAC IV 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (50%); General industry and 
trade sector (50%) 
Project ID 
P083272 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Mali 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances 
Mali 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X ] C   [ ] FI   [ ]  
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[X ] S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
Date PID Prepared 
May 11, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
August 31, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 18, 2004 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
1. 
Mali’s reforms established solid foundations for a market economy, but there remains 
significant agenda ahead. 
Following the establishment of political and social stability in early 1990s, 
further macroeconomic and structural reforms, and the devaluation of the CFA franc in 1994, Mali’s 
annual real GDP growth rate accelerated to an average 5 percent over the period 1994-2002 and poverty 
decline. Despite good policy performance, however, much remains to be done to sustain broad-based 
growth, strengthen the financial sector and public expenditure management, and improve service delivery 
to the poor. Prudent expenditure management will be key to macroeconomic stability, efficient allocation 
of public resources, and service delivery; it will also provide underpinnings to investment climate for  
growth. For 2004 alone, financing requirements amount to about US$131 million; SAC IV would provide 
US$25 million (about 20 percent) with the other donors (e.g., EU) providing the remainder.  
2. 
The proposed project is consistent with the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) 
(2002) and the Bank’s CAS (2003).
 The PRSP was endorsed by the Bank and the Fund boards and is 
supported by the donors. Its strategy  rests on (i) accelerating shared, private-sector led growth; (ii) 
strengthening institutions, governance and participation; (iii) developing human resources and access to 
basic s
ervices; and (iv) strengthening basic infrastructure and productive economic activities. The Bank’s 
CAS (July 2003) instruments support the PRSP, emphasizing improved resource management for 
reducing poverty. The borrower’s commitment to and ownership of reforms is strong, and the proposed 
SAC could provide transition towards broader programmatic lending (PRSC). Following an IMF-
supported PRGF, which expired in 2003, the authorities have reached an agreement on a new PRGF to be 
presented to the Fund Board in June 2004. A broadly shared agenda with the donors suggest that SAC IV 
may provide timely 
transitional
 support to set the stage for the Bank’s broader, PRSC lending.  
 
Page  2
2
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The SAC IV in support of the authorities’ reforms would aim at:  
(i) 
contributing to broad-based growth
and poverty reduction by strengthening fiscal policy and 
financial sector underpinnings of stable, long-run growth.
 Fiscal policy will be strengthened,  
inter alia, by (i) developing medium term expenditure policy consistent with poverty reduction 
objectives, (ii) strengthening the link between the PRSP and the budget, and (iii) limiting budget 
transfers to parastatal enterprises. Financial sector reform will be advanced by taking steps 
towards strengthening of the financial system (e.g., preparing the ground for the clean up of bad 
loans) and limiting the risk of bank insolvency. This is expected to result in greater access to 
credit and broader financing alternatives to Malian entrepreneurs (e.g., relaxing regulatory 
constraints on leasing companies serving small farmers and entrepreneurs), thereby promoting 
financial deepening and economic growth.   
(ii) 
improving efficiency, accountability, and transparency in public expenditure management
.
This will be achieved by strengthening budget preparation, execution, and controls, increasing 
transparency and disclosure including at decentralized levels, and helping ensure better 
monitoring of and access to basic services by the poor. 
3. Preliminary description 
 
3. 
The SAC IV would be a transitional operation toward PRSC-based adjustment lending.
 It 
would follow adequate progress in the first phase of the SAC III agenda and the separation of the national 
cotton company (CMDT) from the budget. This will help limit the threat to fiscal and macroeconomic 
stability posed by financial risks of the cotton company.  Once it can be established that the budget would 
not cover any potential losses of the CMDT and process of privatization accelerated, the Bank would 
move rapidly to provide budgetary assistance through rolling three-year programs of PRSCs.  SAC IV 
would be disbursed in a single tranche of US$25 million and would comprise the following two 
components: 
Component 1:   
Strengthening fiscal and financial sector underpinnings of broad 
–based 
growth  and poverty reduction
 
4. 
Fiscal policy.
 
Prudent fiscal policy, especially in Mali’s context, is a cornerstone of the 
favorable investment climate and business environment conducive to long-run growth.
 
PRSP now 
serves as the country’s main strategic and policy document, to be translated each year into a rolling 
medium-term program of actions. One challenge for the authorities now is to align annual fiscal policy 
program of the annual budget with the PRSP. Macroeconomic monitoring, coordination, and expenditure 
planning must be improved, and a 
medium term expenditure framework (MTEF)
 
developed that is 
firmly linked with both sector MTEF plans and the overall annual budgets. In particular, coordination 
between key planning ministries (Ministry of Economy and Finance and Ministry of Plan) must become a 
matter of routine, and monitoring and evaluation of expenditure programs in the context of PRSP 
implementation should be strengthened. Priority expenditure will need to be protected and monitored to 
make sure that they reach the poor. More broadly, budget preparation  must be closely coordinated with a 
realistic macroeconomic framework, MTEF and the PRSP. This will help strengthen Mali’s broader 
capacity for developing and monitoring coherent growth strategy and coordination across sector 
ministries on important cross-cutting issues (e.g., trade and transit facilitation). Another challenges is to 
strengthen the overall 
fiscal discipline
.
A
clear and transparent transitional mechanism should be 
developed on route towards a sustainable phaseout of budget support for loss-making parastatal 
enterprises (e.g, cotton company). In this context, the operation would support implementation of the new 
Page  3
3
producer price-setting mechanism (developed under the SAC III), particularly establishment of an initial 
endowment of a stabilization fund, to be managed by farmers’ organizations, using the 2004 profits of the 
cotton company (CMDT).  
5. 
Financial sector.
 
A
strong financial system and regulatory framework allowing greater 
access to small-scale Malian farmers and entrepreneurs is key to private sector-led growth.
 Under 
the government’s financial sector development program initiated in 2000 (and supported by a Bank TA), 
progress has been achieved in the legal and regulatory environment. However, there remain a risk of bank 
insolvency and a recent investment climate review indicates that access to credit and cost of finance are 
the most important constraints to Malian entrepreneurs. Three sets of financial sector issues merit 
attention in the proposed project: (i) the level of 
bad loans
 remains high at 20 billion FCFA (about 9 
percent of total bank credit to the economy at end-2003), (ii) discriminatory 
tax and regulatory 
constraints
 (e.g., on leasing companies, and insurance companies, respectively) are limiting financial  
sector’s lending to the Malian entrepreneurs and farmers, and (iii) the 
insurance and pension system
 
need thorough diagnoses towards reform action plans. 
 
6. 
Component 2:  
Strengthening public expenditure management, transparency and controls
 
7. 
Building on past public expenditure management reforms will be important to support the 
fiscal underpinnings to growth and improve efficiency and transparency of expenditures.
 The 
Malian authorities made strides in budget formulation, and to some extent in 
budget execution and 
monitoring
,
and 
internal/external audit and performance evaluation
.
Under the SAC III, important 
steps were made, inter alia, to clear the backlog of annual expenditure reports, produce monthly treasury 
balance statements in a timely fashion, and launch a new information system connecting the Treasury, 
Budget and Financial Audit departments in the Ministry of Finance (MEF). However, despite  
improvements, further strengthening of execution and controls/audit functions is needed, especially at 
decentralized/de-concentrated levels of government, which are on the frontline of social service delivery. 
The proposed project will seek to improve public accounting, budget execution and monitoring, 
strengthen controls, and increase 
transparency
 of
expenditure transactions. 
8. 
Many SAC IV reforms and the authorities’ broader agenda will inevitably have longer 
implementation horizon, but the SAC IV is expected to help move the country towards broader 
reforms in the future. 
To help the authorities formulate and implement the broader reforms, the SAC IV 
will identify certain markers/triggers over the horizon of about 6 six months after the completion of the 
SAC IV. The purpose of these markers/triggers is to identify a few critical measures and activities and 
provide a clear sense of direction and priority for key reforms. Safeguard policies that might apply 
9. 
This is a “C” project requiring no environmental safeguard assessment. 
10. 
Tentative financing
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
25 
 Total 
25 
4. Contact point 
Contact: Zeljko Bogetic, TTL 
Title: Lead Economist, AFTP4 
Tel: (202) 473-2143 
Fax: (202) 473-8136 
Page  4
4
Email: zbogetic@worldbank.org
 
