Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
RePqrt No.  11763
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE-PROJECTS
(CREDITS 1492-ZR AND 1685-ZR)
APRIL 1, 1993
Industry and Energy Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Zaires
1985             - US$1.00=           56
1986             -                    71
1987             -                    132
1988             -                    274
1989             -                    455
1990             -                    2,000
1991             -                    63,673
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVATIONS
ADB           -     African Development Bank
BDZ           -     Banque du Zalre
CCA           -      Contribution sur le Chiffre d'Affaires
CCCE          -     Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CEPETEDE   -        Centre de Perfectionnement aux Techniques de Developpement
CIDA          -     Canadian International Development Agency
EDI           -     Economic Development Institute
EIB           -     European Investment Bank
FAC           -     Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
INS           -     Institut National de la Statistique
KfW           -     Kreditanstalt fOr Wiederaufbau
MNEI          -     Ministbre de l'Economie et de l'Industrie
OPEZ          -     Office de Promotion des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises ZaTroises
OZAC          -     Office Zairois de ContrOle
SMEs          -     Small and Medium Enterprises
SOFIDE        -     Societe Financiere de Ddveloppement
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
April 1, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Report on Zaire
SOFIDE VII and VIII (Credits 1492-ZR and 1685-ZR)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Zaire - SOFIDE VII and
VIII (Credits 1492-ZR and 1685-ZR)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office, with Part II contributed by
the Borrower.
The Seventh and Eighth Development Finance Projects used SOFIDE (Soci&t6 Financiere de
Ddveloppement) as IDA's exclusive intermediary for foreign exchange loans to industry, agriculture and
services. At the same time, the projects aimed to strengthen SOFIDE through institutional reforms as well
as by helping it to diversify its lending operations.
SOFIDE has made some progress in making foreign credit available to new enterprises when no
other institution would, developing technical expertise in project evaluation and supervision, and training
managers that moved on to other Zairian institutions. However, overall, the implementation of these
projects, as that of the three previous ones, has been very disappointing.
The reasons for the poor implementation, as indicated by the dramatic deterioration in SOFIDE's
portfolio, are clearly indicated in the PCR: (a) poor economic management by the Government that made
it very difficult for SOFIDE to operate satisfactorily; (b) weakness of SOFIDE's management in monitoring
the quality of its portfolio; and (c) failure by the Government to take adequate account of the implications
of passing the foreign exchange risk to the final beneficiary. IDA staff were consistently overoptimisdc
on Zaire's capacity to achieve economic stability and contain inflation and SOFIDE's ability to operate in
an uncertain environment.
The project is unsustainable. The Eighth credit line, about 60 percent disbursed, was suspended
in January 1989 and the undisbursed balance cancelled in August 1992. SOFIDE is now bankrupt and its
future, considering the overall situation in the country, remains highly uncertain. Any resumption of
activities by SOFIDE will require drastically changed country conditions and equally drastic restructuring
of its mandate and management.
An audit is planned for these credit operations, together with the three previous ones.
Attachment                                       (
Tbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonmance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMNPLElON REPORT
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECTS
(Credits 1492-ZR and 1685-ZR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  .............            .................................                  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................................                              iii
PART I: REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                 1....... 
Project Identity   .....................1................... 
Background      ......................1.................... 
Project Objectives, Design and Preparation ..... ............                   4
Project Implementation ....... .............. .                                 6
SOFIDE's Financial Performance ............................ .                   7
Project Impact        ............................. .                           8
Project Sustainability  ....... .............. .                                9
Lessons of Experience ....... ............... .                                 9
PART II: REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                      11
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .........................                          15
Annex 1 Related Bank Credits ..............................                    15
Annex 2 Project Processing and Implementation Time  ....      ...........      16
Annex 3 Loan Disbursements ...............................                     17
Annex 4 Status of Compliance with Major Covenants ................             18
Annex 5 Use of Bank Resources - Mission Date ...................               19
Annex 6 SOFIDE: Evolution of Share Capital Structure ....      ..........      20
Annex 7a SOFIDE: Projected and Actual Lending Operations (1984-1991)  ...      21
Annex 7b SOFIDE: Projected Income Statements (1984 - 1989)     .     .         22
Annex 7c SOFIDE: Actual Income Statements (1984 - 1991)       .      .         23
Annex 7d SOFIDE: Actual Balance Sheets (1984 - 1991)        .       .          24
Annex 7e SOFIDE: Projected Financial Performance Indicators (1984 - 1989).     25
Annex 7f SOFIDE: Actual Financial Performance Ratios ....      ..........      26
Annex 8 SOFIDE: Evolution of Loan Arrears Situation  ....      ..........      27
Annex 9 SOFIDE: Chronology of Events and Performance, 1980 - 92    .....       28
Annex 10 SOFIDE: Lending and Profitability Simulations ....     .........      31
Annex 11 SOFIDE: Simulationb of Implact of Inflation on Projected
Capital Requirements .........................                 32
Annex 12a Experience with Subprojects .........................                33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Pane No.
Annex 12b Experience with Subprojects..............                             35
Annex 12c Characteristics of Subprojects Financed Under Credit 1492-ZR  ...     36
Annex 12d Characteristics of Subprojects Financed Under Credit 1685-ZR  ...     37



PROJECT COMPLE3IONREPORT
ZAIRE
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECTS
(CREDITS 1492-ZR AND 1685-ZR)
PREFACE
1.        This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the seventh and eighth Development Finance
Projects in Zaire, for which Credit 1492-ZR for $36 million was approved on June 5, 1984 and Credit
1685-ZR for $50 million was approved on April 10, 1986. The seventh line of credit was closed and fully
disbursed in March 1991, while the eighth, which was suspended in January 1989, was about 60 percent
disbursed and the undisbursed balance cancelled on August 1, 1992.
2.        The Industry and Energy Division of the South Central and Indian Ocean Department, Africa
Region, prepared this report (Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and III) jointly with SOFIDE,
Zaire's development bank (Part II).
3.        The Bank prepared its sections of the report based, inter alia, on the following sources:
President's Reports to the Executive Directors; Staff Appraisal Reports; Credit Agreements; Supervision
Reports; Back-to-Office Reports; Audit Reports; Correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower;
internal Bank memoranda; Project Completion Reports for the Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Credits to SOFIDE
(Cr. 710-ZR; Cr. 998-ZR; and Cr. 1273-ZR); Correspondence with the European Investment Bank and
IFC; and discussions with various staff members involved in the SOFIDE projects.






- iii -
PROJECT COMEPLEON REPORT
ZAIRE
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECTS
(CREDITS 1492-ZR AND 168S-ZR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background and Objectives. The seventh and eighth development finance projects provided
foreign exchange term finance to the Societe Financiere de Developpement (SOFIDE), continuing IDA
support under six earlier lines of credit. Both IDA and IFC were instrumental in the creation of SOFIDE
and have been supportive since its inception in 1970. The seventh and eighth Credits used SOFIDE as
IDA's exclusive intermediary for foreign exchange loans to industry, agriculture and services in Zaire and
aimed at three related objectives: (i) a continuation of institution-building support, (ii) a response to
expected demand for productive investments stemming from reforms in the industrial incentive structure
and the macro-economic framework, and (iii) an incentive for, and technical assistance to, the Government
to implement economic reforms. Project completion reports on the previous six SOFIDE lines of credit
noted the serious difficulties of operating in the Zairian economy, the deficiencies in project appraisal and
supervision and the inadequate loan loss provisions, all leading to an institution in serious trouble. These
findings notwithstanding, structural adjustment lending to Zaire in the mid-eighties raised expectations for
an improved environment and contributed to the case for further lending to SOFIDE in support of a supply
response through increased private sector investment.
ii.       This project completion report covers the seventh and eighth lines of credit to SOFIDE.
Subsequent to these Credits, IDA approved an APEX line of credit through the banking system, including
SOFIDE, to finance small-scale enterprise projects. A Project Completion Report on the fourth, fifth and
sixth lines of credit to SOFIDE was recently distributed to the Board (Report No.SecM92-623 dated May
12,1992). That Report covered the period 1980-89. The seventh line of credit was closed officially on
December 31, 1990 and fully disbursed in March, 1991, while the eighth, which was suspended in January,
1989, was about 60 percent disbursed, and the undisbursed balance was cancelled on August 1st, 1992,
more than two years ahead of the original closing date. The present PCR, while updating SOFIDE's
performance and environment, overlaps with the previous PCR, and reaches substantially similar
conclusions.'
iii.      Overall Assessment. Implementation experience with these two Credits was generally as
disappointing as under the previous Credits. SOFIDE's performance during the period under review
(1984-91) was on average below expectations, highlighted by the failure to achieve sustainable
improvements in its financial situation, and in particular loan collection rates which dropped to a 34 percent
low in 1988 (see Annex 7 for projected and actual financial results). The principal cause of the
disappointing performance, as reflected in the poor financial results of SOFIDE, lies in the Government's
Annexes in Part III provide project details including the project timetables, mission and disbursement
data and compliance with credit covenants, as well as projected and actual financial performance.



- iv -
lack of consistency with the adjustment process which deepened macroeconomic instability and contributed
to spiraling inflation. Other causes include management weaknesses and an inherently high-risk portfolio
structure. In 1989, as it became increasingly evident that sustainable financial intermediary activities were
no longer feasible, IDA suspended the eighth Credit and closed it in August 1992, two years ahead of
schedule, cancelling 40 percent in undisbursed funds. A chronology of events and of SOFIDE's
performance in the 1984-92 period is given in Annex 9.
iv.        SOFIDE's portfolio continued to deteriorate during the 1984-91 period, with the percentage
of the portfolio affected by arrears averaging over 90%. The chronically poor portfolio condition and
persistently high inflation have eroded SOFIDE's capital base leading to a negative net worth by 1991
(para. 5.1). Institutional development objectives were also not achieved although some progress was
registered after the suspension (para. 6.1). The new management put in place in mid-1989 has made a
serious effort to improve collections, and carried out an administrative reorganization and cutbacks in staff.
Project appraisal suffered from the distorted economic environment and over-optimistic assessment of
markets and SOFIDE's clients management capabilities. The Credits had little impact on the financial
sector, as SOFIDE was the exclusive intermediary and no general sector conditionalities were incorporated
in project design. In an attempt to shift the orientation of its financial sector work, in 1985, IDA began
a dialogue on sector issues, and in 1987 made a first Credit to the banking sector through an APEX
institution. However, the unstable macroeconomic environment hampered IDA's attempts to influence
financial sector policies and led to the interruption in 1989 of preparations for a broader quick-disbursing
financial sector reform operation.
v.         Notwithstanding its overall disappointing financial performance, SOFIDE played an important
role in the development of the industrial sector in Zaire: it provided support to new enterprises and for the
rehabilitation of existing firms, when other financial institutions were unwilling to take risks; it developed
technical expertise in project evaluation and supervision; and it provided a training ground for managers
who moved on to take responsible positions in other Zairian institutions. Performance of enterprises
financed under the Credits remains mixed and negatively affected by poor management, insufficient own
equity funds, negative impact of the economic down turn, particularly the hyperinflation and currency
depreciation. Given SOFIDE's foray into lending for highly risky small projects in the rural areas, with
the encouragement of donors but without the benefit of a well-conceived operating strategy, and Zaire's
massive problems of transportation and communications, these results are not surprising (para 6.2).
vi.        Sustainability. SOFIDE is now bankrupt and its future is highly uncertain. Considering the
size of the economy and the likely need for a multi-service investment-cum-merchant banking institution,
SOFIDE could have a future in Zaire (para. 6.3). However, time may be running out for SOFIDE, whose
survival and ability to compete successfully with other financial institutions is intimately linked to
macroeconomic stability and to far-reaching financial sector reforms. But even under improved conditions,
SOFIDE will need to undergo fundamental restructuring and redirection of its activities to achieve
sustainable financial health. For this, the assistance and participation of private foreign partners that goes
well beyond financial recapitalization and distances SOFIDE from even the appearance of a government
institution will be required. Fundamental changes in staffing, organization, internal incentives, operating
cost structure and lending rates as well as significant reform of the legal and regulatory framework will
be necessary (para. 7.2).
vii.       Lessons Learned.  The SOFIDE experience in Zaire confirms the view that financial
intermediation loans in highly distorted environments carry excessive risks of failure. Notwithstanding the
donor strategy to assist SOFIDE in its struggle for survival, support to a failing institution were also unwise



- v 
as they reduced accountability and blunted initiatives toward self-sustaining profitability and financial
health. Specifically, high spreads and rollover of IDA Credits took away incentives from SOFIDE to
improve its efficiency and assume responsibility for its performance. Other lessons include: Development
Finance Institutions (DFIs) should not borrow in foreign currency in a high inflation environment, unless
their paid-in capital is also denominated in foreign exchange; IDA should have diversified its institutional
base for financial intermediation earlier than it eventually did; diversification in the operations of the
financial institution should be examined very carefully whenever the economic situation is entering a
troubled period. SOFIDE proved that it did not have the staff, nor the financial strength to alone handle
diversification and restoration of sustainable performance of its portfolio.
viii.     In retrospect, IDA and other donors' analyses of SOFIDE's problems in the 1980's did not
factor-in sufficiently the size and requirements of SOFIDE's potentially important market which could have
justified more drastic steps for solving its problems, given the implicit decision not to let SOFIDE go under
(para. 8.3). A more aggressive approach could have been justified during the time that improved economic
management seemed sustainable. For example, the prospect of full privatization and the import of private
foreign banking partners and know-how should have been explored. Such a privately-run institution could
then satisfy the banking service and export financing requirements of Zaire's many manufacturing, agro-
industrial and mining enterprises together with their needs for medium and long-term financing. Finally,
no financial intermediary operation should be justified solely on the basis of documented investment
demand and resource requirements (para. 8.4).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECTS
(CREDITS 1492-ZR AND 1685-ZR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Name                       : Seventh and Eighth Development Finance Projects
Credit Numbers             :1492-ZR and 1685-ZR
RVP Unit                   : Africa Region
Country                    : Zaire
Sector                     : Industry and Finance
2.    Background
2.1    Origin of Operations.  The World Bank Group was instrumental in the creation and has been
closely associated with the development of the Societe Financiere de Developpement (SOFIDE) since its
inception in 1970. SOFIDE is the only development finance institution (DFI) in Zaire and is jointly owned
by the Government of Zaire (40%), several international donors (including IFC and the CCCE) and local
Zairian shareholders (see Annex 6 for details of shareholding). Over the years, SOFIDE had to weather
numerous difficulties, most notably the highly volatile economic environment in which it has been
operating. In addition, from the beginning, despite the presence of expatriate top managers, it has
experienced managerial difficulties, and chronic financial problems.
2.2   This project completion report covers the seventh and eighth IDA Credits to SOFIDE. Subsequent
to these Credits, IDA approved an APEX line of credit through the banking system, including SOFIDE,
to finance small-scale enterprise projects (Annex 1). A Project Completion Report on the fourth, fifth and
sixth Credits to SOFIDE was recently distributed to the Board (Report No.SecM92-623 dated May
12,1992). That Report covered the period 1980-89. The seventh line of credit was closed and fully
disbursed in March, 1991, while the eighth, which was suspended in January, 1989, was about 60 percent
disbursed, and the undisbursed balance was cancelled on August 1st, 1992, more than two years ahead of
the original closing date. The present PCR, while updating SOFIDE's performance and environment,
overlaps with the previous PCR, and reaches substantially similar conclusions.
2.3    At the time of approval of the seventh line of credit (June, 1984) which was followed by the eighth
less than two years later (April, 1986), SOFIDE was showing signs of recovery, buoyed by an upswing
in economic activities and Government declared commitment to implementing the structural adjustment
program agreed with the International Monetary Fund (MF) and IDA. Building upon the stabilization and
liberalization measures, undertaken since 1983 by the Government, IDA approved its first adjustment
Credit to Zaire: The Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (SAC Cr. 1708-ZR and A-19-ZR), which was
approved June 10, 1986, and closed on June 30, 1988. A Project Performance Audit Report (No. 8838
dated 6/30/1990) was circulated to the Board. In addition to provision of foreign exchange for industrial



inputs and spare parts, the ISAC also aimed at reforming industrial, trade and enterprise policies and
regulations, including reforms of the incentives system (i.e., customs and tax regimes, elimination of price
controls, and of export regulations and taxes). Financial sector issues were not covered under ISAC and
the preparation of a financial sector operation was abandoned in 1989 when the overall adjustment program
unravelled.
2.4    The eighth SOFIDE line of credit was processed in parallel with ISAC. It was expected to provide
long-term funds to private sector investors responding to the new incentive regime. Continued IDA
financial and institutional support was deemed crucial to consolidate the gains both in SOFIDE and
Government policies. Anticipating that the benefits of the then on-going economic reforms, particularly
under ISAC, would result in short-term difficulties for some SOFIDE clients, and hence its portfolio, a
major objective of the SOFIDE operations was implementation of an Action Program aimed at maintaining
the quality of its portfolio and increasing its profitability. The action plan was primarily aimed at
improving collections and it was based upon a detailed analysis of the risk distribution of loans in the
portfolio (in terms of sector activities, financial performances and expected impact of on-going adjustment
reform measures, etc.,).
2.5    The implementation of this plan was undertaken by SOFIDE with vigor and determination, with
some short term positive results (e.g., improvement of collections and liquidity position, lower operating
costs). However, the plan focused exclusively on the short term financial problems of borrowers but did
not address their root causes; nor did the plan analyze market conditions, SOFIDE's strengths and
weaknesses and its competitive position. Such an exercise could have permitted SOFIDE to prepare a
comprehensive and sustainable business plan. Instead, the plan consisted of a series of actions focused on
project appraisal, lending and supervision techniques (e.g., improvements in guarantees, portfolio sale, loan
reschedulings, new money, etc.,). No specific action related to the sector mix of the portfolio or future
lending strategy was envisaged.
2.6   In retrospect, the eighth operation came on stream too soon. The viability of the pipeline of
investment projects under the then prevailing economic environment, was not fully established. Indeed,
despite changing incentives increasing the relative profitability of exports, most of the sub-projects in the
pipeline were import-substituting activities. Wood projects for export were a notable exception. The
sustainability of short-term gains in sector policies and the arrears situation, and the implications on
portfolio quality of further increases in lending activities was not analyzed. Targeting of high-risk
borrowers (e.g., small-scale, rural and agricultural micro-enterprises) continued partly because of other
donor conditions. The eighth operation did put added emphasis on improving the collection rate on loans.
No significant improvement was registered, however, as the collection rate dropped to a low 34 percent
during the third quarter of 1988, along with a worsening economic situation due to inappropriate
Government policies. Consequently, less than one year after its effectiveness, IDA had to suspend the
investment component of the eighth Credit in January, 1989. As it became increasingly evident that
sustainable financial intermediation activities were not feasible in the foreseeable future under a hyper-
inflationary environment, the eighth Credit was closed on August 1st, 1992; 40 percent of undisbursed
funds were cancelled (See Annex 9 for a brief chronology).
2.7    Following the Credit suspension a management shake up brought back as chief executive, a former
senior manager with a strong mandate (i) to curtail lending, (ii) to improve the quality of the loan portfolio,
(iii) to improve operating efficiency through a reform of the organizational structure, and (iv) to implement
a thorough financial restructuring, including loan write-offs, recapitalization, and most importantly, to
establish a realistic and sustainable cost structure. However, this mandate was to be implemented under
extremely unfavorable macroeconomic and political circumstances. The new general manager vigorously



-3-
implemented the program and achieved positive results aided in that by the subsidies granted by donors and
Government alike, and by the positive effect of inflation on revenue generated by the performing assets,
and by a stable cost structure for its outstanding borrowings.
2.8    Economic and Financial Environment. The two lines of Credit were approved and implemented
during 1984-1990, when the Government initiated an economic program, which was then abandoned and
restarted, finally giving way to a complete lack of fiscal discipline, as a result of which economic and
social conditions have reached unprecedented lows over the last two years:
* From 1983-mid-1986, Zaire undertook wide-ranging reforms, including a 78 percent
devaluation of its currency in SDR terms and the introduction of a flexible exchange rate
system; substantive exchange, trade and price liberalization measures (including
agricultural prices and interest rates); tighter public expenditure controls, including
containment of wage increases; and measures to reduce the burden of parastatals on
public finances.
* From late 1986 to end-1988, the Government discontinued the stabilization program and
weakened its adjustment effort. Although trade liberalization continued, response from
the private sector was minimal because of (i) the Government's failure to control public
expenditure; (ii) the partial reversal of previous progress in exchange rate adjustment and
price liberalization.
* In 1989, the Government tried to improve revenue collections, maintain a flexible
exchange rate, bring controlled prices and interest rates closer to the market and improve
access of the private sector to credit and foreign exchange; however this was short-lived
as in 1990 the Government again discontinued its adjustment efforts, especially as regards
public expenditure, inflation and credit targets, avoidance of external and domestic arrears
and parapublic sector reform. By 1991-92, this led to a downward spiraling economic
degradation, accelerated by endemic governmental instability as Zaire embarked upon a
democratization process.2 Rioting in September/October 1991 seriously affected many
modern sector enterprises.
2.9         The ensuing downward decline of economic activities affected most severely the modern
sector (mining, industry, construction, banking and trade), the assets of which have been so much eroded
that a massive reconstruction effort would be required to restore them. During 1989-91, domestic
production contracted by at least 10 percent and exports by about 28 percent in SDR terms. In 1991, value-
added declined by 37 percent in mining and 34 percent in construction. The production of GECAMINES--
the State-owned giant copper mining concern that traditionally provided 70 percent of Zaire's official
foreign exchange earnings- decreased by 50 percent in 1991. The company recorded large financial losses
and its output and prospects continued to deteriorate during 1992, thus negatively affecting a very large
number of local suppliers and subcontractors, many of which SOFIDE borrowers. There was also further
degradation of physical infrastructure and human capital as (i) public investment virtually dried up; and
(ii) budgetary expenditures were directed further away from developmental purposes.
2       No less than six short-lived different governments failed successively to come to grips with
the country's hyperinflation and political and economic woes.



- 4 -
2.10        Because government revenues declined without a similar adjustment in expenditures, the
resulting fiscal deficit was financed through money creation. As a result, money supply grew dramatically
and the availability of domestic credit (in real terms) and foreign exchange to the private sector declined
sharply. By 1990, the budget deficit exceeded 10 percent of GDP and was estimated at 25 percent in
1991, owing to GECAMINES' difficulties, higher debt service obligations, declining tax yields, and lack
of control over government expenditure. The practice of financing the fiscal deficit by accumulating
domestic and external arrears and printing large quantities of currency led, in 1990, to a 265 percent
inflation rate which accelerated to over 4,200 percent in 1991. Between end-1989 and April 1992, the
exchange rate depreciated from Z457/US$ to about Z150,000/US$, despite an acute shortage of currency
notes. By early September 1992, the official exchange rate exceeded Z650,000/US$ and the parallel rate
was reported at up to Z700,000/US$.
2.11        The deterioration of SOFIDE's portfolio and erosion of its equity, should come as no surprise
under these conditions which its management could muster little control over. The persistently high
inflation contributed to SOFIDE's decline in two ways: (i) its equity base was eroded in real terms despite
3 capital infusions, relatively high lending spreads and low (relative to the health of the portfolio) loan loss
provisions; and (ii) the highly volatile environment increased the default risk emanating from its biggest
customers, in particular, as they have been assuming the foreign exchange risk of their loans.3 Beyond
the impact of exogenous factors, there remains the legitimate question whether SOFIDE's management
could have done more to adapt to an admittedly unfriendly environment.
3.          Project Objectives. Design and Preparation
3.1         Obiectives. The seventh and eighth lines of Credit to SOFIDE had three related objectives:
(i) continue the institution-building support provided to the institution since its inception, (ii) respond to
demand stemming from the upsurge in productive investments that was expected to accompany policy
reform under ISAC, and (iii) provide an incentive for, and technical assistance to, the Government in its
declared commitment to implement significant economic reforms (see Annexes 2-5 for the project
timetable, mission and disbursement data, and compliance with covenants for these two Credits). These
projects also confirmed IDA's policy to use SOFIDE as the sole intermediary for foreign exchange loans
to industry, agriculture and services, until December, 1987, when the first APEX line of credit to finance
and develop small-scale enterprises through the banking system became effective.
3.2         Design. Under the seventh line of credit, IDA targeted for the first time, the development
of export-oriented investments (i.e., projects expected to export at least 25 percent of their production),
and encouraged SOFIDE to increase its equity investments by allocating US$5 million and $4 million,
respectively, of the Credit to such categories. This first timid foray into export-oriented investments
appears to be recognition of the risks associated with the import-substituting ventures hither-to-fore funded
by SOFIDE. Early warning signs of the limited possibilities offered by import-substituting industries
became evident from their low capacity utilization and deteriorating financial conditions as reform measures
decreased protection and started subjecting businesses to external competitive pressures. Rehabilitation
investments by existing firms were thus also expected.
3.3          To address these and other sector policy issues the project included a sizable Studies and
Technical Assistance component to the Government to help it strengthen its capacity to formulate sector
policies, improve the statistical base and undertake sector reviews. There was also a recognition that
3     Prior to 1980, Government had borne the foreign exchange risk.



SOFIDE's portfolio could be adversely affected by the reform measures. An analysis was undertaken in
this respect to determine the direct impact of reform measures on the urban-based, import-substituting
industries, and appraisal and lending criteria were developed to ensure that only economically viable
investments would be supported by IDA funds, leaving other ventures to be financed freely from other
sources. In retrospect, the same criteria should have been applied to all SOFIDE lending. Non-viable
projects, whether financed by IDA funds or not, contributed to SOFIDE's financial difficulties. Other
conditionalities focused on strengthening the institution by implementing an agreed Action Plan, essentially
to improve collection rates and portfolio quality.
3.4         Another weakness with project design was the continued reliance on a single institution, thus
severely limiting IDA's capacity to influence financial sector policy. This was evidenced by the fact that
throughout most of the period interest rates for loans in domestic currency were negative in real terms.
Even though SOFIDE tried unsuccessfully to regain some competitive edge by decreasing effective lending
rates which were higher than those offered by other Zairian banks, it offered only one product, and thus
could not meet the overall requirements of its clients. Moreover, SOFIDE was able to operate only
because of substantial subsidies'. IDA began working on a separate financial sector adjustment Credit in
the mid-eighties which was abandoned when the adjustment process collapsed in early 1990.
3.5         Project Preparation. Shortcomings and gaps in project preparation include:
- under the seventh line of credit, SOFIDE was required to prepare action plans for some
of its larger troubled projects, but no specific targets for collection or for improving
arrears ratios were set;
* over-optimistic assumptions about achieving macroeconomic stability and containing
inflation levels in Zaire. The two appraisals assumed that inflation would be reduced to,
and maintained at, an average 20 percent annual rate over the period of commitment,
against actual average rates well in excess of 60 percent;
* no sectoral analysis of the implications and risks associated with continued funding of
import-substituting investments, and inadequacy of the emphasis on export-oriented
projects (abandoned anyway under the eighth Credit as it became increasingly clear that,
with the exception of wood processing, there was little interest in export activities);
* by requiring that SOFIDE include rolled-over IDA funds and a Government loan as
quasi-equity in the form of subordinated debts, the institution was given an added
liquidity cushion, and increased leverage for more borrowing, and hence lending;
structural changes needed for the planned diversification into much riskier small-scale
lending, were not implemented; and as a result the diversification was unsuccessful;
SOFIDE's borrowing costs were effectively subsidized in a variety of ways: the rollovers of IDA
lines of credit at very low (grossly negative in real terms) rates; low borrowing costs on some of
its other donor funds; it paid no income tax; many of its borrowings were guaranteed by the
Government of Zaire.



- 6 -
* in order to offset the high cost of the foreign exchange risk assumed by borrowers,5
SOFIDE (with IDA's approval) began in 1984 to bring lending rates (and spreads) down--
just at the time when it needed those spreads to cover the growing loan losses in the
portfolio.
* absence of sufficiently detailed financial analysis of the impact of inflation and the many
subsidies enjoyed by SOFIDE. Income tax exonerations, generous, below market cost,
equity funds, which other financial institutions did not enjoy, were not sufficiently
factored into the financial projections. Some sensitivity analysis putting SOFIDE on a
par with the banking system would have permitted an assessment of the sustainability and
justification of such largess, and could have resulted in their gradual reduction.
Moreover,such an analysis could have been reinforced and completed with a detailed
assessment of the impact of continued low collections on cash-flow and the equity base,
and of inflation and devaluations on the balance sheet, all key aspects of SOFIDE's
operations. Although appraisal reports did not ignore the above issues, their analysis
tended to be qualitative and limited.
4.          Project Imnlementation
4.1         SOFIDE's performance during 1984-91, with the exception of a short-lived improvement in
1985-87, was unsatisfactory. A major reason for this was continued inconsistency in the management of
the economy and lack of Government commitment to reforms. Big swings in macroeconomic and sectoral
policies made it difficult for an institution such as SOFIDE to operate satisfactorily. Moreover, SOFIDE
management's weakness was not mitigated either by tougher lending conditions or by limitation over time
of the generous subsidies that kept piling up as problems arose. This led to a lax attitude reinforced by
consistently optimistic IDA projections over the 1984-89 period (Annex 7). Donors, including IDA, sought
to shelter SOFIDE, which was a relatively well functioning institution in the Zairian context, from the
macroeconomic environment. SOFIDE remained in dire financial stress, indeed it is technically bankrupt,
because the sources of its financial predicaments, including macroeconomic instability, have not been all
removed.
4.2         Throughout the period under review SOFIDE's worsening arrears situation remained its most
crucial, but certainly not its only problem. The Action Plan and subsequent restructuring activities
continued to put undue emphasis on resolving that single problem by targeting portfolio performance,
including relatively weak appraisals, inadequate information systems, insufficient collateral, and generally
weak loan administration. The Plan failed for instance, to fully analyze and address the issues raised by
Zaire's antiquated and inefficient legal and regulatory system which makes collateral registration,
realization, and generally foreclosures, time consuming, costly and next to impossible. SOFIDE relied too
much on rescheduling as called for under the Plan, as a means of working out loan repayment problems,
thus inadvertently worsening some portfolio problems and profitability prospects. This is because
reschedulings often call for 'new money", lower interest rates and some write-off, to accompany the
company's restructuring and encourage it to persevere. Such quasi-merchant banking operations are
complex in nature and tended to be costly in financial terms and to worsen, rather than improve the arrears
situation, when not well conceived and implemented. SOFIDE has thus embarked on providing short-term
facilities to finance working capital requirements of certain customers, a disguise to provide "new money".
Much of the problem vis-a-vis other lenders was the foreign exchange risk, which effectively pushed
the SOFIDE loan rates well above any other in Zaire.



- 7 -
Rescheduling operations require highly specialized technical skills to prepare sustainable restructuring
packages with distressed clients and to intensify supervision. SOFIDE, which did not have such staff,
implemented a wide ranging training program, institutional reorganization and managerial changes to that
effect, especially under its new top executive. Also, although SOFIDE has been able to operate with
substantial independence by Zairian standards, it has not been totally immune to political influence as
demonstrated by the fact that it has a few clients which simply have been unwilling (rather than unable)
to pay.
4.3         Another factor affecting project implementation was the relative weakness of management
since expatriate managers and advisors were replaced progressively by their Zairian counterparts with
mixed results. For one, SOFIDE could not hold on to the well trained cadre of Zairian counterpart
professionals after departure of the expatriates. While SOFIDE's accounting systems seem to have
improved following technical assistance provided under the preceding IDA operations, it never developed
a strong financial planning capability. Although of course the main problem was project approval not
based on objective financial and economic criteria, inadequate financial management systems were also
important. Management information systems improved as pressure to collect and present a reliable
financial picture built up over the years and some expertise was gained, particularly in providing more
consistent and accurate information about the portfolio and between the regions and headquarters.
5.          SOFIDE's Financial Performance 6
5.1         Portfolio performance. SOFIDE's portfolio deteriorated dramatically during 1984-91, with
the percentage of the portfolio affected by arrears averaging over 90% (Annex 8). Collections have slightly
improved from an average 60 percent in 1980-88, to over 75 percent of amounts falling due during the
1989-91 period. In 1992 collections are reported at over 100 percent but the figure is not meaningful
because it resulted from Government assumption of the foreign exchange risk on two large borrowers, and
from SOFIDE's provision of short term facilities to a significant number of its customers. Loan loss
provisions were generally well below the necessary levels. When a portfolio audit was done in 1989 and
substantial provisions taken, they wiped out SOFIDE's capital base.7 The poor portfolio performance lies
in (i) inadequate project appraisal and supervision; (ii) passing on of foreign exchange risk to borrowers
unable to carry the risk; (iii) high rates of interest, which over time attracted only the most marginal
borrowers, and thus further undermined portfolio quality; and (iv) the difficult and erratic economic
environment.
5.2         Profitability.  SOFIDE's nominal profitability situation could be misleading and it cannot
be compared to other banks' because of its tax-exemption status and the many other subsidies received.
Profit before taxes averaged 1.2 percent and 20.3 percent of average assets and equity in 1984-88. From
1989, both ratios turned negative because of the large portfolio losses which were recognized in that year.
Unaudited 1990 and 1991 financial statements show substantial profitability improvements. These are due
to indexation of interest rates to compensate for the high inflation rate, and high spreads due to non
indexed, low cost borrowings. Its gross and net earnings margins for 1990 and 1991 were in excess of
10 percent and 7 percent, respectively, owing to its high spread. Such earnings margins are uncommon
6     Annex 7 details SOFIDE's projected and actual financial operations during 1984-91. The key
aspects of its performance are highlighted in this section.
7       It is expected that additional provisions will be necessary, as collections remain low and a significant
portion of the portfolio remains non-performing, with questionable underlying collateral.



- 8 -
(Annex 7). SOFIDE's profitability and net worth are negative, as inflation keeps eroding its assets and
equity base.
5.3         aDital structure: In 1989, the massive loan loss provisions wiped out SOFIDE's equity,
and the low collection rate would have created serious liquidity problems had SOFIDE not curtailed lending
activities and IDA Credits not been rolled over. As shown in Annex 11, with inflation averaging 50% per
year for 5 years, SOFIDE would have had to increase its capital by 5000% just to maintain a 3:1
debt:equity ratio (assuming that operations remained at the same level in real terms). However, thanks to
the belt tightening and improving loan collections, SOFIDE's liquidity position has reached comfortable
levels that allow it to cover its operating costs. Although the shareholders had in principle agreed to a
recapitalization of SOFIDE in 1990, subject to drastic improvements in collections and the restructuring
of the institution, all actions have been suspended because of the continuing political and economic turmoil
in Zaire.
6.         Project Imp
6.1         Performance under the two Credits must be analyzed taking into account that SOFIDE's
management (i) had little control over the many economic factors that conditioned its operations, and (ii)
was overprotected and not rendered accountable, by the continuous support received from IDA, other
donors and Government, in the form of various subsidies, and relatively lenient borrowing conditional ities.
As a result, in addition to the poor financial performance, SOFIDE did not achieve all that was expected
in the way of institutional development, although some progress has been registered in both domains,
following suspension of the eighth Credit. SOFIDE did achieve improvements in accounting and computer
systems while appraisal and supervision functions as well as financial management capacities were gradually
being upgraded. However the sustainability of the registered progress as well as of SOFIDE's current
activities remains questionable, particularly under Zaire's worsening macroeconomic instability. At some
point SOFIDE would have to resume some lending activities to generate additional revenue and profits in
order to continue loan loss provisionings and shore up its equity base. To do so would require a rethinking
of its vocation, the formulation of a comprehensive and sustainable strategy, and implementation of an
adequately designed-albeit downsized-organizational structure and staff recruiting/training and
development plan.
6.2        Annex 12 provides data on the sub-projects financed under the seventh and eighth lines of
credit. The sub-projects exhibit many of the same weaknesses as the rest of SOFIDE's portfolio: poor
management within the project, lack of sufficient working capital (often because of insufficient funds on
the part of the entrepreneur), inadequate security, profitability hampered by devaluations and inflation, etc.
The sub-projects also show the impact of the devaluations on cost overruns, which were considerable.
Finally, the experience under the Credits shows that SOFIDE did diversify its activities somewhat during
the period under review, channeling a larger portion of the credits to non-manufacturing activities.
Notwithstanding its overall disappointing financial performance, SOFIDE played an important role in the
development of the industrial sector in Zaire: it provided support to new enterprises and for the
rehabilitation of existing firms when other financial institutions were unwilling to take risks; it developed
technical expertise in project evaluation and supervision; and it provided the training ground for managers
who moved on to take responsible positions in other Zairian institutions.
6.3        Under SOFIDE's current management some signs of possible recovery are emerging.
Provided macroeconomic stability is rapidly restored, and considering the market size, the riches and
potential presented by the Zairian economy, there may be a need and scope for SOFIDE to develop into
a mature investment banking institution catering to a significant segment of medium and large enterprises.



- 9 -
But to have any chance for survival, SOFIDE must, in the short term, pursue its portfolio clean up,
concentrate on very selective lending operations, and strengthen its financial base. In the meanwhile
serious thought must be given to radically transforming it into an investment banking and trade financing
institution, preferably in association with private foreign banking partners.
7.          Project Sustainability
7.1         SOFIDE's future is intimately linked to achieving macroeconomic stability and restoring
conditions conducive to normal financial intermediary lending in Zaire. SOFIDE continues to survive
thanks to the management change of 1989, and the implementation of its recovery plan. SOFIDE may
have a future in Zaire, but it needs to undergo fundamental restructuring, well beyond a write-off and
recapitalization exercise. Government, SOFIDE management and the donor community should consider
seriously the following issues in reconstituting SOFIDE:
* With inflation running at over 5,000 percent annually, and Zaire still in the grips of
worsening macroeconomic instability and political uncertainties, financial intermediation
activities are not possible in the foreseeable future;
* Does Zaire need a development bank, albeit a different one with a merchant banking
vocation? Can it be put on a profit-making basis, and should it remain (at least partially)
a channel for market-based Government and donor lending activities?
* Can SOFIDE survive if the rest of the financial sector is in disarray? Is there a market
segment in which SOFIDE can be competitive? Would SOFIDE be more successful if
it directed lending exclusively to export-oriented investments and firms, including
provision of trade-based short-term facilities and investment counselling-cum-merchant
banking services? Would SOFIDE be able to compete in this area with foreign owned
and/or operated commercial banks? Should it not seek a foreign partner in this respect?
7.2         The restructuring of SOFIDE and the sustainability of any development strategy for the
institution will be contingent upon (i) radical financial sector policy reforms,(ii) rehabilitation and
rationalization of Zaire's banking system to weed out nonviable entities, particularly in view of--yet to be
assessed - damages caused by the current hyperinflation and macroeconomic instability, (iii) a far reaching
reform of the legal and regulatory system governing banks, commercial and industrial enterprises and
activities, and (iv) creation of market based financial and capital market institutions to complement banking
activities. Whatever the market directions to be selected, SOFIDE must operate on a free market basis,
with provision made for a smooth transition period and readiness on the part of donors, including IDA,
and Government to help defray the transitional costs to free market. Care should be taken to ensure that
no financial institution continue to rely on subsidized funding, so as to put all of them on an equal
competitive footing. In order to ensure viability of the conversion to market determined lending and
borrowing activities, SOFIDE should seek new foreign commercial partners to provide capital, market
outlays, and managerial and operational know-how.
8.          Lessons of Experience
8.1         There are several lessons to be drawn from the SOFIDE experience. The most evident lessons
were analyzed and described in detail in the PCR for SOFIDE-V to -VI. These lessons confirm those
learnt in other financial intermediary loans to DFIs and are summarized in paragraphs vii and viii of the
Evaluation Summary. They include: do not make financial intermediation loans in highly distorted



- 10-
environments; diversify the institutional base for intermediation rather than concentrating on a single
institution; do not lend in foreign currency in a high-inflation situation unless the paid-in capital of the
borrowing institution is also denominated in foreign exchange; carry out a vigorous financial assessment
of borrowing institutions and prepare a strategic business plan; stay away from subsidies. Additionally,
however, at least three operational lessons drawn from the SOFIDE-VII and -VIII experience could be
usefully emphasized again.
8.2          Firstly appraisals of financial intermediary operations should clearly identify root causes of
financial problems and likely outcomes of policy failures. In the SOFIDE case too much emphasis was
put on one single solution (improve collection rates) to a single institutional problem (deteriorating loan
portfolio), both of which had their roots in wide ranging industrial, trade and financial sector policy
failures. For example inadequate implementation of measures to address crucial issues identified under the
Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (i.e., to lower protection rates, remove ex-post price controls and
administrative bottlenecks faced by industrial exporters, and decrease continued high business taxation)
should have been factored in earlier on, during supervision, particularly in terms of implications for
SOFIDE's portfolio and lending strategy.
8.3          Secondly the approach to defining and redressing structural problems faced by DFIs must
be revisited to take into account the size of the market. DFIs despite their shortcomings, need not
unnecessarily be written off. In an enviromnent such as Zaire, the size of the economy and enterprises,
demand for investment financing and related services and the export potential of many enterprises could
justify the existence of a specialized financial institution to cater to, and/or compete successfully with other
banking institutions. Provided of course that macroeconomic stability is achieved and conditions for normal
financial intermediary lending are restored, capital market development is a real possibility. In such a
setting, alternatives exist to conceive a viable strategy of diversification of a DFI such as SOFIDE into a
multi-service, self-sustaining and competitive investment banking institution, as was achieved in comparable
country settings.
8.4         Thirdly no financial intermediary lending should be made exclusively on resource grounds
even if demand justifies it. The decision to appraise an eighth line of credit to SOFIDE, so soon and
without having achieved sustainable progress in portfolio performance for instance, and solely on the basis
of resource requirements, appears in retrospect to have been precipitous. The appraisal was undertaken
without a full assessment of the implications of (i) early signs of government backtracking from the
adjustment program, and before sufficient progress in the reforms targeted under the ISAC, given Zaire's
already shaky credibility; (ii) the existence of uncommitted other donor lines of credit available for use in
targeted, highly risky lending activities (i.e., small-scale, rural and micro-enterprises), and of (iii)
increasing SOFIDE's leverage, thus providing a substantial increase in lending capacity without adequate
safeguards.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECTS
(Credits 1492-ZR and 1685-ZR)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I.       Background: Economic and Financial Environment
While SOFIDE concurs with the Bank's analysis of the background to these projects and the
economic and financial environment in which they were implemented, it wishes to make the following
observations:
Lack of business plan: Project action plans were drawn up to serve as management indicators
in the process of adapting the collections improvement effort to each enterprise. At the same time, the
portfolio was analyzed as a prelude to drafting of a business plan, the view being that such a plan could
be effective only if based on a diagnostic study of SOFIDE. It is a matter for regret that the Board of
Directors, to which these reports were submitted, failed to draw the obvious lessons and bring them
together    in the form of a business plan, for instance.
II.      Project Preparation. Design and Objectives
Weakappraisals: Once again, Bank observations on shortcomings in project appraisals are valid.
Although the assumptions on which profitability computations were based do appear to have been
optimistic, we are justified in claiming that some projects proved generally satisfactory and were able to
meet their debt-service obligations without too many difficulties (e.g. SWANEPOEL, AFRIDEX,
KATEBE, UTEXAFRICA, etc.).
Lowering of interest rate: While it is true that spreads narrowed as a result of the lower interest
rate, the difficulties encountered by beneficiary enterprises were not imaginary: most of them were
engaged in activities focused on the domestic market, whereas debt-service obligations were indexed. It
was necessary to ease operating conditions to some degree so that repayments were likely to be regular,
especially as it was a simple matter for borrowers to compare our rates with those in force in Europe.
III.     Sustainability of SOFIDE
We believe SOFIDE's future course might be that of a merchant and investment bank offering
a range of services, a move it will be able to make all the more easily as the entire Zairian banking system
needs to be rethought. No other domestic bank appears to be so well placed to take advantage of such an
opportunity.  Another promising factor is that it has already begun to consider the question of
diversification.
Diversification of Activities



- 12 -
Short-term operations: In an effort, however minor, to mitigate its capital losses, exacerbated
by the degree of inflation (+ 4,000%), and at the same time to avoid the major risk inherent in medium-
and long-term credit operations in an environment of general uncertainty, SOFIDE obtained authorization
from its Board of Directors and the monetary authorities (Bank of Zaire) to finance short-term operations,
although limited to clients in the production sector. A special team was set up to monitor these new loans
until necessary reforms could be instituted.
As of October 31, 1992, the agency's portfolio of 45 short-term loans represented 54% of its
sound 83-project portfolio. The high percentage of working-capital lending reflects the rise in activities
of this type dating from early 1991, and points up the degree of shrinkage - for want of new loan
approvals - in SOFIDE's "investment loan" portfolio.
Those 45 short-term loans involved a total of Z 976 billion, or 15% of total exposure through
the sound portfolio.
The monthly recovery rate on working-capital loans is generally above 95%, and occasionally
even above 100% as a result of advance repayments by some clients.
Working-capital loan business has led to collaboration between the commercial banks and
SOFIDE, particularly visible where surety requirements are concerned, since most coverage of short-term
loans is in the form of bank guarantees; for instance, repayments on due dates are secured by various
classes of paper or notes signed by debtors and guaranteed by their bankers.
ExDort credits: As part of its short-term lending business, SOFIDE is currently negotiating
cooperation arrangements with a commercial bank that will allow it to finance and monitor export activities.
We would also recall positive contacts of SOFIDE's in the past which allowed it to finance the foreign-
currency needs of export firms capable, without too much difficulty, of withstanding the exchange risk
involved.
Content of Action Plan: It should be noted that the restructuring of enterprises in the SOFIDE
portfolio that were in difficulties did not involve granting additional loans, lowering contractual interest
rates, or writing off any part of their debt.
Restructuring was limited to extensions of repayment periods on outstanding balances and to
rescheduling of unpaid obligations - although the latter were subject to interest at current rates, since
rescheduling was considered the equivalent of recapitalization. These arrangements, which as a rule gave
satisfactory results, made due allowance for the conditions under which borrowers were operating and their
real capacity to repay.
Projects that were restructured did not have the benefit of working-capital loans, since they were
usually classified as lacking in good faith.
If the debt write-offs referred to in para. 4.2 were a result of "de-indexing," then it is important
to note here that SOFIDE had no authority to grant the exchange-risk benefit and that the majority of de-
indexings were decided by the authorities - Ministry of Finance and Bureau of Public Debt
Administration (OGEDEP) - entirely at their own discretion and even against the spirit and letter of
the statute creating the Exchange-Risk Coverage Fund.
Project execution: We wish to dispute the assertion that shortcomings developed in the project



- 13 -
execution process once expatriate advisors and managers were replaced by their Zairian counterparts. The
two expatriates who worked on the 7th and 8th IDA lines of credit did so as advisors only, although they
were sometimes very effective, whereas day-to-day management had been the responsibility of local staff
since 1974.
According to the report made by Mr. Georges Gondicas, a World Bank consultant, and even
to the Bank's own reports, SOFIDE counts able professionals among its staff - one illustration of which
is the recovery plan that enabled it to overcome the difficulties facing it in 1988 and 1989.






- 15 -
Annex I
Page 1 of 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE ]PROJECTS
(Credits 1492-ZR and 1685-ZR)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Credits
Credit Title       Purpose                                                 Year of       Status
Approval
190-ZR             Funding for commencement of operations.                 1970          Fully disbursed.
271-ZR             Long-term finance for productive investments;           1971          Fully disbursed.
strengthen SOFIDE's appraisal capabilities.
463-ZR             Long-term finance for productive investments;           1973          Fully disbursed.
strengthen SOFIDE's appraisal capabilities.
710-ZR             Funding for import content of SOFIDE                    1977          Fully disbursed.
subprojects.
998-ZR             Funding for foreign exchange cost of                    1980          Fully disbursed.
productive investments in Zaire; staff
training, technical assistance i equipment
for SOFIDE.
1273-ZR            Funding for foreign exchange cost of                    1982          Fully disbursed.
productive investments in Zaire; technical
assistance & policy studies for Goverrnent;
training, equipment & seminars for SOFIDE &
CEPETEDE.
1492-ZR            Foreign exchange financing for investment;              1984          Fully disbursed and
technical assistance & policy studies for                            closed December 31, 1990.
Goverrnent; training, equipment & seminars
for SOFIDE & CEPETEDE.
1685-ZR            Foreign exchange financing for investment;              1986          Coimitments suspended on
technical assistance & policy studies for                            investment components in
Goverrnent; training, equipment & seminars                           January 1989 and Credit
for SOFIDE & CEPETEDE.                                               closed August 1st, 1992.
1708-ZR/A-19-ZR    Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit to                  1986          Fully disbursed and
support policy reforms designed to increase                          closed June 30, 1988.
the efficiency and productivity of industrial
enterprises
1791-ZR            APEX line of credit for small-scale                     1987          Credit is 48% disbursed.
enterprise financing through banking system,                         Commitments under
including technical assistance and training                          investment component are
suspended and balance is
to be cancelled before
closing date of December
31, 1995. Commitments
and disbursements under
TA component expected to
continue.



- 16 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 1
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROlE-CTS
(Credits 1492-ZR and C165-ZR)
Project Processinz and ImDlomentation Timetables
Item                                         Pltared                    Revised                    Actual
a. Cr. 1492-ZR
Preappreisal
Apprlseal mission                            10/09/83                                               10/09/83
Credit negotiations                          04/13/84                                               04/13/84
Board approvl                                06/05/84                                               06/05/84
Credit *ignature                             08/07/84                                              08/07/84
Credit *ffectiverms                          10/07/84                   11/07/84                    01/30/85 U
Credit closing                               12/31/90                                               12/31/90
Credit comptetion                            12/31/90                                               12/31/90
b. Cr. 1J 8ZR
Preappr^astl
Appraisal mission                            11/10/85                                                11/10/85
Credit rngotiatiorn                          03/26/86                                                03/26/86
Board approval                               04/29/86                                                04/29/86
Credit signature                             09/18/86                                                09/18/86
Credit effectiveness                         12/17/86                   02/17/87                     04/14/87 1i
Credit closing                               12/31/94                   08/01/92                     08/01/92
Credit compLetion                            12/31/94                   08/01/92                     08/01/92
1 Delays due to missing subsidiary document and legal opinion.



- 17 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 1
SEVENM AND EIGHrNH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROIECT
(Credits 1492-ZR and 1685-ZR)
oan Disbursements
Disbursements (in S million)
Fiscal Year       Estimated         Actual            Actual as         Actual as %
Cumulative        Cumulative        of Estimated      of IDA
Standard
a. Cr, 1492-1R
1985                .28               .46             164.3%             16.7%
1986              8.16             17.89             219.2%             216.1%
1987             21.35             33.31              156.0%            201.3%
1988             29.59              36.40             123.0%            159.9%
1989              35.15             38.41             109.3%            135.9%
1990              36.00             38.43             106.8%            116.1%
b. Cr. 1685-ZR
1987               1.02              2.10             205.9%             99.1%
1988               6.00              9.20             152.5%            144.1%
1989             14.20             23.80              167.9%            187.7%
1990             23.00             31.00              134.6%            177.3%
1991             31.00             31.80              102.6%            146.7%
1992             37.40             30.10               80.5%            118.6%



- 18 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 1
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOMN FINANCE PROJECTS
(Credits 1492-ZR and 1685-ZR)
Status of Compliance with Major Covenants
Covenant                                    Status of Compliance
1. SOFIDE shall carry out the Project in  In compliance.
accordance with its Statutes and Statement of
Policy.
2. SOFIDE shall furnish to the Association all  In compliance.
such information as the Association shall
reasonably  request  concerning  the
administration,  operations  and  financial
condition of SOFIDE.
3. SOFIDE shall furnish to the Association  In compliance.
audited financial statements not later than six
months after the end of the fiscal year.
4. The ratio of SOFIDE's long-term debt to its  Generally not in compliance because of devaluations
equity plus quasi-equity shall not exceed 5:1.    and allocations to provisions for loan risks. Improved
briefly in 1984 with capital subscription; worsened
steadily through 1989 (negative net worth). Within
limits in 1990 and 1991.
5. SOFIDE shall take steps satisfactory to the  In compliance.  In 1980, the Government set up
Association as shall be necessary to protect itself  through OGEDEP an administrative mechanism to
against risk of loss resulting from changes in the  transfer to it all liabilities arising out of past foreign
rates of exchange between the various currencies  exchange borrowings of SOFIDE.  SOFIDE then
(including Zaires) used in its borrowing and  began to pass on all foreign exchange risk to its
lending operations.                        borrowers.
6. SOFIDE's total investment in a single  Generally in compliance.
enterprise is limited to not more than 20% of
SOFIDE's paid-in share capital, unimpaired
reserves and quasi-equity.
7. Provisions for risks of loss on bad and  In compliance.
doubtful loans shall equal at least four percent of
loan equity portfolio of maturity in excess of one
year.



- 19 -
Annex 5
Page I of I
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECTS
(Credits 1492-ZR and 1685-ZR)
Use of Bank Resources - Mission Data
Stage of            Date      No. of     Days in    Specialization                   Performance
Project Cycle         mo/yr    persons       field      Represented                     Rating Status
a. Cr. 1492-ZR
Through Aooraisal
AppraisaL           10/83          6        21       Op. officer, agriculturalist
consultants
Post AppraisaL      01/84          2        14
Pre Negotiations   03/84           2         6       Op. Officer, Sr. Loan officer
Supervision
Supervision         11/84          2        12       Op. officer, YP                              2
Supervision         07/85          2         8       Op. officers (2)                             2
Supervision         10/86          3        18       Op. officer                                  2
Supervision         03/87          3        18       Op. officer                                  2
Supervision         07/88          4        18       Op. officers, economist                      3
Supervision         04/89          3        09       Sr. op. officer                              3
Supervision         09/89          2        20       Sr. op. officer, Op. officer                 3
Supervision         02/90          2        18       Sr. op. officer, Op. officer                 3
Supervision         10/90          2        08       Sr. op. officer, Sr. banking officer         3
b. Cr. 1685-ZR
Throuch Aocraisal
Appraisal           11/85          4         14      Sr. op. officer, YP                          2
Supervision
Supervision         11/86          3        18       Op. officers                                 2
Supervision         03/87          2        21       Op. officer                                  2
Supervision         07/88          4        18       Op. officers5 economist                      3
Supervision         04/89          3        09       Sr. op. officer                              3
Supervision         09/89          2        20       Sr. op. officer, Op. officer                 3
Supervision        02/90           2        18       Sr. op. officer, Op. officer                 3
Supervision         10/90          2        08       Sr. op. officer, Sr. banking officer         3



- 20 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 1
SEVENlll AND EIGEHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECTS
(Credkt 1492-ZR and 1S.ZR)
SOFIDE: Evolution of Shero Caitsl  Structure
(in percentageO)
Infitit           _nd-191
Total Shae Capktl m11on 1 a-zesl                                    2               260.00
Shareholder:
Zairfan PublIc Sector:                                             35.00             40.00
Goverrwnt of ZaIre                                              (12.50)           (20.00)
Bank of Zafre                                                   (12.50)           (20.00)
Comrcial banks                                                  (10.00)            (0.00)
Zairfan Private Sector:                                             20.00            27.20
Commercial banks                                                 (0.00)           (13.85)
Other private frvestorr                                          (20.00)          (13.35)
forefon Develayment Institutions:                                   20.9k            27.88
CCCE                                                              (2.19)           (7.50)
DEC                                                               (0.00)           (7.88)
IfC                                                             (18.75)          (10.00)
EIS                                                              (0.00)            (2.50)
Private Fordion Bank                                                240               i12Z
TOTAL                                                              100.00           100.00



Annex 7a
Page 1 of 1
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECTS
(Cr,dlt 1492-ZR aNd 1685-ZRI
SOFIDE: Prolected nd Actual I"endIfm gerations (198M-1991) 1J/
(Z mI on)
1964              1965              1986         ..2L..... 1988 2                         1969             1990       1991j.
Proi.  Act. Ac  tual .    Actua   P A ctuatAroc. Atul IPo.L   Actuat  iroJL  Actual                           Actual     Actuat
APPROVLS
Loans                   903.4   941.6   1,023.5  1,589.9  1,730.0  1,238.9  2,433.0  4,320.4  3,126.0  6,972.4  4,116.0  1,196.0    7,752.3    6,634.9
Equity investm ents        0.0     3.2       0.0      0.0      10.0      0.0     14.0      0.0     18.0      0.0      26.0      0.0        0.0        0.0
-            Total approvals       903.4   944.8   1,023.5  1,589.9  1,740.0  1,238.9  2,447.0  4,320.4  3,144.0  6,972.4  4,142.0  1,196.0    7,752.3    6,634.9
sags,  MUsaun    =as=a*s  sasss  asasa-   Suanam  scasasx  sagzaas.  Suzann=  Sansums., nass  mammas=    saummn    naxssma
CGUIITNENTS
Law CO"hlTZEUT1,016.4   563.8   1,278.7  1,900.0  2,050.0  2,842.0  2,316.0  2,781.0  2,977.0  4,742.0  3,925.0   1562.6    1,021.9    6,319.9
Equity investments        0.0      3.2       0.0      0.0      10.0      0.0     14.0      0.0     18.0      0.0      26.0      0.0       32.0       21.0
Total comeltments   1,016.4   567.0   1,278.7  1,900.0  2,060.0  2,842.0  2,330.0  2,781.0  2,995.0  4,742.0  3,951.0   1582.6    1,053.9    6,340.9
;  sawu   a .s..a   a=sua=  sau..===  ZaZa-sa  gassasa  z==a==a   ====maa Sua *-...a  sas=-= =s=Zs-=   sZaas.    usxuaa    msassaS
DI SBURSEMENTS
Loans                   760.1   751.5   1,126.3  1,795.0  1,971.0  4,764.0  1,998.0  3946.1   2,640.0  6,688.1  3,480.0 11,011.1   15,704.0    30,130.2
Equity investments        0.0      5.4       0.0      0.0     10.0       6.1     14.0     0.0      18.0      0.0      26.0      0.0        0.0         0.0
Total investments     760.1   756.9   1,126.3  1,795.0  1,981.0  4,770.1  2,012.0  3946.1   2,658.0  6.688.1  3,506.0 11,011.1   15,704.0    30,130.2
asa:    ga=s.   aa======  Z.s S -  *-A-Zsa    a*aa====5   asaz=a  as5555  sasa   aSursanna  *As. - A W=as=sX   azsasas   UZsZaaa
S/ 90UCES:
Prolected Data: 1984-85, IDA appraisaL of SOFIDE VII; 1986-89, IDA ppraisal of SOFIDE VIII.
Actual Data:     1984-88, Supervision Report of 05/23/89;
1969, 1990, 1991, the corresponding Amuast Reports.



- 22 -
Annex 7b
Page 1 of 1
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECTS
(Credits 1492-ZR and 1685-ZRI
SOFIDE: Projected Income Statements (1984 - 1989)
(Z mi I ion)
1984      1985        1986        1987         1988         1989
INCOME
Loan Portfolio:
Interests and Comissions                67.7       80.2        839.0       1,193.0     1,604.0      2,077.0
Deposit Interest                         1.3         1.1        14.0          19.0         44.0        70.0
Investment Dividends                     0.2        0.2      )           )            )            )
Other Income                            .....          -----    18.0      )   26.0    )   36.0    )   40.0
Total Income                              69.2       81.5        871.0       1.238.0      1.684.0     2.187.0
EXPENSES
Administrative Expenses                 31.1       41.6        121.0         155.0        194.0       244.0
Allocations to Provisions 2              1.3         4.1       289.0         360.0        447.0        517.0
Depreciation Allowances                  0.9         1.0        10.0          30.0         43.0        54.0
Borrowing Charges                       29.4       33.8        288.0         437.0       616.0        853.0
Total Exoenses                          62.7       80.50      z70            982.0     1.300.0      1,668.0
Net Operating Profit                     .           3.0       163.0                      384.0        519.0
Allocated to:
Legal Reserve                          0.6        0.3        ....           ....        ----         ....
Dividends                              1.2        1.2         40.0          46.0         55.0        68.0
jj    For 1984-1985, as per IDA appraisal of SOFIDE VII; for 1986-1989 as per IDA appraisal of SOFIDE VIII.
2/    Provisions include the Provision for General Risks.
3/    SOFIDE is tax-exempt on revenues.



Annex 7c
Page 1 of I
BSWNTE AIMD XIGuTH DNYELOI       FnU   PROJ p
(Credit. 1492-IM and 1665-Z)
SOFIDE: Actual Income Statements (1984 - 1991)
(Z million)
1984     1985      1986        1987        1988         1989           1990          1991
INCOME
Loan Portfolio:
Interests and Comissions            216.7    488.0      844.0      1,973.5      3,362.0      5,302.8      9,243.7        68,883.2
of which: interests              (198.1)  (444.5)   (821.2)   (1,905.6)   (3,218.4)   (5,139.4)   (9,155.9)           (68,462.2)
Deposit Interest                     16.1      32.7       15.6         20.2       164.7        786.8      2,690.0         4,933.2
Interest Dividends                                                                                             7.2            18.5
Other Income                         20.1      23.4      32.8         114.1       284.4      1,560.2      4,489.2       218,059.0
Total Income                          252.9    544.1      892.3      2.107.8      3.811.1      7.649.9    16.430.9         291.894.1
EXPENSES
Administrative Expenses                65.7    103.8       154.8        286.6        616.3      1,328.7     3,852.9         24,663.5
Allocations to Provisions (net)        90.4    226.0       353.1      1,026.4      1,995.0     9,019.8      7,083.8        108,839.2
Depreciation Allowances                 9.6      18.0       12.2         22.3         69.7        156.0        188.1           874.6
Borrowing changes                      63.1    150.5      295.1         696.1     1,037.3      2,606.1      4,127.5         10,036.2
Other Expenses                           -        3.8              - -                15.3          0.9            -
Total ExDenses                        228.8    502.1      815.2      2.031.4      3.733.6    13.111.5    15.252.3          144,413.5
Net Operating Profit (loss) U            24.1     42.0       77.1         76.4         77.5    (5,461.6)    1,187.6         147,480.6
Allocated to:
Legal Reserve                         2.4       4.2        7.7          7.6          7.7                     N/A             N/A
Dividends                            14.8      31.2                                39.0
Retained Earnings                     6.9       6.6      69.4          68.8        30.8       -
/j SOFIDE is tax-exempt on revenues.



Annex 7d
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOIPUNT FIDENCE PROJECTS
(Credits 1492-U and 1685-U)
SOFIDE: Actual Balance Sheets (1984-91)
(Z million)
1984      1985         1986         1987         1988        1989          1990         1991
ASSETS
Current Assets                               873.3    1,956.0       1.874.8     4.358.6      9,842.4)   14,124.0    45,509.3        243,144.1
less: Provisions                          (110.3)     (376.5)     (467.1)   (1,184.5)   (2,113.7)   (2,710.0)         (172.3)      (1,031.4)
Loan Portfolio i/                          1,278.3    2,495.2      5,900.0    14,044.1    24,967.7    50,608.0   125,874.3   1,515,613.9
less: Provisions 2/                       (142.9)    (367.0)      (720.2)   (1.813.9)   (3,690.6)  (20.784.4)  (44.749.4)   (643,497.2)
Net Loan Portfolio                         1,135.4    2,128.2       5,179.8    12,230.2    21,277.1    29,823.6    81,124.9         872,116.7
Equity Investments                            31.8        40.1         46.1         77.6        85.6         73.0         97.0           97.0
less: Specific Provisions                   (1.5)       (3.3)        (3.3)       (3.3)        (3.3)       (21.4)       (44.6)         (44.6)
Other Assets                                   0.6        47.9        325.2        664.6       490.4                       -              -
Net Fixed Assets                              83.1       161.4        263.4        506.7       842.2      4,730.8    14,637.5       330,466.8
TOTAL                                      2,015.5    3,953.8       7,218.9    16,649.9    30,420.7    46,020.0   141,151.8   1.444,748.6
.......     .......     .......     ........      .. ..... .  ..............................
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities                          110.4       376.5        467.1     1,184.5      2,113.6      2,710.0    11,400.8       329,576.8
Foreign Currency LT Debts                  1,531.3    3,065.5      5,817.5    12,982.5    23,063.1    38,984.0    84,713.0          606,164.3
(not Indexed)                             (174.5)     (264.7)      (55.3)      (522.8)   (1.641.3)   (5.033.0)        (593.5)    (94,089.4)
(Indexed)                              (1,356.8)  (2,800.8)   (5,762.1)  (12.459.7)  (21,421.8)  (33,951.0)  (84,119.5)   (512,075.0)
Other LT Liabilities & Borrowings t/           2.9         8.1          9.5         19.9        42.3        116.0    18,725.0        26,279.6
Sub-total                                  1.644.6    3.450.1      6.294.1    14.186.9    25.219.0    41.810.0   114,838.8          962.020.7
OUASI EOUITY
Government Loans                              15.0        40.0         13.3         12.9        11.2          9.0          5.0            5.0
Government advance                             1.0         1.0          1.0          1.0          1.0         1.0          1.0            1.0
Rolled Over IDA Funds                         84.8       181.8        552.5     1,889.9      4,611.7      9,296.0      3,054.9        4,078.8
Other Rolled Funds                               -       -                         124.9        175.8                 11,595.3        8,657.9
Sub-total                                    100.8       222.8        566.8      2.028.7      4.799.7    9.306.0    14,656.2         12.742.7
EOUITY
Share Capital                                260.0       260.0        260.0         260.0       260.0       260.0        260.0          260.0
Reserves and Retained Earnings                10.2        20.9         97.9         174.3        141.8    -5,356.0   11,396.8       469,725.3
Sub-total                                    270.2       280.9        357.9         434.3       401.8    -5.096.0   11,656.8        469.985.3
TOTAL                                      2,015.5    3,953.8       7,218.7      16,649.8    30,420.5    46,020.0  141,151.8   1.444,748.7
.              ..            ..            .      .     ...s...                       ...........



- 25 -
Annex 7e
Page 1 of 1
SYexyN AnD UZ4NW  VUVNLONI  ENCU PUOIUCYI
(Credit. 1492-St =n 16"5-S)
SOFIDE:  Prolected Financial Performance Indicators (1984-89)
(Percentages)
1984        1985        1986        1987        1988        1989
Income Statement as %
of Average Total Assets
Interests and Commissions on Loans  16.8           17.4        19.5        18.7        18.0        16.9
Deposit Interest                        0.3         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.5         0.6
Other Income                            0.1         0.1         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.3
Total Income                           17.2         17.7       20.2        19.4        18.9        17.8
Administrative Expenses                 7.7          9.0        2.8         2.4         2.2         2.0
Allocations to Provisions               0.3         0.5         6.7         5.6         5.0         4.2
Depreciation Allowances                 0.2         0.2         0.2         0.5         0.5         0.4
Borrowing Changes                       7.3          7.3        6.7         6.8         6.9
Total Expenses                         15.5         17.0       16.4        15.3        14.6        13.5
Net Ooerating Profit                    1.7         0.7         3.8         4.1         4.3         4.3
...         ...     .   ...         ...    .    ...         ...... .........
Profitability Indicators (%)
Income from Loans as t
of Average Loan Portfolio           18.9         19.9        33.1        21.6        21.2        20.7
Financial Expenses as t
of Average Loan Portfolio            8.0          8.3        10.9         7.6         7.8         8.1
Average Spread                         10.9         11.7       22.1        14.0        13.4        12.6
Return on Equity                      26.7          11.4       40.3        41.7        41.7        37.2
Return on Assets                        1.5         0.6         3.7         4.0         4.3         4.2
Financial Structure Indicators
Term Debt/Equity Ratio  /               2.8         2.6         3.3         4.0         4.4         4.4
i/ For 1984-85, as per IDA appraisal of SOFIDE VII; for 1986-89, as per IDA appraisal of SOFIDE
VIII.
j/ Equity includes quasi-equity.



Annex 7f
Page 1 of 1
ZAIRE
Seventh and Eighth Development Finance Projects
(Credits 1492-ZR and 1685-ZR)
SOFIDE - Actual Financial Performance Ratios
Inc. Stmt. (% of Total Avg. Assets)   1985        1986        1987        1988       1989        1990        1991  1/
Interest & Commissions on Loans      16.4%       15.1%       16.5%      14.3%       13.9%        9.9%       8.7%
Investment Interest                   1.0%        0.2%        0.2%       0.7%        2.1%        2.9%       0.6%
Other Revenue                         0.5%        0.2%        1.0%        1.2%       3.2%        4.8%      27.5%
Gross Revenue                        17.9%       15.6%       17.7%      16.2%       19.1%       17.6%      36.8%
Personnel Expenses                    2.0%        1.6%        1.1%        1.3%       1.6%        1.8%       3.1%
Administrative Expenses               1.5%        1.2%        1.3%        1.3%       1.9%        2.3%       0.0%
Provisions                            7.6%        6.3%        8.6%       8.5%       23.6%        7.6%       13.7%
Depreciation                          0.6%        0.2%        0.2%       0.3%        1.8%        0.2%       0.1%
Borrowing Costs                       5.1%        5.3%        5.8%       4.4%        6.8%        4.4%       1.3%
Total Expenses                       16.7%       14.6%       17.0%       15.8%      35.7%       16.3%       18.2%
Operating Income                      1.1%        1.0%        0.6%       0.4%     -16.6%         1.3%       18.6%
Other Income/(Expenses)               0.3%        0.4%        0.0%      -0.1%        2.3%        0.0%       0.0%
Net Income (Return on Assets [RO?     1.4%        1.4%        0.6%       0.3%     -14.3%         1.3%       18.6%
Return on Equity (ROE)               14.9%       21.5%       17.5%       19.4%         neg      10.1%      31.4%
Profitability Indicators (% of Loan Portfolio)
Income from Loans                    15.0%       12.3%       13.5%      15.3%       15.7%       11.8%       4.5%
Financial Expenses                    4.6%        4.3%        4.8%       4.7%        7.7%        5.3%       0.7%
Financial Spread                     10.3%        8.0%        8.7%      10.6%        8.0%        6.5%       3.9%
Personnel & Administrative Expense    3.2%        1.0%        1.1%        1.4%       2.1%        2.8%       0.0%
Operating Spread                      7.1%        7.0%        7.7%       9.1%        5.9%        3.7%       3.9%
___________________________
1/ Administrative and personnel expenses combined.
12-jan-93



- 27 -
Annex 8
Par 1 of 1
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROIECTS
(Credits 1492-ZR and 1685-ZR)
SOFIDE: Evolution of Loan Arrears Situation
Portfolio Condition
As of December           Loa Portfolio            Arrearsi                  Portfto A       a
Outstanding              As Percentay             by Arrem
(Z million)         of Portfolio
1984                          1,278                   9.0                     38.0
1985                         2,495                   12.0                     53.0
1986                         5,900                   23.0                     65.0
1987                         14,044                  27.0                     79.0
1988                         24,968                  29.0                     88.0
1989                         50,608                  28.0                     90.0
1990                        125,874                  23.2                     100.0
1991                       1,515,614                 42.0                     99.8
Loan Collections Performance
Period                                            Loan Collections Ratio '
1984                                               62
1985                                               71
1986                                               52
1987                                               40
1988                                               49
1989                                               75
1990                                              103
1991                                              134
1992 (June 30)                                    135
I/ Arrears throo months or more as a percentage of total portfolio.
ZI Portfolio affected by arrears of three months or more.
3/ Amounts repaid as a percentage of principal and interests falling due and billed during the penod.
Sources: Audited and unaudied SOFIDE Reports. Figures above ar not adjusted for inflation and cumacy
fluctuations.



AMUx 9
Page I of 3
SEVETH AND 13IGHTHf DEVELOPM13N T PNANCE PROJECI S
(Credits 1492-ZR and 1685-ZR)
SOPIDE - Chronolo., of Evaets and Perfornmaos 1980-92
YEAR        MACRO SITUATION                                         KEY EVENTS/ACTIONS                              SOFIDE PERFORMANCE
1984       IMF Standby in place as Governmt continues with   SOFIDE  implements  another reorganization,    Collections 50%. D/E ratio 3:1 after new
adjustment programnL Interbank market in Foreign Exchange   creating 3 divisions for the 7 departments. DGM  capital. Arrears affected portfolio 38%.
created. GDP growth recovers to 2.79%, inflation slows to   becomes advisor. Capital increase completed.
52%.                                                    Interest rates on Foreign Exchange (FX) loans
lowered to 15.5% to offset unattractiveness of
foreign exchange risk to borrowers. IDA 7
approved. SOFIDE prepares action program to
deal with arrars. 
1985       Inflation dows fuither to 24 %, owing in pari to evere credit   Continuation of focus on  ction program  for    Arrears  affected   portfolio  62%,
squem  by Government (increase in reserve requirements,  reduction in arrears, including reachedulings,    collectios 71%. Becuse of continued
higher inteest rates). GDP growth 2.5                   indention, legal steps.  SOFIDE reduces FX    currency depreciation, D/E ratio worsens
lnding mte to 14%. SOFIDE decides that it   to 8: 1.
cmnot pay dividends until after provisioning for
lon risks of at least 7% of tdo portfolio.



Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
YAR         MACRO SrrUATION                                       KEY EVENTS/ACTIONS                             SOFIDE PERFORMANCE
1986       GDP growth slows to 1%., inflation accelertes to 47%.   IDA 8 approved, with continuation of action    Collections  52%,  arrears  affected
ISAC approved. Government suspends foreign exchange   program for arrears, agreed collection targets.   portfolio 75%. D/E ratio 18:1. Local
auction.                                              SOFIDE finding it difficult to pace fs loans and    currency gap identified.
has negligible local currency resources.
Preoccupied with spiralling collections problon.
1987       Massive devaluation (88%). Inflation running at over 90%.   SOFIDE  requests and  secures approval of    Collections drop to 40%, with 79% of the
Governnent considers taking foreign exchange risk on   reduction in fx lending rate to 13%. IDA 6 & 7    portfolio affected. D/E ratio 33:1.
foreign borrowings (including for SOFIDE).            rolled over, without formal IDA approval.
SOFIDE and IDA staff pushing fs risk as major problem
confronting institution.
1988       Adjustment program abandoned and many prior reforms   IDA  supervision mission notes that portfolio    88%  of portfolio affected, collections
(including those under the ISAC) reversed.  In financial   difficulties not confined to fx loans. Appraisal    49%.
mauets, ruling party's Central Committee announces   quality declining with departure of key staff.
maxi_mu  20% interest nte, despite inflation rates at over   SOFIDE denied request for IDA 9.
50%.
1989/90    Brief short lived resumption of adjustment process, followed   Suspension of investment component of IDA-VIII   Portfolio affected by arreas increases to
by an unavelling of adjustnment policies.  Budget deficit  in January 1989. SOFIDE management shake-up    90%, but loan collections improved to
reaches an  estimated 25%  of GDP  by end  1990.    nd implementation of a reinforced recovery    75%  following mngemnet change in
Acceleration of inflation to 265% in 1990.            programn.  Shareholders agree to recapitalize    1990.  Collections in nominal terms
SOFIDE. lnterruptionofalladjustmentoperations    reporedly improved to over 100% on
by IDA.                                       acoouot of infladon, assunption  of
foreign exchange risu and paymrts of
major loas guarnteed by Goverment.



Annex 9
Page 3 of 3
YEAR       MACRO SITUATION                                       KEY EVENTS/AC`IONS                           SOFIDE PERFORMANCE
1991/92    Zaire experiences n unprecedented hyperinflation of over   Cancellation of undisbursed balance of IDA-VIII.   Entire portfolio affected by arrears, which
4,000 percent and the Zaire-money became virtually   Recapitalization of SOFIDE abandoned as liquidity   reach  42%   of loans  outstanding.
worthless. Initiation of a political liberalization process  improves in nominal terms, due to inflation,    Collection rates and liquidity improved in
leading to economically disruptive riots in September 1991.   scaling down of lending and improved loan    nominal terms, but real equity base,
GECAMINES production drops by 50%                    collections.                                 eroded  by  currency  depreciation,
provisions for risks, and write-offs.
0



- 31 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 1
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECTS
(Credits 1492-Zr and 1685-2R)
SOFIDEt Lendina and Profitability Simulations
Assumptions                   Loan Amount                      100
Loan Term                        7 years
Grace Period                     2 years
Onlending Rate                   14.2%
Average Cost of Funds            6.7%
Operating Expenses               3.3%
Debt Funding                    90%
Tax                             0%
Collection Ratio                 75%
Cash Flows
Year
0      1       2      3       4       5      6       7
Profitability
Interest Received                  10.6   10.6    9.9    8.3    6.7    5.1    3.5
Cost of Funds                       6.0     60    -.LA 54  4       3Q0  J1 8    0.6
Net Interest Income                 4.6    4.6    4.4    4.0    3.6    3.2    2.9
Cash Operating Costs                3.3    3.3    3.1    2.6    2.1    1.6    1.1
Loan Write-Off                     =.0 Q.0 1L              1  _1    .0   .1 02  1.0
Profit Before Tax                   1.3    1.3    0.4    0.5    0.6    0.7    0.8
Tax                                0.0    0.00   & 0    00    0 0    0J    0    00
Profit After Tax                    1.3    1.3    0.4    0.5    0.6    0.7    0.8
Cash-Flows
Add Back Non-Cash Charges           0.0    0.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Cash from Operations                1.3    1.3    5.4    5.5    5.6    5.7    5.8
Add: Principal Collected            0.0    0.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0
L&ii: Principal Repayments          0.0    0.0   18.0   18.0   18.0   18.0   18.0
Equity Invested                        -  -  -  -  -  -
Net Cash Flow to Equity   (10.0)  1.3    1.3    2.4    2.5    2.6    2.7    2.8
Memo Items
Principal Outstanding                100    100      85     70      55      40     25
Borrowings Outstanding                90     90      72     54      36      18      0



- 32 -
Annex 1 1
Page 1 of 1
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOPINT FINANCE PROJECTS
(Credits 1492-SR and 1685-S-R
SOFIDE: Simulation of Imoact of Inflation on Prolect-d Cacital Rguirements
Year
1          2           3           4            5
Assumptions:
Inflation Index            100.0       150.0       225.0      337.5        506.3
Debt:Equity Ratio             3:1
Net Return on Assets          2.0%
Aset
Proiections:
Total Assets                20,000    30,000       67,500    227,813  1,153,302
Total Debt                  15,000    22,500       50,625    170,859    864,976
Total Equity Requirements   5,000       7,500      16,875      56,953    288,325
Retained Earnings               400       500         975       2,953     13,811
New Paid-In Capital          4,600      2,000       8,400      37,125    217,561
Growth in Total Equity (%)      -        150         337.5    1,139.1    5,766.5



- 33 -
Page I of 2
(Credits 1492-ZR and 1685-ZR)
Experience with Subgrojects
Summara: Characteristics of Subgrojects
A. Credit 1492 (US$ 36 million)
Subprojects financed:                          70
of which:  Investment loans                  (19)
Technical assistance loans       (37)
Study loans                      (14)
- Average above free limit loan: SDR 2,175,608.5
- Average below free limit loan: SDR 245,428.2
In investment loans   - rehabilitation:  10
- new:                5
- expansion:          4
Average loan by category:
- Above free limit industry:    2,348,904
- Above free limit agriculture:  1,510,300
- Below free limit industry:     209,120
- Below free limit agriculture:  261,300
- Above free limit transport:   2,876,250
- Technical Assistance:            8,320
- Study:                         121,472
Sectoral Distribution:
Manufacturing, mining, civil works     8
Agriculture, forestry, fishing         7
Transports                             4



- 34 -
Annex 12a
Page 2 of 2
B. Credit 1685 (Original amount: USS 50 million: Revised amount USS28 million)
Subprojects financed:                           77
of which:   Investment loans                  (18)
SOFIDE component                  (4)
CEPETEDE component                (2)
Training                         (53)
- Average above free limit loan: SDR 1,374,096
In investment loans   - rehabilitation:         5
- new:                      4
- expansion:                9
Average loan by category:
Manufacturing, mining, civil works           1,631,636
Transports                                    785,075
Services                                     1,214,980
Sectoral Distribution:
Manufacturing                                   7
Agro-industry                                   1
Construction/civil works                        2
Transportation                                  5
Services                                        3



- 35 -
Annex 12b
Page 1 of 1
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECrS
(Credits 1492-ZR and 1685-ZR)
Experience with Subprojects -- Credits 1492-ZR and 1685-ZR
Project Name               Overrun      ROI      Comments
A. Credit 1492-ZR
EXFORZAM/MBENZ              -22.0%  -171.0%
TRANSMAC
TISSAKIN                     42.0%      -        Depreciation of the Zaire; financing of outside progms.
SORGERI SPRL                  6.8%    61.0%      Depreciation of the Zaire.
SISAZ                        54.5%     -         Indexed loan; delay in the delivery of the buses.
SOFORGA NILE                 23.0%   -43.0%      Indexed loan; difficulties in raising self-financing.
SOTRAZ SZARL                 15.5%   -41.0%      Changes in the investment program; depreciation of the Zaire
in regard to French Francs.
O.T.C.Z.                     41.1%     -         Depreciation of the Zaire in regard to the US Dollar.
SWANEPOEL                              -
AFRIDEX                                -         Some components of the project are still being implemented;
thus ROI cannot yet be determined.
M.C DESIGN                  174.0%     -         Delays in financing; depreciation of the Zaire.
SCIZAC SPRL                 404.0%     -         Delays in the implementation; depreciation of the Zaire.
SIFA                         26.9%     -         Depreciation of the Zaire.
SIZA LOMATA                 122.1%     -         Indexed loan.
STEAWERINGSPRL                7.0%     27.0%     Changes in the program.
SEBOZA                                 -         Project not implemented as appraised; Project not completod.
SCAM                                   _
ZAIRE EXPLOlTATION
KATEBE KATOTO               157.8%    292.0%     Depreciation of the Zaire; inflation.
A. Credit 1685-ZR
CHANIE'rAL                  181.5%     16.0%     Depreciation of the Zaire.
LT.B.                                  _
T.G.S.                       833%      18.0%     Depreciation of the Zaire; inflationL
UTEXCO                      893.4%      8.0%     Depreciation of the Zaire; depreciation of the USS hkicb vu
used for the appraisal of the project.
PARISI                      181.6%      1.0%     Depreciation of the Zaire; local expenditures to acquire comatlon
equipment which had not been into accaomt in the progam.
PROPHOTOS                    70.7%    136.0%     Depreciation of the Zaire.
BRASIMBA                    174.7%      0.0%
SWANEPOEL                   277.3%     29.0%
SINDECKIN                    45.7%    329.0%     Increases in the market prices; acquisition of spares.
INDIKA SPRL                 132.2%      -        Depreciation of the Zaire.
SIMS SPRL                    84.5%     28.0%     Revisions in the supplier prices; depreciation of the Zaire
Fmancing outside the program.
SOZACOT                     151.9%    448.0%     Depreciation of the Zaire and changes in the progam.
EQUATEUR FROID             24044%      -          Delays in implementation; depreciation of the Zaire.
ORION-ZAIRE                  71.8%     42.0%     Depreciation of the Zaire.
TTC                          69.7%     351%       Depreciation of the Zaire.
TRANSZAIRE                  234.2%     72.0%      Depreciation of the Zaire.
SN'IIMEX SPRL                           -         Implementation has not been finalized.



Annex 12c
Page I of I
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECTS
(Credits 1492-ZR and 1685-ZRI
Charatderistics of Subprojecls Financed Unda Credit 1492-ZR
IDA Crdi   Date of    stinimited
SDA     Cost(APR                                                             tANo of  k       ERn
,uboroiect      No   Tvo                lowu.)    Approvl (Million Z)   Seetor            Akivxy                    ltion        Staff   Created (Awrj
TISSAKIN        A-I  Expion           1,200.0      02/12/85      74.0     Manufacturing    Packing sacks            Kinshs        613    120        43
SIBOZA          A-2  Expansion        3,190.0     08119185      181.3    Foresty          Expotation/Wood processing  Kinshula    129    100(A)    35
Kingabwa
ZAIRE Expl.    A-3  New                700.0      02/20185      179.4    Porestry         Explortion/               Lebomn               140(A)    44
Wood processing
TRANSMAC        A-4  RehabiEiation    3,100.0      02/19/85     167.0    Service          Trucking                  Kinshasa      663      -        44*
SOFORGA         A-S  Expansion        1,400.0      03/04/85      73.7     Porcstry        Exponsusawrniming         Gabenge       120    83(A)    48
324.0      07/14/86
SCAM            A-6  Rchabilitation    420.0      06/07/85       56.1     Agroindustry    Paln oil                   Tshck       1,441   302    > 100
SIZA-LOMATA   A-7  Expanion           1,175.0      04/10/85      91.0     Forestry        Wood processing           Kingabwa      249    42(A)    50
SOTRAZ          A8  Rehabilition    3,130.0        04/24/85     768.3    Service          Urban transport           Kinsha       3,115   400(A)    34*
SWANEPOTEL   A-9  Expansion           3,242.0      05/01/85     202.5     Civil Works     Road construction         Likasi        680   397       >50*
34.0      06/13/86
SITAZ SARL      A-10 Expansion        3,300.0     05/24/85      398.2    Service          Public tansport           Kinshasa      248    S68(A)    34*
SCIZAC          A-1l New               565.2      08/2S/8S       46.7     Manufacturing    Lcther goods             Kinshasa              57(A)    56
448.3      11/19/86                                                                                         20
SORGERI SPRL  A-12 Ncw                3,200.0      09/25/85     260.1     Agroindustry    Oil/Soap processing       Kisangani            470      >50
OTCZ SPRL       A-13 Expynion/        1,975.0      11/06/85     313.5    Scrvice          Transport                 Kinsha/       553   687(A)    42
Rctructuring                                                                                 Kisagani
AFRIDEX         A-14 Rchbilitation/   2,940.0     01/08/86      242.5     Manufacturing    Explosives               Likasi (Shaba) 581    179     >50
Expansion        115.0      04/23/86
STEWERING       B-2  Rehabilitaion     375.0       06/10/85      8.3      Civil works     Civil works               Mbuji         234               48*
25.0      10/17/86
EXPORZAM        B-3  Rchabilitation    341.2       11/12/85     29.3      Forestry        Wood processing           Kidondo       175    129      >50*
M.C. DESIGN    B-4  Rchabilitatin       43.2       11/12/85      20.0     Manufacturing    Furniture                Kishasa        46    20(A)   >50
SIPA            B-6  Ncw                112.0     03/25/86       44.6     Forestry        Wood processing           Ingende               97(A)   >50
KATEBEKATODB0 B-7  Expanson            330.6       10/15/86      63.3     Fishing         Fish processing/transport  Mulonde      453    330(A)  >69*
* Financial Rate of Return when ERR is not available.
Notc:   Due to rapid depreciation of the Zaire-currency, it has not becn possible to calculate actual investmcnt costs of projects.



Annex 12d
Page 1 of I
SEVENTsH AND EIGHTH DEVELOpMICN F7NANCE PROIBEPae  o 
(Credits 1492-ZR and 1685-ZR1
Characteristics of Subprojects Financed Under Credit 1685-ZR
IA C        D-to eo   Bemimed
1IA   ]Cost (ADrI                                                          N  O- f J9k        En
Subproi       lNO                       nuu ,Ij     AsRxla1  (Million Z)   Sec[              Ai                       L tion    Staff   Creted (o)
SWANEPOEL    A-I  Expansion              1,950.0    04/02187    172.0       Civil Works      Civil works for Gecamines  Kolwczi    746    384(A)       32
SINTIMEX         A-2  New                1,900.0    05/07187    281.3       Agroindustq      Cocoa pfroessing         Kinshsa       15    50(A)    >50*
PROPHOTOS        A-3  Expasion            458.5    06103/87    66.9         Services         Photo lab                Kinshasa      61     44(A)      44
INDIKA SPRL    A-4  New                   574.0    06/05/87    70.6         Manufacuring     Sanitary supplies        Kinshasa             20(A)    >50
IMPRIZA          A-S  Rehabiliation       395.7    06/15/87                 Services         Printing                 Kinshas       52     45(A)      50
PARIZI           A-6  Expansion           620.5    06/17/81    109.7        Civil Works     Construction PubLic Works  Kinshaa     330      -         47 *
BRAZIMBA         A-7  Rehabiliation     2,740.0    10/08/87  2,051.0        Manufacturing    Beer/soft drinks         Lubumbahi 1,456   500(A)        49
TRANSZAIRE    A-8  Expansion              580.0    01/06/88    84.9         Trnspontation    Trucking                 Kinshas/    231    10(A)    >41 *
Matadi
I.T.B.           A-9  New                1,340.0    01/19/88    360.4       Manufacturing    Wood processing          Kinshau             107(A)    >50 *
ORION ZAIRE   A-10 Expansion             1,090.0    04/18188    264.9       Transportation    Trucking                Kinshasa      58     26(A)      32 *
BOIS DU KIVU   A-1l Expansion             570.0    04/26/88    126.0        Transportation    Trucking                Kinshasa     120              >50
TRANSTSHIKEM A-12 Expansion               900.3    04/28/88    263.0        Transportation    Trucking                Kinshasa     130    10(A)       39 *
SIMS             A-13 New                 464.0    06/08/88    212.4        Manufacturing    Foam mattresc            Lubunmbashi  29      70(A)      25
plastic shoes
TGS              A-14 Rehabilitation      935.4    06/21/88    341.5        Services        Printing                  Kinshaa       69      2(A)      19 *
SOZACOT          A-1S Expansion           959.0    06121/88    202.0        Transportation    Gecamine subcontractor    Kolwezi     24     62(A)      32 *
S'INTEXIN        A-16 Rehabilitaion     2,890.0    06/28/88  1,510.8        Manufacturing    Cotton textile           Lubumbashi  800    266(A)       45
UTEXAFRICA    A-17 Rehabilation         3,080.0    06/05388  6,045.0        Manufacturing    Textile products         Kinshasa    5,000  (-25%)A      20
CHANIMETAL   A-18 Expanion                711.0    09/02/88    216.3        Manufacturing    Water mecit              Kinshasa   2,253    10(A)       58
Nlote:       Due to rapid depreciation of the Zaire-currency, it has not been posible to calculate actual investment costs of projects.



