Dammuzz of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4229-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 43.3 MILLION
(US$50.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR AN
EIGHTIH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY (SOFIDE) PROJECT
April 10, 1986
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EqUIVALENIS
Currency Unit          -      Zaire (Z)
On September 12, 1983, Zaire introduced a transitional dual exchange rate
regime, comprising an official rate and a free market rate. The two rates
were unified on February 24, 1984; thereafter the rate has floated on a
weekly basis.
December 1985
Zaire 1.00             -      US$0.02
US$1.00                -      Z 55.1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (a)            -      3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)       -     0.62 mile
i sq kilometer (km2)   -     0.386 square mlles
1 metric ton (ton)     -     2,204 pounds (lbs)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       - African Development Bank
BDZ       - Banque du ZaIre
CCA       - Contribution Bar le Cbiffre dtAffaLres
CCCE      -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CEPETEDE  -  Centre de Perfectionnement aux Techniques de Developpement
CIA       -  Canadian LIternational Development Agency
EDI       - Economic Developmenc Institute
EEF       -  Extended Fund Facility
SIB       - European Investment Bank
FAC       -  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
IlNS      -  Institut National de la Statistique
KfW       -  Ireditanstalt fuir Wiederaufbau
HNEI      - Ministare de l'Economie et de l'lndustrie
ONAIRA    -  Office National des Transports
OPEZ      -  Office de Promotion des Petites et Moyennes Entrepises
ZaIroises
oK        - Office des Routes-
OZAC      -  Office Zarrois de Contr8le
PIP       -  Public Investment Program
REGIDESO  -  REgie de Dietribution d'Eaux
RVF       - Regie de Vote Fluviale
RIA       - R£gie de Voie Maritime
SNCZ      - SociEte Nationale des Cbemins de Fer du Zaire
SHE       - Small and Medium Enterprises
SOFIDE    -  SociEtE Financiere de Dfveloppement
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
EIGHTL SOFIDE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Republic of Zaire.
Beneficiary:              Societe Financiere de Developpement (SOFIDE) and
Centre de Perfectionnement aux Techniques de
Dgveloppement (CEPETEDE).
Amount:                   SDR  43.3 million  equivalent  to  about  US$50.0
million.
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms.
Relending terms:          The  Borrower  would  onlend  SDR  42.3  million,
equivalent to about US$48.8 million, to SOFIDE, at
8.5 percent per annum (IBRD interest rate in
effect at the time of submission of the project
documents to the Executive Directors), with a
flexible   amortization   schedule   that   would
substantially conform with the aggregate of the
amortization schedules of subloans made by SOFIDE
and financed under this project, subject to a
maximum of 15 years, including a grace period not
to exceed three   years; SOFIDE would relend the
funds at a rate of 14 percent per annum to its
subborrowers, who will bear the foreign exchange
risk.  The Borrower would also onlend to SOFIDE
SDR 567.000,equivalent to about US$700,000, for
technical assistance at 8.5 percent per annum t-ith
a  fixed  amortization  schedule  of  15  years,
including a three-year grace period, and would
pass  on  SDR   433,000,   equivalent   to  about'
US$500,000,  for  training  assistance  needed  by
CEPETEDE, as a grant. The foreign exchange risk
on the SOFIDE technical assistance component (SDR
567,000)    would    be    borne    by    SOFIDE.
Objectives and Project   The project would  represent  a  continuation  of
Description:              IDA's   support   to   an   effective   financial
intermediary in its ongoing assistance to the
productive sectors in Zaire, particularly private
investments in manufacturing and agro-industries.
It complements the proposed Industrial Sector
Adjustment Credit, which aims at assisting the
Government in reforming policies affecting the
development  of  the  industrial  sector.        The
investment component of the proposed credit would
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be ued by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclose without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
cover about 47 percent (USS48.8 million) of the
capital   investment   requirements   in   foreign
exchange of priority subprojects approved by
SOFIDE. The balance would be provided by other
sources, including Canada (CIDA), Federal Republic
of Germany (KfW), ADB and EIB.   The remaining
US$1.2 million of the Credit would finance (a)
technical assistance to continue helping SOPIDE
cope with the increasing volume and diversity of
its operations and support its ongoing efforts to
deal with its portfolio problems (US$700,000); and
(b) equipment and other assistance needed by
CEFETEDE to Improve its effectiveness as Zaire's
principal   development   training   institution
(US$500,000).
Beneflts and Risks:       The main benefits of the project would be to
provide the term investment resources needed to
accelerate growth and increase employment in
Zaire. It would help stimulate a supply response
from the economy and, thus, complement the policy
measures already taken or to be taken under the
proposed Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit. The
project would also enable IDA to continue helping
SOFIDe to improve its portfolio quality and
increase its effectiveness in assisting the
recovery of the productive sectors in Zaire.
There are two risks In this project.  The first
risk relates to the possible deterioration of
X                  Zaire's economic situation which would, inter
alia, accelerate the depreciation of the Zaire
currency and make SOFIDE's foreign exchane  lons
unattractive to potential investors who have to
bear the foreign exchange risk.  Such a risk is,
however, limited in view of Zaire's continued
compliance with the IM stabilization program and
the actions envisaged by IDA and other donors to
increase the resource transfer and accelerate
economic growth In Zaire. The second risk is the
possible   deterioration   of   SOFIDETs   arrears
position.  This risk is also limited because of
the strong action SOFIDE has already taken to
improve loan collection and tb" additional
measures proposed in the contest of this project
to contain any portfolio deterioration.   These
should insure that SOFIDE will remain an effective
term    lending    institution    that    promotes
economically justified investment projects.



- iii -
Estimated Project Costs:                   January 1, 1986  - June 30, 1989
Local      Foreign       Tota l
-US-t f miTon)
Total Financing Required for
SOFIDE Operations                            36.1         103.0      139.1
Technical Assistance                           0.3           0.9        1.2
Total                                 36.4         103.9       140.3
Financing Plan
Resources Available for
Commitment at SOFIDE                          3.5         46.7        50.2
Eighth SOFIDE Credit                           0.3          49.7       50.0
SOFIDE's Cash Generation                      32.6           -         32.6
Other Donors                                    -           7.5         7.5
Total                                36.4         103.9       10.3
Estimated Disbursements
(SDR million)
Fiscal Year  1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Annual        1.0     5.0     8.2      8.8     8.1     6.3      4.2     1.7
Cumulative   1.0      6.0    14.2    23.0    31.1    37.4    41.6    43.3
Appraisal Report: No. 6140-ZR
Map IBRD No. 3560R9



REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR AN EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY (SOFIDE) PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Zaire in the total amount of SDR 43.3
million (about US050.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to finance
an eighth SOFIDE project.   The Republic of Zaire would onlend SDR 42.3
million (about US$48.8 million equivalent) to SOFIDE at 8.5 percent per
annum (IBRD rate in effect at the time of submission of the project
documents to the Executive Directors), with a flexible amortization
schedule conforming to the aggregate amortization schedule of SOFIDE's
subloans, subject to a maximum of 15 years, including a grace period not
exceeding  three years.   The Borrower would also onlend  to SOFIDE  SDR
567,000 (about US$700,000 equivalent) for technical assistance, at 8.5
percent per annum with a fixed amortization schedule of 15 years, including
a three-year grace period, and would pass on SDR 433,000 (about $500,000
equivalent) to CEPETEDE as a grant, for training and technical assistance.
Country data sheets are provided in Annex 1 of this report.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest country economic memorandum entitled  Zaire:  Economic
Change and External Assistance" dated March 29, 1985 (Report No. 5417-ZR)
was distributed to the Executive Directors in April 1985. A Bank mission
to assess recent economic developments and to review the Public Investment
Program visited Zaire in March/April 1986 and its report is under
preparation. The following section is updated to reflect the findings of
the mission.
Background
3.        Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of its area
and the fifth largest in terms of its population, but its GNP per capita
estimated at US$140 in 1984, ranks among the lowest in the continent. With
a population of about 30 milion, Zaire has a low population density
estimated  at  12 persons  per square kilometer.   About a third  of its
population lives in urban areas. Although agriculture (commercialized and
subsistance) accounts for only 30 percent of GDP, it provides employment
and income for more than three-quarters of the population.   Mining and
mineral processing accounts for a third of GDP and about two-thirds of the
country's export earnings. Mining has traditionally been a major source of
public sector revenues.
4.         When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared for
the change, both technically and institutionally.   The first six years
following independence were marked by a violent political strife and a
severe disruption of the economy. After the restoration of political order



in 1967, however, the country enjoyed a period of relative stability and
economic growth which lasted until 1974. During this period, GDP grew at a
rate of about seven percent a year in real terms.
The Crisis Period
5.           The first signs of crisis began to emerge in 1975 as copper
prices started to weaken. Between 1975 and 1983, the performance of the
Zairian economy was characterized by a series of crises and short-lived
recoveries, severe underutilization and deterioration of productive
capacity and infrastructure, the emergence of significant economic and
financial imbalances, high inflation, and a decline in per capita income.
Several factors, some of them predating 1975, contributed to these
difficulties.   Among these are:   the zairianization and nationalization
measures of 1973/74, which though rescinded since, destroyed the
distribution network and undermined private sector confidence; the heavy
external borrowing of the early 1970s, much of it at unfavorable terms and
for projects with questionable economic justification; and the deficiencies
in economic management. The weakness and volatility or world copper prices
during most of this period contributed to the severity of the crisis.  By
1979, GDP contracted by about 10 percent below the pre-crisis (1972-74)
level; inflation soared to more than 100 percent with chronic shortage of
essential consumer goods, fuel and intermediate goods. With the balance of
payments under strain, external payments arrears continued to accumulate.
Although two stabilization programs supported by the IMF were adopted, and
three Paris Club reschedulings were concluded during the 1975-79 period,
these could not be implemented.
6.          Systematic efforts to cope with the crisis did not start until
1979. These included a new stabilization program supported by the IMF, new
debt rescheduling agreements with the Paris Club (December 1979) and with
the London Club (April 1980); the preparation of a public investment
program (PIP) for the 1979-81 period with the support of the Bank, the
installation of external advisors at the Central Bank and the Ministry of
Finance, the revamping of some institutions (the Customs Office, the
ministry of Agriculture, the Investment Commission) and the creation of
others (a Central Pay Directorate in the Ministry of Finance). Along with
a strong recovery of copper production, these measures resulted in a
considerable improvement of the economic situation in 1980.
7.             Largely on the strength of this improved performance, in
mid-1981, Zaire adopted a three-year program of economic and financial
adjustment supported by an 'Extended Fund Facility. Zaire also concluded
another rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club in July 1981. Further
weakening of copper and cobalt markets, however, caused exports to fall by
US$540 million (about 25 percent in nominal terms). The immediate shortage
of foreign exchange resulted in a sudden decline in imports which in real
terms  were  half  of  the  pre-crisis  level.    With  weakening  financial
discipline, the budget deficit quadrupled in nominal terms, reaching seven
percent of GDP. Zaire could not comply with either the criteria under the
EFF or the Paris Club agreement.   The EFF was formally cancelled.   The
failure of the EFF meant the collapse of the premises on which the hopes of
recovery had been built.   These comprised:   (i) improved economic and
financial performance with the help of DMF supported programs; (ii) major



- 3 -
external debt rescheduling; (iii) systematic Institutional reform; (iv)
implementation of the public investment program; and (v) well focused
external aid in support of a realistic PIP.
8.        In 1982, copper prices continued to decline.  GDP contracted
further, and the overall balance of payments deficit reached a record
high. By end 1982, external payments arrears totalled US$940 million. On
the domestic front, the budget deficit continued to remain high as a
percent of GDP. Both external and domestic confidence were at a low ebb: a
grossly overvalued exchange rate, pervasive price controls, and high
inflation were the manifestations of widespread distortions in the
economy. Faced with a severe economic and financial crisis, the Government
began efforts to reestablish conditions for recovery at the end of 1982.
These efforts included implementation in the first half of 1983 of a
"shadow program", as a precondition for a formal stand-by arrangement with
the IMF.
The Stabilization Period
9.         The turning point for the Zairian economy came in 1983 when the
Government finalized, within the context of a formal IMF program, a series
of far-reaching measures, begun under the 'shadow program". These measures
included: (i) immediate devaluation of the zaire by 78 percent vis-a-vis
the SDR; (ii) introduction of a transitional dual exchange rate regime,
with unification of the two rates in February 1984 and "floating"
thereafter; (iii) a substantial liberalization and simplification of the
exchange and trade system, including a revision of customs duties; (iv)
decontrol of most prices, including agricultural producers' prices and most
interest rates; (v) tight expenditure controls, including reduction of
public sector employment; and (vi) a series of actions to reduce the burden
of parastatals on the budget, including the sale of some assets.
10.         The adoption of the policies outlined above was followed by a
substantive rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club creditors and a
meeting of the Consultative Group in December 1983.  At the Consultative
Group meeting, the participants took two important steps relevant to the
execution  of  the  1983-85  PIP.   Tney agreed on the appropriateness of
convening co-lender meetings on transport (highways) and Gecamines, and
they endorsed Zaire's decision to reactivate the External Resources
Coordinating  Committee,  which  had not met  for about two  years.    The
co-lenders meeting on highways was held successfully in March 1985 and two
meetings on Gecamines in September 1985 and March 1986.
II.          The Government's stabilization-cum-liberalization program was
also  a manifestation  of  the growing  recognition  of  the  importance  of
private initiative and of the need to reduce Government intervention in the
economy.   The measures taken since  1983 were successful in putting the
Zairian economy onto a stabilization path: the budget deficit (taking into
account rescheduling of interest payments on external debt), which was six
percent of GDP in 1982, turned into a budget surplus (about one percent of
GDP) in 1985; the balance of payments current account deficit (after
reschedulings) declined from 4.8 percent of GDP in 1982 to 1.8 percent in
1985; and the rate of inflation which soared to 76 percent in 1983 was
estimated at around 30 percent in 1985.   Some of these measures had an



- 4 -
immediate impact. Many price distortions were eliminated so that
private sector activities could be redirected from rent-seeking activities
towards directly productive sectors.  The supply response in the foodcrop
sector was impressive, but the results were mixed in the manufacturing
sector. While short-run supply-side constraints, with the exception of the
availability of credit, were by and large eased, capacity utilization rates
in  the  industrial  sector  remained  low.    In  addition,  demand  for
manufactured products was curtailed by the sharp reduction in purchasing
power in urban areas. Following a real GDP decline of 2.6 percent in 1982,
growth picked up in 1983 and reached 2.8 percent in 1984. According to the
preliminary estimates, GDP growth was around two percent in 1985.  This
slowdown was due largely to lower import growth as the foreign exchange
shortage worsened.
12.           With the floating exchange rate and the liberalization of
exchange restrictions, both the volume of transactions and the premium on
the parallel foreign exchange market were substantially reduced.  In the
non-copper export sector, significant export volumes were restored to
official  channels.   Nevertheless, developments  in  the external sector
during 1983-85 were characterized by weak export prices and net capital
outflows.   The primary source of strain on the balance of payments, has
been on the capital account.  First, disbursements on grants and medium-
and  long-term  loans  have  declined  precipitously  since  1980.   Second,
private capital flows, including new direct foreign investment, have
remained at negligible levels even after the 1983 reforms. Third, the debt
service   burden   has   continued   to   increase   notwithstanding   debt
reschedulings. The rapid decline in disbursements on medium- and long-term
M&LT) loans to Zaire can be traced back to fluctuations in the commitments
before 1983 and their continuous decline thereafter. Since 1983, the major
source of commitments and disbursements has been multilateral donors which
have increased their lending to Zaire both individually and as a group.
Transfers from bilateral sources as a group have been negative since 1983.
13.       Zaire successfully concluded another rescheduling agreement with
the Piris Club creditors in May 1985, and to date, has met all of its
external debt obligations under the Paris and London Club agreements.  In
spite of these reschedulings, the impact of debt service and of the rapid
depreciation of the zaire on fiscal management has been drastic.   The
combined effects of exchange rate depreciation and revenue measures taken
since 1983 have been significant: the ratio of fiscal revenues to GDP rose
from 10 percent in 1982 to 17 percent in 1985.   The tax base, however,
remains heavily dependent on export-based activities such as copper and oil
sectors. Despite significant revenue increases, the budget has been under
immense pressure because of the increasing debt service burden since 1982.
Soaring debt service payments in local currency terms, have necessitated
massive cuts in salaries, expenditures on goods and services, and
investment expenditures in real terms. The share of debt service payments
(after reschedulings and including arrears and domestic debt service) rose
from 17 percent of total expenditures in 1982 to 73 percent (of which 55
percent was for external debt service payments) in 1985, thus considerably
reducing the Government's latitude in allocating budgetary resources.



- 5 -
14.       The brunt of financial adjustment fell on the investment budget
which financed 10-15 percent of the public investment program. As a share
of total budgetary expenditures, investment spending declined from 12
percent in 1982 to less than 3 percent in 1985.  This corresponded to 0.4
percent of GDP.   Overall financial execution of the 1983-85 PIP was 65
percent, with a much lower physical execution rate. Implementation of the
program  varied  significantly  among  the  sectors.    Agencies  which used
self-generated funds were able to implement a larger proportion of their
programs than those which depended on investment budget for domestic funds.
Prospects
15.        Today, the Zairian economy is at a cross-roads.  Despite Zaire's
impressive stabilization effort in the last three years which helped
redress critical external and internal disequilibria and laid the
preconditions for the resumption of sustained growth, the success of a
medium-term recovery scenario will depend on the country's ability to
address four major constraints: (i) uncertain external financial prospects
which remain dominated by a heavy debt burden and attrition to bilateral
aid flows; (ii) a tight domestic financial situation which underlines the
considerable impact of debt service on reducing Government's latitutde to
allocate resources for development expenditures; (iii) a weak institutional
environment which requires the strengthening of public sector management to
enable it to conceive, implement and monitor appropriate policies and
action programs; and (iv) an inadequate physical infrastructure in need of
continued  rehabilitation.    Zaire  has  recently  adopted  a  Five  Year
Development Plan (1986-90) which identifies these constraints, and offers
ways to begin addressing them.
16.        Of Zaire's total external debt outstanding, estimated at US$5.4
billion at end-1985, almost two-thirds have been rescheduled at near-market
terms. Zaire's ratio of external debt service payments to exports of goods
and non-factor services (after rescheduling) was 27 percent in 1985. While
the previous debt reschedulings provided short-term relief, they have
increased the country's medium-term debt burden.   Debt service payments
falling due during the 1986-90 period is about US$4 billion, excluding
Zaire's obligations to the IMF. In order to ease the external and domestic
financial constraints, future debt reschedulings will have to be done with
more concessional terms and for larger amounts than what have been granted
in previous reschedulings.
17.           The next three years represent a critical period in  the
transition from stabilization to sustained growth. While the vagaries in
world markets for copper play a significant role in Zaire's external
financing prospects, the success of the transition will depend on the
country's ability to address the key constraints mentioned above.  This,
however, would require a concerted joint effort by Zaire and the donor
community.   On the part of Zaire, it would require pursuing financial
discipline and focusing on policies to stimulate growth within the context
of a structural adjustment program.  The Government has demonstrated its
ability to implement a painful but comprehensive stabilization-cum-
adjustment program during the last three years and there are clear
indications that it is committed to undertake further policy measures
for structural adjustment.  The success of the transition will, however,



also rest on the response of the international donor community to the
Government's structural adjustment efforts.   In addition to the financial
assistance to support these efforts in the form of quick-disbursing
non-project grants and loans, the level of new commitments for projects
will have to be increased to cover at least a minimum public investment
program.    New  projects,  properly  identified  in  the  context  of  a
resource-constrained public investment program, are needed to continue the
rehabilitation of the country's physical infrastructure, to permit the
development of human Lesources, and to assist in the recovery of productive
sectors.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
18.         From 1969 to date, the Association has approved one Special
African Facility Credit (US$30 million equivalent) and 40 credits totalling
about US$650 million for agriculture, transport, development finance
company operations, water supply, power, petroleum technical assistance and
education projects.   The Bank Group has also extended grants totalling
US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two planning assistance
projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan of US$100 million for the
Gecamines Mining Expansion Project, which was cofinanced by the European
Investment Bank and by the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank. and which provided for
special repayment arrangements. A Technical Assistance Credit was approved
in 1983 to assist Gecamines with its efforts to restructure its
organization, improve its manpower and prepare a long-term rehabilitation
and  expansion  program.    The  IFC,  which  has  a US$1.3 million  equity
participation  in  the  Societe  Financiere  de  Developpement  Economique
(SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million loan in 1978 for an offshore oil
production project, and a US$230,000 loan in 1982 for studies related to
the development of an aluminium complex at Banana.   In 1985, IFC has
approved a US$6.25 million loan to, and a US$528,000 equity participation
in a textile company (SOTEXKI); a US$15.0 million loan to the "Grands
Hotels du Zaire"; and a US$100,000 equity participation in a cotton farming
operation.   Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,  IDA
credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1985. [Annex II will be
updated with March 30, 1986 figures, prior to submission to the Executive
Directors].
19.          A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been
institution  building.    The  development  finance  company  (SOFIDE)  was
established in 1970 with assistance from IFC and IDA (para. 38). The major
transport agencies, ONATRA, Soci4t4 Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois
(SNCZ), Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF), Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVM)
and Office des Routes (OR), have received technical and financial
assistance from the Association, which also helped establish the National
Livestock Development Authority (ONDE). In the case of Gecamines, the Bank
loan originated a dialogue, still ongoing and now supported by a technical
assistance credit, intended to define ways and means to strengthen the
management, financial position and planning of the company, which helped in
the preparation of the proposed operation.



20.            Project implementation has been satisfactory in spite of
difficulties  resulting  from  the  country's  inadequate  manpower  and
management  capability  and,  in  recent  years,  because  of  the  economic
crisis. In the last two or three years, release of the required budgetary
funds has been difficult periodically because of budgetary ccnstraints.
Lack of foreign exchange to finance spare parts and fuel, and the
deterioration of the transport network and marketing system have resulted
in severe supply problems for most projects.   Recruiting and retaining
adequate  staff  has  also  been difficult.    In January  1980,  the  Bank
undertbok with Zairian officials an overall review of Bank Group projects
which, for the first time, provided an Integrated view of implementation
problems; this resulted in an acceleration and improvement in the
utilization of Bank Group assistance, particularly in the agricultural
sector. A second overall review, focussing on macro-economic and sectoral
issues and on their impact on project implementation, took place in May
1983 and assisted the Government in formulating the important economic
measures of September 1983 (para. 12).
21.           Sixteen credits and one loan have been totally disbursed.
Completion reports have been issued for all projects.   Performance Audit
Reports have been issued for the first three SOFIDE and highway
projects,the River Transport Project, the Rail/River Project and the First
Education Project.   The conclusion of the audit and completion reports
was that the Bank GroupIs impact on institution building had been mixed.
All project entities had encountered operating difficulties beyond their
control as the economy deteriorated, financial resources grew scarcer and
the problems besetting the investment environment were exacerbated by the
Government's   zairianization/radicalization   measures.          Nonetheless,
effective administrations had evolved in REGIDESO, SOFIDE and the Office
des Routes, the highway agency. Performance of ONATRA, the port and river
transport agency, had not improved as a result of the first River Transport
Project but did improve under the Rail/River Project. More attention to
institution building activities would have been beneficial in the education
sector; administrative weaknesses in the Department of Education were cited
as partly responsible for poor performance under the First Project and the
inability to implement investment components under the Second Education
Project which resulted in cancellation of US$18.8 million in February
1983.   Bank Group support to all of the above mentioned entities  is
continuing through follow-on projects designed to address the issues raised
by the completion and audit reports.
22.        The rate of disbursement to Zaire (about 20 percent for fiscal
years  1983-1985)  is  average  for  the  Eastern  Africa  Region.    While
disbursement performance in general is satisfactory, difficulties have
arisen in several projects.  In the case of early credits for transport,
education and livestock (Credits 255-ZR, 272-ZR and 398-ZR), the lack of a
strong project entity caused implementation delays.   Economic conditions
were also a factor in slowing project programs in instances where
government counterpart funds were not available (Third Highway, Credit
660-ZR; Second Education, Credit 624-ZR) and where the investment
environment experienced slow recovery from the aftermath of abrupt
nationalization   (Fourth   3OFIDE,   Credit   710-ZR).       Future   project
implementation should be less affected by the above influences given the
strengthening of institutions under subsequent projects and efforts by the



- 8 -
Government to improve budgetary support of IDA-financed projects.   As of
June 30, 1985, the Bank Group's share of Zaire's total debt disbursed and
outstanding was about 7 percent.
23.        In the past three years, the Bank Group's main efforts have been
directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and develzpment of the
agriculture, industry/mining and transport sectors, in part through the
design and implementation of appropriate new policies. Initial efforts in
support of the energy sector include the Shaba Power System Rehabilitation
Project (Cr. 1224-ZR) and the Ruzizi II Regional Hydroelectric Power
Project (Cr. 1421-ZR). Our lending will continue to assist the development
of the agriculture sector, including policy reforms under the agricultural
component of a proposed Structural Adjustment Credit; to promote the
development of the industrial and mining sectors; and to support the
transport sector.  In addition, further support will be considered for the
energy sector to develolp power, and to minimize the cost of supplying
petroleum products to the country. An Education Technical Assistance and
Training Project to improve the management of the education sector and
relevance of education programs was recently approved.   Preparation is
under way for a G&camines rehabilitation project, a navigation improvement
project, and a technical assistance project to improve investment planning,
budgetary procedures, and parastatal management. In addition to investment
projects,   two  quick-disbursing   policy   operations   are  also   under
preparation: a Structural Adjustment Credit to address cross-sectoral
issues and pave the way for medium term recovery and an Industrial Sector
Adjustment Credit which would assist the Government in rationalizing and
simplifying tariff structure and export procedures, the tax regime of
industrial enterprises, and finance imports of spare parts and essential
equipment. The proposed SOFIDE VIII project described in this report would
complement these efforts by providing the investment sources in foreign
exchange needed to finance the recovery and diversification of the
industrial sector.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
A. The Industrial Sector
Sector Background and Recent Performance
24.       Zaire's industrial sector contributed about US$200 million to GDP
in 1984, and employed an estimated 150,000 workers, or ten percent of total
employment in the modern sector.  The five percent share of industry in
Zaire's GDP is now among the lowest in Sub-Saharan Africa. As late as ten
years ago, this share was more than twice as large and was comparable to
the GDP industry share of such countries as Kenya, Zambia and Ghana.
25.           Between 1966 and 1974, industrial output grew at an annual
average rate of about six percent, slightly below the seven percent overall
GDP growth rate.   The faster GDP growth was spurred by high copper and
cof fee prices.  Most of the industrial growth occurred between 1970 and



-9-
1974, supported by expanding domestic demand due to rising incomes from
mining,   a  favorable  investment  climate,   particularly  for  foreign
entrepreneurs, and protection of the domestic market.
26.         Since the beginning of the economic crisis in 1975 (para. 5).
however, industrial output decreased without interruption until 1983, when
it stood at 31 percent below its 1975 level, a decline three times greater
than that registered by GDP. The decline in industrial output started with
the collapse of copper prices in the aftermath of the first round of oil
price increases. The resulting shortage of foreign exchange, together with
the unfavorable investment climate due to domestic policy measures, caused
a sharp decrease in industrial capacity utilization and a deterioration of
equipment. At the same time, the worsening situation in agriculture and
transport led to shortages of local inputs.
27.         Following the adoption of stabilization policies in late 1983
(para. 9), there was a relatively modest recovery in industrial output. In
1984, industrial output grew by nearly two percent, compared to a GDP
growth of about three percent.  Preliminary estimates for 1985, however,
indicate that, while GDP grew by about two percent, industrial output
actually declined by just under one percent, mainly as a result of foreign
exchange shortages for the importation of raw materials and spare parts.
Structure of Industry
28.       Over the last ten years, there has been no significant change in
the   structure   of   the   sector   or   the   location   of  enterprises.
Zaire's manufacturing industry is still closely linked to commerce, with
many enterprises having substantial commercial operations. Kinshasa, the
capital city, rpmains the main center of industrial activity, with
Lubumbashi and Kisangani, important secondary centers.   Agro-industrial
enterprises account for about two-thirds of industrial value added in
Zaire. The activities of these enterprises include palm oil production and
processing, sugar processing, cotton ginrning and textile production, coffee
drying, flour milling and rubber and wood processing.   Other subsectors
include beverages, tobacco, the assembly of transport equipment, chemicals
and petroleum refining.  Medium and large size firms (employing more than
100 workers) dominate most branches and account for about 90 percent of
total value added in the sector.   Consumer goods account for over 70
percent of industrial output and are sold mostly in the domestic market.
Palm oil, wood, coffee and some cotton fibers are the only processed
products being exported.
29.       Until 1973, almost all major industrial enterprises were owned by
foreign and locally-based expatriate interests.   The zairianization and
nationalization measures of 1973-74, which transferred to Zairian hands
ownership of about two-thirds of manufacturing firms, had damaging. effects
on production. In 1976, Government rescinded these measures and decided to
return 60 percent of the equity in zairianized and nationalized enterprises
to their former foreign owners.  At present, ownership of the sector is
largely back in private hands.



- 10 -
30.           Since late 1983, with an improved macro-economic framework,
better incentives for exports, and returning confidence, there has been a
substantial increase in private investment as evidenced by the high volume
of projects approved under the regulations of the investment code (about
US5137 million in 1984 as compared to US$44 million in 1983). The increase
in private investment, which has not yet translated into increased output,
led to the rapid pace of commitment of the Seventh IDA credit to SOFIDE.
While the majority of these investments were for rehabilitation and
modernization of existing concerns, agro-industrial projects for export
accounted for about a third of the total, indicating a change in the
investment   pattern   consistent   with   the  improved   environment   for
export-oriented projects.
Industrial Policies
31.         Except for the period of the zairianization measures and its
immediate  aftermath,  Government  policy  has  been  not  to  invest  in
manufacturing but to limit its direct investment mainly to the provision of
basic infrastructure.  During the 1970s, the Government used a number of
policy insLruments to regulate and promote industrial development.   These
included (a) a cost-plus price control system; (b) an investment code under
which enterprises could benefit from tax exemptions and guarantees for
repatriation of capital investment, profit and interest; and (c) tariff
protection and import prohibitions granted mostly on a case by case basis
to shield selected subsectors or firms from foreign competition.  In view
of the deteriorating economic situation, the negative impact on industrial
efficiency of some of its past policies, and its determination to move
toward a freer, market-based economy, the Government initiated, in 1981, a
number of measures aimed at (i) increasing price incentives; and (ii)
encouraging rehabilitation/reconstruction of existing industrial plants as
the main priority in the short to medium-term. Over the last five years,
the Government partly decontrolled prices, eliminated import controls and
established a realistic exchange rate regime (para. 9).   These policy
measures have improved the environment in which firms operate in Zaire.
Other important policy reforms needed to increase the sector's efficiency
and productivity will be implemented with IDA assistance through an
Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit currently under preparation. The major
policy reforms being discussed with the Zairian Government within the
context of the industrial sector operation are summarized below.
32.       Trade Policies.  As a means of protecting local industry, tariffs
were of little relevance until the macro-economic reforms of late 1983.
With a serious external imbalance persisting since 1975 and a highly
overvalued exchange rate, the major limitation to imports was the shortage
of foreign exchange and import licencing.  Despite high nominal tariffs,
the actual level of tariff protection was low because import taxes and
duties were calculated on the official exchange rate (i.e., at only a
fraction of their real cost). Following the September 1983 devaluation and
the removal of quantitative restrictions on imports, a new tariff code was
introduced which substantially increased the tariff protection offered to
local industry.  The system is characterized by low duties on industrial
inputs (three percent) and high rates on finished products (up to 150
percent), resul_ing in very high and uneven effective protection for local
manufactures.   This high level of protection is further reinforced by a



- II -
higher sales tax on imports of final goods (25 percent) than on locally
produced goods (10-20 percent).   In the context of the Industrial Sector
Adjustment Credit, the Government would be asked to implement a program to
lower over time the level of protection offered to the industrial sector
and reduce the disparity in effective protection rates that currently
exists.   This would be done by (i) introducing a basic minimum duty of
about ten percent on most imports, including all industrial inputs and
equipment; (ii) reducing tariffs on finished goods progressively to a level
of about 30 percent; and (iii) equalizing the sales tax on domestic and
imported goods, so that they apply uniformly to all goods in the same
category whether of domestic or imported origin.   The EEC is providing
technical assistance for the improvement of the administration of customs.
Finally, a tariff commission would be established to implement the tariff
reform measures outlined above.
33.         Price Controls.   The system of ex-post price controls is not
consistent with the Government's policy of liberalizing the economy.   In
the context of the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit, the Government
is therefore expected to discontinue the remaining controls on the pricing
of industrial goods.
34.           Export Promotion.   Until recently, Government policies had
created an export environment characterized more by disincentives and
administrative obstacles than by encouragement.   All exports require a
license which can be obtained through a commercial bank and which needs to
be validated by the central bank.  Some goods require authorization from
MNEI to ensure that local demand is being met before export is allowed.
The same Ministry has to give formal approval to all exports, generally a
formality which can nevertheless cause delays for exporters. In addition,
all exports require authorization of OZAC (Office Zalrois de Controle), an
agency in charge of quality control. This authorization is given in three
different stages starting from an analysis of samples  of items  to be
exported and ending with a certificate verifying that the export has
actually taken place.  Most exports are subject to an export duty (four
percent), in addition to the normal sales tax of 6.75 percent.
35.         The export climate has improved following the 1983 devaluation
and the adoption of a realistic market-determined exchange rate which have
already begun to provide a potent stimulus to export. To further promote
exports and investments in export-oriented activities, the Government would
be asked  to abolish all export duties and other taxes on manufactured
exports. The impact of this action on Zaire's business environment would
be profound and the expected loss of fiscal revenues would be outweighed by
the revenue increases resulting from the tariff reform and the corporate
taxes on expanding export activities.  Furthermore, the Government would
eliminate all the administrative bottlenecks faced by exporters, retaining
only registration procedures for statistical purposes.
36.        Tax Reform.  Rationalization of the tax treatment of industrial
enterpris_, would also be tackled under the Industrial Sector Adjustment
Credit to address excessive and unpredictable levels of taxation. Besides
corporate income tax (50% of profit), industrial enterprises pay a sales
tax with an effective rate on local production varying between 10 and 20
percent (para. 32).  In addition, industrial enterprises are subject to



- 12 -
several parafiscal charges, the most important of which is the FCD (Fonds
des Conventions de Developpement) levy which varies from enterprise to
enterprise.   Two studies financed under the sixth anu seventh IDA credits
to SOFIDE (asset revaluation study and review of the FCD system) are
underway to assess the incidence of current taxation and depreciation
allowance practices on the competitiveness and investment behaviour of
industrial  enterprises.    In addition,  a joint Bank/Fund mission which
visited Zaire in January/February 1986 also looked at a number of tax
issues and is preparing recommendations for reforms. The adoption of a tax
reform program satisfactory to the Bank would form part of the proposed
Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit.
Bank Group Strategy in the Sector
37.         In an effort to promote the development of the private sector,
the Bank Group supported the creation of the Societe Financiare de
Developpement  (SUFIDE)  in  1970.    IFC  was  one  of  SOFIDE's  original
shareholders and IDA provided, in 1970, the first of seven credits, which
total US$111 million. In 1984, IFC made a further capital subscription in
SOFIDE of US$576,000 equivalent. IFC has also been involved in an offshore
oil project, a textile company, a hotel project and a cotton farming
operation and has made a loan for studies related to the development of an
aluminium complex at Banana.
38.             Since  the mid-1970's,  given  the economic crisis and  the
difficulties facing the industrial sector, IDA's main objectives in the
lending through SOFIDE have been to provide the financial resources needed
to help rehabilitate and maintain the productive capacity of the industrial
sector and to develop SOFIDE into a strong, independent development finance
institution. Despite the difficult economic conditions, SOFIDE has emerged
as a respected and effective term lending institution with a good appraisal
and supervision capability.  IDA's continued support has been critical to
this achievement.
39.            The September 1983 macro-economic reforms and the Zairian
Government's determination to liberalize the economy have opened the way
for specific policy reforms in the industrial sector. To help support this
effort, the Bank Group lending strategy in the sector now consists of a
combination   of   policy-based   operations   to  improve   the   sector's
institutional and sectoral policy framework, while providing the foreign
exchange required for the importation of inputs and spare parts, and of
continued assistance to SOFIDE to increase its effectiveness in providing
the term foreign exchange resources needed to support the investment plans
of the private sector.
B. The Financial System
40.       The financial sector in Zaire consists of the Central Bank (BDZ),
nine commercial banks and two development Banks, SOFIDE and the
Agricultural Credit Bank. The non-bank financial sector includes insurance
companies, a postal savings institution and a social security fund.  The
Central Bank is responsible for regulating all the financial institutions
in the country and for establishing and administering national monetary and
credit policies as well as managing international reserves.  Of the nine



- 13 -
commercial banks, seven have 50 percent or more participation by a foreign
bank.    Three  of  the banks  have  minority  state  participation.    The
commercial banks are mainly active in the provision of short-term credits.
The main source of long-term finance and the only non-government source of
term foreign exchange resources is SOFIDE, which is described in detail in
Part IV of this report.  This situation, however, is beginning to change.
With a market-determined exchange rate and easier convertibility of the
Zaire, the demand for term credit in local currency is increasing and the
commercial banks are starting to provide medium-term credit (two to three
years), although they remain constrained by the credit ceilings imposed by
the Central Bank.
Credit Controls antd Interest Rates
41.         Over the past few years, in an effort to reduce inflation, the
Central Bank has progressively tightened credit to both the private and
public sectors.   The most important instruments used by the Central Bank
are credit ceilings set on an annual basis in consultation with the IMF.
Commercial bank credit as a ratio to GDP is now about half of what it was
in 1978.   In real terms, commercial bank credit to the private sector
declined by 50 percent in the six-year period ending December 1984.  In
1985, credit available to the private sector within the agreed ceilings
increased considerably at the expense of the public sector and a further
increase has been agreed for 1986.
42.           During the 1970s, Zaire followed a policy of administered
interest  rates.    While  commercial  banks  were  free  to  set  their  own
commissions, both deposit and lending rates were regulated by the Central
Bank. Thus, during that period, bank-customer relationships played a more
important role than interest rates in allocating credit to the private
sector. This situation has changed significantly as the Central Bank freed
virtually all deposit and lending rates (with the exception of those on
loans for non-coffee agriculture) in September 1983 and more recently
created a market for Treasury Bills.  Beginning April 1984, these Treasury
Bills were sold to non-Bank public at annual interest rates ranging from 40
to 45 percent.  With the slowdown of inflation, these rates decreased to
30-35  percent  in  September  1985.    In  response  to  this  competition,
commercial bank deposit rates rose sharply and have become positive in real
terms (about 30-35 percent for term deposits compared to the estimated
inflation rate of 30 percent) in sharp contrast to earlier years.
43.         On the lending side, limited availability of credit has kept
interest rates for short-term lending (including commissions) at about 35
to 40 percent, despite a deceleration of inflation (down to about 30
percent in 1985 from about 34 percent in 1984).   As noted in para. 40,
commercial banks have recently started to lend for two to three years,
financing mainly equipment renewals.   Commercial bank medium-term lending
has to be approved by the Central Bank on a case by case basis. Given the
limited availability of credit and higher risks, this type of credit has so
far been given only to the commercial banks' best customers at rates
ranging from 26 percent (non-coffee agriculture loans) to 35 percent,
including commissions. This situation is expected to change, however, with
the increasing demand for term loans in Zaire, and as banks move towards
higher interest rates.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.         The Staff Appraisal Report for this project, entitled 'Zaire,
Staff Appraisal Report of an Eighth IDA credit for Societe FinanciAre de
Developpement' No. 6140-ZR, is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. Negotiations took place in Washington from March 26 to 27, with
a delegation headed by Mr. Selemani Mwana Yile, Secretary of State for
Finance, Ministry of Finance, Budget and Portfolio.
Project Objectives and Rationale for IDA Involvement
45.          The proposed credit would represent a continuation of IDA's
support to an effective financial intermediary assisting the productive
sectors in Zaire, particularly the development of private sector
investment in manufacturing and agro-industries, which are needed to
achieve a higher growth performance. It complements the Industrial Sector
Adjustment Credit under preparation, which would assist the Government in
reforming policies affecting the development of the industrial sector.
Specifically, the objectives of this project are (i) to provide the term
credit and foreign exchange needed for rehabilitation of efficient existing
enterprises  and  for  new   priority  investment  promoted  by  private
entrepreneurs; (ii) to continue supporting SOFIDE in its efforts to deal
with its portfolio problems; and (iii) to strengthen SOFIDE's institutional
structure to cope with the increasing volume and diversity of operations.
The project would also continue IDA's ongoing support to CEPETEDE, Zaire ls
principal development training institution.
46.       The rationale for IDA involvement in the project is to assist the
Zairian Government in its efforts to stimulate economic growth, promote
exports, and increase employment. The foreign exchange resources provided
under this credit would help support the investment plans of the private
sector and facilitate the supply response from the economy to the policy
reforms already taken and to be taken shortly. As in the past, continued
IDA support would enhance SOFIDE's capabilities to mobilize additional
foreign exchange resources from other external donors and enable it to play
a more significant role in promoting private investment in Zaire.
Background on the Institution
47.           Objectives and Role.   SOFIDE was established as a limited
liability company in 1970 with IFC subscribing 18.75 percent of its initial
share capital.   SOFIDE's objectives at its inception were to foster the
development of a capital market and to finance investments in the
productive sectors. Since then, it has successfully established itself as
the main term lending institution in Zaire and has been able to attract and
retain the confidence of foreign shareholders and lenders. The World Bank
Group's close and constant support through both financial and technical
assistance  was  instrumental  to  this  achievement.    Much  of  SOFIDE's
investments over the past ten years have been for rehabilitation and
modernization of existing industrial capacity and for agricultural and
transport  projects.    More  recently,  SOFIDE  started  to  increase  its



- 15 -
financing of small and medium enterprises (para.  67).   Virtually all of
SOFIIDEs loans and equity participations have been to privately (or private
majority) owned companies.
48.          Performance under Previous Bank Group Projects.   Two Project
Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) covering the first three credits to SOFIDE
were prepared by OED in 1976 and in 1982.  The first PPAX concluded that
SOFIDE had succeeded in rapidly building up a competent organization and in
maintaining its independence in a difficult environment, but pointed out
that there was scope for improved performance, particularly in appraisal
and economic analysis of projects. The second PPAR covering the second and
third credits to SOFIDE (271-CK and 463-CK) commented positively on the
institution building achievement of both projects, but noted again the
negative effects of the environment, particularly of inflation, on SOFIDE's
profitability.   It also concurred with the views of IDA staff that SOFIDE
needed to further strengthen supervision efforts and improve its
organizational structure and accounting system to better cope with the
increasing volume and diversity of operations.   SOFIDE moved rapidly to
address these issues by increasing supervision and instituting better cost
controls, by reorganizing its structure and by raising interest rates.  In
connection with the seventh credit, SOFIDE made further efforts in
improving arrears collection and its supervision procedures.   Progress to
date has been satisfactory, but much remains to be done, particularly with
regard to the arrears situation which is still above historical trends as a
result of the adverse impact of the September 1983 policy reforms on the
financial situation of SOFIDErs clients.   The proposed credit aims at
assisting SOFIDE further in this area.
49.        As of March 31, 1986 all funds available to SOFIDE for onlending
under the on-going IDA credits have been committed. Investment subprojects
financed  by these credits were distributed as follows:   33 percent in
manufacturing (including agro-industry), 32 percent in agriculture,
forestry and livestock, 26 percent in transport, eight percent in
construction  and  one percent in mining.   Twenty-one  percent of those
investment   projects   were   new   operations,   and   the   rest   were
rehabilitation/expansion.   They all had economic and financial rates of
return at appraisal in excess of 30 percent. SOFIDE plans to undertake a
retrospective evaluation of its projects in operation to draw lessons for
its future lending activities.  The proposed IDA credit would help SOFIDE
in this undertaking (para. 84).  Results of this evaluation would also be
an input into the next Project Completion Report (PCR) planned for FY87.
Share Capital and Ownership
50.        As of December 31, 1985, SOFIDE 's authorized share capital, all
of which was paid in, stood at Z 260.0 million (US$4.7 million).  It is
held as follows:   public sector shareholders (Government and the Central
Bank) 40 percent; local private shareholders 29 percent; IFC 10 percent;
and  other  foreign  shareholders  21 percent.   In addition to its share
capital, SOFIDE has substantial long-term, low interest subordinated loans
from Government which have quasi-equity characteristics.  As of December
31, 1985 these loans, together with accumulated reserves, amounted to Z
669 million (US$12.1 million).   Since its establishment  in 1970, three
capital increases have taken place at SOFIDE.   The last increase, which



- 16 -
occurred in September 1984, increased its loan limit (set at 20Z of
SOFIDE's equity and quasi equity) to US$3.4 million.   The debt to equity
ratio, which improved to 3:1 after the capital increase, stood at 8.1:1 on
December 31, 1985, but the debt to equity and quasi-equity ratio was good
at 2.5:1 at the same date.
Management, Organization and Staffing
51.          SOFIDE's Board consists of eleven members and is chaired by
SUFIDE's Chairman and Managing Director.   The Board meets on a quarterly
basis to discuss major policy issues and to approve loans exceeding USS1.5
million. SOFIDE also has an Executive Committee, composed of the locally
based directors, which meets more frequently than the Board and approves
loans below Board limits. Both the Board and Executive Committee act in a
sound and businesslike manner.   IFC's presence on the Board is important,
as it brings to it IFC's wide experience and helps provide guidance and
oversight.   SOFIDE's Chairman and Managing Director, a Zairian national,
joined the institution in 1973.  He is capable and well respected by the
Government and business community in Zaire.
52.          In mid 1984, SOFIDE restructured its organization in order to
relieve top management of the day-to-day administration of the institution
so that it could concentrate on policy design and strategy planning, and to
improve  SOFIDE's  operational  efficiency.    SOFIDE's  new  organizational
structure is relatively simple, consisting of three Divisions responsible
for seven operational departments. SOFIDE also has four regional offices.
The three Divisions and the Departments reporting directly to them are (i)
Operations with responsibility for the appraisal, supervision and studies
departments; (ii) Finance and Administration which supervises both the
financial management and accounting department and the personnel and
general administration department; and (iii) General Inspection which
coordinates and supervises the regional offices, and manages the internal
audit and organization department. Overall this structure is satisfactory.
Decisions are made faster, there is better control of operations and the
institution is functioning smoothly.
53.       As of December 31, 1985, SeFIDE had a total professional staff of
73, excluding the Managing Director and his expatriate advisor.   All the
staff are based in Kinshasa, except ten who run the regional offices.
Although SOFIDE's staff is, by and large, competent and hardworking, it
includes a number of relatively new professionals who require additional
training.
54.         During 1985, SOFIDE transferred five experienced professionals
from the Appraisal to the Supervision Department to strengthen monitoring
of its clients, many of whom were facing difficulties. An additional four
professionals are expected to be recruited and trained in 1986, mainly for
the Supervision Department and the field offices in Goma and Kananga.
The proposed professional staff strength of 77 will enable SOFIDE to
enhance its project monitoring activities to improve its arrears situation.



- 17 -
Staff Training
55.       Because of the high quality of its professional staff, SOFIDE has
in   fact   become   a   recruitment   source   of   high-level   Government
officials.  Over  the  last  three years,  SOFIDE has  lost  several  of its
experienced and senior staff who were requested to join Government
services.  As a result, SOFIDE's professional staff, particularly those at
the middle management level, are now relatively new to the job and need
additional training that SOFIDE is providing on an ad hoc basis through
in-house seminars and courses at CEPETEDE (paras. 56 and 57) or abroad. At
the  working  level,  training  is  particularly  needed  for  the  four
professional staff appraising agricultural projects as the more experienced
ones have been transferred to supervision (para. 54).  SOFIDE intends to
increase training and plan the development of its staff, taking into
account the requirements and work programs of the different departments.
It has prepared a three-year training program and has submitted it to IDA
for review during negotiations. The program is very comprehensive and aims
at upgrading the skills of both support and professional staff to enable
them to improve their efficiency and take advantage of opportunities that
are offered in the institution.   SOFIDE has also decided to establish a
separate Human Resources Unit within the Administration Department and has
appointed an experienced unit chief to manage the training and development
program.   SOFIDE's staff training program is well conceived and would be
supported under this project which includes funds for staff training (para
84).
Centre de Perfectionnement aux Techniques de Dgveloppement (CEPETEDE)
56.         CEPETEDE is a management training institute set up jointly by
SOFIDE, Government, and Banque du Zaire in 1981 to train professional staff
of the public and private sectors in banking, administration, and financial
and economic analysis of projects.  It is managed by a former Director of
SOFIDETs Studies Department who is assisted by an expatriate Director of
Studies and two other expatriates financed by FAC (Fonds d'Aide et de
Coopgration).  CEPETEDE has also three full-time Zairian counterpart staff
and recruits on a part-time basis foreign experts and professional staff
from local institutions and enterprises to run seminars in their respective
field of expertise.
57.         CEPETEDE has performed well and has enabled SOFIDE, Government
institutions, and private enterprises to offer their staff a more
comprehensive training program than they could provide with their own
facilities  and resources.   EDI has approached CEPETEDE with a view to
associating it to its training seminars in Africa. The seventh IDA credit
to SOFIDE included US$250,000 to enable CEPETEDE to recruit experts to run
high-level seminars in project appraisal, financial management, etc., for
executions of the public and private sectors. As of March 1986, about 80
percent of these funds have been used and it is expected that CEPETEDE will
exhaust the balance before September  1986.   The proposed project would
continue to support CEPETEDE (paras. 86 and 87).



- 18 -
Operating Policies and Procedures
58.         SOFIDE's operating and financial policies are set by the Board
and documented in a formal policy statement which was approved by IDA and
which remains a sound basis for operations under the proposed project.
SOFIDE's promotion, appraisal, project selection, procurement, disbursement
and loan administration are adequate.  Over the past three years, SOFIDE
has considerably strengthened and improved its supervision and loan
recovery efforts, and these are also now satisfactory.
Terms and Conditions of Lending
59.         SOFIDE's loans have maturities typically ranging from four to
twelve years, depending on the type of project being financed. The average
loan maturity is about eight years.   SUFIDE takes adequate security and
does not accept subordination to any other lender.  It also requires that
clients satisfactorily insure equipment financed under SOFIDE loans over
the life of the loan.   SOFIDEVs interest rates are not regulated by the
central bank but set by its Board, subject to the limitations imposed by
some foreign lenders on their credit lines.
60.        Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage.  Prior to 1979, Government bore
the foreign exchange risk on all foreign loans  to SOFIDE.   In  1979,
however, Government informed SOFIDE that in future it would no longer be
willing to carry the exchange risk on the latter's foreign debt, other than
on an exceptional basis.   Since then, SOFIDE has passed on the foreign
exchange risk to its borrowers and agreed with Government on a mechanism to
protect it against the residual foreign exchange risk where repayments by
sub-borrowers are earlier than SOFIDE's repayment schedule to outside
creditors.   This  arrangement  has worked  well  and  adequately  protects
SOFIDE.
61.        Interest Rates.  About 88 percent of SOFIDE's present portfolio
is denominated in foreign currency and the rest is in Zaires.  On foreign
currency loans, SOFIDE charges an interest rate of 15.5 percent per annum,
a commitment fee of 1.5 percent on the undisbursed committed amount and an
appraisal fee of two percent, with the full foreign exchange risk being
passed on to the clients.  Since January 1985, SOFIDE's clients are also
subject to a 18 percent tax on the interest paid (CCA sur les prestations
de service).  This tax effectively increases the interest charges to 18.3
percent, a very high rate given that SOFIDE's clients bear the foreign
exchange risk under a floating exchange rate system.
62.          During the late 1970's and early 1980's, the interest rates
charged by SOFIDE on foreign currency loans were periodically increased (up
to 20 percent in 1982), and the spreads between SOFIDE's borrowing and
lending rates were also high.   The high interest rates in real terms,
however, were not sufficient to compensate for the impact of domestic
inflation on SOFIDE's costs as the exchange rate was not fully adjusted to
correct for differential inflation.  As a result, SOFIDE's profitability
was poor (negative in real terms) in spite of its general efficiency.



- 19 -
63.       The 1983 devaluation and the adoption of a floating exchange rate
system has significantly improved SOFIDE's income from foreign currency
loans as well as its profitability and has allowed   it to operate with
lower interest rates and smaller financial spreads.   Over the last two
years, the increase in iLiterest income resulting from the depreciation of
the Zaire outpaced the rise in administrative expenses and other costs and
enabled SOFIDE to show a return on average equity of 17 percent in 1985.
Projections  made  on  realistic  assumptions  regarding   the  level  of
operations, interest rates charged, and loan collections also show that
SOFIDE would remain highly profitable in real terms during the period
1986-89  (paras.  76  and  77).        This  will  allow  SOFIDE  to  reduce
intermediation costs and operate profitably with a 5.5 percent spread,
which is 1.5 percentage points lower than the spread under the seventh IDA
credit.    Therefore, SOFIDE in principle to reduce its interest rate on
foreign currency loans to 14 percent (para. 81), a rate which is in line
with international interest rates for term credit and still highly positive
in real terms, as world inflation is expected to be between 6.8 and 7.2
percent over the next few years.  Further reductions of SOFIDE's interest
rate are expected in the future as its efficiency increases and a smaller
spread can ensure its continued profitability.   To encourage investment,
the Government also agreed to waive the CCA tax for borrowers who bear the
foreign exchange risk. Submission by the Government to Zaire's legislative
of measures aiming at the suppression of the CCA tax for borrowers who bear
the foreign exchange risk would be a condition of effectiveness of this
credit.
64.          SOFIDE 's interest rate on local currency loans is 30 percent
p.a. with commissions and fees similar to those on foreign exchange loans.
This rate is positive in real terms as Zaire's inflation is projected to be
in the range of 15-20 percent in 1986-89.  It is also comparable to rates
charged by commercial banks for term credit in Zaire (para. 43).  However,
given Zaire's continued tight credit policy and the increasing demand for
local currency loans generated by the convertibility of the Zaire into
foreign currency, these rates, which are freely set by commercial banks
since September 1983, are expected to increase substantially. SOFIDE will
change its rate if conditions require and keep it in line with those
charged by commercial banks.
65.            To eLisure that SOFIDE's lending  terms continue  to  remain
adequate, the covenant under the previous credits requiring SOFIDE to
maintain real positive interest rates on its free resources (foreign
exchange and local currency), to exchange views regularly with IDA on the
suitability of its onlending rates and to adjust them if conditions
require, would be maintained.



- 20 -
Operacions
bb.       As of December 31, 1985, SOFIDE had approved 815 loans and equity
investments totalling Z 4.0 billion, equivalent to about US$315 million.
Over the past ten years, the number of SOFIDE's operations has increased
steadily (from 58 in 1981 to 76 in 1985).  This was partly due to SOFIDE's
more  active  lending  to  SMEs  (para.  67).    In  1985, manufacturing  and
agro-industrics accounted for 47 percent ot approvals, transport 23
percent, construction and public works 12 percent and mining ten percent.
Agriculture, livestock and forestry made up the remaining eight percent.
The average size of SOFIDE's loans is US$435,000, or about the same level
as  in the recent  past.    SOFIDE has  also  progressively  increased  the
regional diversitication of its investments.   With the exception of 1984
when three large urban transportation projects in Kinshasa were approved,
loans to companies in or around the capital only represented about 25
percent of SOFIDE's approvals by amount in the 1980s, as compared to more
than 40 percent in 1978-8U.  SUFIDE's loans cover the 10 regions of Zaire
with the most active being Shaba, Bas-Zaire, Kivu and Equateur.
SOFIDE and Small and Medium Enterprises
67.       Over the last five years, SOFIDE has increased its assistance to
small and medium enterprises (SMEs), which are for a large part owned and
managed by Zairian nationals.  During 1982-85, loans to SMEs accounted for
80 to 84 percent of approvals by number and about 50-55 percent by value.
SOFIDE's important lending to SMEs reflects both its own conviction that a
strong SME sector is essential to Zaire's economic development, and the
availability of resources provided by several foreign lenders to be used
exclusively for financing SHEs. However, this type of lending is costly to
SOFIDE because of the high relative cost of preparing SME projects, the
transport costs involved in supervising them, inadequate spread on SHE
financing and the high arrears rates associated with such lending.   SMEs
have also found it more difficult than larger enterprises to adjust to the
post 1983 reform period. To help them go through this difficult transition
period, in the future, SOFIDE intends to reserve local resources to finance
SMEs as they are more vulnerable to exchange rate depreciation.   It has
also obtained technical assistance from CIDA and KfW to help defray the
costs of SHE operations and strengthen its capabilities to appraise and
monitor such operations. Finally, SOFIDE is considering renegotiating with
some of its lenders an increase in the financial spread allowed on their
lines of credit.
Portfolio, Arrears and Provisions
68.       As of February 28, 1986, SOFIDE had a small equity portfolio of
Z 37 million (US$0.7 million) in fifteen companies and an outstanding loan
portfolio of Z 3,584 million (US$65million) in 334 projects.   Until the
adoption of the comprehensive stabilization package by the Zairian
Government  in  late  1983,  SOFIP'Ds  portfolio  was  remarkably  sound,
especially considering the difficult environment in which SOFIDE and its
clients operated. For example, total arrears of more than three months at



- 21 -
Government  in  late  1983,  SOFIDE's  portfolio  was  remarkably  sound,
especially considering the difficult environment in which SOFIDE and its
clients operated. For example, total arrears of more than three months at
the end of 1983, represented four percent of the outstanding loan portfolio
and affected 79 projects, the total of which accounted for 17 percent of
the  value  of  the  loan  portfolio.    Given  the massive  devaluation  of
September 1983 and the ensuing shock waves throughout Zaire's economy, it
was expected that several of SOFIDE's clients who bore the foreign exchange
risk would have difficulties honoring their debt and that special actions
would have to be agreed between SOFIDE and its clients.   Thus, under the
seventh IDA Credit, SOFIDE prepared and agreed with IDA on an Action Plan
to tackle this situation. The Plan was detailed and listed all the actions
to be taken for each project considered risky.  Essentially, it called for
loan rescheduling and additional security to be agreed with and/or obtained
from borrowers, reduction of project scope, legal proceedings against bad
debtors, foreclosure, and sale of security in a few cases.
69.        SOFIDE moved fast to implement this Action Plan.  During 1984,
SOFIDE rescheduled 24 loans, obtained additional security from four
borrowers, reduced the scope of four projects, reorganized two enterprises
and sold security to recover arrears from two clients. In spite of these
measures, however, arrears of over three months climbed to 17 percent of
the portfolio and affected projects representing 62 percent of total loan
portfolio by May 1985.   Since then, SOFIDE took the following additional
measures to improve the quality of its portfolio: (i) loan rescheduling for
13 borrowers with repayment periods extended from 12 months to four years;
(ii) establishment of a new schedule for payment of interest arrears for 15
clients by use of promissory notes (payable over three to nine months) with
instructions to banks to honor SOFIDE's notes in priority; (iii) reporting
of eight bad debtors to the central bank to prevent them from receiving
bank credit.   Two such clients have since made partial payments;  (iv)
threat of legal action for 18 clients and legal action for six more; and
(v) foreclosure of eight projects, two of which have been suspended pending
fulfillment of their promises to pay.
70.       These actions have already started to show their positive impact
on SOFIDE's portfolio as arrears of over three months fell, at the end of
February 1986, to 11 percent and affected 134 projects representing 33
percent of the loan portfolio.  As noted earlier, SOFIDE also transferred
five experienced professionals to the Supervision Department which now has
14 professionals working full time on the arrears problem. Finally, SOFIDE
increased provisions to a level of 12 percent of portfolio at the end of
December  1985.   In absolute  terms, these provisions amounted to Z 331
million (US$6.0 million) and represented 84 percent of total arrears of
more than three months at the end of February 1986. Under the previous IDA
credits, SOFIDE agreed not to distribute any dividends until the amount of
general and specific provisions for risk constituted at least four percent
of the total outstanding loan and equity portfolio. This covenant will be
maintained under this project.
71.         SOPIDE's efforts are commendable.  However further actions are
required as the level of arrears is still high by SOFIDE's standards and a
major objective of this project is to continue supporting SOFIDE in its
effort to improve its portfolio.  The techn'cal assistance to be provided



- 22 -
under this proj ect is designed to help SOFIDE recruit short-term local and
foreign experts to assist clients in improving the viability of their
operations and undertake special audits and management reviews of some of
its  important existing  and  prospective  borrowers  (para. 84).   During
implementation of this operation, IDA will also closely monitor SOFIDE's
progress in improving  the quality of its portfolio.   To this end, the
following actions and quantitative targets have been agreed with SOFIDE:
(a)  SOFIDE will continue to implement the Action Plan prepared
with IDA to deal with its portfoliio problems.  This Plan
has been updated to include specific measures envisaged for
all loans with arrears exceeding Z 1.0 million (US$18,000)
at the end of February 1986, and targets for quarterly
collection ratios (defined as all amounts collected during
the quarter, including collection of arrears, over new
billings during the same quarter, including collection of
arrears, over new billings during the same querter) for CY
1986 increas:ng gradually from an average of 71 percent in
1985  to  95  percent  in  the  last  quarter  of  1986.
Thereafter, quarterly collection ratios will be agreed with
IDA depending on the results achieved; and
(b) as part of its reporting requirements, every quarter SOFIDE
will submit to IDA a note showing (i) the collection ratio
targeted and the result obtained; (ii) the measures taken;
(iii) the arrears situation at the end of the quarter, and
(iv) the collection ratio target and measures proposed for
the next quarter.
Financial Results and Condition
72.           SOFIDE's financial statements reflect the changes that the
economy underwent in late 1983. After an exceptional performance in that
year, mainly due to a US$0.9 million windfall foreign exchange gain arising
from the devaluation, SOFIDE's return on average assets and on average
equity declined in 1984 because of the major equity increase at the end of
year.     In 1985, SOFIDE made a net profit of US$0.85 million up only
marginally from US$0.7 million of 1984, because of very high provisions
(Z 215 million, or US$3.9 million in 1985).  On an accrual basis, profits
before provisions increased from US$3.2 million in 1984 to US$4.7 million
in 1985. Total income went up from 17.8 percent of average total assets in
1984 to 20.1 in 1985, but record provisions (up from 6.3 to 8.2 percent of
average assets) combined with an increase in interest payments (from 4.5
percent to 5.8 percent) left net profit at about the same level as in 1984
(1.8 percent of average total assets).
73.          On a cash basis, SOFIDEts performance was less satisfactory
because of its arrears position (paras. 68 to 71).   The collection ratio,
which had fallen to 62 percent in 1984, improved to 71 percent in 1985, but
was still short of the 100 percent needed to stabilize the absolute amount
of arrears in the portfolio. Despite this, SOFIDE's liquidity position is
good because most of its debts are of much longer duration than its loans.



- 23 -
Lending Resources
74.         As of the end of December 1985, SOFIDE had the equivalent of
US$50.2 million available for commitments and US$31.4 million for
approvals,  of which US$28.3 million  in foreign exchange.   Seventy-six
percent, or US$21.5 million, of SOFIDE's foreign resources available for
new approvals is accounted for by recent loans from the African Development
Fund (US$12.1 million), Canada (CIDA, US$2.0 million) and the EIB (US$7.4
million) which are intended to finance fertilizers and trucks for farmers,
SME projects in the Kivu region, and the second phase of the Shaba Cement
factory, respectively.  Only US$6.8 million of SOFIDETs foreign resources
were therefore available for untied loans.
Prospects
75.       SOFIDE's operations forecast is based on a strong pipeline which,
as at September 30, 1985, includes requests totalling US$120 million to
finance 54 percent of the costs of 168 projects in manufaLturing,
agro-industry, agriculture (including forestry and livestock), transport,
and  mining.       Seventy-five   percent   of  these   requests   are   for
rehabilitation/expansion  and  the rest are new operations.   Thirty nine
percent of the amount requested is from firms based in Kinshasa.   Small
enterprises account for 40 percent of the number and 15 percent of the
amount of loan requests. Loan approvals for 1986-1989 are expected to grow
about five percent p.a. in real terms. Commitments and disbursements for
1986-1989 are expected to follow the pace of project approval and win grow
from US$35.5 million to US$47.3 million and from US$34.3 million to US$41.9
million, respectively.   The projections and underlying assumptions  are
realistic, given SOFIDE's past growth in operations, increasing demand for
investment credit in Zaire, and projected resource availability.
Projected Financial Performance
76.        SOFIDE's financial projections for 1986-89 assume a decrease in
SOFIDE's  lending  rate  for new foreign currency loans  from  15.5 to 14
percent per annum. Despite this reduction, interest and commission income
is expected to outpace the growth in financial and administrative expenses
(due primarily to anticipated continued depreciation of the Zaire), so that
SOFIDE can maintain provisions at least at 12 percent of its loan
portfolio, the level reached in 1985, and still earn a satisfactory return
on its average equity.  Net income is projected to grow from about US$2.6
million in 1986 to US$5.9 million in 1989 when it is expected to represent
about 44 percent of average equity, as compared to 12-17 percent in
1981-85.
77.          The projections show that SOFIDE's financial structure will
remain sound, with the debt to equity and quasi-equity ratio ranging from
3.3 in 1986 to 4.4 in 1989, thus remaining within the prudent 5:1 limit
agreed  with  IDA.   This  limit will be maintained  under this  proposed
operation. SOFIDE's asset/liability maturity structure is also expected to



- 24 -
retain its present characteristics (i.e. loan assets having a much shorter
maturity than debt liabilities), and would allow it to maintain a
satisfactory liquidity position while dealing with any problems in its
portfolio.
Description of the Proposed IDA Credit
78.         The proposed IDA   Credit of SDR 43.3 million (about US$50.0
million equivalent) would be made to the Republic of Zaire, which would
onlend SDR 42.9 million about (US$49.5 million equivalent) to SOFIDE under
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to IDA, the signing of which would
be a condition of credit effectiveness, and would pass on SDR 433,000
(about USS0.5 million equivalent) to CEPETEDE as a grant. The credit would
include the following components:
(a)   Investment component (SDR 42.3 million) to finance the foreign
exchange costs of SOFIDE's subprojects;
(b)   Technical Assistance to SOFIDE (SDR 567,000) to finance the total
cost of local and foreign experts to strengthen SOFIDE's
appraisal and loan collectin capabilities, the training of SOFIDE
staff, and the purchase of about SDR 87,000 of data processing
equipment;
Cc)   Technical Assistance to CEPETEDE (SDR 433,000) to finance the
total cost of local and foreign experts to run high-level courses
in project appraisal and related subjects, and the purchase of a
limited amount of equipment (SDR 87,000 maximum, mainly for data
processing).
The Proposed Investment Component
79.           This component would finance the foreign exchange costs of
capital investment, including initial working capital, in subprojects
approved  by  SOFIDE.   All projects  that are  within SOFIDE's scope of
operations would be eligible, provided they are selected by SOFIDE in
accordance with its investment strategy and justified on the basis of a
full economic analysis, including calculation of an economic rate of return
for all non-service sector projects.
80.          Government Onlending Terms.  Consistent with the Bank Group
policy for IDF operations, IDA funds would be passed on by Government to
SOFIDE at 8.5 percent (IBRD's interest rate prevailing at the time of
distribution of the credit documents to the Executive Directors), with a
flexible  amortization  schedule that would substantially conform  to the
aggregate of the amortization schedules of subloans made by SOFIDE and
financed  under  this  project  (subject  to a maximum  term of  15 years,
including a grace period not exceeding three years).   In addition, SOFIDE
would pay to Government a commitment fee of 0.75 percent per annum on the
undisbursed amounts of sub-loans from the date of their commitment.



25 -
81.        SOFIDE T' Lending Terms.  SOFIDE would lend to subborrowers at an
annual interest rate of 14 percent.  This rate would yield a spread for
SOFIDE of about 5.5 percent, which would be adequate to cover administative
administrative costs, make adequate provisions and allow for satisfactory
profitability. SOFIDE's interest rate would be reviewed with IDA at least
once a year and adjusted if necessary to ensure its adequacy and
competitiveness compared to alternative sources of finance.   The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by SOFIDE 'S subborrowers.
82.          Free Limit.   The individual subproject free limit would be
US$500,000 equivalent as under the seventh IDA credit. The aggregate free
limit would be US$17 million equivalent, or 35 percent of the total amount
of the line of credit. With this free limit, it is estimated that about 20
subprojects would require IDA review prior to approval. This is sufficient
for the purpose of effective subproject monitoring by IDA.
83.        Commitment Period.  The funds would be available for commitment
by SOFIDE until June 30, 1989.
Technical Assistance to SOFIDE
84.        The SDR 567,000 million provided under this component would be
made available to SOFIDE to finance (i) short-term local and foreign
experts (management consultants, engineers, agronomists, etc.) to more
effectively assist clients in difficulty in improving the viability of
their operations; (ii) consultants to help appraise large and complex
projects and conduct a post evaluation of its on-going operations; (iii)
special audits and management reviews of some of its important existing and
prospective borrowers; (iv) the training of its staff in Zaire and abroad;
and (v) computer equipment to improve its information processing system
(about SDR 87,000).
85.       Terms and Conditions.  Funds under this component would be onlent
from Government to SOFIDE at the same rate as the investment component (8.5
percent per annum) and would have a fixed amortization schedule of 15 years
including a grace period of three years. The foreign exchange risk would
be borne by SOFIDE. The funds would be available for commitment until June
30, 1989. Each request for financing would be submitted to IDA for review
and approval along with a brief justification and cost estimates.
Technical Assistance to CEPETEDE
86.        The SDR 433,000 provided under this component amount to about a
third ot CEPETEDE's budget during 1986-89 and wou'd enable it to (i)
finance local and foreign experts to run high-level courses in project
appraisal, financial and portfolio management, accounting and related
topics for officials and executives of the public and private sectors; and
(ii) purchase a limited amount of training materials and equipment (data
processing and related equipment and pedagogical material).



- 26 -
87.        Terms and Conditions.  Funds allocated for this component would
be passed on as grant from Government to CEPETEDE and would be available
for commitment until June 30, 1989.    Each request for financing would be
submitted to IDA for review and approval along with a brief description of
the  course  and  the  qualifications  of  the  experts.    To  facilitate
administration of the component, SOFIDE has agreed to manage it on behalf
of CEPETEDE and  to submit disbursement requests to IDA.   SOFIDE would
receive, as an administrative fee, a commission of 3.5 percent of the
amount available under the component.   Such fee would be paid in three
equal yearly tranches of SDR 5,000 out of the Special Account (para. 93).
The first tranche would be paid on the effectiveness date of this Credit.
Total Project Cost and Financing
88.         SOFIDE's subloan commitments during the period January 1986 to
June 1989 are estimated at US$139.1 million, of which US$103.0 million
would be in foreign exchange.   The investment component of the proposed
project (US$48.8 million) would cover about 47 percent of the foreign
exchange needs and  the remainder would be secured  from other sources:
Canada (CIDA), Federal Republic of Germany (KfW), EIB and ADB.   Assuming
that SOFIDE would finance, as in the past, about 55 percent of the total
investment costs, the US$139.1 million forecast commitments would result in
about US$253 million in total investments.
89.        The financing plan of SOFIDE's operations and for the technical
assistance provided under this project would be as follows:
Financing Plan
January 1986-June 1989
(USs million equivalent)
Local     Foreign       Total
SOFIDE's Subloan Commitments                36.1        103.0        139.1
Technical Assistance                         0.3          0.9          1.2
Total Financing Required                  36.4        103.9        140.3
Financing Plan
SOFIDE: Resources Available for
Commitment as of January 1986        3.5        46.7         50.2
SOFIDE: Cash Generation                     32.6           -          32.6
Proposed IDA Credit                          0.3         49.7         50.0
Other Possible Lenders (Kfw, EIB, ADB)        -           7.5          7.5
Total                                     36.4        103.9        140.3



- 27 -
Project Implementation
90.            Procurement and Disbursement.   Procurement for subprojects
financed under the investment component of the credit, as well as goods
financed under the SOFIDE and CEPETEDE technical assistance components,
would be on the basis of competitive quotations from at least three
different suppliers (including foreign), a procedure acceptable to IDA
which has worked well under previous IDA credits to SOFIDE.   Given the
relatively modest size of procurement packages, there is little scope for
international competitive bidding. Selection of consultants would be made
in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
91.           The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed as
follows:
(a) on the SOFIDE and CEPETEDE technical assistance components: (i) 100
percent of the cost of consultants and training; and (ii) 100 percent
of the foreign exchange cost of equipment and supplies bought by
SOFIDE and CEPETEDE;
(b)  on SOFIDE subloans: (i) 100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of goods and
services;  (ii)  80  percent  of  the  cost  of  previously  imported
equipment purchased in Zaire and of equipment produced in Zaire from
previously imported components and raw materials; and (iii) 55
percent of the cost of construction works included in subprojects and
carried out by locally-based contractors.
92.       The projected disbursement schedule is based on the disbursement
profile for DFC projects in Eastern and Southern Africa. Disbursements are
expected to be completed over eight years, by December 31, 1994.
93.       Special Account.  As under the sixth and seventh IDA credits, to
expedite disbursement of funds, a Special Account would be set up at a
financial institution acceptable to IDA into which IDA would make an
initial deposit of US$2.1 million equivalent from the proposed credit
immediately  after  credit  effectiveness.    This  amount  represents  an
estimated average disbursement of funds over a four-month period.   The
Special Account would be used to finance all subproject component
expenditures under $25,000. Replenishment of the Special Account for these
items would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The
documentation for withdrawals made under SOEs would be retained by SOFIDE
for ten years and would be reviewed by supervision missions.   The Special
Account could also be used to finance expenditures for the technical
assistance components and subproject component expenditures in excess of
$25,000.  Replenishment of the Special Account for these items would be
made on the basis of fully documented applications.   Applications  for
replenishment of the Special Account for a minimum of $100,000 would be
submitted on a monthly basis or whenever funds are below $1 million.  The
Special Account would be audited annually by independent auditors and the
audit reports would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of
each fiscal year.



- 28 -
94.         Audits and Reporting.  Since its inception, the Brussels-based
firm of Berger, Block, Kirechen and Schellekens and Co. has audited
SOFIDE's accounts. The quality of the audits has been satisfactory and in
line with IDA's requirements. As under previous IDA projects, SOFIDE would
continue to have its accounts and financial statements, as well as the
Special Account and SOEs (para. 93), and the account of the CEPETEDE
component that it has agreed to manage, audited by independent audltors
acceptable to IDA and would furnish to IDA certified copies of its audited
financial statements and its annual reports within six months of the end of
each fiscal year. SOFIDE would also submit to IDA quarterly reports, which
would include, inter alia, financial statements, resource position,
statement of arrears, loan collection targets and results obtained and
measures taken to improve the arrears situation.
Project Benefits and Risks
95.            The proposed  project would provide  term resources to the
productive sectors in Zaire to rehabilitate industrial and agro-industrial
enterprises, develop manufactured exports, improve transport facilities and
increase agricultural production. It would thus help accelerate growth and
increase employment in Zaire and would complement the positive impact of
the policy reforms already taken or to be taken with the support of the
Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit. The investment component of US$48.8
million is expected to support productive investments totalling about US$90
million and would help rehabilitate or improve production capacity of a
much higher value. As in the past, subprojects financed are expected to
show high economic and financial rates of return (para. 49). The project
would also enable IDA to continue helping SOFIDE, the main term lending
institution in Zaire, to increase its effectiveness and institu.-ional
strength.   The action program for portfolio improvement and monitoring
would enable IDA to assist SOFIDE in improving its loan collection and
arrears situation.  As in the past, continued IDA support would enhance
SOFIDE's capability to mobilize additional foreign exchange resources from
other lenders and enable it to play a more significant role in assisting
the recovery of the Zaire's productive sectors.
96.        There are two risks in this project.  The first risk relates to
the possible deterioration of Zaire's economic situation which would, inter
alia, accelerate the depreciation of the Zaire currency and make SOFIDE's
foreign exchange loans unattractive to potential investors who have to bear
the foreign exchange risk.  Such a risk is, however, limited in view of
Zaire's continued compliance with the IMF stabilization program and the
actions envisaged by IDA and other donors to increase the resource transfer
and accelerate economic growth in Zaire.  The second risk is the possible
deterioration of SOFIDE's arrears position.   This risk is also 14mi.ted
because of the strong action SOFIDE has already taken to 4mnrnve loon
collection and the additional measures proposed in the context of this
project to improve the quality of the portfolio. These should insure that
SOFIDE will remain an effective term lending institution that promotes
economically justified investment projects.



- 29 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
97.         I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 10, 1986
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-30 -                                          Page I of 6
A 8  L a 34
lain!R                - OcIAL tIUlCAIdhS DATA SOUR
EARa                                nEiPRHia  Gwns (SIlmTED AWAASS 4±
9WNC  (lUST UZWT 1ST MATC) lb
1wet  iioL   flU?           3.  n As an               co   latut
EMTUIATVL        SOOTH or SAHARA      AuRICA S. uV SAHARA
AMA iToms m. a)
TOTAL                            2343.4      2343.4     2343.4
0A1003.155                       14&.4       151.2      1334.
cr     C)                           ..          ..       110.              23.                      1063.5
(MLffANS OP OIL ,OIIIVAL5)         63.0        5D.0       52.0              62.3                    531.3
anAT mIsD VwIM ATISTIS
eULATON.m-uTIaR CThMSS          17756.0    2143B.0    297LO
gIUm  OPLTIOUl (3 or TOTAL)        15.7       21.G        38.0              20.1                     32.0
PUUATlOI PWOECFIulHS
PwUflowl IN IR20w0 (lULL)                               46.9
STATIOSAI PPULATIWN (MILL)                             145.0
roWUIATION RmnM                                          1.1
POPUIATION   NIm
PR sq. m.                         7.6        9.2        12.7              33.2                     05.1
E SQ. U. AGRI. LAND             121.3       143.1      184.2             112.5                    124.6
POPUZATION AGE STEICTURr CE)
0-14 RS                         44.1        44.2       45.4               44.0                     43.6
13-4 Tis                         52.8       32.9        Sl.2              50.8                     31.3
6S Mo0 AROSE                      2.9         2.8        3.2               2.9                      2.7
POPULATION GRO1   ATE (l)
TOTAL                             2.2         2.0        2.4               2.8                      2.,
MtA                               .           3.2        1.6               6.4                      5.1
CRUE 51311 RtATE (PER TSOPS)       48.1       47.8        46.0              47.2                     67.0
CX UDEATH RATE (ME TSOUlS)         24.3       20.6        15.5              17.3                     15.0
GROS RCPRODTON NATE                 2.9        3.0         3.1               3.3                      3.2
FAIILY PLANNING
ACCISO0S. AIL (T1015)             ..          ..          .
US   ( O  AIED  ON)               ..          ..         3.0               3.3                      6.4
INDE  F or0F £300. VER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     101.0       101.0       33.0              83.3                     U2.9
P  CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALWISS CZ OF  UPIRUINESES)      9.O       IOLO        102.0              S7.7                     9b.S
pbndIlS tAMS PE  DAY)            34.0       3S.0        35.0              51.9          S5.4
OF WICH MAIAL AND PULSE         13.0        13.0       10.0 Ic           1L.7                     16.3
OIIID CAfS 1-4) DEATH RATE         32.8       27.2        20.0              23.1                     16.6
SR,
LIF  urter. AT EITS1 (TEa)         42.9       45.3        50.7              47.s                     52.0
INFANT 11. RATE (ICIm TallUs)     150.0      132.0       106.0             119.5                    luS.6
ACMSS TO SAFE WATER ZFlOP)
TOAL                              ..         11.0       17.9              27.1                     42.4
URA                               ..        33.0        40.0              43.5                     *7.3
lintL                             ..         4.0         5.0              19.3                     33.8
ACCSS TO a2031A  DISPOSAL
(I or POPULUTIOIl)
TOTJAL                            ..          .0         ..               26.5                     28.9
CRAM                              ..         5.0         ..               65.4                     57.7
RIUAL                                         3.0                         20.5                     20.7
POPMATION PER PhYSICIAN         79620.0    30140.0    13940.0 Id         27901.7                  11791.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON          3310.0     2290.0      3610.0 T;         3305.4                   2439.5
cro. PER HOSPITAL mm
TOTAL                           230.0       320.0      330.0 Id         1273.b                    951.I
URBAN                            60.0       100.0      I30.0 7;          428.2                    368.8
RURAL                           710.0      1070.0     2330.0 r          3292.3                   4371.9
Al*ISSIONS PE HOSPITAL  n           ..         ..          ..                ..                      27.2
3050
AVERSE SULE OF HOUSUOD
TOTAL                             ..          ..
naRBl                             ..         4.3
RRL                               ..          ..
AVERA  NO. OF PE3SONSI/RWI
ToTAL                             ..          ..
URaLt                             ..          ..
RURL                              ..          ...
PERCENTS OF DUCLLINGS WITM CLECT.
TOTAL                             ..          ..
0U                                ..         ..R
RURAL                             ..          ..



ANNEX I
- 31-                                         Page 2 of 6
, *      L L   34
ZAIRI                   - SOCtAL INDICATORS DATA SNfET
ZAIRF.                                REFERENCE COUPS (WEIGiITED AwERAIEb) I
POST                      (NDST StCfJT ESTN4AIL) lb
RECENT          tL  lNlCOPl AFRICA        MIDDLE IsNCmE
19tnLo      1970L E5fDIATE,?.         SOUTH OF SARA         AFRICA S. 0f SAIARA
ADJIUS   ENROLlMENT RATIOS
PRINAI  TOTAL                      60.0        66.0        90.O/s             67.8                       vs.7
tm                      U .0      110.0       104.0 7             77.6                      1  o
FMLE                    32.0        66.0        75s.0 i            54.9                      u3.2
SaCONDun TOTAL                      3.0         9.n        23.0 to             13.5                      17.3
maLE                     4.0        13.0        33.0 o7            17.9                      235.0
iDea!                    3.0         4.0        13.0 77             9.1                       14.6
VUCATIONAL (2 or SEWNUMR)            26.S         9.6         10.0 IC            13.2                       5.9
PUPlL-TEAC31E RATIO
PRIMA"                             40.0        43.0        3u.U Id             '4.9                      43.1
SEcONR                             2Zt0 200                21.0 /d            27.4                       25.w
PASSENCER CAISITHOU5ANU POP           2.5         3.0                            3.8                       20.8
RADIO RECIVERS/THOUSAND POP            .         29.1        66.8               55.6                      107.b
TV RECEEVERS/TNoUSAD POP                          0.3          0.4 /f             2.6                      20.6
NEWSPAPER MDAILY GIEERAL
INTUEST") CIOILATION
PER mIOUSAeD POPIil&ATON             1.2         9.2          1.S                5.0                      16.4
CINCIA AMNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       0.1         0.1                            0.                         0.4
LAIKF POIIC
TOTAL LAWR FORCE (TViOS)           6216.0      9465.0      12616.0
fEMALE (PERCElr)                   46.4        64.5        42.2               34.2                       36.2
ACRICJLIURLE (PERCENT)             63.0        79.0        75.0 If            77.5                       54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  90         11.0        13.0 7f             9.7                       16.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              46.3        43.7        39.9               39.3                       36.6
KALE                               31.9        49.6        47.3               50.9                       47.1
VEKAL!                             41.2        38.0        33.4               28.1                       27.2
ECONMC DEPZENNCY RUTIO                1.0         1.1         1.2                1.3                        1.3
tDCIN DESZRTIU
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INw
RECEVED BT
HIGHEST 5 OF HOUSEHOLDS
RICHEST 202 OF HOF3SEOLDS           ..
LOJEST 20Z201 NOUfSEIOLDS           ........
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSENOLDS            ..
LOvr T mar  ms
ESTDIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPlTA)
URBAN                               ..           ..         ..               165.5                      590.7
RURAL                               ..          ..          ..                93.0                      275.3
ESTIMATED RLATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LZVIL (OS$ PE  CAPITA)
03BAN                               ..          ..          ..               113.1                     455.6
RURAL                               ..          ..         43.0 1            67.6                     201.1
ESTIlATED POP. bELIN ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOM  LVML ()
URBN                                ..          ..          ..                36.6
RURAL                               ..          ..          ..                61.6
rOT AVAILALE
lOT APPLICAILE
Pi o T F S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are populatioa-walgted artltetiC Means. CoVerAge of csoetries
anong the Indicators depends on availability of data and is not udifor.
/b   Unless othewise noted, "Data for 1960  refer to any year beteen 1953  and 1961; "'Dts for 1970. bebdeen
1969 and 1971; and deta for "Moet Recent Estiute" betmen 1961 and 1983.
Ic   1977;  /d 1979;  /I  1978;  /f 19W0.
JUNE, 1985



-32                                      ANNEX I
Papa ' nf fS
DnUanoNs OF SOCIAL NDCATORSM
m: Alho.m tlie dsuro                                    dOmna_ y pd the mtt aoluwe sa mable, a sd  . he e   tha they ay  te ntemtimily
campwlek bha .o ot  lat of s ddduitiooa mad _mm  mO  by dillaut mt,,.an in amith   th da  The dat am, 0mue . uf to
oiaebte mim   of dmpie. adm  usa.d  acieum  stan  -n  dilirsam bhen. cmamm
The u mr gup aim (1) the sua  eamy pum  of tw subjct owutry a_d (2) a amintly pomp with somewhal   awi & in  tat the cownny
pdbp of the    l messy (amp. fetK    mH Oil Ehpinrtapo  wham  ihddlIhNcoe thAfoi Mudnte M    an ichosenra d   arse of mro
_scocitl Smit.. lathe ise  pr  Sa the avxua g .ai popuon sweighed dathmatic urns zfa     d m and o   ey whenmjoity
dtewcatm ma *pomp adata h idb  h  _or. Siathe co        cou       _ ua te inditeimdend.on the alahily odar  ad snot miror
_mim mu be eacud wa imlatim           -  iditer le11toanothe.   sawn,f el ulo   . m ag the vaue dne mdu r at am am g
d catry and m m waup.
AREA (thousnd sq.km.)                                            Crud Bit Act (p. thussndJ-Number oflive births in the ycar
Total-Total surface aru compri-sig sand -      end inland waters;  per thousand of nid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 dats
1960. 1970 and 1983 dats.                                        Cude Deao Rae (per thoueand)-Number of deths in the year
_uIea  -Estimate or agriculturt t c- usd temporarily or          per thousnd of nmd-year population; 1960. 1970. and 19K3 data.
permanently for crops, pastures. markact and kitchen prdens or to  GrC  Reptfehde Nra--Average number of daughters a wom n
lie falow, 1960. 1970 and 1982 data                              will bear in her normal reproductiv  period if she expenences
presen *age-specific fertility rates usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPfTA (USS)-GNP per capta estimates at current          in 1960. 1970, and 1913
market pries, calculated by sane cceusion method as World        Fondly PSeiq-AccQpUors, Aral fvhomzdfl-Annual n-
Rat Adsu (1981-83 basis); 1983 data                              ber ofacceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER   CAPITA-Annual apparent                  fanily plnning program.
consumption of commercial primarn  t  energy (coal and lignit.   Fdly fhwnaiMrV (percent of arried nse-Thc pren-
petroleum, natural gas and bydro- c.n1inr and geothermal lec-    tae of married womn or child-bearing age who m praticing or
tncity) in kilograms of oil equivalent t er capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbane are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data,                                                       of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraeptive usage is measured for other age
POPUlATION AND VITAL STAII5TIC5                                 groups.
TsiftpwIaioa, Mid-19er (sta- -As of July 1; 1960,1970,          FOOD AND NURMON
and 1913 data.
WArn  tp.lueu (ercen  f aeds--Ravioof uran t  tota  Indx of Feed Prodacnian Per Capita 1 7969-71 - 100)-Index of per
L4*m Populdifferent no  o         -         of umnan as  urbesn to total  capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population, data emt detiountries; of u 1970a a   1983 data compar- xexdudes animIal feed and seed for agriculture Food comnmodities
ability of data among countries; 1960   - 1970. and 1983 data.   include primary commodities (e.g sugrcaone instead of sugar)
Peparea ?reeeiens                                                which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Pbpulasmin pyear 2000-Tbe prnoj    ac of population for 2000.    exduded): they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Sira-tng with information on   vegetables, fruits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fert     rtes, mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggrete production of each country is based
international miigrtion in the base var   1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65 1970, and
were projted at fnie-year intervals o-o  the basis of genralzed  1982 data.
assumptions until tbe population h    stationary.                Pr C.;a Sspply of Calefs te eerce, efnqEjeaeta)-4Compuv-
Statonery popula&ion,-s one in wbnz age- and sx-specific mor-    ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
talty rates have not changed over a boEng period while age-speific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneousy reeued at rplacement levl     tion. imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net rproduction rae- 1). In such a a-population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agricultur quantities used in
constant and equal to the death  rs e,  the agc structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements werc
constant, and the growth rate is zv  a The stationary population  estimated by FAO bused on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the trpojoetd characteristic of  and bealth considering environmental temperature. body weights
the population in the year 2000. and ds  rte of dedine of fertility  age and se distribution of population, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replaement level,                                        waste at household levd; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Pbp&nion Monemanu-ls the tkodtcr  for populatior growth to       Per CApta Spply of Pein (gram  per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that repiaciet-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
acheved; that is. ev  after the net mrcduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a populabt mm  the year r is mnasured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of tbe ultimate stationary popquiation to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of wbich 10 grams
the year :. given the assumption thax it ienility remains at replace-  should be aninml protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment klvel from year t onward. 1985  caW                         75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Ppgw. DJr)y                                                      average for tde vworld proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkm-Mid-ycar population per r square kilometer (100 bec-    Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tarns) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1-!9 Z-data.               Per Capita Protein Supply Frm  AhislmdPudhse-iProtein supply
Per sq..km. agricsltural hnd-Comptuamnr as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961 -65.
blnd only. 1960 1970, and 1982 data                              1970 and 1977 data.
Ptp.ldo Age Str     e fperceatrj---Children (0-14 years). work-  CAd (irs 14) Deth Rate (per thous.ad)-Number of deaths of
ing age (I5-64 years). and retired (65 'tan ad  over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. ac 1983 data.                group in a given year For most deveoping countries data derived
Ptpmlwi.n Growrh Rate (perceabtk-aaL-Annual growth rates of      from life tables. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total nid-year population for 1950-6s. -. 1960-70. ad 1970-83.   HEALTH
Popaion Growh Rate                     Annual growth rates       Le Expectaacy    Bir  (yearts-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 190-60. 190-Z-70. and 1970-83 data.      infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



* 33  -ANNEX  I
-   ePgCe 4 of 6
ahe dom ofof di bith wi  to say tbc tsame throut is fife;     Aup-tacr JRlwo - pLu. id mmader)-Total studen en-
I1& 1970 .d 1983 data.                                        roled in pnnmry and mooday leves  divided by numbm or
&AM AmeWpy Am (P.r tiunof)-Nmber of infants who die           teahers in the owresponding kvdel
before rueiugme year of e per thoam    live irth in a given
yer, 1960 1970 and 1933 deat                                  CONSGUMla   ON
_ t 5     WW  (pwe   of                       11196 w_11, Md  Pneq. Cmx fpr  av P lo            .     se      cars corn-
mm&-Number or people (total wran. and nrual)    _esoa         prie motor cms eng less 1tan ight persons; xcluds armbul.
amm to ask wate sup       ncludes utd  uface was or           ancs, bams ad miitary vehies.
_ao     u misotemntdae                  _ tbs ft,prucil t Xd 
borehodlet tmingsaad   . tuydWas puhanus ot   t erit pet     DAA. ReeIer (p.r thoseudpopoWm_ -AlU types of receivers
poph .osprigs Midrban mmiar   a pub)c5fomtai5 ort dpost    for adio broadcasts to general puilic per thousnd of population;
dye popolatiom. In an tirbiti ble  Or tUbbe flisitam ID       exicludes un-liced rceivers in countries and in yeas when
heajad sot mom than 200 meters from a hous may be cegiiteatdon ofradio set was in deffct data for recent yet -may
ec biag within reasonable acces or that houe. In ruralm areeasraL ic ms onrmaose lcnig
_msownet access would iompl that the housewife or m                             nmot countries aohed licensing.
boueiho- do no have to *pnd a disproportionate pat of the day  TVRecEIs (e Vd(t? t         d )-TV receivets for broadcast
a ftcig th   i           w                                    to geea public per thousnd population; excludes unlicensed TV
rcdven in countins and in yeas wben rgstrbon of TV se was
Awamsr Emwea mupesa (pnwct #fp&pmlsAw.u-tavtal  w6w.          inelc.
ad rmmi-Number of people (totaL urba  and rural) served by       da
aac  disposal a pe retags of dheir respective popuont.       Akw4vqw Gndssi (per sthassesipoIari)-Shows the aver-
Exert diposl may incude the colbction nd disposL ,wth or      ag drwation or daiy  cra intest newsper. defined as a
wthout ttment, of human excrua and waste-water by watr-       penodmW pu ition devoted pnanly to recording gerld news.
bne syms or the use or pit privies and slr i  al.            It is considered to be dazly' if it appea  at eat four tmes a week.
PipId mp.ser Physi±   _'b4"p-tion divided by number of prac,-  Memo A4U5 Aneadmwe per Cupta per Yew-Based on the
sng physcians qualif firom a medialshool at univeity lhd.     number of tickes sold during the year. including admissions to
ftp.hrirper NHft  Asn-4opulabon divided by number of          drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
pacicing male an  femalesraduate nss, asUant naurme
practcl numn ad nursing auxiliaries.                              O  FORCE
P k. f' N.spbd SNP-mid m4 rn1 -ad r.d-Pbpulation              Ted L.6w Frwr (tMoswaJ-Econouically acive persons. in-
(totl        and  ua)) dividled by their rspectve nIber o     chiding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in publc snd privte, geeral and spld  sudents, et., covring population of al ages Definitions in
hsitals and rhabiitation ceters Hoptas we establishments      vario  countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanely staffed by at lea one physic   Esabhments prov-    FPidt (pnww)-Fmale- labor rome as pentage of total labor
aft  primpaly c.aentl      u   not   i        Rumol hospitak  force.
ho ievee,inclu& bcaltb and media omtces not permanently sar A rke (pwrs)-labor force in fanrng  forety. huning
by a physdn  (but by a medical  sint, nure midwif etc.)      and fishing as perentage of tol labor fomrc  1960. 1970 and 1980
offer in-patient accomodatio and provide a limited ang       dat
ormedica facl                                                 laesr (percarw)-Labor force in mining, consbuion. mnanu-
AA _hsba pgr HNosp    Bin-Total number of admissions to or   facuring and eectricity. water and gas as pcentage of toal labor
di     s fronm hospitals divided by the number of beds.      fore. 196C. 1970 and 1980 data.
iP .ti.. Rar                 ask. ..affn  4ulicipation
HOUSING                                                      or activity rates m  computed as total, male, and fenale labor force
se  Su of M        ul (pf ,nsr jogr h.eloMI-mia, wa          as percentages of total. male and fmiale population of al ages
andrs-A housdxod consists ofa group of individuls who sham    repectigly. 1960. 1970, and 1983 data. lese a  based on ILO's
liing qunt and their main  mcals. A boarder or bldger may or    pationrates reflecting ag-scx structure of the populato. and
my not he included in the houehold for saistc  purpos        long time trend. A few estimates ae from national sourcs.
Alenge Abm&m. of ?esau per RAow-twI mma, ai nral-            Ec_aat Depeudency Ada-Ratio of population under IS. and
Aweng  number of perons per room in all urba  and  rual      65 and over. to the working age population (thos aged 15-64).
oupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exlude
non-permaet stuctue and unoccupied parts.                    INCOME DISRIBUMTON
Pc-awe Df vfa   sih Eeerdrcky-wat. m-am, ud           -      Pecet   of TJd Dpabl  am, (both as cash A.d kmd)-J
Conventional dwdeng with electricity in lv:ing quarwters as percen-  Accruing to p ienilce groups of households ranked by total house-
upg of totl, urban,  d rur  dwilings rspecively.             hold income.
EDUCAtlON                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4wtedE.aulbw  Ratios                                        The following estimates me very approximate measures of poveny
Paiwy scool - total, male and fenal-Gros total male and      k-    and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
fma enroUlment of all as at the primary lewl as percentages or  Esraued Abslue iwe1ty laevw Leve (LUSS per capirer-hoa
r_qictre prniry chool-a  popult     Whik many countris       ad  w-Absolute poverty income lvd is that income kvd
consider punary school age to be 6-1l years. otbers do not Tbe  below whicb a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in county practces in the ages and dumtion of shool  non-food requirnments is not affordabk.
sc reflected in the aios give  For some countries with universal  E ed Relaikve Poverty lun   l  (USS per ep_a)--arhba
educaion, gram enrollment may exced 10D pecnt since some      nd rral-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils ae below or above the counys standard pinmary-shool   average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
a                                                            derived frm  the rural level with adjustment for highwr cost of
SecArdy sd,el - roW   ak and fale-Computed as above;          iving in urban areas.
seodary educaion rcquires at least four years of approved pr-  Esriaed Papultmi Below Abw&tePveM lurew Level (per1-
may isucton prvides general, vocanonaL or teher training     ceae)-rb. aod rual- Prent of population (urban and rural
istuction for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; cotrespond-  who are absolute poor.-
e courses we geneally excluded.
VecaunId Evollenti fper    f srcAdvy--Vocational institu-              Comparative Analysis and Data Division
ts inlde tehnil industiaL or other programs which opte               Economic Analysis and Projections Deparment
indepndenty or as deparments of seondary instutions                                  June 19t5



-34-
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
ZAIRE Economic Indicators
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Annual Growth Res  (U)
US a Millions            As percent of CDP                  at 1966 priets
1984                          1964                1963          1964         10i6
CDP Market Prices                    4982.2                       1.111                 0.2          2.8           2.t
CDP Factor Cost                      4872.6                        97.8                 1.4          J.1           2.6
Agriculture                       1509.4                        J2.0                2.0           5.O          J.6
Industry                          175S.0                        a6.6                4.1           2.5          1.6
Other                             1667.1                        32.0               -0.9           5.6          5.1
Not Export  of GNFS                     8.2                         4.1
Import of CNFS                    2631.6                        36.9                  ..          6.9          2.6
Export of GNFS                    2646.0                        41.0                              4.7         -1.5
Gross Fixed Investment                511.6                        16.2                  ..          6.6         -5.3
Consumption                          4162.4                        77.6                  ..          5.6          4.8
Gross Domestic Savings                819.6                        22.6                  ..          1.0          -0.9
Cross Notional  Savings               463.5                        12.0                  ..        -27.6          2.7
PUBLIC FINANCE (Central Government)
Zaire Millions                                % of GOP
19B3          1984         198S                1993         1984          19B5
Current revenues                      10998         26994         41350               11.4          14.4         17.2
Current expenditures                  11459         26193         37654                11.9         14.6         16.7
Current deficit                        -461          -199          3696               -0.6          -O 1          1.6
Capitol expenditures                    647          1619           968               -1.1          -0.7          1.1
Overall deficit                       -11O         -1218          2746               -1.1          -0.7          1.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES               1980          19B1          1982               1983          1984         19BS
Money and Quasi-money                3367.3        4644.9        8057.0              14602         18792        23926
Bank credit to public sector         2329.4        3783.6        7388.0              16252         13396        14847
Bank credit to private sect.         1651.1        1435.4        2646.0               3897          5947         9687
Money A Quasi-money (S GDP)            11.7          11.7          15.6               24.5          10.4         16.9
Consumer Price Index 1975=106        1313.3        1813.1       2487.9              4376.3       664.8         8661.3
Annual percentage change
Consumer Price Index                      ..         38.1          37.2               76.6          62.1         30.0
Bank credit to public sec.                ..         62.4         168.6               30.0          36.7         10.3
Bank credit to private sec.               ..         36.8          85.7               46.2          62.6         62.9
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevaling in the period covered.



3 35 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
ZAZRE: Economic Indlcator.
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
-  UC  Millions
19U           1931           1932           911133        1934           1983
Euports ot Coods & Services             2371.4         1772.3         1656.2         1775.6        2 68.6         2636.3
of which Msrchandime(FOS)             2143.6         1499.3         1476.3        1597.8         1395.2        1319.3
Imoprt. of Goods * Services             24U5.9         2273.1         2635.3         1941.8        1177.1        1836.9
of which Marchandine(FOS)             1761.0         1636.7         1436.3         1329.8        1321.2         1370.4
Privat, transform (net)                   -79.4          -3.5           -3.3            3.2         -01.2          -61.1
Current Account Balance
(before rescheduling)                -291.5         -83.7         -59D.6         -849.6         -849.6        -831.3
(after rescheduling)                 -291.5         -468.1        -547.6         -131.7         -180.6        -212.2
Official Grants   (net)                   268.8         247.8          160.1          173.2         174.8          169.2
Public Capital    (net)                   -22.1        -168.6         -173.6         -196.7        -296.2         -293.3
Priv.Capital(net),Err.& Om.sm.             58.6          31.3           91.6          -15.0         132.5          174.2
SDR Allocation                             2a.8          11.9           17.7            6.6           6.6            e.6
Increase (-)in Int. Reserves             -48.2          111.2           85.3           -8.6          3a.8           -2.0
Reduction (-) in Arrears               -1847.1          129.7         836.9          -613.1         -75.9          -61.1
Oth-r Financing                          1629.5         471.7          244.0         1682.9         584.3         477.6
of which Debt Rescheduling             1612.6          371.4          156.1         971.7          477.7         411.4
EXCHANGE RATE
-  Zires/U55                AVG. EXCH. RATATE (Z/US5)
Aug.24,1979-Feb. 22,198                     2.1               196                      2.0
Feb.22,1980-Jun- 19.1981                    3.1               1981                      4.4
June.29,1981-Septem.12,1963                 5.6               1982                      5.B
September 12,1933 [1]                      26.9               1983                     12.9
February 24,1984                           33.6               1994                     36.1
1989                    47.6
EXTERNAL DEBT (Outstanding Dec. 191,5Mill.USU)
Medium Long Term    : 538e.
1980          1931           1932           1983          19B4          1935
Dmbt service ratio                         22.7          21.9           13.9           14.3          26.4          27.7
MERCHANDISE EXPORT (Mill .USS)             1980          1991           1982           1983          1984        1986
Co'pper                                 1332.5         7158.           796.7         781.2          675.5         691.6
Cobalt                                   377.3          168.3          182.8         121.4          225.6         249.3
Dimonds                                  113.6           77.2           76.2         138.9          220.4         222.e
other Metals                             113.1          115.7           84.2         127.2          166.6          76.6
Coffee                                   163.1          111.3          156.0         116.5          212.2        1u8.6
Crude oil                                226.1          273.5          274.1         236.6          322.9         309.3
Other                                    157.8          112.9          127.2         116.6          128.2         148.6
Marketing Cost & Adjustments             -39.9         -166.2         -163.6         -46.6            2.1           0.0
Total exports FOB                       2143.6         1499.8         1476.8        1597.3         1893.2        1899.0
(1] On September 12,1983 Zaire introduced a transitional dual exchange rate regime
consisting of an official rate and a free market rate ,shown in parenthoses above.
The two rates were unified on February 24,1984; henceforth the rate is fluctuating
and its market price determined in the intorbank market wore Commercial Banks
can buy and sell foreign exchange and the Bank of Zaire can intervene to
regulate the market.



36                                 Page 1 of 2
ST=  OF BANK EF OPERAIM  IN ZA2
A. S04HN  OF EMMC M     AND IDA CPEDI  (As of Seveber 30. 1985)
loan or                                                  Awmhunt ln US$ HMifLin
Cedt     Y                                                (less cYaglations)
N?ber   Sigrd   Borrcmer                             Bwak   M_          tukdsburae  I
Prior
to Jine  ngo &    Transport                 91.58 2/
1960     Otraco     Inf ras ucture
One Loan Fuly Disbursed                              100.00
Sixteen Credits Fully Disbwsed                                2D0.34
798     1978      ZAIRE     Oil Pa3m                           9.00         5.67
902     1979      ZAE       Railways                          20.00         4.87
998     198)      ZAIRE     Fifth Dev. Firmn                  18.50         2.81
1040     1980     ZAIRE      Smallhoder Maize                  11.00         5.81
1089     1981     ZAE          .iIlu Ngorgo Sugar              26.40         2.80
1152     1981      ZAIR      1a=W-dlu Teckitcal Assistanoe  2.90             0.67
1180     1982      ZAI      QCWA ModernIzation                 26.00        14.35.
1224     1982      ZAIRE     Shaba Powe Syst    ehabilitatI  19.00           8.89
1241     1982      ZAIE      Water Supply II                   18.00         6.11
1244     1982      ZAIRE     Agricultue TA.                     5.00         2.64
1264     1982      ZAIE      Seownd Cotton                     11.30        10.41
1273     1982     ZAIRE      Sixth DEC                         21.50         7.90
1290     1982     ZAIE       HIgh1y V                          43.50        13.77
1325     1983   . ZAIRE      Nrth Easr Rural Developmem        13.00         10.17
1335     3983      ZAIRE     Ports Rebabilitatimn              25.00        20.62
1336     1983      ZAIE      GBcamines T.A.                     7.00         4.90
1409 -    !M3      ZAI       Petrolan Sector T.A                4.50         3.60
1421     1984     ZAIRE      Ruzizi II Hydroelectric           15.00         11.97
1475     1984     ZAIRE      Railways II                       26.00        26.00
1492     1984     ZAIRE      Seventh DEC                       36.00        32.14
1519     1985     ZAIRE      Edcation Techical Assistac        9.00          6.89
1540     1985     ZAIRE      Tllua Agricultural DevelopmeLzc    12.50       12.50
1609 3/  1985      ZAIRE     Seeds                             14.90        14.90
Total (lss cawzllatons):                   191.58   594.82        251.23
- of wtdch bas bem repaid                  140.12     2.85
Total ao outstaniling                       51.46   591.97
Amrut scibt                     54.47
of  hiich bas beem repaid     54.47
Total no heLd by Bark ard M!k               51.46   591.97
Total tJdisbursed:                           0      230.39        230.39
1/ US dollar amunts for credits 1089-Z and awards are computed at the rat of Credit
negtiation dates.
Z' Qztneed by the Kirgdom of Belgium
3  Sied but    t yt effective.



nM%1:,.   1.1
Page 2 of 2
-37-
L.SU r 5     p WpC I     NDW M     (As of September 30, 1985)
Fiscal                           Type Of            Mmt In US$ Millons
Year         c                   Business          In   Ity  Total
1970    Socidt Fziade de    DMC                      -      0.8     0.8
DvelOppent (90FIE)
1984    Socitg Finarike de       DFC                 -      0.5     0.5
DSveloppsent (SDFME)
1985    Soditf Textile de        Textile Oyupuy    6.3      0.6     6.9
de Kisargai
1985    Geatds Hotels du Zae     Hotel Coeqany     15.0       -    15.0
1985    (0.pany in formation)    Cbtton Farming      -      0.1     0.1
Total goss coMudMents                     Z1.3      2.0    23.3
lms: -repaymnets                            -        -      -
-ndflburswla                         18.3     0.7    19.0
Held by IFC                                3.0      1.3     4.3



- 38 -
Annex III
Supplementary Project Data Sheet            Page 1 of 2
ZAIRE
EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY (SOFIDE) PROJECT
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Appraisal mission:                 November, 1985
(b)  Negotiations:                     March 26-27, 1986
(c)  Planned date for effectiveness:  September, 1986
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   The Government would:
(a) onlend the investment and the technical assistance components
(SDR 42.9) to SOFIDE at 8.5 percent per annum (IBRD's interest
rate in effect at the time of distribution of the credit
documents to the Executive Directors) (para. 80); and
(b)    pass  on  the  remaining SDR 433,000 to CEPETEDE as a grant
to help it strengthen its training capabilities (para. 87).
B.   SOFIDE would:
Ca) exchange views annually with IDA on the adequacy of its interest
rates (paras. 65 and 81);
(b) distribute dividends only when general and specific provisions
for risk constitute at least four percent of its loan and equity
portfolio (para. 70);
(c)  implement the Action Plan aimed at improving the quality of its
portfolio (para. 71 (a);
(d) as a part of its quarterly reporting requirements, submit to IDA
a note showing the collection ratio targeted and the results
obtained, the measures taken to improve arrears collections, the
arrears situation at the end of the quarter, and the collection
ratio target and the measures proposed for the next quarter
(para. 71 (b);
(e) maintain its debt/equity and quasi-equity below 5:1 (para. 77);



- 39 -
Annex   III
Page 2 of 2
(f)  reduce its interest rate on foreign currency loans to   14.0
percent p.a. and pass on the foreign exchange risk to its
sub-borrowers (paras. 63 and 81); and
(g) bear the foreign exchange risk on the technical assistance
component of SDR 567,000 (para. 85).
Special Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a)   submission by Government  to Zaire's legislature of measures
aiming at  the suppression  of  the CCA tax for borrowers  who
bear the foreign exchange risk (para. 63);
(b) signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (para. 78).



IURD 3W0F7D
CENTRAL/'_ARIA                    REPUB.  y-[,  v                            SU DA N
Z A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRE  HA5- UEtE  
-'ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS                                                                                                                   A   < ,v\s    .-
P.O celoi capital                *         5    en                       gul                            )    HAUT- UEtE    
0D=rla sot                                                    M  _      ONC, I A  S    OufaS                          
-._L'I"11moltlIb                                 UIRANW4       ,                _>_,                                                  ,
-Profnee btando,y                       /                          -- Lnob >~__  >rL ,  
---;R12et._    , _w o                                                                H  A  U  T    -        "'A *'i R E .
g                               f jF 1-   _,   \           O*n40nnb!',,-  -                     Buni
*                ) f~~~~~~~QUArEUR                            Yan'gomb!,nnl
0  r                    (          t       >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k rd  - HArZAIRE                             O.. 
t 2 ~NORD-.
S ~~~~> j ', 7 , { z~~~~~~~~~IVU t UGANDA
GABON                       'C sO    tt r                     ' rHuP                                           s4 Xo  ['
.?   t   C   !   Mv A r ~~~~~~e t' o M B F /  \  t            | KmouO    i '      Uhluw°<  J   tC"RW"' N D 
oP        t-      ds@~~~~~nd.nd                                                          5   7     UD-KIVU %8URUNDJ 
6   J   2     --_tos         1         ;                 ]  ~~~~~~MANIEMA                | 
tZw l> r,- KWnLU                                     (     c b>gKaeo/g
Atlonfr~~N                            0    KWAs-j                                                                             TANZAN
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n NlEl                                           oK'b--  _          fP'1
r  CE>iT Ft qFwU81t                                              o         \    {'           ;~~~~~~~~~~~O  P
E Otlanti/c                                                                   \  KWANGO   Is A_ NGAN)KA(ZAMBIA
* ~~~~~~~~~~or                                  UI  HAU - L _,MFAM                                  tis --o_
,                                                                          S"     H>    A     B|T"  A    t    IAw 
-=-'r _ T-C 20 jf                                                                                            SHBA        ZAMBIA
GABON ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~AG9 Ko885,






