Doc_M  of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6140-ZR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZAIRE
OF AN EIGHTH IDA CREDIT
FOR
SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (SOFIDE)
April 1, 1986
Projects Department
Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents ma:- aot otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                  Zaire (Z)
On September 12, l183, Zaire introduced a transitional dual exchange rate
regime, comprising an official rate and a free market rate. The two rates
were unified on February 24, 1984; thereafter the rate has floated on a
weekly basis.
December 1985
Zaire 1.00              5      US$0.02
US$1.00                 =      Z 55.1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)             =      3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)        =      0.62 mile
I sq kilometer (km2)          0.386 square miles
1 metric ton (ton)             2,204 pounds (lbs)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       =  African Development Bank
BDZ       =  Banque du ZaIre
CCA       =  Contribution sur le Chiffre d'Affaires
CCCE      =  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CEPETEDE  =  Centre de Perfectionnement aux Techniques de D4veloppement
CIDA      =  Canadian Internetional Development Agency
E EDI       =  Economic Development Institute
EIB       =  European Investment Bank
FAC       =  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
INS       =  Institut National de la Statistique
KfW       =  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MNEI      =  Ministgre de l'Economie et de l'Industrie
OPEZ      =  Office de Promotion des Petites et Moyennes Entrepises
ZaIroises
OZAC      =  Office Zalrois de Contr8le
SMEs      =  Small and Medium Enterprises
SOFIDE    =  Socifte Financiere de D6veloppement
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization..



ZAIRE
EIGHTH SOFIDE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Republic of Zaire.
Beneficiary:              Soci£tg Financigre de DGveloppement (SOFIDE) and
Centre de Perfectionnement autx Techniques de
D-veJoppement (CEPETEDE).
Amount:                   SDR 43.3 million equivalent to about US$50.0
million.
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms.
Relending terms:          The Borrower would onlend SDR 42.3 rnillion,
equivalent to about US$48.8 million, to SOFIDE, at
8.5 percent per annum (the IBRD interest rate in
effect at the time of submission of the project
documents to the Executive Directors), with a
flexible amortization schedule that would
substantially conform with the aggregate of the
amortization schedules of subloans made by SOFIDE
and financed under this project, subject to a
maximum of 15 years, including a grace period not
to exceed three years; SOFIDE would relend the
funds at a rate of 14 percent per annum to its
subborrovers, who will bear the foreign exchange
risk. The Borrower would also onlend to SOFIDE
SDR 567,000, equivalent to about US$700,000, at
8.5 percent per annum for technical assistance,
with a fixed amortization schedule of 15 years,
including a three-year grace period, and would
pass on SDR 433,000, equivalent to a:out
US$500,000, for training assistance needed by
CEPETEDE, as a grant. The foreign exchange risk
on the SOFIDE technical assistance component (SDR
567,000)would be borne by SOFIDE.
Objectives and Project   The project would represent a continuation of
Description:              IDA's support to an effective financial
intermediary in its ongoing assistance to the
productive sectors in Zaire, particularly private
investments in manufacturing and agro-industries.
It complements the proposed Industrial Sector
Adjustment Credit, which aims at assisting the
Government in reforming policies affecting the
development of the industrial sector. The



- 2 -
investment component of the proposed credit
(US$48.8 million equivalent) would cover about
47 percent of the capital investment requirements
in foreign exchange of priority subvrojects
approved by SOFIDE. The balance would be provided
by other sources, including CIDA, KfW, ADB and
EIB. The remaining US$1.2 million of the Credit
would finance (a) technical assistance to continue
helping SOFIDE cope with the increasing volume
and diversity of its operations and support its
ongoing efforts to deal with its portfolio
problems (US$700,000 equivalent); and (b)
equipment and other assistance needed by CEPETEDE
to improve its effectiveness as Zaire's principal
development training institution (US$500,000
equivalent).
Benefits and Risks:       The main benefits of the project would be to
provide the term investment resources needed to
accelerate growth and increase emplovment in
Zaire. It would help stimulate a supply response
from the economy and, thus, complement the policy
measures already taken or to be taken undar the
peoposed Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit. The
project would also enable IDA to continue helping
SOFIDE to improve its portfolio quality and
increase its effectiveness in assisting the
recovery of the productive sectors in Zaire.
There are two risks in this project. The first
risk relates to the possible deterioration of
Zaire's economic situation which would, inter
alia, accelerate the depreciation of the Zaire
currency and make SOFIDE's foreign exchange loans
unattractive to potential investors who have t'o
bear the foreign exchange risk. Such a risk is,
however, limited in view of Zaire's continued
complia,ce with the IMF stabilization program and
the actions envisaged by IDA and other donors to
increase the resource transfer and accelerate
eeonomic growth in Zaire. The second risk is the
possible deterioration of SOFIDE's arrears
position. This risk is also  limited because of
the strong action SOFIDE has already taken to
improve loan collection and the additional
measures proposed in the context of this project
to contain any portfolio deterioration. These
should insure that SOFIDE will remain an effective
term lending institution that promotes
economically iustified investment projects.



-3-
Estimated Project Cost:                        January 1, 1986 - June 30, 1989
Local       Foreign       Total
(US$ million)
Total Financing Required for
SOFIDE Operations                              36.1         103.0       139.1
Technical Assistanee                             0.3           0.9          1.2
Total                                    36.4         103.9       140.3
Financing Plan
Resources Available for
Commitment at SOFIDE                            3.5          46.7        50.2
Eighth SOFIDE Credit                             0.3          49.7         50.0
SOFIDE's Cash Generation                        32.6            -         32.6
Other Donors                                      -            7.5         7.5
Total                                  36.4          103.9       140.3
Estimated Disbursements
TSDR million)
fiscal Year  1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Annual        1.0      5.0      8.2     8.8      8.1      6.3      4.2      1.7
Cumulative   1.0       6.0    14.2    23.0    31.1    37.4    41.6    43.3



ZAIRE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF AN EIGHTH ID.A CREDIT FOR SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (SOFIDE)
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA  ............***.,,  I - iii
I.   THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS  ....................    1
A. The Industrial Sector ...............1
The  Setting    ..........  .......  ................. 
Sector Background and Recent Pecformance                     2
Structure of Industry .. ****e***....**...       ....        3
Industrial Policies                       .............      4
Trade Policies  ............. . ...... ........*.          4
Price Controls .       ............ .......9    5
Export Promotion .......... ......                         5
Tax Reform . ..... *..    ...     ...... ...........    6
Bank Group Strategy in the Sector ................           6
B.  The Financial Sector  ...................                    7
Credit Controls and Interest Rates                           7
Il. THE INSTITUTION  ................  ....                          8
Objectives and Role 8......                 ............too.     8
Performance under Previous Bank Group Projects                   8
Share Capital and Ownership                                      9
Management, Organization and Staffing    9
Staff Training  .......................... ** * * *.  ..   11
Centre de Perfectlonnement aux Techniques de
D4veloppement (CEPETEDE)        ..... ...      .. .........   11
Operating Policies and Procedures .....  ..............   12
Policy Stateiaent .. .......                   * ...................* .  12
Appraisal ............ ..        * ........... ,              12
Supervision ..........  *o. ......... 0... .   13
Terms and Conditions of Lending .........................   13
Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage ........................   13
Interest Rates ...        .......................    13
Operations . ..    . . . . . . . . . . . .   * *  .... ... ..   15
SOFIDE and Small and Medium Enterprises   .................   15
Portfolio, Arrears, and Provisions ................ ......    16
Financial Results and Condition ........,46-4 ....... ....    18
Financial Structure      ..................... ....,    18
Lending Resources  . ........ .... * . ... .I.... t..   18
Prospects ..                                              .... 19
Forecast Operations ..............................   19
Projected Financial Performance ...............,.........    19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Zaire in
November 1985. The mission was composed of Messrs. Chuong N. Phung,
Philip Adoteye, and Xavier Legrain, all of Eastern Africa Projects.



Table of Contents (Continued)        - 2 -
P&7e No.
III.  THE PROJECT  .......................... .***....*...    20
Project Objectives and Justification  ......20
Project Description                                          20
The Proposed Investment Component                            21
Government Onlerding Terms .......,.........--  21
SOFIDE's Lending Terms ...... X                       .    21
Free limi      t *..a... ..    .     .....*.. ...  21
Commitment Period ....21
Technical Assistance to SOFIDE                .              21
Terms and Conditions ........ ................  22
Technical Assistance to CEPETEDE ......,s.*...-......   22
Terms and Conditions .....*..*...*.***.*....*...........,   22
Total Project Cost and Financing .......................  22
Project Implementation                                       23
Procurement and Disbursement .........................  23
Special Account  4....         ......24
Audits and Reporting                                       24
Project Benefits and Risks ........,..................  24
IV.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS  ....................  25



ZAIRE
SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (SOFIDE)
BASIC DATA
Year of Establisherent:  1970
Ownership as of December 31, 1985
Z Million          Percent
Government and Central Bank                104.0             40.0
Zairian Private Sector                      75.4             29.0
DEG                                         19.5              7.5
IFC                                         26.0             10.0
Other Foreign Financial Institutions        35.1             13.5
Total                        260.0            100.0
Resource Position as of December 31, 1985
Z Million
Local    Foreign       Total
Share Capital, Reserves &
Quasi Equity                           635.6        -          635.6
Net Borrowings                               133.9    7,056.2    7,190.1
Total Reso'irces                  769.5    7,056.2    7,825.7
USES
Net Fixed Assets                             161.4        -          161.4
Loan Portfolio Net                           312.9    2,469.2    2,782.1
Equity Investments                            36.7        -           36.7
Other Uses                                    51.7                  _ 51.7
Total Uses                   562.7    2,469.2    3,031.9



- ii -
Resources Available for
Disbursements                         206.8        4,587.0       4,793.8
Undisbursed Commitments                    14.9        2,012.3       2,027.2
Resources Available for
Commitment                            191.9        2,574.7       2,766.6
Uncommitted Approvals                      22.3        1,016.6       1,038.9
Resources Available for
Approvals                             169.6        1,558.1       1,727.7
Foreign                  Local
Interest Rates and Other Charges        Exchange Loans         Currency Loans
Interest Rates                           15.5 p.a. 1/            30% p.a.
Commitment Fee                              1.5%                    1.5%
Appraisal Fee                               2.0%                    2.0%
Penalty Interest on
Overdue Payments                     6% p.m.                   6% p.m.
Percentage of Portfolio Denominated in Foreign Exchange (9/85): 88%
Evolution of Arrears Situation
Loan Portfolio
Affected
Arrears of         by Arrears of
Loan Portfolio      Over 3 Months        Over 3 Months
Year End                (Z Million)       (Z of Portfolio)   (%of Portfolio)
1981                          148              13%                   46%
1982                          211               7%                   25%
1983                          804               4%                   17%
1984                        1,312               9%                   38%
May 1985                    1,637               17%                  62%
Dec 1985                    2,809               12%                  53%
Feb 1986                    3,584               11%                  33%
1/ The foreign exchange risk on foreign currency loans is borne by
clients.



- iIi -
Collection Performance
Period            Collections as % of Amounts Coming Due
Year 1983                             67
I-   1984                             35
Il-  1984                             57
III- 1984                             52
IV-  1984                            102
Year 1984                             62
I-   1985                             73
II-  1985                             73
III- 1985                             71
IV-  1985                             69
Year i985                             71
Project Performance          CR. 998-ZR        CR. 1273-ZR       CR. 1429-ZR
Date of Effectiveness:         1/22/81           3/15/83           1/30/85
MAount of Credit:             US$18.5            SDR19.4           SDR34.0
Amount Committed (million)
(.33/31/86)                 US$18.3 (99%)l/  SDR19.0 (98%)1/ SDR29.3 (86%)1/
Amtmjnt Disbursed (million)
(03/31/86)                  US$17.8 (96%)    SDR17.0 (88%)   SDR16.5 (49%)
Closing Date
Appraisal:                        6/84             12/86             12/90
Current:                          6/86             12/86             12/90
1/ This represents 100% of the investment component of the credits.



I. THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
A. The Industrial Sector
The Setting
1.01      Zaire, the third largest country ii. Africa with an area of 2.3
million ki2, has a population of about 30 million, of which approximately
one third live in urban centers. Agriculture is the most important sector
contributing 30 percent of GDP and employing more than 75 percent of the
active population. Mintng and mineral processing represent 33 percent of
GDP, are the largest source of public revenues, and account for more than
two thirds of the country's export earnings. Industry accounts for about
five percent of GDP.
1.02      From 1967 to 1974, GD? grew at a rate of seven percent per year
in real terms, spurred by high copper and coffee prices, but decreased
thereafter. By 1979, GDP at constant prices was about ten percent below
its pre-crisis (1972-74) level. The Zairianization KGovernment-sponsored
takeover of most foreign owned business, mainly by private Zairians) and
Radicalization (nationalization of mDst large enterprises in all the major
sectors of the economy) measures of 1973-74, coupled with the severe
balance of payments crisis resulting from a substantial decrease in copper
prices and high debt service payments, were the primary reasons for this
severe deterioration of the economic situation. The demonetization measure
in 1979 (when notes representing 73 percent of currency In circulation were
demonetized and replaced on a two for one basis for new notes) further
worsened the situation as many individuals and companies were not able to
exchange their notes within the specified tlme period. Severe cash
shortages and liquidity problems resulted and affected much of the private
sector. Faced with a deteriorating economic situation, the Government
sought to regulate economic activity. Prices of most agricultural
commoditles and industrial products were controlled and mechanisms were
established to allocate scarce foreign exchange.
1.03      A slight economic recovery was registered in 1980 and 1981 when,
aided by a recovery in copper production, there was a real GDP growth of
2.4 percent in each year. In 1981, the Government freed most agricultural
prices and declared that the directly productive sectors would be reserved
mainly for the private sector. These two years of moderate recovery,
however, were followed by a further contraction (about 2.6 percent) of real
GDP in 1982 a-id an increased shortage of foreign exchange due mainly to a
fall in copper prices. To address this situation, in September 1983, the
Government adopted a broad and comprehensive program of policy reforms
incollaboration with the IMF. 'Lhe program included (i) a devaluation of
the Zaire by about 400 percent in local currency terms to the then
prevailing parallel market rate (i.e., from US$1.00 = Z 5.8 to US$1.0 = Z
30);
(ii) the introduction of a tr*usitional dual exchange rate regime
consisting of an official rate and a free market rate. These rates were
unified on February 24, 1984. The exchange rate is now determined by an



- 2 -
inter bank foreign exchange market In which all commercial banks and the
central bank participate; (iII) liberalization and simplification of other
exchange and trade arrangements; (iv) a comprehensive revision of customs
duties invoLving significant reduction in tariffs on essential foodstuffs,
raw materials and intermediate goods and substantial increases in luxury
goods; (v) the freeing of virtually all commercial bank deposit and lending
rates; (vi) further decontrol of prices, including producer prices cf all
agricultural commodities; and (vii) adjustment of petroleum prices to take
full account of the change in the exchange rate. Zaire successfully
implemented the IMF program and another stand-by arrangement for the
equivalent of SDR 162 million over 12 months was approved in April 1985.
The Paris Club agreed to a new rescheduling in May 1985 and a new IMF
program is under preparation. In addition, Zaire is eligible under the
Special African Facility.
i.04.     The econo.'- situation improved in 1984, aided by some favorable
external developments. GDP grew by about 2.8 percent, compared to 1.2
percent in 1983 and -2.6 percent in 1982. Export earnings increased by
nearly 20 percent in nominal terms despite the sharp drop of copper
prices, because of larger receipts from zobalt, diamonds, coffee, and
petroleum. The export gain has, however, been partly offset by the larger
external debt payments which Zaire has been making in compliance with the
debt rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club. The budgetary deficit
decreased to three percent of GDP (as compared to four percent in 1983)
and inflation dropped from a high level of 76 percent in 1983 to an
estimated 34 percent in 1984.
1.05.     In 1985, the performance of the economy was less favorable.
Exports grew slower than anticipated because of weaker copper prices and
lower oil production. The resulting shortage of foreign exchange was
compounded by inadequate disbursements of external capital and contributed
to slow down the GDP growth to about 2.0 percent. The Zaire currency
depreciated faster than expected and inflation appears to be again on the
rise toward the end of 1985.
Sector Background and Recent Performance
1.06      Zaire's industrial sector (including manufacturing and
agro-industries but excluding mineral processing and construction)
contributed about US$200 million to GDP in 1984, and employed an estimated
150,000 workers or ten percent of total employment in the modern sector.
The five percent share of industry in Zaire's GDP is now among the lowest
in Sub-Saharan Africa. As late as ten years ago, this share was wore than
twice as large and was comparable to the GDP industry share of such
countries as Kenya, Zambia, and Ghana.
1.07      Between 1966 and 1974, industrial output grew at an annual
average rate of about six percent, slightly below the seven percent
overall GDP growth rate. The faster GDP growth was spurred by high copper
and coffee prices. Most of the industrial growth occurred between 1970
and 1974, supported by expanding domestic demand due to rising incomes
from mining, a favorable investment climate, particularly for foreign
entrepreneurs, and protection of the domestic market.



-3-
1.08      Since the beginning of the economic crisis in 1975 (para. 1.02),
however, industrial output dec-eased without interruption until 1983, when
it stood at 31 percent below its 1975 level, a decline three times greater
than that registered by GDP. The decline in industrial output started
with the collapse of copper prices in the aftermath of the first round of
oil price increases. Tne resulting shortage of foreign exchange,
together with the unfavorable investment climate due to domestic policy
measures, caused a sharp decrease in industrial capacity utilization and a
deterioration of equipment. At the same time, the worsening situation in
agriculture and transport led to shortages of local inputs.
1.09      Following the adoption of stabilization policies in late 1983
(para. 1.03), there was a relatively modest reco"ery in
industrial output. In 1984, industrial output grew by nearly two percent,
compared to a GDP growth of 2.8 percent. Preliminary estimates for 1985,
however, indicate that, while GDP grew by about two percent, industrial
output actually declined by just under one percent, mainly as a result of
foreign exchange shortages for the importation of raw materials and spare
parts.
Structure of Industry
1.10      Over the last ten years, there has been no significant change in
the structure of the sector or the location of enterprises. Zaire's
manufacturing industry is still closely linked to commerce, with many
enterprises having substantial commercial operations. Kinshasa, the
capital city, remains the main center of industrial activity, with
Lubumbashi, a major mining city, and Kisangani, located near areas of
significant agricultu.ral production, important secondary centers.
1.11      Agro-industrial enterprises account for about two-thirds of
industrial value added in Zaire. The activities of these enterprises
include palm oil production and processing, sugar processing, cotton
ginning and textile production, coffee drying, flour milling and rubber and
wood processing. Other subsectors include beverages, tobacco, the assembly
of transport equipment, chemicals and petroleum refining. Medium and large
size firms (employing more than 100 workers) dominate most branches and
account for about 90 percent of total value added in the sector. Consumer
goods account for over 70 percent of industrial output and are sold mostly
in the domestic market. Palm oil, wood, coffee and some cotton fibers are
the only processed products being exported.
1.12      Until 1973, almost all major industrial enterprises were owned by
foreign and locally-based expatriate interests. The zairianization and
nationalization measures of 1973-74 which transferred to Zairian hands
ownership of about two-thirds of manufacturing firms, had damaging effects
on production. In 1976, Government rescinded these measures and decided to
return 60 percent of the equity in zairianized and nationalized enterprises
to their former foreign owners. At present, ownership of the sector is
largely back in private hands.



- 4 -
1.13      Since late 1983, with an improved macro-economic framework,
better incentives for exports, and returning confidence, there has been a
substantial increase in private investment as evidenced by the high volume
of projects approved under the regulations of the investment code (about
US$137 million in 1984 as compared to US$44 million in 1983). The increase
in private investment, which has not yet translated into increased output,
led to the rapid pace of commitment of the Seventh IDA credit to SOFIDE.
While the maiority of these SOFIDE-financed investments were for
rehabilitation and modernization of existing concerns, agro-industrial
projects for export accounted for about a third of the total, indicating a
change in the investment pattern consistent with the improved environment
for export-oriented projects.
Industrial Policies
1.14      Except for the zairianization period and its immediate aftermath,
Government policy has been not to invest in manufacturing but to limit its
direct investment mainly to the provision of basic infrastructure. During
the 1970s, the Government used a number of policy instruments to regulate
and promote industrial development. These included (a) a cost-plus price
control system; (b) an investment code under which enterprises could
benefit from tax exemptions and guarantees for repatriation of capital
investment, profit, and interest; and (c) tariff protection and import
prohibitions granted mostly on a case by case basis to shield selected
subsectors or firms from foreign competition. In view of the deteriorating
economic situation, the negative impact of some of its past policies on
industrial efficiency, and its determination to move toward a freer,
market-based economy, the Government initiated, in 1981, a number of
measures aimed at increasing price incentives and encouraging
rehabilitation/reconstruction of existing industrial plants as the main
priority in the short to medium-term. Over the last five years, the
Government partly decontrolled prices and eliminated impert controls. The
exchange rate regime, which until September 1983, had been characterized by
increasing overvaluation of the Zaire, is now functioning as an interbank
market with the rate floating on a weekly basis. These policy measures
have improved the environment in which firms operate in Zaire. Other
important policy reforms needed to increase the sector's efficiency and
productivity will be implemented with IDA assistance through an Industrial
Sector Adjustment Credit currently under preparation. The major policy
reforms being discussed with the Zairian Government within the context of
the industrial sector operation are summarized below.
1.15      Trade Policies.  As a means of protecting local industry, tariffs
were of little relevance until the macro-economic reforms of late 1983.
With a serious external imbalance persisting since 1975 and a highly
overvalued exchange rate, the major limitation to imports was the shortage
of foreign exchange and import licencing. Despite high nominal tariffs,
the actual level of tariff protection was low because import taxes and
duties were calculated on the official exchange rate (i.e., at only a
fraction of their real cost). Following the September 1983 devaluatiol and
the removal of quantitative restrictions on imports, a new tariff code was



introduced which substantially increased the tariff protection offered to
local industry. The system is characterized by low duties on industrial
inputs (three percent) and high rates on finished products (up to 150
percent), resulting in very high and uneven effective protection for local
manufactures. This high level of protection is further reinforced by a
higher sales tax on imports of final goods (25 percent) than on locally
produced goods (10-20 percent). In the context of the Industrial Sector
Adjustment Credit, the Government would be asked to implement a program to
lower over time the level of protection offered to the industrial sector
and reduce the disparity in effective protection rates that currently
exists. This would be done by (i) introducing a basic minimum duty of
about ten percent on most imports, including all industrial inputs and
equipment; (ii) reducing tariffs on finished goods progressively to a level
of about 30 percent; and (iii) equalizing the sales tax on domestic and
imported goods, so that they apply uniformly to all goods in the same
category whether or domestic or imported origin. The EEC is providing
technical assistance for the improvement of the administration of customs.
Finally, a tariff commission would be established to implement the tariff
reform measures outlined above.
1.16      Price Controls.  The system of ex-post price controls is not
consistent with the Government's policy of liberalizing the economy. In
the context of the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit, the Government
is therefore expected to discontinue the remaining controls on the pricing
of industrial goods.
1.17      Export Promotion.  Until recently, Government policies had
created an export environment characterized more by disincentives and
administrative obstacles than by encouragement.  All ee -orts require a
license which' can be obtained through a commercial bank and which needs to
be validated by the central bank. Some goods require authorization from
the Ministry of National Economy and Industry (MNEI) to ensure that local
demand is being met before export is allowed. The same Ministry has to
give formal approval to all exports, generally a formality which can
nevertheless cause delays for exporters. In addition, all exports require
authorization of OZAC (Office Zatrois de Contr3le), an agency in charge of
quality control. This authorization is given in three different stages
starting from an analysis of samples of items to be exported and ending
with a certificate verifying that the export has actually taken place.
Most exports are subject to an export duty (four percent), in addition to
the normal sales tax of 6.75 percent.
1.18      The export climate has improved following the 1983 devaluation
and the adoption of a realistic market-determined e:change rate which have
already begun to provide a potent stimulus to export. To further promote
exports and investments in export-oriented activities, the Government would
be asked to abolish all export duties and other taxes on manufactured
exports. The impact of this action on Zaire's business environment would
be profound and the expected loss of fiscal revenues would be outweighed by
the revenue increases resulting from the tariff reform and the corporate
taxes on expanding export activities. Furthermore, the Government would
eliminate all the administrative bottlenecks faced by exporters, retaining
only registration procedures for statistical purposes.



1.19      Tax Reform.  Rationalization of the tax treatment of industr'.al
enterprises would also be tackled under the Industrial Sector Adjustment
Credit to address excessive and unpredictable levels of taxation. Besides
corporate income tax (50 percent of profit), industrial enterprises pay a
sales tax with an effective rate on local production varying between 10 and
20 percent (para. 1.15). In addition, industrial enterprises are subject
to several parafiscal charges, the raost important of which is the FCD
(Fondo des Conventions de DMveloppement) levy which varies from enterprise
to enterprise. Two studies financed under the sixth and seventh IDA
credits to SOFIDE (asset revaluation study and review of the FCD system)
are underway to assess the incidence of curreat taxation and depreciation
allowance practices on the competitiveness and investment behaviour of
industrial enterprises. In addition, a joint Bank/Fund mission which
visited Zaire in January/February 1986 also looked at a number of tax
issues and is preparing recommendations for reforms. The adoption of a tax
reform program satisfactory to the Bank would form part of the proposed
Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit.
Bank Group Strategy in the Sector
1.20      In an effort to promote the development of the private sector,
the Bank Group supported the creation of the Societe FinanciOre de
ueveloppement (SOFIDE) in 1970. IFC was one of SOFIDE's original
shareholders and IDA provided, in 1970, the first of seven credits, which
total US$111 millioa. In 1984, IFC made a further capital subscription in
SOFIDE of US$576,000 equivalent. IFC has also been involved in an offshore
oil project, a textile company, a hotel project, and a cotton farming
operation and has made a loan for studies related to the development of an
aluminium complex at Banana.
1.21      Since the mid-1970's, given the economic crisis and the
difficulties facing the industrial sector, IDA's main objectives in the
lending through SOFIDE have been to provide the financial resources needed
to help rehabilitate and maintain the productive capacity of the industrial
sector and to develop SOFIDE into a strong, independent development finance
institution. Despite the difficult economic conditions, SOFIDE has emerged
as a respected and effective term lending institution with a good appraisal
and supervision capability. IDA's continued support has been critical to
this achievement.
1.22      The September 1983 macro-economic reforms and the Zairian
Government's determination to liberalize the economy have opened the way
for specific policy reforms in the industrial sector. To help support this
effort, the Bank Group lending strategy in the sector now consists of a
combination of policy-based operations to improve the sector's
institutional and sectoral policy framework, while providing the foreign
exchange required for the importation of inputs and spare parts, and of
continued assistance to SOFIDE to increase its effectiveness in providing
the term foreign exchange resources needed to support the investment plans
of the private sector.



-7-
B. The Financial Sector
1.23      The financial sector in Zaire consists of the Central Bank (BDZ),
nine commercial banks and two development Banks: SOFIDE and the
Agricultural Credit Bank. The non-bank financial sector includes insurance
companies, a postal savings institution, and a social security fund. The
Central Bank is responsible for regulating all the financial institutions
in the country and for establishing and administering national monetary and
credit policies as well as managing international reserves. Of the nine
commercial banks, seven have 50 percent or more participation by a foreign
bank. Three of the banks have minority state participation. The
commercial banks are mainly active in the provision of short-term credits.
The main source of long-term finance and the only non-government source of
term foreign exchange resources is SOFIDE, This situation, however, is
beginning to change. With a market-detert.ned exchange rate and easier
convertibility of the Zaire, the demand for term credit in local currency
is increasing and the commercial banks are starting to provide medium-term
credit (two to three years), although they remain constrained by the credit
ceilings imposed by the Central Bank.
Credit Controls and Interest Rates
1.24      Over the past few years, in an eifort to reduce inflation, the
Central Bank has progressively tightened credit to both the private and
public sectors. The most important instruments used by the Central Bank
are credit ceilings set on an annual basis in consultation with the IMF.
Commercial bank credit as a tatio to GDP is now about half of what it was
in 1978. In real terms, commercial bank credit to the private sector
declined by 50 percent in the six-year period ending December 1984. In
1985, credit available to the private sector within the agreed ceilings
increased considerably at the expense of the public sector and a further
increase has been agreed for 1986.
1,25      During the 1970s, Zaire followed a policy of administered
interest rates. While commercial banks were free to set their own
commissions, both deposit and lending rates were regulated by the Central
Bank, Thus, during that period, bank-customer relationships played a more
important role than interest rates in allocating credit to the private
sector, This situation has changed significantly as the Central Bank freed
virtually all deposit and lending rates (with the exception of those on
loans for non-coffee agriculture) in September 1983 and more recently
created a market for Treasury Bills. Beginning April 1984, these Treasury
Bills were sold to non-bank public at annual interest rates ranging from 40
to 45 percent. With the slowdown of inflation, these rates decreased to
30-35 percent in September 1985. In response to this competition,
commercial bank deposit rates rose sharply and have become positive in real
terms (about 30-35 percent for term deposits) in sharp contrast to earlier
years.



- 8 -
1.26      On the lending side, limited availability of credit has kept
interest rates for short-term lending (including commissions) at about 35
to 40 percent, despite a deceleration of inflation (down to about 30
percent in 1985 from about 34 percent in 1984). As noted in para. 1.23,
commercial banks have recently started to lend for two to three years,
financing mainly equipment renewals. Commercial bank medium-term lending
has to be approved by the Central Bank on a case by case basis. Given the
limited availability of credit and higher risks, this type of credit has so
far been given only to the commercial banks' best customers at rates
ranging from 26 percent (non-coffee agriculture loans) to 35 percent,
including commissions. This situation is expected to change, however, with
the increasing demand for term loans in Zaire, and as baniks move towards
higher interest rates.
II. THE INSTITUTION
Objectives and Role
2.01      SOFIDE was established as a limited liability company in 1970
with IFC subscribing 18.75 percent of its initial share capital. SOFIDE's
objectives at its inception were to foster the development of a capital
market and to finance investments in the productive sectors.  Since then,
it has successfully established itself as the main term lending institution
in Zaire and has been able to attract and retain the confidence of foreign
shareholders and lenders. The World Bank Group's close and constant
support through both financial and technical assistance was instrumental to
this achievement. Much of SOFIDE't investments over the past 10 years have
been for rehabilitation and modernization of existing industrial capacity
and for agricultural and transport projects. More recently, SOFIDE started
to increase its financing of small and medium enterprises (para. 2.26).
Virtually all of SOFIDE's loans and equity participations hve been to
privately (or private majority) owned companies.
Performance under Previous Bank Group Projects
2.02      Two Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) covering the first
three credits to SOFIDE were prepared by OED in 1976 and in 1982. The
first PPAR concluded that SOFIDE had succeeded in rapidly building up a
competent organization and in maintaining its independence in a difficult
environment, but pointed out that there was scope for improved performance,
particularly in appraisal and economic analysis of projects. The second
PPAR covering the second and third credits to SOFIDE (271-CK and 463-CK)
commented positively on the institution building achievement of both
projects but noted again the negative effects of the environment,
particularly of inflation, on SOFIDEts profitability.  It also concurred
with the views of IDA staff that SOFIDE needed to further strengthen
supervision efforts and improve its organizational structure and accounting
system to better cope with the increasing volume and diversity of
operations. SOFIDE moved rapidly to address these issues by increasing
supervision and instituting better cost controls, by reorganizing its



- 9 -
structure and by raising interest rates. In connection with the seventh
credit, SOFIDE made further efforts in improving arrears collection and its
supervision procedures. Progress to date has been satisfactory, but much
remains to be done, particularly with regard to the arrears situation which
is still above historical trends as a result of the adverse impact of the
September 1983 policy reforms on the financial situation of SOFIDE's
clients. The proposed credit aims at assisting SOFIDE further in this
area,
2.03      As of March 31, 1986 all funds available to SOFIDE for onlending
under the on-going IDA credits have been committed. Investment subprojects
financed by these credits were distributed as follows: 33 percent in
manufacturing (including agro-industry), 32 percent in agriculture,
forestry and livestock, 26 percent in transport, eight percent in
construction and one percent in mining. Twenty-one percent of those
investment projects were new operations, and the rest were
rehabilitation/expansion. They all had economic and financial rates of
return at appraisal in excess of 30 percent. SOFIDE plans to undertake a
retrospective evaluation of its projects in operation to draw lessons for
its future lending activities. The proposed IDA credit would help SOFIDE
in this undertaking (para. 3.08). Results of this evaluation would also be
an input into the next Project Completion Report (PCR) planned for FY87.
Share Capital and ownership
2.04      As of December 31, 1985, SOFIDE's authorized share capital, all
of which was paid in, stood at Z 260.0 million (uSq4.7 million). It is
held as follows: public sector shareholders (Government and the Central
Bank) 40 percent; local private shareholders 29 percent; IFC 10 percent;
and other foreign shareholders 21 percent. In addition to its share
capital, oOFIDE has substantial long-term, low interest subordinated loans
from Government which have quasi equity characteristics. As of December
31, 1985 these loans, together with accumulated reserves, amounted to
Z 669 million (US$12.1 million). Since its establishment in 1970, three
capital increases have taken place at SOFIDE. The last increase, which
occurred in September 1984, increased its loan limit (set at 20% of
SOFIDE's equity and quasi equity) to US$3.4 million. The debt to equity
ratio, which improved to 3:1 after the capital increase, stood at 8,1:1 on
December 31, 1985, but the debt to equity and quasi-equity ratio remained
good at 2.5:1 at the same date.
Management, Organization and Staffing
2.05      SOFIDE's Board consists of eleven members and is chaired by
SOFIDE's Chairman and Managing Director, Six seats are held by Zairian
public and private shareholders, and the remainirg five are held as
follows: IFC and DEG each hold one, Caisse Centrale (CCCE) and the Banque
Francaise pour le Commerce Extgrieur (BFCE) share one, all other foreign
institutions share another, and one is currently vacant. The Board meets
on a quarterly basis to disculss major policy issues and to approve loans
exceeding US$1.5 million. SOFIDE also has an Executive Committee, composed
of the locally based directors, which meets more frequently than the Board



- 10 -
and approves loans below Board limits. Both the Board and Executive
Committee act in a sound and businesslike manner. IFC's presence on the
Board is importanit, as it brings to it IFC's wide experience and helps
provide guidance and oversight. SOFIDE's Chairman and Managing Director, a
Zairian national, joined the institution in 1973. He is capable and well
respected by the Government and business community in Zaire.
2e06      In mid 1984, SOFIDE restructured its organization in order to
relieve top management of the day-to-day administration of the institution
so that it could concentrate on policy design and strategy planning, and to
improve SOFIDE's operational efficiency. SOFIDE's new organizational
structure (Annex I) is relatively simple, consisting of three Divisions
responsible for seven operational departments. SOFIDE also has four
regional offices. The three Divisions and the Departments reporting
directly to them are (i) Operations with responsibility for the appraisal,
supervision, and studies departments; (ii) Finance and Administration which
supervises both the financial management and accounting department, and the
personnel and general administration department; and (iii) General
Inspection which coordinates and supervises the regional offices, and
manages the internal audit and organization department.  Overall this
structure is satisfactory. The senior managers appointed to head the three
Divisions also are competent and dedicated, and heve each been with SOFIDE
for more than ten years.
2.07      As part of the reorganization, the position of Deputy Managing
Director, which had been held by various Bank staff on secondment until
1981 and then by an expatriate on Bank contract, was abUlished when the
incumbent became advisor to the Chairman and Managing Director. The
reorganization is working well -- decisions are made faster and there is
better control of operations -- and the institution is functioning
smoothly.
2.08      As of December 31, 1985, SOFIDE had a total professional staff of
73, excluding the Managing Director and his expatriate advisor. All the
staff are based in Kinshasa, except ten who run the regional offices.
Typically, the staff have formal training in business administration,
economics, engineering or agronomy and joined SOFIDE either directly from
university following competitive examinations, or after 3-4 years working
experience in the public or private sector. Some of this professional
staff have benefitted from specialized courses in project finance and
management, in Zaire or abroad, and all of them have had on-the-job
training. Although SOFIDE's staff is, by and large, competent and
hardworking, it includes a number of relatively new professionals who
require additional training.
2.09      During 1985, SOFIDE transferred five experienced professionals
from the Appraisal to the Supervision Department to strengthen monitoring
of its clients, many of whom were facing difficulties. An additional four
professionals are expected to be recruited and trained in 1986, mainly to
strengthen the Supervision Department and to reinforce the field offices in
Goma and Kananga. Apart from these planned recruitments, no other increase
in professional staff is foreseen in the near future. The proposed



- 11 -
professional staff strength of 77 will enable SOFIDE to enhance its project
monitoring activities and io improve its arrears situation.
Staff Training
2.10      Over the last three years, SOFIDE has lost several of its
experienced and senior staff who were requested to join Government
services. Because of the high quality of its professional staff, SOFIDE
has in fact become a recruitment source of high-level Covernment
officials. The current heads of the Banque de Crgdit Agricole, Fonds des
Conventions de D6veloppement, and CEPETEDE were all former SOFIDE staff, as
was the former Finance Minister. Recently, the Director of the Operations
Division, who had been with SOFIDE since its inception, became Director
Goneral/Administrator of a large public enterprise. As a result, SOFIDE's
professional staff, particularly those at the middle management level, are
now relatively new to the job and need additional training that SOFIDE is
providing on an ad hoc basis through in-house seminars and courses at
CEP'ITEDE (paras. 2.11 and 2.12) or abroad. At the working level, training
is particularly needed for the four professional staff appraising
agricultural projects as the more experienced ones have been transferred to
supervision (para. 2.09). SOFIDE intends to increase training and plan the
development of its staff, taking into account the requirements and work
programs of the different departments. It has prepared a three-year
training program and has submitted it to IDA for review during negotiations
of this project. The program is very comprehensive and aims at upgrading
the skills of both support and professional staff to enable them to improve
their efficiency and take advantage of opportunities that are offered in
the institution. Courses and seminars planned for the staff in Zaire and
abroad include training in technical matters (financial analysis,
management of development banks, project evaluation, etc.), as well as in
communications, languages (English), and personnel management. SOFIDE has
also decided to establish a separate Human Resources Unit within the
Administration Department and has appointed an experienced unit chief who
will be responsible for managing the staff training and development
program. SOFIDE's staff training program (available in the Project File)
is well conceived and would be supperted under this project which includes
funds for staff training (paras. 3.03(b) and 3.09).
Centre de Perfectionnement aux Techniques de Developpement (CEPETEDE)
2.11      CEPETEDE is a management training institute set up jointly by
SOFIDE, Government, and Banque du Zaire in 1981 to train professional staff
of the public and private sectors in banking, administration, and financial
and economic analysis of projects. It is managed by a former Director of
SOFIDE's Studies Department who is assisted by an expatriate Director of
Studies and two other expatriates. All three expatriates are financed by
FAC (Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration). CEPETEDE has also three full-time
Zairian counterpart staff and recruits on a part-time basis foreign experts
and professional staff from local institutions and enterprises to run
seminars in their respective field of expertise. Since its creation,
CEPETEDE has made substantial progress in its efforts to become financially
autonomous. Participants' tuitions and fees now cover about a third of its



- 12 -
budget which was mostly funded by foreign assistance in 1981-82. Recently,
CEPETEDE diversified into consultancy business to further decrease its
dependence on external aid.
2.12      CEPETEDE has performed well and has enabled SOFIDE, Government
institutions, and private enterprises to offer their staff a more
comprehensive training program than they could provide with their own
facilities and resources. Since 1981, 134 participants from 32 public and
private enterprises/institutions have taken CEPETEDE's four-month basic
course and the three-month specialization in project evaluation or
management ot enterprises. CEPETEDE has also organized 30 seminars on
various subjects, including inventory management, cost accounting,
personnel management, restructuring of enterprises, etc., for 616
participants from 101 local enterprises. EDI has approached CEPETEDE with
a view to associating it to its training seminars in Africa. The serenth
IDA credit to SOFIDE included US$250,000 to enable CEPETEDE to recruit
experts to run high-level seminars such as those described above. As of
end March 1986, about 80 percent of these funds have been used and it is
expected that CEPETEDE will exhaust the balance before September 1986. The
proposed project would continue to support CEPETEDE (paras. 3.03(c)
and 3.11).
Operating Policies and Procedures
2.13      Policy Statement.  SOFIDE's operating and financial policies are
set by the Board and documented in a formal policy statement. This
statement sets, inter alia, the financing of economically and financially
viable projects as SOFIDE's main objective, establishes a maximum exposure
limit per client (20 percent of SOFIDE's equity and quasi-equity), and
guidelines for equity investments (generally up to ten percent of SOFIDE's
equity) in viable enterpriscs. The policy statement also requires that
SOFIDE be managed on sound and businesslike principles, and to make
adequate provisions for possible losses. Loans in arrears of more than six
months are classified as doubtful and legal action taken against the
promoters (generally within a year) when SOFIDE's efforts to collect fail.
SOFIDE's policy statement was reviewed and approved by IDA in conjunction
with the previous lines of zredit and remains a sound basis for operations
under the proposed credit.
2.14      Appraisal.  As part of the 1984 reorganization, the two
departments responsible for appraisal (agriculture and industry) were
merged into one. SOFIDE's new Appraisal Department is responsible for both
project promotion and project appra'sal. It currently has a staff of 14
professionals, including the department head, most of whom are experienced
in project work. The appraisal staff is somewhat overstretched as a result
of the transfer of five professionals to the Supervision Department in
October 1985 (paras. 2.10 and 2.16), but will be strengthened through the
training pro-ided under this project. The project will also make funds
available to recruit consultants for appraisal, if needed. SOFIDE's
promotion efforts have been extensive and successful. Projects are
selected on the basis of the following criteria: (i) improvement of the
balance of payments; (ii) satisfaction of basic needs; (iii) increased



- 13 -
exploitation of local raw materials; (iv) employment creation; and (v)
improvement of transport conditions in the interior. SOFIDE's Investment
Strategy (Annex II) gives priority to the financing of export-oriented
projects, rehabilitation of existing enterprises, projects using local raw
materials, labor intensive projects and agricultural forestry and transport
operations. The institution has a strong pipeline (para. 2.36).
Procedures for appraisal are systematized and documented in a project
manual, SOFIDE's methodology for project appraisal is satisfactory. A
committee comprising all SOFIDE department heads reviews all appraisal
reports before they are submitted to top management and the Board.
2.15      Supervision.  Following the reorganization of September 1984,
*nen the supervision function became a separate Department under the
Operations Division, the vigor and extent of supervision efforts iave been
considerably reinforced. SOFIDE increased the number of professionals in
supervision from nine to 14, instituted various new measures and stepped-up
previous ones to improve the quality of its 334 project portfolio
(paras. 2.27 to 2.31). The loan recovery unit, established in 1983 to
improve loan collection, was strengthened and the ten professionals in the
regional offices now devote about 50 percent of their time to supervision.
Projects under supervision are visited at least once a year and those which
are in difficulties receive additional visits. SOFIDE's supervision
policies and procedures are satisfactory.
Terms and Conditions of Lending
2.16      SOFIDE's loans have maturities typically ranging from four to
twelve years, depending on the type of project being financed. The average
loan maturity is about eight years. SOFIDE takes adequate security and
does not accept subordinatton to any other lender.  It also requires that
clients satisfactorily linsure equipment financed under SOFIDE loans over
the life of the loan.  SOFIDE's interest rates are not regulated by the
central bank but set by its Board, subject to the limitations imposed by
some foreign lenders on their credit lines. Annex III gives details on the
conditions of SOFIDE's foreign borrowings.
2.17      Foreig  Exchange Risk Coverage.  Prior to 1979, Government bore
the foreign exchange risk on all f,reign loans to SOFIDEe  In 1979,
however, Government informed SOFIDE that in future it would no longer be
willing to carry the exchange risk on the latter's foreign debt, other than
on an exceptional basis. Since then, SOFIDE has passed on the foreign
exchange risk to its borrowers and agreed with Government on a mechanism to
protect SOFIDE against the residual foreign exchange risk where repayments
by sub-borrowers are earlier than SOFIDE's repayment schedule to outside
creditors. This arrangement has worked well and adequately protects
SOFIDE.
2.18      Interest Rates.  About 88 percent of SOFIDE's present portfolio
is denominated in foreign currency and the rest is in Zaires. On foreign
currency loans, SOFIDE charges an interest rate of 15.5 percent per annum,
a commitment fee of 1.5 percent on the undisbursed committed amount and an
appraisal fee of two percent, with .he full foreign exchange risk being



- 14 -
passed on to the clients. Since January 1985, SOFTDE's clients are also
subject to a 18 percent tax on the interest paid (CCA sur les prestations
de service".  This tax effectively increases the interest charges to 18.3
percent, a very high rate given that SOFIDE's clients bear the foveign
exchange risk under a floating exchange rate system.
2.19      During the late 1970's and early 1980's, the interest rates
charged by SOFIDE on foreign currency loans were periodically increased (up
to 20 percent in 1982), and the spreads between SOFIDE's borrowing and
lending rates were also high. The high interest rates in real terms,
however, were not sufficient to compensate for the impact of domestic
inflation on SOFIDE's costs as the exchange rate was not ftully adjtisted to
correct for differential inflation. As a result, SOFIDE's profitability
was poor (negative in real terms) in spite of its general efficiency.
2.20      The 1983 devaluation and the adoption of a floating exchange rate
system has significantly improved SOFIDE's income from foreign currency
loans as well as its profitability and has allowed it to operate with
lower interest rates and smaller financial spreads. Over the last two
years, the increase in interest income resulting from the depreciation of
the Zaire outpaced the rise ia administrative expenses and other costs and
enabled SOFIDE to show a return on average equity of about 17 pe2rcent in
1985. Projections made on realistic assumptions regarding the level of
operations, interest rates charged, and loan collections also show that
SOFIDE would be highly profitable in real terms during the period 1986-89
(paras. 2.37 and 2.38). This will allow SOFIDE to redace intermediation
costs and operate profitably -with a 5.5 percent spread, which is 1.5
percentage points lower than the spread under the seventh IDA credit,
Therefore, SOFIDE agreed to reduce its interest rate on foreign currency
loans to 14 percent (para. 3.06), a rate which is in line with
international interest rates for term credit and still highly positive in
real terms, as world inflation is expected to be between 6.8 and 7.2
percent over the next few years.  Further reductions of SOFIDE's interest
rate are expected in the future as its efficiency increases and a smaller
spread can ensure its continued profitability. To encourage investment,
the Government also agreed to waive the CCA tax for borrowers who bear the
foreign exchange risk. Submission by the Government to Zaire's legislature
of measures aiming at the suppression cf the CCA tax for borrowers who bear
the foreign exchange risk would be a condition of effectiveness of this
Credit.
2.21      SOFIDE's interest rate on local currency loans is 30 percent
p.a. with commissions and fees similar to those on foreign exchange loans,
This rate is positive in real terms as Zaire's inflation is projected to be
in the range of 20-25 percent in 1986-89. It is also comparable to rates
charged by commercial banks for term credit in Zaire (para. 1,26),
However, given Zaire's continued tight credit policy and the increasing
demand for local currency loans generated by the convertibility of the
Zaire into foreign curreacy, these rates, which are freely set by
commercial banks since September 1983, are expected to increase
substantially. SOFIDE will change its rate if conditions require and keep
it in line with those charged by commercial banks.



- 15 -
2.22      To efoqire tLhat SOFIDE's lending terms continue to remein
adequate, Lhr covenant uindet the previous credits requir't.- SOFIDE to
maintain ren't positivP interest rates on its free resources (foreign
exchange and local currency), to exchange views regularly with IDA on che
suitabilitp' io   s onlending rates and to adiust them it conlitions
require, would be maintained.
Operations
2.23      As of December 311, 198-5, SOFID)E had approved 815 loans and
equity invegtw,ntg totalling Z 4,0 billion, equivalent to about
USS315 r.illion 3/.  During 1980-82, approvals hovered around US$22 tillion
per vear, but have since then rebotnded to abouit UI$33 million in 1985 due
to  tncreasing investor confidence.
2.24      're number of SOFIDE's operations has increased steadily over the
past few years from 58 in 19B1 to 76 in 1985. This was partly due to
SOFIDE's more active lending to SMEs (para. 2.26). In 1985, manufacturing
and agro-industries accounted for 47 percent of approvals, transport 23
percent, construction and public works 12 percent, and mining iO percent.
Agriculture, livestock and forestry made up the remaining eight percent.
The average size of SOFIDE's loans is 1TSS435,000, or about the same level
as in the recent past.
2.25       Since the late 1970s, SOrIDE has Prngressively increased the
regional diversification of its investments.  With the exception of 1984
when three large turban transportation projects in Kinshasa were approved,
loans to companies in or around the capitaL only represented about 29
percent of SOFIT)E's approvals by anount in the 1980s, as compared to more
than 40 percent in 1978-80. SOFIDE's loans cover the ten regions of Zaire
with the most active being Shaba, Bas-Zaire, Kivu and Equateur.
SOFIDE and Smail and Medium Enterprises
2.26      Over the last five years, SOFIDE has increased its assistance to
small and meLum enterprises (SMEs), which are for a large part owned and
managod by Ln'rian nationals. Duting 1982-85, loans to SMEs accounted for
80 to 85 peroent of approvals by number and about '0-55 percent by value.
SOFTDE'S important lending to SMEs reflects both its own conviction that a
strong SME sector is essential to Zaire's economic devalopnent, and the
availability of resources provided by several foreign lenders to be used
exclusi.vely for financing SMEs. However, this type of lending is costly to
SOFIDE because of the highi relative cost of preparing SMr projects, the
transport costs involved in supervising them, inadequate spread on FXF
financing and the high arrears rates associated with such lending. SMEs
have also found it more difficult than larger enterprises to adjust to the
post-1983 reform period.  To help them gc through this difficult transition
period, in the future, SOF'IDE intends to reserve local rescurces to finance
SMEs as they are more vulnerable to exchange rate deprectacion.  It has
li At the average exchange rate for each 'year,



- 16 -
also obtained technical assistance from CIDA and KfW to help defray the
costs of SME operations and strengthen its capabilities to apprai:3e and
monitor such operations. Finally, SOFIDE is considering renegotiating with
some of its lenders an increase In the financial spread allowed on their
lines of credit.
Portfolio, Arrears and Provisions
2.27      As of Februarv 28, 1986, SOFIDE had a small equity portfolio of
Z 37 million (US$0.7 million) in fifteen companies and an outstanding loan
portfolio of Z 3,384 million (US$65 million) in 334 projects. Until the
adoption of the comprehensive stabilization package by the Zairian
Government in late 1983, SOFIDE's portfolio was remarkably sound,
especially considering the difficult environment in which SOFIDE and its
clients operated. For example, total arrears of more than three months at
the end of 1983, represented four percent of the outstanding loan portfolio
and affected 79 projects, the total of which accounted for 17 percent of
the value of the loan portfolio. Given the massive devaluation of
September 1983 and the ensuing shock waves throughout Zaire's economy, it
was expected that several of SOFIDE's clients who bore the foreign exchange
risk would have difficulties honoring their debt and that special actions
would have to be agreed between SOFIDE and its clients. Thus, under the
seventh IDA Credit, SOFIDE prepared and agreed with IDA on an Action Plan
to tackle this situation. The Plan was detailed and listed all the actions
to be taken for each project considered risky. Essentially, it called for
loan reschedulira and additional security to be agreed with and/or obtained
from borrowers, reduction of project scope, legal proceedings against bad
debtors, foreclosure, and sale of security in a few cases.
2.28      SOFIDE moved fast to implement this Action Plan.  During 1984,
SOFIDE rescheduled 24 loans, obtained additional security from four
borrowers, reduced the scope of four projects, reorganized two enterprises
and sold security to recover arrears from two clients. In spite of these
measures, however, arrears of over three months climbed to 17 percent of
the portfolio and affected projects representing 62 percent of total loan
portfolio by May 1985. Since then, SOFIDE took the following additional
measures to improve the quality of its portfolio:
(i)  loan rescheduling for 13 borrowers with repayment periods
extended from 12 months to four years, depending on the
situation of the project;
(ii)  establishment of a new schedule for payment of interest
arrears for 15 clients by use of promissory notes (payable
over three to nine months) with instructions to banks to
honor SOFIDE's notes in priority. Notes presented by
SOFIDE have been honored except for two cases;
(iii)  reporting of eight bad debtors to the central bank to
prevent them from receiving bank credit. Two such clients
have since nmade partial payments;



- 17 -
(iv)  threat of legal action for 18 clients and legal action for
six more; and
(v)  foreclosure of eight projects, two of which have been
suspended pending fulfillment of their promises to pay.
2.29      These actions have already started to show their positive impact
on SOFIDE's portfolio as arrears of over three months fell, at the end of
February 1986, to 11 percent and affected 134 projects representing 33
percent of the loan portfolio. As noted earlier, SOFIDE also traraferred
five experienced professionals to the Supervision Department which now has
14 professionals working full time on the arrears problem. Finally, SOFIDE
increased provisions to a level of 12 percent of portfolio at the end of
1985. In absolute terms, these provisions amounted to Z 331 million
(US$6.0 million) and represented 84 percent of total arrears of more than
three months at the end of February 1986. Under the previous IDA credits,
SOFIDE agreed not to distribute any dividends until the amount of general
and specific provisions for risk constituted at least four percent of the
total outstanding loan and equity portfolio. This covenant will be
maintained under this project.
2.30      Like other financial institutions, SOFIDE's approach to the
portfolio problem has been to deal with its clients on a case-by-case
basis. The various measures taken were tailored to the needs of each
particular project and reflected SOFIDE's judgement regarding the
borrower's repayment capacity. Such an approach makes sense, and the
measures taken to date have been satisfactory. In addition, SOFIDE is
considering more general measures such as reduction of interest rates for
certain groups of clients (SMEs and small agricultural projects), some of
whom pay very high interest rates (18 to 20 percent plus the CCA tax) on
their foreign currency loans.
2.31      SOFIDE's efforts are commendable.  However further actions are
required as the level of arrears is still high by SOFIDE's standards and a
major objective of this project is to continue supporting SOFIDE in its
effort to improve its portfolio. The technical assistance to be provided
under this project is designed to help SOFIDE recruit short-term local and
foreign experts to assist clients in improving the viability of their
operations and undertake special audits and management reviews of some of
its important existing and prospective borrowers (para. 3.09). During
implementation of this operation, IDA will also closely monitor SOFIDE's
progress in improving the quality of its portfolio. To this end, the
following actions and quantitative targets have been agreed with SOFIDE
during negotiations:
(a)  SOFIDE will continue to implement the Action Plan prepared with IDA
to deal with its portfolio problems. This Plan has been updated to
include specific measures envisaged for all loans with arrears
exceeding Z 1.0 million (about US$18,000) at the end of February
1986 and targets for quarterly collection ratios (defined as all
amounts collected during the quarter, including collection of
arrears, over new billings during the same quarter) for CY1986



- 18 -
increasing gradually from an average of 71 percent in 1985 to 95
percent in the last quarter of 1986. Thereafter, quarterly
collection targets will be agreed with IDA depending on the results
achieved. A copy of this Plan is available in the Project File;
(b)  as part of its reporting requirements, every quarter SOFIDE will
submit to IDA a note showing (i) the collection ratio targeted and
the result obtained; (ii) the measures taken; (iii) the arrears
situation at the end of the quarter, and (iv) the collection ratio
target and measures proposed for the next quarter.
Financial Results and Condition
2.32      SOFIDE's income statements and balance sheets for 1981-1985 and
the relevant financial ratios are summarized in Annexes VII to IX. The
financial statements reflect the changes that the economy underwent in late
1983. After an exceptional performance in that year, mainly due to a
US$0.9 million windfall foreign exchange gain arising from the devaluation,
SOFIDE's return on average assets and on average equity declined in 1984
because of the major equity increase at the end of year. In 1985 SOFIDE
made a net profit of US$0.85 million, up only marginally from the
US$0.7 million of 1984 because of very high provisions (Z 215 million, or
US$3.9 million in 1985). On an accrual basis, profits before provisions
increased from US$3.2 million in 1984 to US$4.7 million in 1985. Total
income went up from 17.8 percent of average total assets in 1984 to 20.1 in
1985, but record provisions (up from 6.3 to 8.2 percent of average assets)
combined with an increase in interest payments (from 4.5 to 5.8 percent)
left net profit at about the same level as in 1984 (1.8 percent of average
total assets).
2.33      On a cash basis, SOFIDE's performance is less satisfactory
because of its arrears position (paras. 2.29 to 2.31). The collection
ratio, which had fallen to 62 percent in 1984, improved to 71 percent for
1985 but still fell short of the 100 perczent needed to stabilize the
absolute amount of arrears in the portfolio. Despite this, SOFIDE's
liquidity position is good because most of its debts are of much longer
duration than its loans. Furthermore, SOFIDE is taking additional measures
to improve its arrears position and would be assisted under this project to
increase its loan collection.
2.34      Financial Structure.  SOFIDE's overall financial structure
remains sound. As of December 31, 1985, the term debt to equity ratio was
8.1:1 and the term debt to equity plus quasi-equity ratio 2.5:1.
Lending Resources
2.35      As of the end of December 1985, SOFIDE had the equivalent of
US$50.2 million available for commitments and US$31.4 million for
approvals, of which US$28.3 million in foreign exchange. Seventy-six
percent, or US$21.5 million, of SOFIDE's foreign resources available for
new approvals is accounted for by recent loans from the African Development
Fund (US$12.1 million), CIDA ((US$2.0 million) and the EIB (US$7.4 million)
which are intended to finance fertilizers and trucks for farmers, SME



- 19 -
projects in the Kivu region, and the second phase of the Shaba Cement
factory, respectively. Only US$6.8 million of SOFIDE's foreign resources
w:ere therefore available for untied loans.
Prospects
2.36      Forecast Operations.  SOFIDE's operations forecast (Annex XI) is
based on a strong pipeline which, as at December 31, 1985, includes
requests totalling US$120 million to finance 54 percent of the costs of 168
projects in manufacturing, agro-industry, agriculture (including forestry
and livestock), transport, and mining. Seventy-five percent of these
requests are for rehabilitation/expansion and the rest are new operations.
Thirty nine percent of the amount requested is from firms based in
Kinshasa. Small enterprises account for 40 percent of the number and 15
percent of the amount of loan requests. Loan approvals for 1986-1989 are
expected to grow about five percent p.a. in real terms. Commitments and
disbursements for 1986-1989 are expected to follow the pace of project
approval and will grow from US$35.5 million to US$47.3 million and from
US$34.3 million to US$41.9 million, respectively. As in the past, it is
expected that the level of SOFIDE operations would be constrained more by
resource availability than by demand. The projections and underlying
assumptions are realistic, given SOFIDE's past growth in operations,
increasing demand for investment credit in Zaire, and projected resource
availability.
Projected Financial Performance
2.37      SOFIDE's financial projections for 1986-89 (Annexes XII to XV)
assume a decrease in SOFIDE's lending rate for new foreign currency loans
from 15.5 to 14 percent per annum. Despite this reduction of SOFIDE's
lending rate, interest and commission income is expected to outpace the
growth in financial and administrative expenses (due primarily to
anticipated continued depreciation of the Zaire), so that SOFIDE can
maintain provisions at least at 12 percent its loan portfolio, the level
reached in 1985, and still earn a satisfactory return on its average
equity. Net income is projected to grow from about US$2.6 million in 1986
to US$5.9 million in 1989 when it is expected to represent about 44 percent
of average equity, as compared to 12-17 percent in 1981-85.
2.38      The projections show that SOFIDE's financial structure will
remain sound, with the debt to equity and quasi-equity ratio ranging
from 3.3 in 1986 to 4.4 in 1989, thus remaining within the prudent 5:1
limit agreed with IDA. This limit will be maintained under this proposed
operation. SOFIDE's asset/liability maturity structure is also expected to
retain its present characteristics (i.e. loan assets having a much shorter
maturity than debt liabilities), and would allow it to maintain a
satisfactory liquidity position while dealing with any problems in its
portfolio.



- 20 -
III. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Justification
3.01      The proposed credit would represent a continuation of IDA's
support to an effective financial intermediary assisting the productive
sectors in Zaire, particularly the development of private sector investment
in manufacturing and agro-industries, which are needed to achieve a higher
growth performance. It complements the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
under preparation, which would assist the Government in reforming policies
affecting the development of the industrial sector. Specifically, the
objectives of this project are (i) to provide the term credit and foreign
exchange needed for rehabilitation of efficient existing enterprises and
for new priority investment promated by private entrepreneurs; (ii) to
continue supporting SOFIDE in its efforts to deal with its portfolio
problems; and (iii) to strengthen SOFIDE's institutional structure to cope
with the increasing volume and diversity of operations. The project will
also continue IDA's ongoing support to CEPETEDE, Zaire's principal
development training institution.
3.02      The rationale for IDA involvement in the project is to assist the
Zairian Government in its efforts to stimulate economic growth, promote
exports, and increase employment. The foreign exchange resources provided
by this project would help support the investment plans of the private
sector and facilitate the supply response from the economy to the policy
reforms already taken and to be taken shortly. As in the past, continued
IDA support would enhance SOFIDE's capabilities to mobilize additional
foreign exchange resources from other external donors and enable it to play
a more significant role in promoting private investment in Zaire.
Description of the Project
3.03      The proposed IDA  Credit of SDR 43.3 million (about US$50.0
million equivalent) would be made to the Republic of Zaire, which would
onlend SDR 42.9 million (about US$49.5 million equivalent) to SOFIDE under
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to IDA, the signing of which would
be a condition of credit effectiveness, and would pass on SDR 433,000
(about US$0.5 million equivalent) to CEPETEDE as a grant. The credit would
include the following components:
(a)   Investment component (SDR 42.3) to finance the foreign
exchange costs of SOFIDE's subprojects;
'lb)   Technical Assistance to SOFIDE (SDR 567,000) to
finance the total cost of local and foreign experts to
strengthen SOFIDE's appraisal and loan collection
capabilities, the training of SOFIDE staff, and the
purchase of about SDR 87,000 of data processing equipment;
(c)   Technical Assistance to CEPETEDE (SDR 433,000) to finance
the total cost of local and foreign experts to run
high-level courses in project appraisal and related
subjects, and the purchase of a limited amount of equipment
(SDR 87,000 maximum, mainly for data processing).



- 21 -
The Proposed Investment Component
3.04      This component would finance the foreign exchange Cost8 of
capital investment, including initial working capital, in subprojects
approved by SOFIDE. All projects that are within SOFIDE's scope of
operations would be eligible, provided they are selected by SOFIDE in
accordance with its investment strategy (Annex II) and justified on the
basis of a full economic analysis, including calculation of an economic
rate of return for all non-service sector projects,
3.05      Government Onlending Terms.  Consistent with the Bank Group
policy for IDF operations, IDA funds would be passed on by Government to
SOFIDE at 8.5 percent per annum (IBRD's interest rate prevailing at the
time of distribution of the credit documents to the Executive Directors),
with a flexible amortization schedule that would substantially conform to
the aggregate of the amortization schedules of subloans made by SOFIDE and
financed under this project (subject to a maximum term of 15 years,
including a grace period not exceeding three years). In addition, SOFIDE
would pay to Government a commitment fee of 0.75 percent per annum on the
undisbursed amounts of sub-loans from the date of their approval by IDA.
3.06      SOFIDE's Lending Terms.  SOFIDE would lend to subborrowers at an
annual interest rate of 14 percent. This rate would yield a spread for
SOFIDE of 5.5 percent, which would be adequate to cover administrative
costs, make adequate provisions, and allow for satisfactory profitability.
SOFIDE's interest rate would be reviewed with IDA at least once a year and
adjusted if necessary to ensure its adeq.acy and competitiveness compared
to alternative sources of finance. The foreign exchange risk would be
borne by SOFIDE's subborrowers.
3.07      Free Limit.  The individual subproject free limit would be
US$500,000 equivalent as under the seventh IDA credit. The aggregate free
limit would be US$17 million equivalent, or 35 percent of the total amount
of the line of credit, i.e., the same percentage as in the seventh IDA
credit. With this free limit, it is estimated that about 20 subprojects
would require IDA review prior to approval. This is sufficient for the
purpose of effective subproject monitoring by IDA.
3.08     Commitment Period.  The funds would be available for commitment by
SOFIDE until June 30, 1989.
Technical Assistance to SOFIDE
3.09     The SDR 567,GOO provided under this component would be made
available to SOFIDE to finance (i) short-term local and foreign experts
(management consultants, engineers, agronomists, etc.) to more effectively
assist clients in difficulty in improving the viability of their
operations; (ii) consultants to help appraise large and complex projects
and conduct a post evaluation of its on-going operations; (iii) special
audits and management reviews of some of Its important existing and
prospective borrowers; (iv) the training of its stiff in Zaire and abroad;
and (v) computer equipment to improve its information processing system
(about SDR 87,000).



- 22 -
3.10      Terms and Conditi,-ns.  Funds under this component would be onlent
from Government to SOFIDE at Zhe same rate as the investment component,
i.e., 8.5 percent per annum, and would have a fixed amortization schedule
of 15 years, including a grace period of three years. The foreign exchange
risk would be borne by SOFIDE. The funds would be available for commitment
until June 30, 1989.  Each request for financing would be submitted to IDA
for review and approval along with 8 brief justification and cost
estimates.
Technical Assistance to CEPETEDE
3.11     The SDR 433,000 provided under this component, amounting to about
a third of CEPETEDE's budget during 1986-89, would enable it to (i) finance
local and foreign experts to run h'gh-level courses in project appraisal,
financial and portfolio management, accounting and related topics for
officials and executives of the public and private sectors; and (ii)
purchase a limited amount of training materials and equipment (data
processing and related equipment and pedagogical material).
3.12     Terms and Conditions.  Funds allocated for this component would be
passed on as a grant from Government to CEPETEDE and would be available for
commitment until June 30, 1989.   Each request for financing would be
submitted to IDA for review and approval along with a brief description of
the course and the qualifications of the experts. To facilitate
administration of the component, SOFIDE has agreed to manage it on behalf
of CEPETEDE and to sutmit disbursement requests to IDA. SOFIDE would
receive, as an administrative fee, a commission of 3.5 percent of the
amount available under the component. Such fee woull be paid in three
equal yearly tranches of SDR 5,000 out of the Special Account (para. 3.18),
the first tranche to be paid on the effectiveness date of this Credit.
Total Project Cost and Financing
3.13     SOFIDE's subloan commitments during the period January 1986 to
June 1989 are estimated at US$139.1 million, of which US$103.0 million
would be in foreign exchange. The investment component of the proposed
project (US$48.8 million) would cover about 47 percent of the foreign
exchange needs and the remainder would be secured from other sources
(CIDA, KfW, EIB and ADB). Assuming that SOFIDE would finance, as in the
past, about 55 percent of the total investment costs, the US$139.1 million
forecast commitments would result in about US$253 million in total
investments.
3.14     The financing plan of SOFIDE's operations and for the t'- :nical
assistance provided under this project would be as follows:



- 23 -
Financing Plan
January 1986 - June 1989
(US$ million equivalent)
Local     Foreign       Total
SOFIDE's Subloan Commitments                  36.1        103.0        139.1
Technical Assistance                            0.3         0.9          1.2
Total Financing Required                  36.4        103.9        140.3
Financing Plan
SOFIDE: Resources Available for
Commitment as of January 1986          3.5         46.7        50.2
SOFIDE: Cash Generation                       32.6           -          32.6
Proposed IDA Credit                             0.3        49.7         50.0
Other Possible Lenders (Kfw, EIB, ADB)          -           7.5          7.5
Total                                     36.4        103.9        140.3
Project Implementation
3.15     Procurement and Disbursement.  Procurement for subprojects
financed under the investment component of the credit, as well as goods
financed under the SOFIDE and CEPETEDE technical assistance components
would be on the basis of competitive quotations from at least three
different suppliers (including foreign), a procedure acceptable to IDA
which has worked well under previous IDA credits to SOFIDE. Given the
relatively modest size of procurement packages, there is litt'e scope for
international competitive bidding. Selection of consultants would be made
in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
3.16     The proceeds of the propose4 credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) on the SOFIDE and CEPETEDE technical assistance components: (i) 100
percent of the cost of consultants and training; and (ii) 100 percent
of the foreign exchange cost of equipment and supplies bought by
SOFIDE and CEPETEDE;
(b) on SOFIDE subloans: (i) 100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of goods and
services; (ii) 80 percent of the cost of previously imported
equipment purchased in Zaire and of equipment produced in Zaire from
previously imported components and raw materials; and (iii) 55
percent of the cost of construction works included in subprojects and
carried out by locally-based contractors.



- 24 -
3.17     The projected disbursement schedule is based on the disbursement
profile for DFC projects in Eastern and Southern Africa. Disbursements are
expected to be completed over eight years, by December 31, 1994.
3.18      Special Account.  As under the sixth and seventh IDA credits, to
expedite disbursement of funds, a special account would be set up at a
financial institution acceptable to IDA into which IDA would make an
initial deposit of US$2.1 million equivalent from the proposed credit
immediately after credit effectiveness. This amount represents an
estimated average disbursement of funds over a four-month period. The
Special Account would be used to finance all stbproject component
expenditures under $25,000. Replenishment of the Special Account for these
items wotuld be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The
documentation for withdrawals made under SOEs would be retained by SOFIDE
for ten years and would be reviewed by supervision missions. The Special
Account could also be used to finance expenditures for the technical
assistance components and subproject component expenditures in excess of
$25,000. Replenishment of .he Special Account for these items would be
made on the basis of fully docuT.ented applications. Applications for
replenishment of the Special Account for a minimum of US$100,000 would be
submitted on a monthly basis or whenever funds are oelow US$1 million. The
Special Account would be audited annually by independent auditors and the
audit reports would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the
fiscal year.
3.19      Audits and Reporting.  Since its inception, the Brussels-based
firm of Berger, Block, Kirschen and Schellekens and Co. has audited
SOFIDE's accounts. The quality of the audits has been satisfactory and in
line with IDA's requirements. As under previous IDA projects, SOFIDE will
continue to have its accounts and financi. P-tements, as well as the
special account and SOEs (para. 3.18), aia the accouutt of the CEPETEDE
component that it has agreed to manage, au-.Lted by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and will furnish to IDA certified copies of its audited
financial statements and its annual reports within six months of the end of
the fiscal year. SOFIDE wil'l also submit to IDA quarterly reports, which
would include, inter alia, financial statements, resource position,
statement of arrears, loan collection targets and results obtained and
measures taken to improve the arrears situation.
Project Benefits and Risks
3.20      The proposed project would provide term resources to the
productive sectors in Zaire to rehabilitate industrial and agro-industrial
enterprises, develop manufactured exports, improve transport facilities and
increase agricultural production. It would thus help accelerate growth and
increase employment in Zaire and would complement the positive impact of
the policy reforms already taken or to be taken with the su?port of the
Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit. The investment compc.aent of US$48.8
million is expected to support productive investments totalling about US$90
million and would help rehabilitate or improve production capacity of a
much higher value. As in the past, subprojects financed are expected to
show high economic and financial rates of return (par   2.03).  The project



- 25 -
would also enable IDA to continue helping SOFIDE, the main term lending
institution in Zaire, to increase its effectiveness and institutional
strength. The action program for portfolio improvement and monitoring
would enable IDA to assist SOFIDE in improving its loan collection and
arrears situation. As in the past, continued IDA support would enhance
SOFIDE's capability to mobilize additional foreign exchange resources from
other lenders and enable it to play a more significant role in assisting
the recovery of the Zaire's productive sectors.
3.21      TIere are two risks in this project.  The first risk relates to
the possible deterioration of Zaire's economic situation which would, inter
alia, accelerate the depreciation of the Zaire currency and make SOFIDEX'
foreign exchange loans unattractive to potential investors who have to bear
the foreign exchange risk. Such a risk ia, however, limited in view of
Zaire's continued compliance with the IMF stabilization program and the
actions envisaged by IDA and other donors to increase the resource transfer
and accelerate economic growth in Zaire. The second risk is the possible
deterioration of SOFIDE's arrears position. This risk is also limited
because of the strong action SOFIDE has already taken to improve loan
collection and the additional measures proposed in the context of this
project to contain any portfolio deterioration. These should insure that
SOFIDE will remain an effective term lending institution that promotes
economically justified investment projects.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
4.01      This report recommends an IDA credit of SDR 43.3 million (US$50.0
million) to the Republic of Zaire. SOFIDE would receive SDR 42.9 million,
of which SDR 42.3 million for relending to its subborrowers and SDR 567,000
for technical assistance and training, The remaining SDR 433,000 would be
passed on to CEPETEDE for technical assistance. During negotiations, the
following agreements were reached:
(a) From Government that it will:
(i)  onlend to SOFIDE the investment and the technical assistance
components on the conditions specified in paras. 3.05 and 3.10
including an onlending rate of 8.5% per annum;
(ii)  pass on to CEPETEDE as a grant SDR 433,000 million to help
strengthen its training capabilities (para. 3.12);
(b) From SOFIDE that it will:
(i)  exchange views regularly with IDA on the adequacy of its
interest rates (paras. 2.22);
(ii)  distribute dividends only when general and specific provisions
for risk constitute at least four percent of its loan and
equity portfolio (para. 2.29);



- 26 -
(iii) implement the Action Plan aimed at improving the quality of its
portfolio (para. 2.31(a));
(iv) as a part of its quarterly reporting requirements, submit to
IDA a note showing the collection ratio targeted and the
results obtained, the measures taken to improve arrears
collections, the arrears situation at the end of the quarter,
and the collection ratio target and the measures proposed for
the next quarter (para. 2.31(b));
(v) maintain its debt/equity and quasi-equity ratio below 5:1
(para. 2.38);
(vi) reduce its interest rate on foreign currency loans to 14.0
percent p.a. and pa3s on the foreign exchange risk to its
sub-borrowers (paras. 2.20 and 3.06); and
(vii) bear the foreign exchange risk on the technical assistance
component of SDR 567,000 (para. 3.10).
(c) Conditions of Effectiveness:
(i) Submission by Government to Zaire's legislature of measures
aiming at the suppression of the CCA tax for borrowers who bear
the foreign exchange risk (2.20);
(ii) Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (para. 3.03).



- 27 -
LIST OF ANNEXES
1      Organization Chart  . ..............................   28
2      Investment Strategy Statement    .............................  29
3      Borrowings as of September 30, 1985            ......           30
4      Analysis of Loan Arrears as of February 28, 1986 ......         31
5      Summary of Operations, 1981-85 ....,....................  32
6      Approvals by Sector, Type of Project and Location,
1981-1985  .....................                             33
7      Past Income Statements, 1981-1985  ...... .34
8      Past Balance Sheets 1981-1985                                   35
9      Past Financial Ratios, 1981-85                                  36
10      Main Assumptions Underlyina the Financial Projections .....   37
11      Projected Operations 1986-1989                                  38
12      Projected Income Statements, 1986-1989                          39
13      Projected Balance Sheets, 1986-1989                             40
14      Projected Sources and Uses of Funds Statements, 1986-1989..  41
15      Projected Financial Ratios, 1986-1989                           42
16      Schedule of Disbursements           ................................  43
17      Selected Documents Available in the Project File .......... 44



-28 -
Anuex I
SOCIETE FINANCIERB Ot DEVgLOPPENZNT (SOFIDE)
Organu±ation Chart
(As of December 31, 1985)
|Boad of Director&
I~~~~~~~~~~
President and General Manager
Finance and                        
Administration               Operation J             eneral Iaspectioni
j Financemini|ratio
_                            ~~~~~~~~~Internal Audit 
F~~  and Organization 
Appraisal      Supervision       Studies                                            n   r
ALUbuiBbashi Branch|
_FRananga Branch
EAPID
April 1986



- 29 -
Annex II
SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMNT (SOFIDE)
INVESThENT STRATEGY STATEMENT
Criteria for Selectolonof Projects bySOPIDE
Selection of projects shall taken Into account economic
conditions, the major problems facing the country and national priorities,
while also bearing in mand the limited resources at SOFIDE's disposal.
In view of the particular difficulties facing Zaire and the
establishment of a floating exchange rate svstem, SOFIDE shall give
priority to projects meeting the following criteria:
(a) lmprovement of the balance of payments;
(b) satisfaction of basic needs;
(c) rehabilitation and modernization of industrial
enterprises;
(d) increased exploitation of local raw materials;
(e) employment creation; and
(f) improvement of transport conditions in the interior.
Specifically, SOFIDE shall assist the following projects:
- export-oriented projects;
- rehabilitation and moderni.zation projects;
- projects using local raw materials;
- labor-intensive projects;
- comercial agriculture and forestry projects; and
- transport projects.
The above areas of activity constitute the criteria for the
pre-selection of projects. Appraisal of all projects will then iaclude an
economic analysis, on the basis of which the decision to finance any given
project will be taken. Among the projects meeting the above criteria,
SOFIDE will select foi its financing those with the highest economic rates
of return.
EAPID
April 1986



SOCigis nttUoezgn tf IOvZLoPP3T (307w!)
For-lgo borrowl!HLa.  of Soptber  30. 1985
P     o. ot  C0'.0.         at o noot   ".turitY      cl..o  Partod  tL.00.0t Rate    CoItt_Pt          64t.00            b00t.         SOr71S        Vo-lg.                      Sp000O
Aen.ot         btroaiwq         .00      (J..r.)         (yJ rs)        (t p...) 0S      . (7 p.*.)   Diebortwd         Nt.otwtding   oo0odioo      ft.h0.g.                      Lo0
('000            (00            01 VCO0                                 00o81ad:2o00
_____   __ _                 __________    Oonroool 0.11.)  Cam 9  L. KUO) (X    -         8nrn                                -
1DA S   (I 90O-)                5/28/70           VS9           5,000   vo,iobi.        v.rtab..           7.00           0.75          5.000                -            9.0       Co..rnn t
IDA 11  (271i-M                 9/24/71           U2S9         10.000   variable         ... table        7.25            0.75         IO,000                -            9.0       £-O,ern0nt
WAk Xll (463-0)                 Z2/0/74           US)           9,800   0er  bl.        vatrible          7.2S            0.75          9,0d0                -           12.5       Cov.Co.nt
IDA 1i  (710-Ul)                4/19/77           US5           9.7t0   .&..b7.         variable          S. 8 50         0.75          9, 80               b70          12.5       SSE: Covroe.-ot
Uther.: W 0rot
WA V   (9-Uit!)                 */l6/80           07           18 0 SOO     f.bl.       va0riable         8.25            0.75         05,045             8,223          20.0       Cll Stre
piA TX (12715-80)               8/06/02           so0          19.400   o.allbl*         art0bl0           S0.3           0.75         11.274            10,752          20.0        Wrote, t
IDA 71  (4t92-2V)               8/07/64           S0l          34,000   *rt1bl.         variable          *.50            0.15          3,040             3.448          s5.5       toot.                           _-
DV I                            V511/75           Dl            6.500       70              10             2.50           0.25          6,500               161           7.S      C0vrent.t                 SSS oet.14, 0.000_.
gm  it                          6/06/78           Dll           5.00        30              10           *.0/9.5          0.25          4,077             1,005           9.5       0o0rawrnt or             00 oot.2d. f;fr0hn.
C11n -
0.1 III                         2727/b0           Dll          10.000       70              10           e.0/9.5          0.25          15528             5,220          15129      ClOteat.                 1t0t0.0.00  o0t0004
rWanbo
r.V IV                           10/171/0         am1           7.000       5               10          b.0/9.55          0.25          6,407            12014           19/20     Ct l. 0t. or.I0g Capital
|11  I                           22/02/71         50            1,500       20               *            t.5             0.75          I,400             l.,bO           9.5        oeo0.0t                 0(va proj.ct
:10 I                           10/15177         gCD           1,096       2S0.5                   5       .5            0.75          1,094                94          12.5                                C1308  I pr.o.le
c1i  n0                         09/00/03          to            6.000   ...2 ibia       var.ble           8.0             0.50          I5799             5,234          I5/20     C010.t.
bD1V                             12/1961/t        ox           12.000       15                            9.0             O.5S            -                 -            15.5       Cltool                  C0ISI8 i1 Piovto
Sal (00t40 eel"                 01/26/75          ST          297,011   *.1b1            9..Vrt0bl.       7.25            0.30        292.011               -            12.5       Cov.ro.o1t               "Ovd; P to 502 .00.    00.00  00nt      -0n9th 
d8 00 0t.o. e_n)                                                                                                                                                                                       C.ad  op to 52 of 50at9W   o6000 n*l1th 
60000. G8c00.r1-        02/21/77          TV           19,911      I5               3       Aidfta7t.o.:4.5        -           19,318             I.905          9.0        C4o.tMt or              Ti.d t. F-oo  pTo.000ot
Iodoatry:   5.5                                                                  0If.0000
( CZ - Avmce Clnool.
tt0086                   01Ws/So           n             9.500       5               I            20.5             0.s0          1,394               -           25.5 Ultn 0td  to f0r.oh pr7r0re0 et
02           or            l 0r/r0/00      Pr            7.700       5               I            10.5             0.s0          7,007               -           I5.0         02.a0..               T710 00 1o  pr<- -t.
nLTISA  I                10/29/0           n 7.090                   4               2             b.0             0.30          I,070             3.07e          (5.2 O      00att1 .ied to Irrocb prorC nmot
UILTZO   77              L0/29/$0          V             4.620       6               2            13.9             0.s0          4,061             4.05          25.0         1 I-C0.0               Tt.4 Cd *o .t   pr.o maroont
t888o10 I                03/02121           1            4.100        8.5             1.5          S.0             0.50          4,070             3.254          25.0      C01t.01                 T77d to Ir7.cb procr...ot
1a0SA0      11           11/02/83          n             4.100       4.5             1.5          14.75            0.S0          4,070             1.256          25.0       02l03s                   0.A0 to Wfooth pffoe.C*Ct
tUII 70703780            10/24/78          r7            9,700       15              s             7.0             0.30         18.070            12,254          10.40      Ci0t0n                 T7d to ftarOb pr..,m.ot
0a30                            06/7I/78          US5           S.OCO       IS               s             7.1            0.75          3,271             1,2,4  Agr0-.t0.-:U.5  2cl:.0..                    Te.ti0 goadstt02    d.. o         Lo l000
1.400.0.:   25.0                           0100  200.00t20  004  00.0
AOl                              02/03/02           6           0.000       20               5              -             0.75           275                I87          12.5       c0000o0                   Atr, l. ttn0.
An  t                            1212U78           06           5.000       13               5             7.5             1.75         4,512            27184           22.5       02(0t2                     f*0.0.           0   00. t100.t 402 2.trtnn
as 11                           09/50/r,          0A           1o,o00       is               5             7.s             7.75         2,345             1,912          20.0       Ct.to n                   soattiory 4900.0  0t 2tot 447 2Ulrich
c16                             09/14/82           1908         SA.00       s0              10              -              -              -                 -             0o/1s     a20i.nt                  7.s"a0 n8.0
AW  Ii                          02/18/5 (l6                     9.t,eC      20               5             -              0.75            -                 -             2.5      C00.0t0                  Vpe.tUtr   0o4 tr0c.0    for frfrt.
ACCD                            09/10/90           P          200.020       0s               5             5.75           0.75            -                 -            15.5       020o0.                   Tied X. 909d  n procretf



Annex IV
SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVEIOPPEM8NT (SOFIDE)
Analysis of Loan Portfolio Arrears of more than Three Months as of February 28. 1986
1.   Overview
Portfolio affected by arrears          Amour  of         Percentage of        Percentage          Arrears as          Arrears as
Total Portfolio              of more than three months         Arrears    more        Projects           of Portfolio       Percentage of        percentage of
Number of                           Number of       than 3 v>nths         Affected            Affected            Portfolio        Total Portfolio
Z million         Prolects         Z million          Projects         (Z million)                                                 Affected
(A)              (B)              (C)                (D)                (Ej               (D/8)               (C/A)               (E/C)               (£7/A)
As of February 28, 1986           3,583.5             334            1,185.9              134             397.9                40.1                33.1                22.4                  11.1
11. Arrears Situation by Sector and Status of Projects
Total Arrears (Z million)
of which:                 Portfollo Affected by Arrears
0-3 months          4-12 months           more than            Total         Arrears of                   of More than Three Months
12 months                          more than                                      Number ot
Three Months                2 million         Projects
Agriculture and Agroindustrtes
In Operation                                77.6                  93.2                 67.2             238.0             160.4                    474.6                 59
Under Implementation                        32.1                  26.2                 14.9              73.2              41.1                    286.2                 26
Total Agriculture                        109.7                 119.4                82.1              311.2             201.5                    162.8                 85
Industry
In Operation                                75.1                  94.8                4t7.1             210.U             134.9                    139.2                 28
Under Implementation                         17.2                 22.6                  1.2              41.0              23.8                    154.4                  9
Total Industry                            92.3                 117.4                41.3             251.0              158.7                    293.6                 37
Services
In Operatio6                                23.6                  25.1                  3.9              52.6              29.0                    11S7
Under Imlrementation                          5.2                  8.3                  0.4              13.9               8.7                      13.8                 3
Total Services                            28.8                  33.4                 4.3               66.5               '7.7                   129.5                 12
GRAND TOTAL                                   230.8                270.2                127.7             628.t                '.9                  1,185.9               '134
SAPID
April 1986



- 32 -
Annex V
SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (SOFIDE)
Summary of Operations 1981-1985
(Z million)
1981      1982       1983       1984     1985
Approvals (net of cancellations)
Loans                           134.9     100.4      416.0      941.6   1,589.9
Equity Investments                -         3.1        -          3.2       -
Total                            134.9     103.5      416.0      944.8   1,589.9
Commitments
Loans                           143.3      83.2      520.9      563.8   1,900.0
Equity Investments                -         -          -          3.2       -
Total                            143.3      83.2      520.9      567.0   1,900.0
Disbursements
Loans                            48.4      93.8      617.3     751.5   1,795.0
Equity Investments                -         -          -          5.4       -
Total                             48.4      93.8      617.3      756.9   1,795.0
Number of Loans Approved             58         63        59         70         76
Number of Loans Committed            50        47         57         73        80
EAPID
April 1986



- 33 -
Annex VI
SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVILOPPMENT (SOFIDE)
Approvals by Sector, Type of Project and Location, 1981-84
(Z million and percent)
1981              1982              1983             1984             1985
Sector of Activity             Amount    2        Amount    I       Amount    X      Amount    I      Amount    2
Agriculture, Livestock
and Forestry                     28.8    21        36.2    35        95.2    23      405.3    43      126.9      8
Manufacturing
(incl. agro-industries)          76.8    57        47.9    46       221.5'  53       221.1    23      745.3    47
Mining                             9.8     7         1.1      1       27.4      7       1.9      -     193.7    12
Construction and Public Works    8.0       6         4.2      4       36.7      9      24.6      3     162.2    10
Transport                         10.2     8        11.3    11        34.0      8     283.5    30      359.1    23
Other Services                     1.3      1        2.8      3        1.2      -       8.4      1       2.7      -
Total                          134.9   100       103.5   100       416.0   100      944.8   100   1,589.9   100
-                                             -         -      -___
Type of Project
New                               12.6      9       12.0    12         70.9    17      222.7    23     332.2    21
Expansion                         57.1    43        63.1    61       319.7    77      697.8    74   1,202.4    76
Working Capital                   22.0    16         8.5      8       25.4      6      24.3      3       3.3      -
Supplementary loans               43.2    32        19.9    19         -        -                -      52.0      3
Total                          134.9   100       103.5   100       416.0   100      944.8   100   1,589.9   100
-   -               -         -       -                -        m
Project Location
Kinshasa                          49.1    36        18.2    18        99.4    24      407.9    43      482.3    30
Bas Zaire                         12.3     9        10.0    10        80.7    19       48.7      5      53.8      3
Bandundu                          11.4     8        13.0    12        20.7      5     211.7    22       20.1      1
Shaba                             14.4    11        27.0    26        57.9    14       42.6      5     326.3    21
Kivu                               5.3     4        16.1    15        45.8    11       45.5      5     292.2    18
Haut Zaire                         5.7     4         1.9      2       30.9      7      21.0      2     233.2    15
Vasai Occidental                  14.9    11         4.9      5       23.6      6      25.8      3     104.3      7
Kasai Oriental                     4.7     4         8.3     8        16.9      4      15.1      2      40.9      3
Equateur                          ±7.1    13         4.1     4        40.1    10      126.5    13       36.8      2
Total                          134.9   100       103.5   100       416.0   100      944.8   100   1,589.9   100
__ _ _  _-                           _-                -
EAPID
April 1986



- 34 -
Annex VII
SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (SOFIDE)
Past Income Statements, 1981-85
(Z million)
1981      1982      1983    1984      1985
INCOME
Interest and Commissions          22.8       35.5      99.5   220.7    460.0
on Loans
ST Investment Interest             0.3        0.5       7.0    15.0      30.7
Other Income                       1.3        2.1      30.2    15.8      34.3
TOTAL INCOME                     24.4       38.1    136.7   251.5    525.0
EXPENSES
Financial Charges                  9.5       15.4      41.1    63.1    150.5
Administrative Expenses            8.9       15.0      28.9    65.7      94.9
Depreciation                       0.7        0.7       5.9     9.6      18.0
Provisions for Bad Debts           1.4        2.4      20.9    47.7    157.9
TOTAL EXPENSES                   20.5       33.5     96.8   186.1    421.3
Profits before Provisions
for General Risks                 3.9        4.6     39.9    65.4    107.3
Provision for General Risks        2.3        2.5      25.3    41.3      57.0
NET PROFIT                        1.6        2.1      14.6    24.1      46.7
Allocated to:
Dividends                         1.1        1.1       1.2    14.8      31.0
Staff Bonus                       0.3        0.5       -       -         4.8
Retained Earnings                 0.2        0.5       13.4    9.3      10.9
EAPID
April 1986



- 35 -
Annex VIII
SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEIIENT (SOFIDE)
Past Balance Sheets 1981-1985
(Z million)
1981        1982          1983         1984           1985
ASSETS
Cash and Bank Deposits           3.2          42.2         100.0        161.4         163.2
Other Current Assets            57.0          67.4         419.1        292.0        587.9
Total Current Assets            602          109.6         519.1        453.4         751.1
Medium and Long Term
Loans                        123 2         172.3         509.5     1,311.8       2,809.3
less provisions               (7.8)        (10.3)        (53.9)     (115.6)       (330.5)
Net                            mi160                      ZN.         1,196.2      2,4783T
Other Loans                    0.3           0.8           2.3         4.8          20.5
Eq'iity Investments              2.0           2.3          25.2         30.3          36.7
Fixad Assets (net)               5.4           7.7          53.8         83.1         162.3
TOTAL ASSETS                   184.3         282.4       1,056.0      1,767.8      3,449.4
LIABILITIES
Dividends Payable                1.4           1.7           2.0         15.3          31.4
Payables & Prepaid Income       26.3          43.0          74.5         71.6        203.8
Current Liabilities              723.2
Medium and Long Term
Debts
ADB                           26.8          25.6         140.3       179.6         503.2
EIB                            5.9          15.6         132.3       189.1         310.5
KfW                           23.3         44.9         264.1        318.9         580.3
CCCE                          31.3          28.5         146.6       193.5         360.1
IDA                           -             -             -          281.3         982.6
Other                          9.2          25.5         45.6         51.5          40.3
(less f/x risk adjustment)       (28.5         (20.3)       (232.6)     (247.7)       (491.8)
80.1        123.5         501.0        947.4       2,285.2
Quasi Equity
Long Term Loan                 6.0           6.0           6.0         6.0           6.0
Rolled Over IDA               56.2          93.3        376.0        437.3         641.9
62.2         99.3         382.6 
Equity
Paid In Share Capital         12.0          12.0          12.0       260.0         260.0
Reserves                       2.3           2.7         71.9          3.3           3.3
Retained Earnings               -           0.1           11.9         6.9          17.8
Total Equity                               295.8                     270.2         281.1
TOTAL LIABILITIES              184.3         282.4       1,056.0     1,767.8       3,449.4
EAPID
April 1986



- 36 -
Annex IX
SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (SOFIDL)
Past Financial Ratios
1981    1982      1983    1984      1985
Incone Statement Elements as Z
of Averae Total Assets
1.  Total Income                          16.4    16.3      20.4    17.8      20.1
of which: Interest on Loans and
Dividends                 (15.3)  (15.2)   (14.9)  (15.6)   (17.6)
others (short-term
Interest:s, commissions   (1.1)   (1.1)    (5.5)   (2.2)    (2.5)
2.  Interest payments                      6.4     6.6       6.1      4.5      5.8
3.  Administrative expenses                6.0     6.4       4.3      4.7      3.6
4.  Provisions                             2.5     2.1       6.9      6.3      8.2
5.  Depreciation                           0.4     0.3       0.9      0.7      0.7
6.  Total Expenses                        15.4    15.4      18.2    16.2      18.3
7.  Net Profit before provisions           3.6     3.0       9.1      7.9     10.0
8.  Net Profit after provisions 1/         1.1     0.9       2.2      1.6       1.8
Profitability Indicators
9.  Net Profit (after provisions)         11.6    14.4      26.4    13.2      16.9
as X of Average Equity
10. Income from Loans ts Z of
Average Loan Portfolio             14.4    16.4       19.6    23.4      22.3
11. Cost of Debt as 2 of Average Debt   7.8        8.4       7.5     8.7       9.3
12. Average Spread                         8.4     9.3      11.5    16.5      15.0
Financial Structure Indicators
11. Term-Debt/Year-End Equity              5.6     8.4       5.2     3.5       8.1
12. Term-Debt/Year-End Equity and
quasi-equity                        1.0      1.1       1.0     1.3       2.5
1/ SOFIDE is not subject to profit tax.
EAPID
April 1986



-37-
Annex X
Main Assumptions Underlying the Financial Projections
1. Inflation and Exchange rates
Exchange Rates
Inflation (X)                        Zaires Per US$
Taire    World      Depreciation   Beginning
of the Zaire      Year      Average  End-Year
1986            25      7.2            16.6         53.5        58.0      62.4
1987            20      6.8           12.4          62.4        66.3      70.1
1988            20      6.8           12.4          70.1        74.5      78.8
1989            20      7.0            12.1         ;3.8        83.6      88.3
2. Mperations
Approvals:      Foreign currency loans : 52 p.a. in real terms from 1985-89.
Local currency loans: based on resources generated by
operations.
Commitments:   Foreign exchange: 50% year of approval, 50% following year.
Loans and equity in Zaires: 100% year of approval.
Disbursements: Foreign exchange: 202 year of commitment; 40% second year;
40% third year.
Local currency: 100% year of commitment.
3. Interest rates and commissions
Foreign currency loans: 15.5x-20% on loans outstanding and undisbursed
commitments.
14% on new loans.
Local currency loans:   30%.
Appraisal fee:             2%.
Commitment fee:           1.5%.
4. Expenses
Borrowing Costs: 9% on new term debt.
Roll over IDA: 2% IDA I to IV; 8.25% IDA V.
Administrative Costs: Actual level in 1985, increasing at 5% in real terms
from 1986 to 1989, in line with operations.
Provisions: At least 4% of outstanding portfolio.
5. Collection Ratios (aefined as all amounts collected during the year,
including arrears, over new billings during the same
year):
1986        88%.
1987-89    100%.
EAPID
April 1986



-38 -
Annex XI
SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (SOFIDE)
Pro1ected OPerations 1986-1989
(Z uillion)
Actual                 Projected
1985      1986       1987      1988       1989
Approvals
Loans                           1,590     1,730      2,433      3,126     4,116
(of which foreign currency)  (1,250)   (1,530)   (1,983)   (2,526)   (3,216)
Equity Investments               -            10        14        18         26
Total                           1,590     1,740      2,447     3,144      4,142
Commitments
Loans                           1,900     2,050      2,316     2,977      3,925
(of which foreign currency)  (1,491)   (1,443)   (1,866)   (2,377)   (3,025)
Equity Investments              _-           10         14         18        26
Total                           1,900     2,060      2,330     2,995      3,951
S----
Disbursements
Loans                           1,795     1,971      1,998      2,"40     3,480
(of which foreign currency)  (1,009)   (1,771)   (1,548)   (2,040)   (2,580)
Equity Investments                  -        10         14         18        26
Total                           1,795     1,981      2,012     2,658      3,506
EAPID
April 1986



- 39 -
Annex XII
SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (SOFIDE)
Projected Income Statements, 1986-89
(Z million)
Actual                   Proiected
1985      1986        1987       1988      1989
INCOME
Interests & Commissions
on Loans                    460        839       1,193     1,604      2,077
Interests on short-term
investments                  31         14          19        44         70
Other Income                   34        18          26         36        40
Total Income              525        871       1,238     1,684      2,187
EXPENSES
Financial Charges             150       288         437       616        853
Administrative Expenses        95       121         155        194       244
Depreciation                   18        10          30        43         54
Provisions                    158       203         250       307        347
Total Expenses            421        622         872     1,160      1,498
Profits before Provisions
for General Risks          104        249         366       524        689
Provision for General
Risks                       57         86         110       140        170
NET PROFIT                 47        163         256       384        519
_   ~~        -      _=
Allocated to:
Dividend and Bonus            36         40          46        55         68
Retained Earnings              11       123         210       329        451
EAPID
April 1986



- 40 -
Annex XIII
Projected Balance Sheets, 1986-89
Actual                           Projected
1985         1986          1987         1988           1989
ASSETS
Current Assets                  751           600         1,546        1,983         4,033
Medium and Long Term Loans 2,809            4,832         6,626        9,256         11,853
Less Provisions             (331)          (620)         (980)      (1,427)       (1,944)
Net                          2,478          4,212         5,646        7,829          9,909
Other Loans                      21            20            36            54            72
Equity Inver.tments              37            49            63            81           107
Fixed Assets (net)              162           307           293          275            253
Total Assets               3,449          5,188         7,584       10,222        14,374
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities             235           335           467          400          1,032
Medium and LT Debt           2,285          3,737         5,689        8,005         10,872
Quasi Equity
Long-Term Loan                    6             6             6             6             6
Rolled over IDA                 642           706           808          868          1,070
648           712           814          874          1,076
Equity
Paid In Share Capital           260           260           260          260            260
Reserves & Ret. Earnings         21           144           354          683          1,134
Total Equity                    281           404           614          943          1,394
Total Liabilities          3,449         5,188          7,584       10,222        14,374
EAPID
April 1986



- 41 -
Annex XIV
SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (SOFIDE)
Projected Sources and Uses of Funds Statements, 1986-89
Actual                          Projected
1985        1986          1987         1988          1989
Sources
Profits                       47           163           256          384           519
Provisions                   215           289           360          447           517
Depreciation                   18            10           30           43            54
Loan Collection               288          649           826          867           883
Drawdown on Loans          1,473         1,771         1,471        1,836         2,193
2,041        2,882         2,943        3,577         4,166
Uses
Dividend and Bonus             15           40            46           55            68
Debt Repayment                122           180          272          308           380
Disbursement of Loans      1,795         1,971         1,998        2,640         3,480
Equity Disbursements            -           10            14           18            26
Fixed Assets                   71          168            18           25            32
Change in Working Capital    38            513           595          531           180
2,041        2,882         2,943        3,577         4,166
EAPID
April 1986



- 42 -
Annex XV
SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (SOFIDE)
Projected Financial Ratios, 1986-89
Actual                   Projected
1985       1986      1987    1988     1989
Income Statement Elements as Z
of Average Total Assets
1.  Total Income                         20.1       20.2      19.4    18.9      17.8
of which: Interest on Loans and
Dividends                (17.6)      (19.4)   (18.7)  (18.0)   (16.9)
Other (short-term
interests, commissions   (2.5)        (0.8)    (0.7)   (0.9)    (0.9)
2.  Interest payments                     5.8        6.7       6.8     6.9       6.9
3.  Administrative expenses               3.6        2.8       2.4     2.2       2.0
4.  Provisions                            8.2        6.7       5.6     5.0       4.2
5.  Depreciation                          0.7        0.2       0.5     0X5       0.4
6.  Total Expenses                       18.3       13.3      11.8    11.3      10.0
7.  Net Profit before provisions         10.0       10.5       9.7     9.3       8.4
8.  Net Profit after provisions           1.8        6.9       7.6     7.6       7.6
Profitability Indicators
9.  Net Profit (after provisions)        16.9       47.6      50.3    49.3     44.4
as % of Average Equity
10. Income from Loans as % of
Average Loan Portfolio            22.3        22.0     20.7    20.1      19-6
11. Cost of Debt as % of Average Debt   9.3          9.5       9.0     9.0      9.0
12. Average Spread                       15.0       14.5      13.1    12.4     11.6
Financial Structure Indicators
13. Term Debt/Year-End Equity             8.1        9.3       9.3     8.5      7.8
14. Term Debt/Year-End Equity and
quasi-equity                       2.5         3.3      4.0      4.4      4.4
15. Debt Service Coverage ratio           2.4        2.7       2.5     2.4      2,2
EAPID
April 1986



- 43 -
Anuex XVI
SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (SOPIDE)
Schedule of Disbursements
Amount in SDR
Cumu-
IDA Fiscal Year         Technical Assistance        Credit                 lative
and Quarter Ending           Component             Component    Total          X
FY87
March 31,  1987                  85                  285           370      0.9
June 30, 1987                   170                 845          1,015       2.3
FY88
September 30, 1987             210                1,350          1,560      3.6
December 31, 1987              300                2,850         3,150       7.3
March 31, 1988                  375               4,340          4,715      10.9
June 30, 1988                  500                5,500         6,000       13.9
FY89
September 30, 1988             580                7,440         8,020      18.5
December 31, 1988              710                9,345        10,055      23.2
March 31, 1989                  830              11,350         12,180      28.1
June 30, 1989                1,000               13,150        14,150      32.7
FY90
September 30, 1989           1,000               15,400        16,400      37.9
December 31, 1989            1,000               17,580        18,580      42.9
March 31, 1990               1,000               19,780        20,780      48.0
June 30, 1990                1,000               22,000        23,000      53.1
FY91
September 30, 1990           1,000               24,010        25,310      57.8
December 31, 1990            L,000               26,000        27,000      62.4
March 31, 1991               1,000               28,020        29,020      67.0
June 30, 1991                1,000               30,050        31,050      71.7
FY92
September 30, 1991           1,000               31,610        32,610      75.3
December 312, 1991           1,000               33,200        34,200      79.0
March 31, 1992               1,000               34,715        35,715      82.5
June 30, 1992                1,000               36,360        37,360      86.3
FY93
September 30, 1992           1,000               37,420        38,420      88.7
Dezember 31, 1992            1,000               38,50        39,530      91.3
March 31, 1993               1,000               39,600        40,600      93.8
'une 30, 1993                1,000               40,600        41,600      96.1
FY94
September 30, 1993           1,000               41,100        42,100      97.2
December 31, 1993            1,000               41,550        42,550      98.3
March 31, 1994               1,000               42,100        43,100      99.5
June 30, 1994                1,000               42,300        43,300    100.0
RAPID
April 1986



- 44 -
Annex XVII
SOCIETE FINANCIERE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (SOFIDE)
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
1. SOFIDE's 1985 Accounts.
2. SOFIDE's 1984 Annual Report and Audited Report.
3. SOFIDE's 1984 Management letter.
4. SOFIDE's Updated Action Plan.
5. SOFIDE's Three-year Training Program.
6. SOFIDE's Retrospective Analysis of Arrears. November 1985.
7, SOFIDE Management's Proposition to its Board for a Reduction of
Interest Rates on Foreign Currency Loans.
8. SOFIDE's Operational Manual.



