OFFIIALI
DOFCMENS REDIT NUMBER 1685 ZR
Development Credit Agreement
(Eighth Development Finance Company Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1685 ZR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1986, between
the REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE (the Worrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project, described in Section
3.01 (a) of this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will     be  carried  out  by  the   Societe
Financiere de Dgveloppement (hereinafter called SOFIDE) with the
Borrower's assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make available to SOFIDE the proceeds of the Credit as
provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and SOFIDE;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the modifications set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "SOFIDE" means the Socifte Financiere de Dfveloppement,
established pursuant to authorization given under Ordonnance-loi
No. 70/001 of the Borrower dated January 9, 1970.
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and SOFIDE, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time.


﻿- 2 -
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SOFIDE pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
(d)  "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to
be made by SOFIDE to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to SOFIDE under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and "free-
limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies
as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Sec-
tion 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
(e) "Investment" means an investment other than a Sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made by SOFIDE in an Investment Enterprise
for an Investment Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds
of the Credit rel,nt to SOFIDE under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment.
(f)  "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
SOFIDE proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan or in which it
proposes to make or has made an Investment.
(g)  "Investment  Project" means   a   specific  development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan or Investment.
(h) "Zaire" and "Z" mean the currency of the Borrower.
(i)  "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
Zaire.
(j) "Statutes" means the statuts of SOFIDE approved on
January 11, 1970, as amended on March 16, 1972, April 19,
1973, April 17, 1975, September 20, 1977, December 2, 1980 and
April 19, 1984, and as further amended from time to time.
(k) "Statement of Policy" means the D6clacation de Politi-
que G6nrale of SOFIDE, as adopted and approved by its Board of
Directors on February 10, 1970, as amended on March 14, 1973 and
December 18, 1978, and as further amended from time to time.
(1) "Prior Credit Agreements" means the Development Cre' c
Agreements (Nos. 190 CK, 271 CK, 463 CK, 710 ZR, 998 ZR, 1273 R
and 1492 ZR) between the Borrower and the Association dated
May 28, 1970, September 24, 1971, February 10, 1974, August 2,
1977, June 16, 1980, August 6, 1982 and August 7, 1984, respec-
tively, and "Prior Credits" means the credits provided for
therein.


﻿- 3 -
(m) "Government Loans" means the advance and the loan
totalling 6,000,000 Zaires made by the Borrower to SOFIDE pur-
suant to Ordonnance-loi No. 70/002 of January 9, 1970 as supple-
mented by Ordonnance No. 78/180 of April 28, 1978.
(n) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by SOFIDE or by any one or more
subsidiaries of SOFIDE or by SOFIDE and one or more of its sub-
sidiaries.
(o) "Convention" means the Convention d'Etablissement be-
tween the Borrower and SOFIDE, dated January 15, 1970, as amended
from time to time.
(p) "CEPETEDE" means the Training Center for Development
Techniques.
(q) "Special Account C" means the account to be operated
by SOFIDE pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and
Section 2.01 (d) of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fourty three million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 43,300,000) for use by SOFIDE.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, for amounts paid (or, if the Association
shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by SOFIDE: (i) on account of
withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-Loan or
Investment to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Investment Project in respect of which the with-
drawal is requested; and (ii) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for those parts of the Project
described in Section 3.01 (a) (ii) and (iii) of this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, including


﻿the administrative fee of SOFIDE due under Section 2.04(b) of the
Project Agreement; provided, however that no amount shall be
withdrawn from the Credit Account or paid out of Special Account
C in respect of any Investment Project unless:
(A) the Sub--loan or Investment for such Investment
Project have been approved by the Association; or
(B) the Sub-loan shall be a free-limit Sub-loan for
which the Association shall have authorized with-
drawals from the Credit Account or payments out of
Special Acount C.
(b) For the purposes of the Project described in Section
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause SOFIDE to main-
tain a special account (hereinafter called Special Account C) in
dollars in a bank acceptable to the Association and under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into,
and payments out of, Special Account C shall be made in accor-
dance with the provisions of the Schedule 1 to the Project Agree-
ment.
(c) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed under the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement which, together with any other amount or
amounts previously financed for the same Investment Project under
the Development Credit Agreement or the Prior Credit Agreements,
and not repaid, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent
of $500,000 and which, when added to all other free-limit Sub-
loans financed under the Development Credit Agreement, shall not
exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $17,000,000, the fore-
going amounts being subject to change from time to time as deter-
mined by the Association.
(d) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, with-
drawals from the Credit Account and payments out of Special
Account C may be made on account of expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower only for: (i) goods previously imported into its
territory through normal trade channels and which have been pro-
cured as described in paragraph (e) of this Section; (ii) goods
produced in the territory of the Borrower to a substantial extent
from components or raw materials so imported, and purchased by
Investment Enterprises to carry out Investment Projects; (iii)
construction works; and (iv) consultants' and experts' services.


﻿-5-
(e) Gcods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be procured on the basis of the lowest of at least three
competitive quotations from potential domestic and foreign sup-
pliers from countries which are members of the Bank (or from
Switzerland).
Section 2.03. SOFIDE is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower and SOFIDE of such
later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge (hereinafter called commitment charge) at the
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time.
The commitment charge shall accrue from a date sixty days after
the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn from the Credit Account
or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each February
15  and  August   15  commencing  August   15,  1996  and  eiding


﻿-6-
February 15, 2036, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 2006, to be one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The objectives of the Project are to
assist in   the   creation, rehabilitation,   reconstruction   and
modernization of high-priority projects of economic development,
to support the operations of SOFIDE and to improve the capacity
of the Borrower in industrial and agroindustrial sector policy
analysis. The Project consists in the following:
(i) the financing by SOFIDE of economic development in
the territory of the Borrower through loans for
productive purposes to enterprises in such terri-
tory, and through other productive investments in
such enterprises, all for specific development
projects and in accordance with the Statutes and
Statement of Policy of SOFIDE;
(ii) the   strengthening of   SOFIDE's  capabilities in
project appraisal and loan collections through the
training of staff, the employment of experts and
the acquisitions of office equipment; and
(iii) increasing the capacity of CEPETEDE to conduct
high-level courses in the field of development
projects, including their appraisal, through the
employment of experts, the training outside
Zaire of its staff, and the procurement, for not
more than $100,000 equivalent, and use of data-
processing and other equipment.
(b) For the parts of the Project described in Section 3.01
(a) (i) and (ii) above, the Borrower shall relend to SOFIDE the


﻿-7-
amount allocated and withdrawn under Categories (1) and (2) set
forth in Schedule 1 hereto under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Borrower and SOFIDE containing terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association, including a
term not exceeding 15 years with a grace period not exceeding
three years, an interest rate of 8.5% per annum, or such rate of
interest as will give to SOFIDE a spread of 5.5 percentage points
between such rate and SOFIDE's lending rate for Sub-loans, a com-
mitment charge of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the undisbursed amounts of Sub-loans from the date of
approval of any such Sub-loan by the Association and the require-
ment that the foreign exchange risk for Sub-loans be borne by the
Investment Enterprises.
(c) The Borrower designates SOFIDE as its representative
to withdraw from the Credit Account, to pay out of the Special
Account C and to administer jointly with the Commissioner of
State for Planning, as provided in the Project Agreement, the
amount of the Credit allocated to Category (3) set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be uti-
lized in making grants to CEPETEDE to finance that part of the
Project described in Section 3.01 (a) (iii) above.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and of the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit and, except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In carrying out those parts of the Project
described in Section 3.01 (a)(ii) and (iii) above, the Borrower
shall employ or cause to be employed consultants or experts whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, such consultants and
experts to be selected in accordance with principles and pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any of
its political subdivisions, or any of its agencies or instru-
mentalities, or any agency or instrumentality of any political
subdivision, to take any action which would prevent or interfere


﻿- 8 -
with the carrying out of the Project or the performance by SOFIDE
of any of its other obligations tinder the Project Agreement or
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and shall take or cause to be
taken all reasonable action which shall be required on its part
in order to enable SOFIDE to carry out the Project and to perform
such other obligations.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insur-
ance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out by SOFIDE pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Project
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) SOFIDE shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that SOFIDE
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment.
(c) The Statutes shall have been amended so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or financial condition of
SOFIDE.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SOFIDE or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) A Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been creat-
ed or acquired or taken over by SOFIDE, if such creation, acqui-
sition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
SOFIDE's business, its financial situation, the efficiency of its
management and personnel or the carrying out of the Project.


﻿- 9 -
(f) a change shall have been made in the Statement of Poli-
cy of SOFIDE without the consent of the Association;
(g) a change shall have been made in the terms and condi-
tions of the convention or of the Government Loans without the
consent of the Association;
(h) SOFIDE shall be unable to pay its debts as they mature
or any action or proceeding shall have been undertaken whereby
any of the property of SOFIDE shall or may be distributed among
its creditors; or
(i) any part of the principal amount of any loan to SOFIDE
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accor-
dance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of
maturity, as provided in the relative contractual instruments, or
any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (c), (f) or (g)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower and SOFIDE; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (d), (h) or (i) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been entered into by
the Borrower and SOFIDE, respectively; and
(b) the Borrower has proposed to its legislature measures
aiming at the suppression of the contribution sur le chiffre
d'affaires int6rieur for borrowers of credits who bear the
foreign exchange risk under the terms of such credits.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opiniun or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by SOFIDE, and is legally binding upon SOFIDE in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by, and signed on behalf of, the Borrower and
SOFIDE and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SOFIDE in
accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreemert shall terminate or on the date
fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Sections 2.03 and 3.01
(c) of this Agreement, the Commissaire d'Etat of the Borrower
responsible for finance is designated as representative of     the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
D&partement des Finances et Budget
Botte Postale No. 12997
Kinshasa 1
Republic of Zaire


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                    Telex:
DENFIN                             21161 KIN GOMBE
Kinshasa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By
/s/ NGUZ a KARL-i-BOND
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                       /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans               42,300,000
and Invest-
ments
(a) Goods                                  100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
if purchased
locally
(b) works                                  55%
(2) Part of the Project        567,000
described in Sec-
tion 3.01 (a) (ii)
(a) Goods                                  100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) Consul-                                100%
tants' and
experts'
services
(3) Part of the Project
described in Sec-
tion 3.01 (a) (iii)
(a) Goods                 87,000            100% of foreign
expenditures


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(b) Consul-              331,000            100%
tants' and
experts'
services
(c) SOFIDE's fee          15,000           100% of amount
payable under
Section 2.04
of the Project
Agreement
TOTAL            43,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the cur-
rency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than
that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals from the Credit Account or payments out of Special
Account C shall be made:
(a) in respect of a Sub-loan or Investment unless (i) the
Sub-loan or Investment has been approved by the Association, or
(ii) the Sub-loan is a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account or pay-
ments out of Special Account C;
(b) in respect of payments for expenditures made prior to
the date of this Agreement; or
(c) except as the Borrower and the Association shall other-
wise agree, on account of expenditures by an Investment Enter-


﻿- 15 -
prise in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the Association's
approval or in respect of an Investment if such expenditures
shall have been made more than ninety days prior to the date on
which the Association shall have received in respect of such
Sub-loan or Investment the application and information required
by Section 2.02 (b) of the Project Agreement or, in respect of a
free-limit Sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on
which the Association shall have received in respect of such
free-limit Sub-loan the request and information required by
Section 2.02 (c) of the Project Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"15. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set
forth in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement."
(2) The second sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(3) The words "or for Investment Projects" are added after
for the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(4) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If
(a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account shall have been suspended with respect to any
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days
or (b) by the date specified in Section 2.02 (d) of the
Project Agreement, no applications or requests permitted
under paragraph (b) or (c) of such Section shall have been
received by the Association in respect of any portion of the
Credit, or having been so received, shall have been denied
or (c) at any time, the Association determines that the pro-
curement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such
item which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) after the Closing
Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from
the Credit Account, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, terminate the right to request such approvals or
requests or to make withdrawals from the Credit Account, as
the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of
the Credit.  Upon the giving of such notice such amount or
portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


