Report No. PID8369
Project Name                     Tanzania-Social Action Fund Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Social Funds & Social Assistance
Project ID                       TZPE65372
Borrower(s)                      GOT
Implementing Agency
Address                          GOT (PRESIDENT'S OFFICE)
Vice-president's Office; Ministries of
Finance; Community Development,
Women's Affairs and Children; Regional
Adminstration and Local Government;
Labour; the Presidential Trust Fund,
National Income Generation Program
NIGP ) Research on Poverty Alleviation
REPOA )  Interfaith, State House.
President's Office, State House,
P.O. Box 9120, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Contact Person: Mr. Emmanuel Kamba
Tel: 255 51 123583
Fax: 255 51 123582
Email: tasaf@ud.co.tz
Environment Category             F
Date PID Prepared                April 10, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 17, 2000
Projected Board Date             July 18, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
The 1993 Tanzania Poverty Profile (Report No. 12298-TA) indicates that
about 50 percent of all Tanzanians live in households classified as poor,
while 36 percent of all Tanzanians live in households classified as
"hard-core" poor. Poverty is particularly prevalent in rural areas with
85 percent of the poverty incidence. The poverty profile also shows that
there are stark differences between the poor and better-off households in
their access to water, health and education. Key strategies identified to
reduce poverty- in addition to accelerated growth -- include the
encouragement of non-farm employment for the poor, investment in their
human capital, including in the care and protection of young children in
order to strengthen human capital assets for the future, and improvements
in basic economic infrastructure. The Government's basic strategy to
reduce poverty -- supported by the Bank in its Country Assistance Strategy
(Report No. 16554-TA) -- relies on raising growth performance and
extending access to basic social and economic services. The Government
therefore continues to undertake economic reforms to maintain
macro-economic stability and generate economic growth. Alongside economic
reforms, the Government is also disengaging from productive activities,
resulting in privatization of parastatals, civil service reform and public
sector retrenchments, in order to focus its full attention on core public
sector activities. To that end, the Government is changing the overall



structure of the Central-Local Government relationship and continues to
reform its public administration. The Local Government Act of 1983 has
been revised and approved by Parliament (February 1999). The project will
therefore be designed and implemented within the framework of this Act.The
Government's Social Sector Strategy (The United Republic of Tanzania,
Social Sector Strategy, October 1994) recognizes the role of households in
investing in the health, education and well being of its members. Rather
than being passive recipients of publicly provided services, households
are seen as active participants in choosing and supporting the services
that offer concrete benefits to the population. The Government is
pursuing a participatory approach that is advocating the active
involvement of beneficiaries, NGOs and the private sector.
2. Objectives
The objective of TASAF is to increase and enhance the capacities of
communities and stakeholders to prioritize, implement and manage
sustainable development initiatives and in the process improve
socio-economic services and opportunities. The proposed project will help
Government sustain the momentum of ongoing reforms by facilitating
improvements in socio-economic infrastructure, enhancing capacity and
skills among rural and peri-urban communities, and creating a temporary
safety net for the poorest sections of communities. In this regard, the
Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) activities are designed to improve
basic social and economic services and protect vulnerable groups,
including young children, while the positive impact of the ongoing
structural adjustment and administrative reforms takes hold. Specific
attention will be given to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, the involvement of civil
society and non-governmental organizations, including faith based
organizations, and rural development issues. In the process, communities
will be enabled to take charge of their development process, thereby
facilitating the changing role of Government from a provider of services
to a facilitator of economic agents.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's experience in working successfully with social funds during the
last decade is key to the Government's request for assistance. In
developing the basic concept for TASAF, the Government has taken into
consideration documentation published by the Bank and its project
preparation team has carried out a study tour to Malawi to review Malawi's
experience with a similar IDA financed social fund (MASAF).The Bank's
technical expertise in general, as well as specific ongoing IDA financed
operations in relevant sectors such as education, health, roads, water and
sanitation, put the Bank in a unique position to assist the Government in
addressing cross-sectoral issues. Regarding donor coordination, the
Government unequivocally has taken the lead but is hoping for Bank support
to coordinate and leverage additional resources, if necessary.Finally, the
proposed project is linked to ongoing fiscal and macro-economic measures
as well as Local Government and civil service reforms, in which the Bank
is a key stakeholder.
4. Description
The Government has requested, and received, a PPF advance to support the
development of the project. Three main project components have been
identified and developed by the Government in consultation with key
stakeholders during project preparation and after undertaking the
- 2 -



following studies under the PPF facility: community needs assessment,
environmental assessment, financial management systems, management
information systems, core welfare indicators questionnaire (CWIQ), trust
funds review and economic analysis. The project components under
preparation are: (i) "Community-based Development Initiatives," that
would aim to improve delivery of social and economic services and enhance
capacity of communities and local development partners through financing
small demand-based community initiatives in the social sectors. Further
examination is necessary to see how this component could also finance
activities to increase food security. (ii) "Public Works Program" that
aims to help the unemployed through the financing of employment-creating
public works in selected poor regions; and (iii) "Institutional
Development" that will consist of four sub-components: (a) Support to the
TASAF Management Unit, (b) Capacity building: Information, Education and
Communication/Training; (c) Monitoring and Evaluation including Management
Information Systems; and (d) National Welfare Monitoring and
Analysis.While demand-based financing would guide TASAF activities, TASAF
has also developed a clear set of criteria in the selection of projects,
detailed in the Operational Manual, including guidelines on prioritization
among competing interests within a community.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT 3
IBRD
IDA 60
COMMUNITIES 7.5
Total Project Cost 70.5
6. Implementation
Since TASAF will finance community-initiated and implemented sub-projects,
communities will constitute the basis for any institutional arrangement.
Another key factor is the role that local government institutions will
play in project design and implementation. In order to achieve maximum
efficiency and impact on the ground, the Government has suggested the
establishment of a semi-autonomous apex institution, the TASAF Management
Unit (hereafter referred to as the TMU), that will take responsibility for
the administration of TASAF. The proposed institution would be a lean
unit with staff at central and lower levels. The district level will be
the focal point for processing the sub-projects cycle. The Government's
team, with support from the PPF, is pre-testing some options in order to
define the institutional arrangements better. An Operational Manual will
simultaneously lay down the guidelines and procedures for the Fund's
operations; a draft version of the OM has already been provided to the
Bank and will be revised and finalized prior to project effectiveness. A
substantial number of government staff at various levels (NSC, District
Committees, District Management Teams) will be involved in the design and
implementation of sub-projects under TASAF.There is agreement on the
following broad principles:n A National Steering Committee (NSC) will be
established comprising of Government representatives, civil society and
the private sector, whose responsibility will be to: approve workplans and
projects above the threshold, plan and manage financial transfers, monitor
and evaluate overall projects implementation and impact, and articulate
Fund policy;n District Level Steering Committees would be set-up to
process, recommend, or approve sub-projects within nationally defined
- 3 -



guidelines and funding ceilings to ensure conformity with regional and
community development goals; It is likely that in view of local government
regulations, the project activities will be coordinated at the district
level;n TASAF will explore the need for and the possibility of having
TASAF Program Managers managing TASAF-related operations covering a number
of districts;n Day-to-day management will be coordinated by the TASAF
District Officer (from the District Management Team (DMT)) supported by
the sector technical experts or any other designated officer under the
guidance of the District Executive Director. The TASAF MU will provide
functional support as needed especially to ensure adherence to the rules
and regulations of the Fund and timely reporting. NGOs, private sector
agencies or individuals may be assigned the technical responsibility to
manage a subproject for a fee. For TASAF to be successful, a high degree
of technical expertise, accountability and the absence of interference or
bureaucratic delays are required.fn TASAF will focus on the poor and invest
in basic social and economic infrastructure and carry out low-wage public
works programs. Micro-credit is not part of TASAF.fn Funding would be
directly available to various community groups but not to individuals.
7. Sustainability
Empirical evidence from similar operations in various regions points to a
strong, positive correlation between community participation in
identification and design, planning, implementation and management and
sustainability of sub-projects. Other factors that ensure sustainability
include: a) setting-up of a strong, autonomous implementing agency whose
staff are recruited competitively, provided with adequate incentives and
work to set performance targets, to execute the fund with a "sun-set
clause", b) criteria for selection of sub-projects for funding that meet
basic needs as articulated and managed by the communities, and to which
the community contributes; and c) sub-projects activities which include
capacity building and training of the communities and sub-projects
management committees to ensure that the assets created are maintained.
The transfer of skills to district staff, especially as part of the
sub-projects cycle, during appraisal, implementation, supervision and
monitoring of sub-projects will ensure that the TASAF processes are
sustained and integrated into the ongoing Local Government Reform
Program. These skills would include: use of harmonized participatory
approaches to facilitate communities prioritize and plan to meet their own
needs, needs based ranking of areas within the district in preparation for
financing interventions irrespective of the source of the funds, and
recognition that communities are both the objectives and vehicles of
endogenous development. Community ownership and commitment to the activity
are central to sustainability. The design of the project is expected to
stimulate community participation in the identification, preparation,
implementation, management and maintenance of the sub-projects. In many
projects, the community's ability to manage funds has been seen as a key
mechanism that enhances such features. Capacity building activities for
communities will be financed to ensure that they have the capacity to
sustain and manage activities effectively.The sustainability of the
community participation approach, adopted under TASAF, will depend to a
large extent on the government's capacity to harmonize the multitude of
ongoing participation efforts in the country. Through the TASAF
preparation process, a workshop was organized to harmonize participatory
approaches among the various stakeholders who are involved in TASAF design
and implementation (local authorities, NGOs, donors, etc.). To ensure
- 4 -



sustainability of TASAF's community participation beyond the duration of
the project, it will be critical that (a) the Government identifies
clearly which entity should take the lead to harmonize the various
community participation efforts; (b) a practical and common understanding
among practitioners is reached on a flexible and national approach to
community participation; and (c) an action program is determined to enrich
the ongoing community participation efforts in light of the harmonization.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
A recent review of sixteen social funds, a study on social funds and
decentralization and nineteen works and employment operations as well as
experiences from other ongoing and completed operations are being taken
into account in designing the proposed project. Relevant lessons learned
from successful operations, and reflected in the proposed project design,
include the recommendation to: (i) start with a pilot phase to test and
finalize operating procedures, and review / adjust operating procedures
throughout implementation, if necessary;(ii) respond to demand and consult
clients / stakeholders systematically, using local approaches and capacity
in participatory assessments (PRA);(iii) mobilize local resources and
ensure community contribution for sustainability, and continue to build
local capacity to identify, prioritize, plan, implement, manage and
self-evaluate sub-projects;(iv) coordinate across sectors utilizing
decentralized local government structures where they are in place and
operational;(v)        keep short-term objectives distinct and develop a
long-term perspective; and(vi)       safeguard autonomy, transparency and
accountability.(vii) simple, carefully-piloted and stringently-controlled
poverty monitoring surveys have the greatest chance of sustainability and
full ownership by national institutions.Lessons Learned from on-going
Pilotsn Local governments should sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
with TASAF/MU agreeing to release TASAF district officers from other
district duties so that they can work exclusively on TASAF activities.n
TASAF should provide adequate tools and equipment to the TASAF District
Officers in support of day-to-day    administrative functions.   An overall
lack of access to office automation tools and administrative support was
found.    TASAF should provide computer equipment, and adequate training
to enable staff to perform their office functions     effectively.n Some
members of the District Steering Committees were not fully cognizant of
TASAF principles. This suggests the need for a more targeted awareness
raising and sensitization workshops at the District level.n Since TASAF
District Officers have an inadequate grasp of financial management and
fiscal obligations, capacity building and financial management training
and related information technology familiarization courses should be
offered to them early in the project cycle.n PWP is relevant in that
targeting the poorest areas and the most vulnerable within these areas is
possible.n The PWP handbook needs revising to bring out clearly the
project cycle, geographical targeting criteria as well as the criteria
for identifying the most vulnerable.n The institutional set-up is
generally sufficient for the purpose, though detailed roles of the
District Council as    implementers and TASAF as the funding agent need to
be spelled out through a Memorandum of Understanding.n Further training of
District staff is needed on project identification that includes
sufficient community awareness of the safety net criteria.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
- 5 -



10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Both the Government of Tanzania and the World Bank
recognize that though the poor are critically dependent on regenerative
natural resources, they are often not in a position to be environmentally
"responsible" as their options to do so are constrained by conditions of
extreme poverty and need. Consequently, the construction of infrastructure
such as school buildings, health posts, boreholes, and other projects
eligible under TASAF may assume more importance than the costs of
environmental degradation. In this context, TASAF will be pro-active in
educating and informing communities about the cost-benefit aspects of
environmental conservation through its IEC campaigns. TASAF will play an
active role in promoting and supporting subprojects aimed at improving the
management of natural resources by poor communities. Other: Government
regulations require that environmental assessments be conducted for each
development project. Therefore, the Government's preparatory team has
agreed to develop specific guidelines for the appraisal of sub-projects
prior to effectiveness. Such guidelines will analyze the impact of
individual sub-projects, include procedures for documenting the analysis
and list mitigating steps where there is an adverse impact. This is
expected to meet Bank requirements as well.
11. Contact Point:
Team Leader
Norbert 0. Mugwagwa
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 593-227 (AFMUG)
Fax:    Fax:  555-250
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 12, 2000.
- 6 -



