Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20196-TA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 45.5 MILLION
(US$ 60 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FORA
SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT
JULY 26, 2000
Human Development 1
Country Department 4
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 20, 2000)
Currency Unit = Tanzania Shilling
Tshs. 1.00 = US$ 0.00125
US$ 1.00 = Tshs.798.5
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIP  Agence d'Execution de Travaux d'Interet  M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
Public Control le Sous-emploi
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy            MIS       Management Information Systems
CDI      Community Development Initiatives      MTP-III  Third Medium Term Plan
CEF      Community Education Fund               NACP    National AIDS Control Programme
CHF      Community Health Fund                  NBS       National Bureau of Statistics
CNA      Community Needs Assessment             NSC       National Steerming Committee
CPC      Community Project Committee            NWMA   National Welfare Monitoring and Analysis
CSP      Conununity Sub-Projects                OM        Operational Manual
DSC      District Steering Committee            PEU       Poverty Eradication Unit
DMT      District Management Team               PO        Program Officer
EASTC   Eastern Africa Statistics Training Center  PPF    Project Preparation Facility
ECD      Early Childhood Development             PPT      Project Preparation Team
GOT      Government of Tanzania                 PRA       Participatory Rural Appraisal
ICB      International Competitive Bidding      PWP       Public Works Program
IDA      International Development Association  QAT       Quality Assurance Team
IEC      Information, Education and Communication   SAP   Strucural Adjustment Program
IMF      International Monetary Fund            TASAF   Tanzania Social Action Fund
LACI    Loan Administration Change Initiative   TMU       TASAF Management Unit
LGA      Local Government Act                    UDS      University of Dar es Salaam
LGRP    Local Government Reform Program         UNDP    United Nations Development Programme
MASAF  Malawi Social Action Fund
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:   James W. Adams
Sector Manager:    Dzingai Mutumbuka
Team Leader/Task Manager:   Norbert 0. Mugwagwa



TANZANIA
SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Govemment strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       9
3. Benefits and target population                                                      9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      10
D. Project Rationale
1 Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        17
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           17
2. Financial                                                                          18
3. Technical                                                                          19
4. Institutional                                                                      19
5. Environmental                                                                      22
6. Social                                                                             23
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 26
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    27
2. Critical risks                                                                     28
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     29



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            29
2. Other                                                                              30
3. Negotiations Conditions
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          30
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         30
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          31
Annex 2: Project Description                                                             35
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         39
Annex 4: Economic and Financial Analysis                                                 40
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               51
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       52
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     63
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   65
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  66
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            68
Annex 11: Summary of Project Workplan                                                    70
Annex 12: Community Needs Assessment                                                     72
Annex 13: Letter of Sector Policy                                                        75
MAP(S)
IBRD 27941



TANZANIA
SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTHi
Date: July 26, 2000                                 Team Leader: Norbert 0. Mugwagwa
Country Manager/Director: James W. Adams            Sector Manager/Director: Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Project ID: P065372                                 Sector(s): SA - Social Funds & Social Assistance
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
DI Loan         Z Credit        El Grant         O Guarantee     C Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 60.0
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 10                                Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                    Service charge: 0.75%
GOVERNMENT                                                       3.15            0.00           3.15
IDA                                                             57.85            2.15          60.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                                8.62          . 0.00           8.62
Total:                                                          69.63            2.15          71.77
Borrower: GOT
Responsible agency: GOT (PRESIDENT'S OFFICE)
Address: President's Office, State House, P.O. Box 9120, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Contact Person: Mr. Emmanuel Kamba
Tel: 255 51 123583                 Fax: 255 51 123582                 Email: tasaf@ud.co.tz
Otlher Agency(ies):
Representative from the Vice-President's Office; Ministries responsible for Finance; Community Development, Women's
Affairs and Children; Regional Administration and Local Government; Labour and Youth; representatives of NGOs,
research institutions and Interfaith.
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY Anul    20T            002         200.       ........     ... 2004:   -.00.5........
Annual      5.4          13.2        24.1         15.1         2.2
Cumulative     5.4          18.6         42.7        57.8        60.0
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 12/01/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
cCS MO Sornl 9e Marchl 2323



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) is to increase and enhance the capacities of
communities and other stakeholders to prioritize, implement and manage sustainable development
initiatives and in the process improve socio-economic services and opportunities.
The proposed project will help the Government of Tanzania sustain the momentum of ongoing reforms by
facilitating improvements in the socio-economic infrastructure, enhancing capacity and skills among rural
and peri-urban communities, and creating a temporary safety net for the poorest sections of communities.
In this regard, TASAF activities are designed to improve basic social and economic services and protect
vulnerable groups, including young children, while the positive impact of the ongoing structural adjustment
and administrative reforms takes hold. Specific attention will be given to the H1V/AIDS epidemic, the
involvement of civil society and non-governmental organizations, including faith-based organizations, and
rural development issues. In the process, communities will be enabled to take charge of their development
process, thereby facilitating the changing role of Government from a provider of services to a facilitator of
economic agents.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The performance of the TASAF will be tracked through a set of key indicators which will be updated and
reviewed each year in the Annual Work Plan and Budget. The TASAF Logframe provides the framework
for defining appropriate performance indicators for monitoring the delivery of TASAF services and their
outcome on beneficiaries. Key Performance Indicators will reflect the different stages of implementation as
follows (a more complete list of indicators distinguishing between the CDI and PWP components is to be
found in Annex 1):
Input Indicators (to be monitored through the Management Information System [lMIS])
TASAF support system at district and national level (number of fully staffed and functional district
programs and level of development of MIS and accounting systems).
*     lIMobilization of TASAF funds (counterpart and community) and total disbursements.
*     Overhead costs as percentage of project cost.
Output Indicators (to be monitored through the MIS).
*     TASAF staff trained (number of courses, person/days).
Partner institutions trained (number of courses, person/days).
Number of sub-projects submitted, appraised, accepted, completed.
*     Percentage of sub-projects with 20% cost overrun over appraisal.
*     Average total community investment as percentage of sub-project costs.
*     Project processing time by type of project(Standard schedule to be defined):
(a)    % of projects with 10% time overrun over standard schedule (Submission to financing
agreement).
(b)    % of project with 10% time overrun over standard schedule (financing agreement to
implementation).
(c)    % of project with 10% time overrun over planned schedule (implementation to
completion).
Outcome Indicators (to be monitored through the MIS, Community Service Delivery Survey [CSDS],
and Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire [CWIQ]).
*     Numnber of beneficiaries reached.
*     Ratio of female to male beneficiaries.
-2 -



Number of beneficiaries trained.
Post-completion evaluation (Sub-projects are to be rated in the course of post-completion visits, as
follows: (i) Not satisfactory, and no corrective actions being taken; (ii) Not satisfactory, but
corrective actions being taken; (iii) Satisfactory).
% of sub-projects with 'satisfactory' maintenance rating by communities.
% of sub-projects with 'satisfactory' maintenance rating by local authorities.
% of projects with 'satisfactory' utilization rating.
% of projects with 'satisfactory' beneficiary perception rating.
Impact Assessment
Increase in social capital (based on qualitative assessments of how community capacity has been
strengthened).
Greater improvements in living conditions in TASAF communities vis-a-vis non-TASAF
communities (based on qualitative assessments, TASAF household surveys and Core Welfare
Indicator Questionnaire surveys).
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16554-TA          Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/15/00
The major goal of the Tanzanian CAS (Report No. 16554-TA) is to reduce poverty, stimulate growth, and
protect vulnerable groups--these objectives are clearly supported by the proposed project.
Specifically, the CAS emphasizes the need to stabilize and then reverse the downward trend in social
indicators through measures that decentralize responsibility and increase local resource mobilization and
participation. The proposed project supports the CAS's objective of sustainable social and economic
growth by (i) strengthening community participation and resource mobilization at the local level; (ii)
improving the social and economic infrastructure; and (iii) creating a social safety net through a
self-targeting, low-wage public works program.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Recent poverty data indicate that about 50 percent of all Tanzanians live in poor households with an
income equivalent of less than $1 per day per person, while 36 percent of households have an income
equivalent of less than $0.75 per day. Poverty is particularly prevalent in the rural areas: almost 61
percent of the rural population is poor compared to 39 percent of the urban population. Stark differences
exist between the poor and better-off households in their access to water, health and education, with such
differences perpetuating inter-generational cycles of poverty. Lack of employment opportunities and
income-generating activities in rural areas has led to intensified rural-urban migration, and Government has
expressed serious concem about the rising unemployment or underemployment of youth and young adults
and the related potential for social discontent.
The Government's basic strategy to reduce poverty--supported by the Bank in its Country Assistance
Strategy - relies on raising growth performance and improving the access and quality of basic social and
economic services. Government's reform measures include reducing the budget deficit and maintaining
competitive exchange rate and positive real interest rates. Structural reforms are also being pursued. The
Government is disengaging from productive activities, resulting in the privatization of parastatals, and is
undertaking civil service reform and public sector retrenchments in order to focus full attention on core
public sector activities. To that end, the Govermnent is changing the overall structure of the Central-Local
Govemment relationship, evidenced through recent revisions (February 1999) to the Local Government
- 3 -



Act, and continues to reform its public administration.
In 1994, the Government prepared a Social Sector Strategy (The United Republic of Tanzania, Social
Sector Strategy, October' 1994) that provides a common framework for the financing, delivery and
coordination of activities in the various sectors such as education, health, nutrition, population/family
planning, water and sanitation. The Social Sector Strategy provides a point of reference for all donors in
coordinating their support. The Strategy highlights the role of households in investing in the health,
education and well-being of its members. Rather than being passive recipients of publicly-provided
services, households are seen as active participants in choosing and supporting the services that offer
concrete benefits to the population. Similarly, the Strategy advocates the active involvement of NGOs and
the private sector in supporting these sectors.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The establishment of TASAF is seen as critical to cushioning the impact of the ongoing economic
adjustment measures and maintaining social stability while at the same time supporting ongoing reform
efforts. Specifically, TASAF aims to: (i) support community participation and resource mobilization for
social and economic development at the district level and in poor peni-urban settlements (ii) accelerate
investment in basic social and economic infrastructure; and (iii) provide a temporary social safety net
through self-targeting, low-wage, public works projects for the poorest until the positive impact of the
ongoing economic refonrs takes hold.
TASAF's expected implementation period of four years will allow Government to pursue ongoing economic
and administrative reforms while at the same time addressing urgent social issues. The community
development activities to be carried out under the proposed project are central to the Government's core
responsibilities. The success of TASAF in the 42 districts of project operation could potentially lay the
basis for developing a follow-up Adjustable Program of Lending (APL) for ten years or moreaimed at
covering the whole country with similar community-development initiatives.
Decentralization: The social fund approach promises speed of implementation and optimal community
participation. Its short-term objective of employment creation and local resource generation is
complemented by, and complementary to, ongoing Govemment efforts related to Local Govemment reform
per the revised Local Government Act, No. 6, 1999, and institutional capacity building, particularly in the
social sectors. The project will also underscore the Government's commitment to decentralization,
transparency, accountability and good governance by supporting the development and implementation of
targeted Information, Education and Communication (IEC) initiatives, as well as provide training to build
capacity for the shift to decentralized governance. These will stimulate and help sustain the free flow of
information amongst stakeholders both with regard to this particular project as well as the government's
larger objectives.
Poverty reduction: TASAF will support public works programs that transfer cash incomes to targeted
poor households in rural and peri-urban areas. Such a program will support government's poverty
reduction efforts that target women, youth, and other vulnerable groups during seasons or periods of food
insecurity. Income earning will be complemented by the construction of productive assets relevant to the
local community, while design and implementation will strengthen collaboration between communities and
district administration and build capacity through skills development. In addition, the proposed project will
provide institutional support in setting up systems and procedures to make higher quality and more timely
poverty data available to policy makers and administrators, including poverty maps for improved targeting.
-4 -



Health, education and rural water supply: TASAF will help communities and the Govemment
counteract inter-generational cycles of deprivation. Preventable illnesses, persistent malnutrition and the
increasing number of AIDS orphans continue to prevent children from reaching their full potential. In
education, TASAF aims to support rehabilitation and construction of classrooms and teacher's houses in
order to reduce declining primary net enrollment rates that have fallen to below 60 percent. TASAF aims
to reduce the vulnerability of communities and address the basic needs of young children--43 percent of the
latter were stunted in 1997. In water, TASAF seeks to improve access to clean water, currently standing at
49 percent of the total population--65 percent urban and 45 percent rural.
There are other on-going community funds in Tanzania funded by the Bank (health, education, and rural
water for instance) and other donors (including activities focusing on women and children). The
Govemment has expressed interest in pulling these initiatives under one umbrella. To this end, the TASAF
team is making a concerted effort to achieve close coordination and collaboration amongst on-going
initiatives so as to increase the effectiveness of the project. The Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
financed an assessment of existing funds and linkages among them in order to develop an information base
in support of these coordination efforts.
HIV/AIDS: Tanzania's HIV/AIDS prevalence rates are currently estimated to be between 10 and 12
percent of the adult population. Given these high rates and their adverse effect on development efforts,
TASAF aims to address HIV/AIDS. A framework is now being developed by the Africa Region on how to
use lending instruments to accelerate the response to AIDS in Sub-Saharan Africa. One of the key
instruments is the use of social funds to support, increase and scale up community mobilization against
HIV and AIDS. Tanzania has translated its strategic framework for the prevention and control of
HIV/AIDS in two Medium-Term Plans III 1998-2002, one for the Mainland and one for Zanzibar. Both of
those plans highlight the important role of community-based activities in preventing and coping with the
epidemic. Based on and complementing these inputs, the TASAF preparation team made special efforts at
the design and pre-testing stages to integrate and mainstrean HIV/AIDS issues in the sub-project cycle.
Provision for HIV/AIDS mainstreaming is integral to the project with an emphasis on developing the
institutional and procedural requirements needed to support this mainstreaming. The overall aim is to
develop HIV/AIDS-competent communities, which are able to assess the reality of lV and AIDS, analyze
the specific factors that put them at risk, and act on those factors. Some of the strategies include: (i)
integration of HI V/AIDS information into the TASAF IEC campaign; (ii) leaming from groups with
Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) experience in HIV/AIDS to develop special HIV/AIDS PRA
techniques; (iii) incorporating those special techniques into the TASAF Participatory Assessments; (iv)
creating special incentives for communities (for instance, earmarking funds, reducing/waiving the
co-financing requirement and pulling in other funds/grants); and (v) formulation of sub-projects that
address the critical factors of vulnerability and of risk. Those projects might include: (i) the development of
youth centers that address the needs of the out-of-school; (ii) direct support to community-based care which
could include, provision of reagents, bandages, ointments, supplies of non-prescriptions pain killers; and
(iii) funding of training to community-based caregivers. To ensure the effective addressing of HIW/AIDS
issues in all steps of the sub-project cycle, TASAF will solicit support from the National AIDS Control
Programme (NACP) and from other concerned participants, including UNAIDS. Such support could be
provided either directly, or through existing Community Development Agents, including NGOs. TASAF
will ensure maximum synergy with other community-based activities such as the Early Childhood
Development (ECD) initiative.
5-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Amnex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Government requested, and received, a PPF advance to support the development of the project. Based
on the Government's concept note, three main project components have been identified. These components
were developed by the Government in consultation with key stakeholders and after undertaking the
following studies under the PPF facility: community needs assessment, environmental assessment, financial
management systems, management information systems, core welfare indicators, trust funds review and
economic analysis. The Project Preparation Team (PPT) has collaborated with the relevant sector
ministries and cross-sectoral initiatives working on issues such as rural development, IV/AIDS, ECD, as
well as with faith-based non-governmental organizations.
The following combination of components is required to simultaneously address the Government's
concems: improving the delivery of social and selected economic services to the poor, generating
employment and building institutional capacity. The Government also emphasized that these activities
should support or enhance food security and address environmental concerns, especially in drought-prone
or food-deficient areas. The project components are as follows.
(i)    Community Development Initiatives
Tlhis component will finance and support small demand-based community initiatives in the social sectors,
that improve the accessibility to and delivery of social and economic services and enhance the capacity of
communities and local development partners. The sub-projects menu will include, inter alia, the
improvement of basic health care facilities, such as health posts, village dispensaries and health centres; the
construction and rehabilitation of nursery and pre-schools, and of primary and secondary schools;
equipping primary and junior schools with essential furniture and equipment; water supply and sanitation
initiatives such as construction and rehabilitation of bore holes, dams, latrines, shallow wells; and
rehabilitation and construction of economic infrastructure such as crop storage facilities and markets. The
component will pay attention to vulnerable groups such as orphans, the handicapped, the elderly, widows,
divorced women and unemployed youth. Information, Education and Communication activities under this
component will seek to sensitize communities and other stakeholders, ensure transparent functioning and
document stakeholder experiences through the use of radio messages, folk drama, posters and newspaper
supplements. The average cost for community sub-projects will be $20,000 and will include a minimum
community contribution of 20 percent in the form of labor, materials and cash.
(ii)    Public Works Program
This component will finance labor-intensive works as a safety net scheme for targeted poor rural areas.
The objective is to provide cash income for the poor, especially women and youth and particularly during
periods of seasonal food shortage, through the promotion of job creation related to the construction and
rehabilitation of infrastructure facilities. Income-earning will be complemented by the construction of
productive assets. The types of works to be financed under this component will include, inter alia, the
rehabilitation, in rural areas, of village access roads, water retention structures for small-scale irrigation,
foot bridges, water and soil conservation/reclamation programs, afforestation programs, and the
construction of terraces. Inurban areas, the types of works to be financed include sewerage systems,
access roads, and market places. The component will also include IEC activities using, among other
things, radio programs, folk drarna, posters, newspaper supplements. Just as in the CDI component, a
- 6 -



regional ranking exercise has been undertaken for PWP to determine the regional and district allocations
under the PWP component. The average cost of a public works sub-project will be $40,000.
(iii)   Institutional Development
Sub- Component (a): TASAFManagement Unit (TMU)
The TASAF Management Unit (TMU) is set to provide the day-to-day operational support that is needed in
order for the TASAF districts to respond to the community demand-driven requests emanating from the
participatory planning process engendered by TASAF. Activities to be financed by the sub-component will
include: incremental staff salaries of the Executive Director and his/her team; systems development and
operational costs of the unit as well as the costs of running the district level TASAF Office within the
District Executive Director's Office; motor vehicles, equipment and computerization of the unit and district
offices.
Sub-Component (b): Capacitv Building - Information, Education and Communication/Training
Building on the lessons leamed from global development experience, the IEC sub-component will focus on
creating and sustaining a symmetrical information environment that will enhance the potential for
democratic decentralization, transparency and accountability. The sub-component will effectively be a
dynamic knowledge management tool that sensitizes the range of stakeholders about the project's
philosophy and methodology, defines the project cycle to all the stakeholders,clearly outlines the mutually
complementary roles and responsibilities of the various actors, reports consistently on the implementation
of the project, and builds a knowledge base of lessons leamed. Above all, through this process, it will seek
to build a partnership and strategic alliances between government officials, NGOs, communities and the
private sector. While using media such as radio, newspapers, and posters, a distinct focus of the IEC
campaign will be on the use of local culture (folk dramas, songs, etc.) to disseminate information and
educate communities. Key activities financed by the project will include: information needs assessment,
message development, media costs--radio, television, print--newspapers, flyers, posters, and impact
evaluation.
Training: The component will focus on orienting stakeholders and partners such as the TMU, sector staff,
donors, NGOs, etc. to the dynamics of community development through seminars, workshops, exposure
visits, study tours, etc. It will also orient these audiences to the specifics associated with the TASAF
approach. Through targeted training, the sub-component will seek to build capacity within communities
and district-level staff to manage participatory development. An essential focus will be on financial
management through training in basic book-keeping and accountancy.
Subcomponent (c): Monitoring and Evaluation (including MIS)
The project will put in place effective monitoring and evaluation arrangements to assess the pilot
operations, analyze the effects and project outcomes, establish a knowledge base and incorporate these
lessons into the design and implementation of future sub-projects. Appropriate monitoring indicators will
be developed to monitor the progress and quality of sub-projects. 'Ihe project's MIS will provide data on
project types and loan processing indicators. When data from the financial and accounting systems and
reports from the District Offices are linked, an assessment of the project's performance (time-lapse between
project application and approval, speed of disbursement) and its poverty impact will emerge. The M&E
system will also provide data to assess the impact of the sub-projects on vulnerable groups such as the
elderly, women, AIDS orphans, and so on. The M&E system will draw on a wide range of information
- 7-



sources, including participative M&E activities and survey results generated out of the national poverty
monitoring program (see subcomponent (d)). A Community Service Delivery Survey will be integrated into
the sub-project cycle and will provide the basis for monitoring improvements in the levels of use and
satisfaction with TASAF services by beneficiaries. The simple, but efficient Management Information
System (MIS) will serve as the primary source of information for the overall M&E system. It will be used
as a management tool to track TASAF inputs, processes, outputs and activities and to monitor whether
these are being delivered in line with the expectations of the TMU. It will also be used to collect, store and
generate information that will be used to measure benefits accruing to recipient communities and to monitor
the sustainability of the TASAF approach and the sustainability of community sub-projects. The MIS is
needed to provide TASAF managers access to physical and financial information about the progress of
project activities, enabling them to track the movement of resources as projects are implemented.
Sub-component (d): National Poverty Monitoring andAnalysis
TASAF is one of the tools for executing the Government's National Poverty Eradication Strategy.
Measuring the extent to which it contributes to improved standards of living is a complex and demanding
task involving skills that lie outside its own competencies, but which are available, to a greater or lesser
extent, clsewhere in Tanzania. The poverty monitoring and analysis sub-component will complement other
Bank-assisted poverty initiatives and will provide selective support for strengthening national capacity to
monitor the effects of national poverty alleviation policies. It will support:
3  The development and testing of rapid household and community surveys directed at measuring service
delivery and the monitoring of key socioeconomic indicators.
e   The creation of a capacity in the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) to plan and implement such
surveys using Optical Mark Reader technology (scanners) to speed up data entry and reduce processing
delays
e  The creation of capacity in TASAF districts to integrate the execution of a Community Service
Delivery Survey (CSDS) into Community Development Initiatives and Public Works Projects. (The
development and piloting of the CSDS will be carried out jointly with the Ministry of Regional
Administration and Local Government (MRALG), with the expectation that it may also be adopted and
used in non-TASAF communities for monitoring a broad range of public services besides those offered
through TASAF).
*   The integration of an annual indicators survey, using methodologies and approaches tested during the
Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ) pilot, as a core element of the NBS's household
survey program.
*   The progressive refinement of the ranking process through the building of capacity in the National
Bureau of Statistics and elsewhere to create poverty maps through the merging of household survey
data, population census data and administrative data from sectoral ministries.
Criteria
While demand-based financing would guide TASAF activities, more so for the CDI component, a clear set
of criteria has been developed to assist selection of projects, including guidelines on prioritization among
competing interests within a community. The Operational Manual clarifies the activities that may be
financed by the social fund, stating tight eligibility criteria, and reinforced by rigorous monitoring and
supervision.
- 8-



The criteria for CDI sub-projects to be approved will include the following: inclusion of vulnerable groups
(such as the elderly and orphans); inclusion of 1-IV/AIDS affected persons; sub-projects should be
identified, planned, implemented and managed by the village/community; a democratically elected
Community Project Committee should be established (40 percent of which should be women);
environmental impact and mitigation measures should be in place; the sub-projects should be consistent
with sectoral norms and design standards; and there should be clear commitment of communities to
contribute at least 20 percent of project costs (except in cases of sub-projects focused on Early Childhood
Development or HIV/AIDS).
The criteria for PWP sub-projects will include the following: targeting of vulnerable persons/groups in the
community through a participatory process using factors such as poverty, vulnerability level, access to
services, women-headed households, households with orphans; labor intensity of sub-projects and the
consequent large share of wages in total sub-project cost; selection of a Community Project Committee
through a democratic process; establishment of appropriate environmental impact and mitigation measures;
and consistency with sectoral norms and design standards.
Component                       o is                 % of    Xin          X
1. Community Development           Social Investment    48.52     67.6     38.00       63.3
Initiatives (Sub-Projects)         Funds
2. Public Works Program (Sub       Social Investment    15.75     21.9      15.00      25.0
-Projects)                         Funds
3. Institutional Development       Multi Sector        7.50       10.5       7.00      11.7
Total Project Costs                   71.77      100.0     60.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                    71.77      100.0     60.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Govemment has revised, and Parliament has approved, in 1999, the Local Government Act which
devolves increasing responsibility to Local Government and guides the relationship between Central and
Local Government. Benchmarks and targets relating to macro-economic reform, fiscal performance and
social sector resource allocation have been discussed and agreed upon in the context of the ongoing
programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit (P-SAC) and the First Annual Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility arrangement (PRGF). As the proposed project focuses on poverty reduction through the
improvement of basic social and economic infrastructure and service delivery, it is considered part of the
Bank's core lending program.
3. Benefits and target population:
CDI. The CDI component of TASAF will result in improved social and economic infrastructure and
service delivery in poor areas of the country, and address specific developmental issues such as HIV/AIDS.
In the process, the project will provide opportunities for communities to participate in and take charge of
key decision-making processes at the local level, thereby complementing the Government's ongoing
administrative and Local Government reforms.
-9-



PWP. TASAF's PWP component will also improve social and economic infrastructure in poor areas and
build the capacity of communities to organize their development. However, the PWP's main objective is to
provide a temporary safety net by providing employment opportunities for the poorest and most vulnerable
households. Beneficiaries will be identified by the communities during the PRA exercise and self-selected
through the low wage rate. The projectcycle will take variations in seasonal labor demand and food
shortage into account when planning the timing and implementation of sub-projects. It is expected that the
PWP will encourage and strengthen the philosophy of assisting the more impoverished in the community.
Targeting. A regional ranking and district selection methodology was developed for TASAF to assist the
identification of poor priority areas for project implementation. The exercise was carried out in
collaboration with the Poverty Eradication Unit situated in the Vice-President's Office and utilized inputs
from the National Bureau of Statistics, the University of Dar-es-Salaam and the Eastem Africa Statistics
Training Center. The methodology starts with a regional ranking exercise using regional poverty, service
accessibility, and the rate of AIDS case data. Based on the regional ranking, the number of districts per
region (ranging from 3 for the most deprived region down to 1 for the least deprived) were proposed. The
second step involved district selection in the regions. Pilot districts and those districts targeted by local
government reform were combined with available district-level vulnerability data to identify the vulnerable
districts in which TASAF will be operating. Some guidelines for selection beyond the district level
(including community-level) are also incorporated. A total number of 42 districts have been targeted for
project implementation. While CDI will be implemented in all these districts, PWP coverage will initially
be limited to districts of extreme poverty and food insecurity and later broadened as TASAF's capacity and
experience is built. The ranking methodology and framework will be updated and modified as more reliable
data become available and, when possible, will be disaggregated to lower levels. Details on the
methodology, data, rankings of regions and district selection are provided in Annex 4.
Tihe project has put in place effective monitoring and evaluation arrangements to assess the pilot
operations, analyze the effects, establish a knowledge base and incorporate these lessons into the design and
implementation of future sub-projects. Appropriate monitoring indicators will be developed to monitor the
progress and quality of sub-projects. The project's MIS will provide data on project types and loan
processing indicators. When data from the financial and accounting systems and reports from the District
Offices are linked, an assessment of the project's performance (time-lapse between project application and
approval, speed of disbursement) and its poverty impact will emerge. The M&E svstem will also provide
data to assess the impact of the sub-projects on vulnerable groups such as the elderly, women, and AIDS
orphans. The poverty monitoring and analysis sub-component will complement other Bank-assisted
poverty initiatives in the context of the PRSP.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Since TASAF will finance community-initiated and implemented sub-projects, communities will constitute
the basis for any institutional arrangement. Given the size of the country and the ongoing process of local
government reform, another key factor is the role that local govemment institutions will play in project
design and implementation. In order to achieve maximum efficiency and impact on the ground, the
Govenrnent has established a semi-autonomous apex institution, the TASAF Management Unit (TMU),
that will take responsibility for the administration of TASAF. The TMU will be a lean unit with staff at
Central and lower levels. The district level will be the focal point for processing the sub-projects cycle, and
fund activities will primarily be coordinated at the district level.
The Government's project preparation team, with support from the PPF, discussed institutional and
implementation arrangements with a number of critical stakeholders and tested options in order to refine the
- 10-



institutional arrangements. An Operational Manual (OM) and accompanying Handbooks have also been
prepared which simultaneously lay down the guidelines and procedures for the Fund's operations; a
draft/summary version of the OM has already been provided to the Bank. Adoption by Govemment of the
revised and finalized versions of the OM and Handbooks is a condition for effectiveness. A substantial
number of government staff at various levels (National Steering Committee, District Committees, District
Management Teams) will be involved in the design and implementation of sub-projects under TASAF.
There is agreement on the following broad principles which apply to both CDI and PWP components:
*   A National Steering Committee (NSC), appointed by the President, has been established. It is
comprised of Government representatives, civil society and the private sector, whose responsibility will
be to: approve workplans and projects above the threshold, plan and manage financial transfers.
monitor and evaluate overall projects implementation and impact, and articulate Fund policy.
*   District Steering Committees (DSC) would be set up to process, recommend, or approve both CDI and
PWP sub-projects within nationally defined guidelines and funding ceilings to ensure conformity with
regional and community development goals; it is likely that in view of local government regulations,
project activities will be coordinated at the district level.
*   TASAF Program Officers will manage TASAF-related operations covering a number of districts.
*   Day-to-day management of both CDI and PWP sub-projects will be coordinated by the TASAF
District Officer (TDO). The TDO will be appointed by the District Executive Director from among
existing qualified staff in accordance with TOR provided by the TMU. The TDO will be supported by
the TASAF Program Officer, sector technical experts or any other designated officer under the
guidance of the District Executive Director. The TMU will provide functional support as needed
especially to ensure adherence to the rules and regulations of the Fund and timely reporting. NGOs,
private sector agencies or individuals may be assigned the technical responsibility to manage a
sub-project for a fee. A high degree of technical expertise, accountability and the least possible
political or bureaucratic delays will be important factors for TASAF's success.
-   TASAF will focus on the poor and invest in basic social and economic infrastructure and carry out
low-wage public works programs. Micro-credit is not part of TASAF.
*   Funding will be directly available to various community groups but not to individuals.
3   The annual allocation of TASAF funds to support National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) capacity
creation will be approved, as with other elements of the TASAF work program and budget, by the
TASAF steering committee, based on an annual work program to be agreed jointly between the NBS
and TMU. The contractual agreement will be negotiated annually and submitted annually to the
TASAF National Steering Committee for approval.
*   Findings from participatory consultations have been fed into an Operational Manual which spells out
systems and procedures for the implementation of TASAF. The Operational Manual has been tested
and revised during the implementation of the PPF-financed pilot phase which started in December
1999.
It is important to highlight that CDI and PWP will utilize the same organizational and institutional
structures outlined above. Under this arrangement, similar core services--for financial management,
participatory processes, IEC dissemination, technical supervision, etc.--can be cost-effectively provided for
both components.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The Government's draft concept paper has been the basis for discussing project altematives and design
- 11 -



options. Best practices and findings from similar social funds and public works and employment projects
have informed these initial discussions with Government and stakeholders. The Govemment team also
undertook a study tour to obtain a first-hand impression of the Malawi Social Action Fund.
On the basis of these inputs, the Government strongly emphasizes the need for speedy action, accurate
targeting of beneficiaries, accountability, transparency and a demand-driven approach which will allow
communities to pro-actively identify their priorities. TASAF is seen as a means which "provides an
opportunity for the community to take charge of their social and economic development process, thereby
nurturing a sense of self-esteem and self importance while lessening the feeling of powerlessness and
dependency," (Government of Tanzania, January 1999, Draft Concept Paper, Tanzania Social Fund
Project (TASAF)).
Inclusion of a PWP component in TASAF
The Government considered, but rejected, the alternative of working through line ministries to implement
the sub-projects. Such an approach was evaluated particularly closely for the PWP component since the
Ministry of Works already implements significant infrastructure and works programs. However, the
ongoing programs have a less than optimal participatory element for the beneficiary community, employ
able-bodied workers and are not targeted to the poor, and pay a statutory minimum wage that is higher than
the rural wage. Furthermore, they operate according to established, standard universal piece rates which
the needy cannot meet, and do not maintain a pre-determined ratio of wages to other costs and therefore
typically incur high capital use. Within these parameters, a Ministry of Works implemented program
would run a high risk of failing to contribute to the poverty alleviation objective of the target population by
creating assets that beneficiary communities consider a priority, e.g. afforestation, land reclamation, earth
dams, etc. As a result, the Government adopted the direct implementation of PWP through TASAF.
Under this arrangement, TASAF will utilize similar organizational and implementation structures in both
CDI and PWP to cost-effectively provide the core services for: participatory planning; Community Project
Committee involvement in sub-project management; IEC; evaluation and monitoring of inputs and impacts;
and decentralized institutional mechanisms for appraisal, approval and implementation of sub-projects.
The AGETIP approach
The Government also considered, but rejected, establishing an executing agency along the lines of an
Agence d'Execution de Travaux d'Interet Public Contre le Sous-emploi (AGETIP) which would operate on
purely private sector lines. Under the agency agreement, municipalities/towns and local authorities would
contract the agency to execute projects for them for a fee. The Government opted in favor of the Social
Fund approach to allow for a faster response, more participation by beneficiary communities and better
targeting of beneficiaries. Furthemmore, TASAF is proceeding in a complementary manner to ongoing
structural reform efforts by the Govemment to strengthen the institutional capacity of local government and
to address sustainability issues related to the financing and operation of basic social infrastructure in the
medium to long term.
Location of TASAF
There is broad consensus that TASAF must stay free from political influences and bureaucratic
interference and that this must be reflected in the Fund's institutional set-up. The need to maintain
transparency, accountability and high technical standards requires that TASAF be professionally staffed
and given a high degree of autonomy, supported and supervised by a diverse, high-level Steering
Committee which should include representatives of the Government, civil society and the private sector.
- 12-



TASAF's location in the President's Office will give it the necessary credibility and authority to ensure that
the decentralized approach it espouses is given the opportunity to develop and take root at the district level.
Its location will also signal to communities that they have a right to demand a certain level and quality of
services from the Local Government.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
. .                                P Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
. (Bankfinanced.projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Health &Nutrition                 TZ-PE-02774                      S             S
Urban Sector Rehab. (FY96)        TZ-PE-02758                      S             S
SAC 1 (FY97)                      TZ-PE-02821                      S             S
HRD 1 (FY98)                      TZ-PE-02789                      S             S
Civil Service Reform (FY00)       TZ-PE-60833                      S             S
Rural & Micro Finance (FY00)      TZ-PE-50441                      S             S
Health Sector Program (FY00)      TZ-PE-58627
SAC 2 (FY00)
Primary Education (FYOI)          TZ-PE-61107 (under prep)
Dar Water Supply & Sanit. (FY01)    TZ-PE-59073 (under prep)
Rural Water Supply (FY01)
Education Rationalization (FY02)
Other development agencies
Government of Denmark             Agriculture Sector Programme
Support;
UJNDP                             Assistance to the National
Programme Framework for
Poverty Eradication;
DFID                              International Development
Small Grants Scheme;
EU                                Dodoma Microprojects
Programme;
Government of Finland             Finnish Fund to Support
Cultural Projects, and Fund to
Support Small-scale Projects;
ACT VZW (Belgian NGO),            National Income Generation
UTNDP, thc Ford Foundation,       Programme (INCOFIN);
Govemments of Switzerland and
Belgium
ILO                               Promoting Primary School
Enrollment and Retention, and
Tanzania Youth Development
and Employment Foundation;
CIDA                              Training Fund for Tanzanian
Women;
- 13-



USAID                               Social Action Trust Fund;
CORDAID (The Netherlands),          Social Support to Disabled
Governments of the UK and Austria    Women.
lP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Social funds and public works and employment operations emerged in Sub-Saharan Africa in the late
1980s and early 1990s in response to emergency situations--natural or manmade disasters, external shocks,
deep structural changes in the economy, or some combination of these. Numerous ICRs, studies and
evaluations are available from various Bank units, sector networks and the World Bank's Operations
Evaluation Department. A recent review of sixteen social funds, a study on social funds and
decentralization and nineteen works and employment operations as well as experiences from other ongoing
and completed operations have been taken into account in designing the proposed project.
Relevant lessons learned from successful operations, and reflected in the proposed project design, include
the recommendation to:
(i)    start with a pilot phase to test and finalize operating procedures, and review/adjust
operating procedures throughout implementation, if necessary;
(ii)   respond to demand and consult clients/stakeholders systematically, using local approaches
and capacity in participatory assessments (PRA);
(iii)   mobilize local resources and ensure community contribution for sustainability, and
continue to build local capacity to identify, prioritize, plan, implement, manage and
self-evaluate sub-projects;
(iv)    coordinate across sectors utilizing decentralized local government structures where they
are in place and operational;
(v)    keep short-tenn objectives distinct and develop a long-tenn perspective;
(vi)   safeguard autonomy. transparency and accountability;
(vii)   use simple, carefully-piloted and stringently-controlled poverty monitoring surveys that
have the greatest chance of full ownership by national institutions;
(viii)  communities are capable of differentiating between initiatives where communities
contribute their own labor (as in CDI) and initiatives where participants are paid for labor
(as in PWP) if proper IEC and PRA efforts spell out the objectives and criteria of each
initiative;
(ix)   the same institutional structures can cost-effectively provide core services to both CDI and
PWP components.
Lessons Learned from Pilot Projects
Utilizing PPF financing, TASAF has piloted a total of 17 CDI and PWP sub-projects in eight districts.
The following are the lessons learned to date from implementing the sub-project cycle:
Overall Implementation Lessons
1.     Overall, the autonomous institutional set-up and proposed staffing of the TMU as well as the
linkages with the decentralized district systems demonstrated that the CDI and PWP project cycles
can be implemented efficiently and with very few bottlenecks.
2.     While trained staff exist at district level, i.e., engineers, PRA facilitators, planners, financial
management specialists, etc. they lack adequate resources to fully support the development needs
- 14-



of communities. Organizing TASAF to work through the decentralized structures would
complement the Local Government Reform Program by providing resources, and allow greater
autonomy and empowerment of local government (and other stakeholders) organs to support
communities effectively.
3.    There is need for a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signed between TASAF as a financier
and each targeted district authority to the effect that they will provide other counterpart resources
for the implementation of the CDI and PWP. Local Governments have the resources to co-finance
TASAF sub-projects because they are activities integral to their development plans thereby
obviating the need to delay implementation of TASAF by requiring the fund-strapped Central
government to provide counterpart funds.
4.     Both the regional and district authorities view TASAF as complementing the Districts'
decentralized development efforts and therefore provided immediate support to set up the TASAF
offices, assigned the TDO fully funded by the district, as well as other technical and non-technical
support staff.
5.     The participatory planning tools outlined in the Participatory Planning Guidelines (PPG) allow the
PRA teams to stimulate discussion at community level about AIDS and vulnerable groups (topics
rarely addressed in the culture), identify vulnerable members and discuss ways in which they can
be assisted and in the process make the District-level stakeholders aware of the situation with
regard to HIV/AIDS.
CDI Pilot Activities
6.    The proactive participation of beneficiaries in all stages of the CDI sub-project through the use of
a Community Needs Assessment, using the PRA techniques as outlined in the Participatory
Planning Guideline (PPG) is crucial not only for mobilizing communities but also for putting in
place the key participatory processes necessary for full community involvement throughout the
project cycle.
7.    In the CDI, the community contribution for sub-projects addressing needs related to Early
Childhood Development, HIV/AIDS or other vulnerable groups, should be reduced if these groups
are to benefit.
8.    The TASAF Management Unit (TMU) is able to transfer funds to the districts which in tum
transfer them to the community accounts within a reasonable time. The latter have been able to
procure services and materials as well as account for the money. However, a system of direct
transfer to accounts rather than issuing checks when transferring the funds should be instituted.
PWP Pilot Activities
9.    There is experience on the ground in organizing and executing PWP through a strong district-level
organization, with District Management Teams (DMT) and District Steering Committees (DSC)
organized in every district, and trained personnel in Participatory Rural Appraisal methodologies to
guide both the Public Works Project Teams (PPT) and the community.
10.   In the PWP. communities demonstrated that they can effectively identify the vulnerable, select
works, and engage in works.
11.   Just as the CDI community contribution for sub-projects addressing H[V/AIDS or other vulnerable
groups should be reduced, the PWP labor participation of vulnerable groups should also be
reduced.
12.   Rural wage levels vary widely across regions and districts. In one pilot PWP district, the daily
wage rate was Tsh 600 per day while in another it was Tsh 1200 per day. There is a need to
undertake a study to determine if a uniform country-wide wage rate should be used or if district
- 15-



variation is desirable. If the latter, a transparent formula for deriving the appropriate self-selecting
wage rate will be established. This study will be undertaken prior to project effectiveness and
incorporated as a key feature of the Operation Manual, the finalization of which is a condition of
project effectiveness.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Govemment has taken the initiative and full ownership of project preparation including pilot testing in
seven regions (and eight districts). The initial policy dialogue regarding the need and potential for
establishment of a social fund has been carried out at the highest levels of Government. Project preparation
was led and coordinated by the Permanent Secretary in the President's Office. A multi-sectoral project
preparation team was established which includes representatives of relevant line ministries such as
Education, Health, Community Development and the Vice-President's Office as well as representatives of
NGOs and the private sector. The President has already appointed a gender-sensitive and broadly
representative National Steering Committee. The project team prepared the draft concept paper providing
background information and the project rationale for the Government's request.
Issue/sector-specific Task Forces have been established as well as the nucleus of the TMU. The
Government has pointed out that its request for support, and the urgency attached to it, are connected to: (i)
ongoing fiscal and structural refonns and (ii) the Local Government and civil service reforms. The
proposed project is intrinsically linked to and complementary to both.
In addition, the Government's transparent and consultative approach to project development augurs well
for a social fund that depends on the participation of all key stakeholders. Three national-level consultative
workshops were held in addition to several field trips by the project preparation team (PPT) and TMU, all
aimed at obtaining broad based views on participation, institutional structures to be put in place, capacity
as well as stakeholders' perceptions. From inception, the Government's PPT, supported by the President's
Office, has emphasized that high professional standards, transparency and accountability are essential to
TASAF's success.
The Govemment received an advance from the PPF to finalize preparation and piloting of TASAF with
speed. Following on the successful Bagamoyo Workshop to harmonize participatory approaches pilot
activities were initiated in December 1999 in eight districts from seven regions i.e. Kagera, Mtwara,
Singida, Kiliminjaro, Shinyanga, Coast and Dodoma.
Field visits made during appraisal to a few representative pilots sites further confirmed the Government's
commitment to and ownership of the proposed project. Competent District Officers had been appointed by
the respective District Executive Directors to work full-time on the TASAF pilot projects. In the Districts
visited, as regards the CDI sub-projects, District Steering Committees had been formed, a District
Management team constituted, a sensitization workshop had been carried out, a PRA had been done, a
Community Project Committee had been formed, sub-projects had been prioritized, resources mobilized
from the community, accounts had been opened, local contractors had been selected and works had begun
with technical advice from the concerned sector ministry. With regard to the PWP sub-projects, there was
clear evidence of sustained inputs from the District-level staff: the DSC had utilized poverty indicators to
determine the geographical target area and the District Executive Director, the District Management Team
and the TASAF District Officer worked together to determine the sub-project area, again based on poverty
criteria. The District-level technicians and engineers were active on-site. In terrms of funding, the Districts
co-financed up to 8 percent of CDI sub-project costs and 10 percent of PWP sub-project costs. The
well-attended meetings and workshops that were held reflected the degree to which the TASAF philosophy
- 16-



and methodology had been internalized by the communities and the Government, especially at the district
level. This high degree of internalization was further obvious during the active participation of the TDOs
in the logframe exercise.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's experience in successfully working with social funds during the last decade is key to the
Government's request for assistance. In developing the basic concept for TASAF, the Government
consulted with Bank staff and utilized Bank documentation to draw upon its cross-country experience.
Furthermore, a project preparation team carried out a study tour to Malawi to review its experience with a
similar IDA-financed social fund (Malawi Social Action Fund--MASAF).
A social fund, because of its multi-sectoral nature, raises cross-cutting issues requiring technical expertise
in various sectors. It also requires close donor coordination on substantive issues and with respect to
resource mobilization. The Bank's technical expertise in general, as well as specific ongoing IDA-financed
operations in relevant sectors such as education, health, roads, water and sanitation, put the Bank in a
unique position to assist the Government in addressing these cross-sectoral issues. Regarding donor
coordination, the Government has unequivocally taken the lead, while recognizing that Bank support is
critical to coordinate and leverage additional resources, if necessary.
Finally, the proposed TASAF is linked to ongoing fiscal and macro-economic measures as well as Local
Government and civil service reforms. The Bank is a key stakeholder in these areas which has led the
Government to request the Bank to take a leading role in establishing the proposed project.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million, ERR= %  (see Amnex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
3 Other (specify)
The economic analysis undertaken for TASAF involves several elements that provide an important
rationale for the project. Public financing of the Social Fund is justified by high rates of poverty, as well as
by the fact that the TASAF supports projects with high social rates but low private rates of return (e.g.
education, health, and community mobilization). TASAF's Operational Manual incorporates cost-
efficiency and sustainability criteria for the approval of sub-projects, and the low unit costs expected under
TASAF relative to other institutions, as well as its expected low overhead, make the project a cost-effective
means for executing these activities. With respect to the Public Works Program, its bcneficiaries will be
among the poorest Tanzanians. The PWP will primarily operate in food-deficit areas during seasons of
food shortages. Remuneration of PWP participants will be below the rural minimum wage and will not
create distortions in the wage market.
A regional ranking and district selection process has been undertaken in TASAF to identify the priority
regions and districts to participate in and benefit from the project (described in detail in Annex 4). The
regional ranking exercise utilizesregional poverty, service accessibility, and the rate of AIDS case data.
Based on the regional ranking, a number of districts (ranging from 3 for the most deprived region down to 1
for the least deprived) were proposed. Subsequently, pilot districts and those targeted by local government
reform were combined with available district-level vulnerability data to identify the vulnerable districts in
which TASAF will be operating Such an exercise reinforces the poverty reduction and targeting objectives
of the project.
- 17-



Project benefits will be measured in a thorough and consistent manner in TASAF. Benefit indicators
include: level of support provided to vulnerable groups, i.e. elderly, orphans, the disabled, H[V
AIDS-affected and-infected; increase in community capacity and skills to plan, manage, and implement
sub-projects--thereby strengthening social capital; improvements in income eamings and living conditions
of TASAF communities; and changes in participation levels of women as drawn from the MIS. The
monitoring and evaluation system will draw on a wide range of information sources, including participative
M&E activities and survey results generated out of the national poverty monitoring program, to assess the
impact of the sub-projects on poverty and vulnerable groups and provide timely information for measuring
the cost-benefit of individual sub-projects and of TASAF as a whole.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The accounting and financial system used by TASAF is being developed with the assistance of a consultant
on the basis of terms of reference agreed during the pre-appraisal missionand its finalization is one of the
conditions of effectiveness. The Bank's Financial Management Specialistscarried out a financial
management assessment and have laid out a time-bound plan of action for the enhancement of the financial
and accounting systems in order to enable the implementing agency to deliver the required quality and
quantity of reports. The necessary orientation training for the newly recruited TASAF Finance and
Accounting staff within the TMU will continue and is expected to be completed by December 2000.
Additional training on financial management will be provided to district level staff so that they, in turn, can
assist communities in establishing and monitoring project accounts. The capacity for financial management
and accountability will be one of the key criteria to evaluate district performance and the continued ability
of these districts to absorb project financing. Fund accounts will be maintained in accordance with
International Accounting Standards while annual financial statements will be audited in accordance with
Intemational Standards of Auditing by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The TASAF Integrated
Management Information System is designed to incorporate financial management information in order to
provide data for comprehensive monitoring and evaluation of sub-project performance.
Fiscal Impact:
Several measures (traditionally incorporated in social funds) will be built into the project design to ensure
financial sustainability of the facilities and activities financed by the project: (i) communities will be
expected to contribute a share of individual CDI sub-project costs (equivalent to 20 percent of the value of
the sub-project costs); (ii) as a condition of sub-project approval in both the CDI and PWP components,
communities will need to submit a plan for maintenance of the completed asset; (iii) CDI and PWP
sub-project proposals will be reviewed as part of the appraisal process, to ensure that sectoral ministries
will provide for recurrent expenditures generated by the sub-project and for which the sector has
responsibility; and (iv) local governments will make provision within their annual plans and budgetary
allocations for co-financing sub-projects. Thus, there is little net fiscal impact, and there may in fact be
some fiscal savings as TASAF finances and implements activities within the existing district plans.
As important as the community's financial contribution, however, is the philosophy of self-help and
ownership that is expected to be developed throughout project identification and implementation. The skills
learned by communities during the project to use and account for funds, and to rehabilitate and maintain
infrastructure, is expected to lead to more sustainable development. As such, it is expected that: (i) the
productive life of the communal asset will be longer than in the non-participatory planning case; and (ii)
that the recurrent cost burden on central and local government will be lower than in the non-participatory
case.
- 18 -



3. Technical:
The technical design of the sub-projects will use simple, appropriate and environmentally sound
technologies that correspond to the needs and community capabilities for construction, operation and
maintenance. The designs and standards of the sub-projects will be based on the norms and standards of
the technical ministries involved. Where there is proven technical and economic efficiency, labour-intensive
work will be preferred and innovations in designs will be encouraged while keeping in mind the need for
technical, financial and implementation viability. In addition, othertechnical issues that are being
addressed as part of the economic analysis are: (i) poverty analysis and, related demand and self-targeting;
(ii) absorptive capacity at various levels starting from the community; (iii) transparency, accountability and
financial management; and (iv) continuous monitoring and evaluation, including the establishment of
baseline data.
4. Institutional:
The institutional set-up of TASAF, which covers both CDI and PWP, is at three levels: the National
Steering Committee (NSC), the District Steering Committee (DSC) and the Community Project Committee
(CPC). The composition of the committees reflects the functions assigned to each level by the GOT
through the President's Office. In addition, the design recognizes the levels that are functional under the
revised Local Government Act (February 1999). These are meant to ensure speedy decision-making
through reductions in bureaucratic layers and increased accountability through more transparent organs
and processes.
The TASAF NSC: The President has appointed a TASAF National Steering Committee responsible for
overall policy guidance, operational oversight and irmpact assessment of the Fund. The NSC will ensure
that TASAF implements, through the TASAF Management Unit (TMU) activities in accordance with the
Operational Manual. To that end, it appoints the key staff to manage TASAF. The NSC comprises of ten
members drawn from the public sector, private sector and the NGO community, and the Executive
Director, TASAF, as ex-officio member and Secretary, and will have a balanced gender representation.
The Permanent Secretary, Vice-President's Office will be the Chairperson.
The DSC: The District Commissioner (DC) of a TASAF project district will establish a District Steering
Committee whose responsibilities shall include approval of annual work programs, budgets and
sub-projects, as well as provision of operational guidance within the District. The DSC will be an
additional Committee to the existing standing committees of the District Council and will comprise of: the
DC as the Chairperson; chairpersons of the District Council, standing committees on planning and finance,
and social services; the District Executive Director (DED), representatives of women's groups and NGOs;
Members of Parliament and Councillors; the TASAF District Officer (TDO) as ex-officio member and
Secretary, and the TASAF Program Officer (PO) as ex-officio member. The heads of technical agencies at
the district level will constitute the District Management Team (DMT), an executive arm of the DSC that
performs varying functions at different phases of the sub-projects cycle prior to recommending the
sub-projects for approval. Other actors here will include NGOs and private contractors.
The CPC: The Community Project Committee is an organ elected by the participating community during a
participatory meeting attended by at least 70 percent of the intended beneficiaries of a prioritized need. The
meeting is chaired by the Chairperson of the village council and may be facilitated by the village executive
officer. The CPC will have the authority of the benefiting community when the minutes of the meeting, at
which the office bearers are elected, are signed by all the members who attended the meeting. The CPC's
functions shall include: facilitating the planning, implementation and monitoring of sub-projects, mobilizing
communities to contribute (in the CDI) or register for works (in the PWP), procurement and management
- 19-



of funds, seeking technical support from development agencies and competent individuals, and preparing
periodic progress reports. The CPC planning role differs depending on whether the sub-project is a CDI or
PWP sub-project. In the former, the CPC plays a large role in organizing the community to identify the
choice of sub-project that will address its chief development priority. In the PWP, the district identifies the
area to receive the PWP sub-project. Following this identification, the CPC chooses from a limited menu
of sub-projects before mobilizing workers and monitoring the daily register.
4. 1 Executing agencies:
The Executing Agency for TASAF will be a lean autonomous Management Unit (TMU) in the President's
Office The apex TMU is organized in a decentralized manner to allow greater autonomy and
empowerment to the local government organs and the community. At the national level, the TMU will
coordinate and execute the day-to-day activities of the Fund. The TMU will comprise of the Executive
Director (ED), Director of Community Development Initiatives (DCDI), Director of Public Works (DPW),
Director of Finance (DoF), an Internal Audit Officer, and Heads of Units for Monitoring and Evaluation,
Management Information Systems, and Capacity Building comprising Information, Education,
Communication (IEC) and Training. Technical Assistance will be provided to the Fund by the sector
ministry experts and private consultants as needed to implement specific aspects of the Fund's activities.
TASAF Program Officers will support the districts that have weak capacity and allow for effective
supervision given the difficulties of coverage from Dar es Salaam. It is envisaged that each Program
Officer would cover a minimum of seven districts. Since the CDI will commence in all 42 districts in the
first year of implementation, five CDI Program Officers would be initially recruited. Since PWP's first
year of implementation will have more limited coverage to allow for the leaming phase, two PWP Project
Officers will initially be recruited, possibly increasing to five in subsequent years of implementation. This
arrangement is likely to be more cost effective and will also ensure that there is no compromising on the
quality, speed and flexibility of the sub-projects design and implementation.
At the District level, the District Executive Director, as the head of the Local Government technical team,
will provide the needed support to the TASAF management team led by the TASAF District Officer
(TDO). Under the PWP, a District PWP Team (DPI) comprised of the district technical heads of the
relevant sectors will prepare the sub-projects, test their feasibility, and produce the technical designs, bills
of quantities, etc. as well as provide the technical supervision during implementation. The DPT is
supported by and reports to the TDO on all matters relating to TASAF sub-projects. The TDO is
appointed by the DED from among qualified existing staff in accordance with the TOR provided by the
TMU. Her/his functions are to coordinate the day-to-day TASAF activities in the District including:
facilitation of communities, scheduling the appraisal of the sub-projects and disbursing funds for approved
community projects. The TDO will be a member of the DMT but is functionally accountable to TASAF
management so as to ensure compliance and adherence to the Fund rules, regulations and procedures as
outlined in the Operational Manual. She/he will serve as Secretary of the DMT meetings on TASAF
activities. The TASAF Program Officer will be an ex-officio member of the District Steering Committee.
The DED will ensure that the TDO receives administrative and other support, i.e. secretary, driver and
guard, from the District's routine budget. Only the Accountant will be paid out of TASAF funds.
4.2 Project management:
As discussed, the establishment of a strong and semi-autonomous project management unit will be critical
to project success. Equally important is ensuring that the DED and District Management Teams that play
the pivotal role in the sub-project cycle are fully oriented to the modalities of implementing TASAF. The
TDO, who is an integral member of the DMT, supported by the PO and the IEC Unit at the center, will
coordinate the orientation. A draft Operational Manual and supporting Handbooks that detail the processes
and procedures were prepared, appraised and made available for Negotiations - these will be finalized
- 20 -



before credit effectiveness. This Manual and the Handbooks will provide clear implementation guidelines
for all actors involved in project implementation.
The institutional and project management arrangements as outlined above, have been discussed and agreed
upon during appraisal and at negotiations. Since capacity gaps do exist among key actors involved in the
implementation of the project, this will require careful consideration especially, but not only, at the district
level. The PPF funds have been used to identify these capacity constraints and a strong capacity building
component at all levels of project implementation is intended to address this issue.
In February 1999, Parliament revised the local government regulations. As these become available, the
Government team and the Bank will factor in the implications for TASAF's project design and
implementation. However, the revised regulations are expected to enhance, rather than impede, community
participation and the building of capacity at the community and district levels.
Strengthening Government's monitoring capacity is one of the project objectives, and it is expected that a
monitoring and evaluation system with an effective MIS will be established before credit effectiveness. A
well-designed monitoring and evaluation system that monitors physical and financial progress and measures
impact is necessary to ensure that the program will provide effective support to the Government's poverty
reduction program. Such a program would consist of: (i) periodic and independent evaluations of the
impact of the program on beneficiaries through both qualitative and quantitative surveys; (ii) monitoring of
actual and planned expenditures and physical progress by region; and (iii) evaluating and updating the
indicators used to identify the target population. Also, it would be necessary to monitor and evaluate each
sub-project activity, and therefore the system should be able to record critical baseline data regarding the
community group or village that is being assisted.
In all TASAF-supported development activities, the benefiting community will elect a Community Project
Committee (CPC) at a participatory planning meeting that must be attended by at least 70 percent of the
intended beneficiaries. The meeting is chaired by the Chairperson of the Village Council and may be
facilitated by the Village Executive Officer (VEO). A CPC will have the authority of the benefiting
community when the minutes of the meeting, at which the office bearers are elected, are signed by all
members attending the meeting.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The TMU will be responsible for the procurement of goods and consulting services that will be required at
the national coordinating office, program office and TASAF District Office (TDO). The TDO will be
responsible for the coordination of project activities at the district level and communities will manage all
sub-project contracting with the help of the TDO.
An Operational Manual (OM), a living document, has been prepared by the Govemment and will be
continuously modified, subject to agreements between GOT and IDA, as new lessons are learned and
incorporated for future use. More details are described in other developed handbooks such as the
Procurement Handbook, a Financial Management Handbook and a Community Implementation Handbook.
The TMU will prepare a draft General Procurement Notice (GPN) which will be updated every year and
submitted to IDA. The GPN will describe the procurement of goods and service; this will be finalized and
published in the United Nations Development Business and in local papers immediately after negotiations.
The TMU will monitor all procurement-related infornation for project implementation. The weaknesses in
the procurement system and the proposed Action Plans are discussed in Annex 6.
- 21 -



4.4 Financial management issues:
The Executive Director of TASAF will be accountable to the National Steering Committee for all the
financial activities of the Fund. Reporting to him on these matters will be a Director of Finance (DoF).
The DoF will also be responsible for the Fund's Staff Regulations, policies and procedures. The TMU will
establish a comprehensive computerized financial and management accounting system. This information
flow will enable internal reporting, for use in planning, controlling routine operations, and also allow
facilitate external reporting to other stakeholders. The TMU will keep proper books of accounts and
maintain other financial records which conform to generally accepted international accounting standards.
TASAF will establish the necessary bank accounts at the national and district levels. Communities and
other implementing agencies will open bank accounts specifically for the project funds and account for
them periodically as specified in the OM. The TMU will transfer funds directly into the relevant project
account. The TMU will keep a database of all project accounts. In addition to periodic overall audits to be
carried out by an Internal Auditor employed by TASAF at the TMU, GOT internal auditors at district level
will carry out routine audits to ensure full compliance with financial accountability rules and regulations.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Both the Government of Tanzania and the World Bank recognize that though the poor are critically
dependent on regenerative natural resources, they are often not in a position to be environmentally
"responsible" as their options to do so are constrained by conditions of extreme poverty and need.
Consequently, the construction of infrastructure such as school buildings, health posts, boreholes, and
other projects eligible under TASAF may assume more importance than the costs of environmental
degradation. In this context, TASAF will be pro-active in educating and informing communities about the
cost-benefit aspects of environmental conservation through its EEC campaigns. Community members and
all other stakeholders will be trained in the environmental impacts of developmental projects, environmental
indicators and possible mitigation measures. For all the sub-projects to be funded by TASAF, the potential
environmental impacts will be identified early during the initiation of a sub-project. Environmental
assessment of a sub-project and measures to avoid or minimize impacts will be incorporated into the
Environmental Management Plan (EMP). The communities will participate during all stages of sub-project
cycle. TASAF will play an active role in promoting and supporting sub-projects aimed at improving the
management of natural resources by poor communities as well as aimed at avoiding at or minimizing
environmental hazards associated with the use of pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers in agriculture, or
biological wastes from clinics and health centers. The TMU will develop specific guidelines for the
appraisal of sub-projects prior to effectiveness. Such guidelines will analyze the environmental impact of
individual sub-projects, include procedures for documenting the analysis and list mitigating steps where
there is an adverse impact.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
For all the TASAF sub-projects to be funded by TASAF, the potential environmental impacts will be
identified early during the initiation and scoping stages of the EA of a sub-project, and measures to avoid
or minimize impacts will be incorporated into the altematives being considered.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
- 22 -



The project proposes to have a very clear sensitization and capacity building program related to
environmental issues. This will take the form of messages to the range of stakeholders as well as training
and sensitization workshops. The proposed methods of training community members in both screening and
assessments is through the use of PRA and animation techniques. Facilitators will therefore be trained and
used throughout the sub-project cycle and, in tum, will train communities to use checklists at each phase of
the sub-project cycle.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the projcct on the
environment'? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMIP?
Monitoring and evaluation will be done through environmental audits in which the communities will also
participate. Indicators will be developed aligned with the objectives and results of the EMP.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The community needs assessments and stakeholder workshops undertaken during preparation as well as the
pilot projects currently under implementation in 8 districts have yielded a wealth of information on the
potential social impact of TASAF and how to promote equitable and sustainable development at the local
level. TASAF will be implemented in a manner that enables local communities to take greater control and
authority over their own affairs. The CDI approach is highly innovative because it gives direct financial
control to communities for buying professional services and skills to help them plan and implement a
community sub-project that they have chosen themselves. In PWP, the sub-project menu is more limited as
projects must meet criteria ensuring labor intensity. However, PWP sub-projects are also managed and
monitored by communities, and should encourage and strengthen the philosophy of assisting the more
impoverished in the community.
Several of the key design features of TASAF ensure the active participation of communities in all phases of
the project cycle. One of the critical issues in bringing the entire community together to plan and
implement micro projects relates to ensuring an equitable and representative decision-making process. The
community needs, capacity and institutional assessments that were carried out during project preparation
involved seeking people's perceptions of their key priorities as well as characteristics of the vulnerable and
ultra poor within the village community. It also involved getting community feedback on key design
assumptions in the project about local organizational capacity and community managed systems. The
communities assessed their capacity for financial and organizational management of projects at the
community level. The communities also evaluated the existing institutional arrangements for
implementation of such projects and suggested the indicators they would like to see in institutions
supporting this project. The community members also indicated the indigenous traditions of self-help and
resource mobilization which could be used for designing the project.
The findings of the community needs, capacity and institutional assessments were used for designing as
well as refining specific features of the project (See Annex 12). Key features of the Community
Development Initiative (CDI) include putting in place: a village-level micro-planning process to allow all
members of a community, especially the more vulnerable groups, including women, to participate in
planning and prioritizing needs; an elected community-level organization which will manage the
implementation of community sub-projects including managing funds and procuring goods and services; the
systematic involvement of district staff including a TASAF District Officer who will provide a direct link
between TASAF and communities; autonomous teams at district level who are trained in facilitating
participatory processes who will work intensively with communities; and a participatory monitoring and
- 23 -



evaluation system.
A gender action plan will be developed by the Ministry of Community Development, Women and Children
to identify the means by which the impact of project activities on women can be enhanced and to ensure a
gender-sensitive monitoring and evaluation system.
Based on the findings of the community needs assessment and on-going pilot projects TASAF will
emphasize targeting of vulnerable groups in communities. According to the assessment, vulnerable groups
included landless, disabled, orphans, widows with many children, HIV/AIDS affected and elders without
support. It is envisaged that the village-level micro-planning process would specifically facilitate priority
identification by vulnerable groups and these activities would be incorporated in the activities funded under
TASAF.
The project's Early Childhood Development (ECD) initiative will seek to contribute to the growth and
development of young children. It will also seek to promote equity by emphasizing care geared towards
rural, underserved areas, as well as disadvantaged groups. It will address immediate risk factors, inter alia,
the issues of AIDS orphans.
Identified as a key stakeholder, the NGO sector (development and faith-based NGOs) will play an
important role both at the local and national level. It is envisioned that CBOs and NGOs will be involved
throughout the project cycle (preparation, implementation, supervision, evaluation) in areas where they
have a comparative advantage and with the aim of transferring skills to and strengthening the capacity of
the community. Systematic consultations with the NGO/CBO constituency will provide TASAF with the
opportunity to discuss innovations, cross-check and analyze data gathered through the community needs
assessments, develop selection criteria, and test key design principles on an on-going basis. An NGO
representative was appointed to the National Steering Committee of TASAF and will provide overall
guidance to the operations of TASAF.
An effective Information, Education and Communication (IEC) system will facilitate the timely
dissemination of project-related information. The focus of the IEC campaign will be to ensure
transparency and accountability (downwards and upwards) through providing consistent information on the
project's objectives, the roles and responsibilities of the various stakeholders and the implementation status
of the project so as to sustain a democratic information environment. It will also help by focusing attention
on vulnerable groups and the poorest of the poor. Targeted training will seek to build govemance capacity
primarily within communities but also within local governments and the central govemment.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The primary beneficiaries under the project are poor and "hard-core" poor households mainly in rural but
also in peri-urban areas. Given the largely demand-driven nature of the project, they will participate at all
relevant stages, from the initial project identification to the final project implementation.
In addition to directly seeking inputs from communities through field visits, project preparation involved
undertaking a community needs and capacity and institutional assessment with communities in two regions
using participatory methods. This assessment was facilitated by experienced Tanzanian practitioners well
versed in facilitating participatory methods. The assessment involved seeking people's perceptions of their
key priorities and more specifically those of the vulnerable and ultra poor. It also involved getting
community feedback on the key design assumptions in the project about local organizational capacity and
community managed systems. The communities indicated their state of preparedness for financial and
- 24 -



organizational management at the country level and evaluated the existing institutional arrangements for
implementation of such projects. The key findings of the community needs, capacity and institutional
assessment which have been used for designing the project are as follows:
*  The traditions of self-mobilization and cost sharing for community infrastructure and related activities
is fairly widespread in the regions. The extent of self-mobilization of labor and financial resources was
found to be very high in all the villages where participatory assessments were undertaken. However,
people indicated that they would contribute only to activities identified by them in the village through a
participatory process. In response, TASAF design involves the identification of activities to be
supported through a village level participatory micro-planning process.
*  Most of the priorities identified by the communities involve creating and rehabilitating social and
productive infrastructure. However, communities emphasized the need to ensure that the quality of
service delivery and sustainable mechanisms for maintenance of the infrastructure should be integrated
into the design. The capacity building component of TASAF would ensure that these aspects are
incorporated and capacity created at the community level to ensure the sustainability of community
infrastructure.
*  The assessment identified the characteristics of vulnerable groups. These included the landless,
disabled, orphans, widows with many children, HIV/AIDS affected and elders without support.
Several specific activities to deal with support infrastructure for these groups were identified in the
assessment. The vulnerable groups in the community stressed the need for targeting specific
interventions under TASAF. It is envisaged that the village level micro-planning process methodology
would specifically facilitate priority identification by the vulnerable groups and these activities would
be incorporated in the activities funded by TASAF.
*   Most communities had technical skills at the local level e.g. masons, iron smiths, carpenters, house
building, mechanics, radio repair and traditional birth attendants. The skill availability at the
community level would ensure that community procurement mechanisms proposed in TASAF would be
effective and sustainable.
- The communities indicated the need for additional training in financial management, accounting,
materials and inventory management. In addition, the communities also indicated the need for training
in facilitation and group management skills. The capacity building component of the project will
address these issues.
-   The communities indicated their concem with the quality of the services delivered by the support
institutions. The two criteria which the community used for evaluating external institutions included
the speed of response and accountability and feedback mechanisms. TASAF design and monitoring
systems will ensure that these aspects are monitored on a regular basis and that qualitative assessments
of TASAF performance are carried out with the communities in a participatory manner. TASAF will
also invest in the capacity building of Ward and District-level government staff to so that they are more
responsive to the needs of the community.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
*  NGOs representatives participated in the initial consultation workshop for designing TASAF.
*  A separate workshop was held with NGOs on their experiences with demand-driven approaches and
working with vulnerable groups and their possible role in TASAF.
*  A group of NGOs carried out the community needs, capacity and institutional assessment to seek direct
community inputs into the design of TASAF.
*  NGOs with experience in facilitating demand-driven approaches presented their experiences and
participated in the Participatory Methodology and Pilot Design Workshop held at Bagamoyo.
- 25 -



*   In addition, many NGOs were consulted individually about the design of the Bagamoyo workshop.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes'?
* A village-level microplanning process which allows all people in a village, especially the more
vulnerable groups, including women, to participate in planning and prioritization.
* A community-level organization which implements and manages community sub-projects.
*   Trained groups of community facilitators who work intensively with communities to provide support
for the development of inclusive institutions.
* Institutional set-up involving autonomous teams at the district level who are trained in facilitating
participatory processes and institutional development.
* An independent and autonomous unit to provide support to the district teams on social issues.
* Using a wide range of support institutions including NGOs, particularly for training, facilitation and
programs related to vulnerable groups.
* Participatory monitoring and evaluation systems (inputs to the Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
and dissemination of results).
* An effective information, education and communication system that facilitates the timely dissemination
of project-related information.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Apart from using information generated directly through the MIS, the project will make extensive use of
household and community surveys employing both qualitative and quantitative approaches. Some of the
critical indicators are as follows
* Visible participation of the poor, women and vulnerable households in the identification of key
priorities through a village planning process.
* Presence of an inclusive community institution to mobilize internal resources, receive external
resources and manage community sub-projects in a transparent and accountable manner.
* The development of community sub-projects that deal exclusively with vulnerable groups, including the
disabled and those affected by AIDS.
*  The development of local skills for facilitation, planning and management (financial and procurement).
* The development of a support structure (local and district govemment) that is responsive and
accountable to community organizations.
*  The establishment of transparent and open information and communication initiatives that enables
project-related information to be made available to citizens and participants on a regular basis.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the proje
C Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)              Yes L No
Ci Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04. GP 4.04)                  El Yes O No
L Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    LI Yes O No
Li Pest Management OP 4.091                                      L Yes E No
L Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  a Yes 1 No
El Indigenous Peoples tOD 4.20)                                -   Yes 1 No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                            L Yes 1 No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             El Yes Z No
O Projects in Intemational Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    EL Yes LK No
- 26 -



B Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          B Yes B No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
An environmental analysis has been carried out on the basis of which compliance with Bank safeguard
policies will be ensured.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Empirical evidence from similar operations in various regions points to a strong, positive correlation
between community participation in identification and design, planning, implementation and management
and sustainability of sub-projects. Other factors that ensure sustainability include: (i) setting-up of a
strong, autonomous implementing agency whose staff are recmited competitively, provided with adequate
incentives and work to set performance targets, to execute the fund with a "sunset clause"; (ii) criteria for
selection of sub-prqjects for funding that meet basic needs as articulated and managed by the communities,
and to which the community contributes; and (iii) sub-project activities which include capacity building and
training of the communities and sub-project management committees and district personnel to ensure that
the assets created are maintained.
The ongoing Local Government Reform Program provides a unique opportunity for GOT, using the
positive lessons from TASAF, to adopt and introduce the broad-based community development strategy it
currently advocates. Besides advocacy for the TASAF community demand-driven approaches to be
adopted by Government departments, the transfer of skills to district staff, especially as part of the
sub-project cycle, during appraisal, implementation, supervision and monitoring will ensure thatthe
TASAF processes are sustained. The skills that are likely to be mastered would include: use of harmonized
participatory approaches to facilitate communities prioritize and plan to meet their own needs, needs-based
ranking of areas within the district in preparation for financing interventions irrespective of the source of
the funds, and recognition that communities are both the objectives and vehicles of endogenous
development.
Ongoing macro-economic reforms which emphasize the regulatory role of the Government to develop a
conducive framework for community-based development, coupled with administrative reforms which place
greater importance on decentralization of the Government's role in supporting basic social and economic
services, also factor in positively. PWP sub-projects will be relatively short lived, with no expectations
built among participants that employment opportunities will be provided on an ongoing basis.
Community ownership of and commitment to the activity are a very important facet of the sustainability
aspects. The design of the project is expected to stimulate community participation in the identification,
preparation, implementation, management and maintenance of the sub-project. The Government team
conducted a rapid evaluation of the existing activities to design realistic participation and contribution
processes for the proposed project that would not tax or disincentivize poor communities, but instead
ensure their ownership of, and commitment to the project. In many projects, the community's ability to
manage funds has been seen as a key mechanism that enhances such features. Systems and procedures will
be developed and incorporated in the project's Operational Manual, and training of project and key
Government staff will be conducted to ensure that staff and all partners work together with communities.
Capacity building activities for communities will also be financed to ensure that they have the capacity to
sustain and manage the activities effectively.
- 27 -



The sustainability of the community participation approach, adopted under TASAF, will depend to a large
extent on the Govemment's capacity to harmonize the multitude of ongoing participation efforts in the
country. As part of the TASAF preparation process, a workshop was organized to harmonize participatory
approaches among the various stakeholders who are involved in TASAF design and implementation (local
authorities, NGOs, donors, etc.). There are however a number of other actors, often working in an isolated
fashion, who are also carrying our participatory community work. Various attempts to harmonize
participatory approaches have not yet succeeded. As a result, only a very small fraction of villages in
Tanzania have access to the community participation process, notwithstanding the very strong (both in
quantity and in quality) local capacity. To ensure sustainability of TASAF's community participation
beyond the duration of the project, it will be critical that: (i) the Government identifies clearly which entity
should take the lead to harmonize the various community participation efforts; (ii) a practical and common
understanding among practitioners is reached on a flexible and national approach to community
participation; and (iii) an action program is determined to enrich the ongoing community participation
efforts in the context of the harmonization efforts.
The Ministry of Community Development and Women Affairs and the Ministry of Local Govermnent are
launching the harmonization process on a national scale with support from UNDP. the Finnish Embassy,
and the World Bank.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Rk                     Risk Raing           Risk Minimizaion0UMeasure
From Outputs to Objective
Given that project success is dependent on  H       GOT's consultative approach to date suggests
the successful implementation of the                increasing rather than decreasing momentum.
Local Government Reform, loss of                    The project will provide impetus to GOT's LG
momentum of this reform agenda will                 reform, backed by the revision and approval in
constitute a risk.                                  1999 of the Local Government Act of 1983.
Also, the appointment of Program Officers to
backstop the TDOs and the provision of support
to the TDOs in the form of an Accountant, a
vehicle and computers, etc., the signing of the
formal MOU between the District Executive
Director (DED) and TASAF, and the planned
systematic capacity building at the district level
will mitigate this risk.
Lack of cooperation and trust b/w line    M         The Participatory Rural Assessments and
ministries, Local Government Authorities            Information, Education and Communication
and communities at district level.                  (IEC) campaign and training will seek to bring
about a convergence on objectives and actions.
Competing approaches to poverty           M         Continuing dialogue with GOT, donors and
monitoring by different donors may                  other interested parties.
weaken national statistical capacity.
From Components to Outputs
Lack of, or delayed, provision of          S        The formal MOU signed between the DED and
counterpart funding.                                TASAF will mitigate this risk; rigorous
supervision will seek to ensure that the
provisions of the MOU are adhered to.
- 28 -



Lack of transparency and need for           N        PRAs, training and the IEC campaign will
accountability and technical quality in              address this issue.
sub- project management.
Political interference and rent seeking.    S        PRAs, training and the IEC campaigns will seek
to mitigate this risk.
Sub-project menu too open given             M         The pilot sub-projects have demonstrated
community capacity.                                   community capacity, willingness to participate
in and ability to manage these small-scale
projects.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
The major risk associated with the option of not undertaking the project is the negative impact on the
Government's stated goal of poverty reduction and protection of vulnerable poor. This is especially critical
at a time when the Government attempts to maintain the momentum of its reform program to generate the
economic growth necessary for sustainable poverty reduction.
In particular, the Government is concerned about the prospect of increasing social tensions while awaiting
the positive impact of its economic and administrative reform program. Poverty and unemployment are
high, and more than 57 percent of the population is less than 20 years of age and exerting increasing
pressure on the labor market. Not only could social tensions put political pressure on the Government to
abandon its reform program, but social stability and peace are a precondition for building investor
confidence. The Government therefore sees TASAF as a critical component of its overall social and
economic program - having focused on fiscal stabilization and infrastructure during the early refonn phase
- that can be abandoned only at substantial risk.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Lack of accurate and disaggregated data may inhibit accurate targeting of the poor below the regional level.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
As conditions of effectiveness, the Government would:
(a)    Establish an accounting and financial management system satisfactory to the Association.
(b)    Adopt the project manuals.
(c)    Furnish to the Association the signed Memoranda of Understanding between (i) TASAF MU and
the Bureau of Statistics to formalize its role in the implementation of the subprojects; and (ii)
District Executive Directors and TASAF MU (with the exception of the Memoranda of
Understanding signed by the concerned District Executive Directors in Zanzibar, which will be
due by May 1, 2001) guaranteeing to provide full-time TASAF District Officers, support staff in
sufficient numbers, and adequate office space.
(d)    Confirm that all District Steering Committees have been established (except for the ones in
Zanzibar that are to be established by May 1, 2001).
(e)    Confirm that an operational Management Information System is in place.
(f)    Confirm that the TASAF Management Unit has been established and will be staffed at all times by
key professionals including the Executive Director, Directors for Community Development
Initiatives and the Public Works Program, Director for Finance, as well as Heads of Monitoring
- 29 -



and Evaluation and Capacity Building Units and an Internal Audit Officer.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The Borrower shall:
(a)    Undertake, in conjunction with IDA, a joint annual review of the project, or in the case of the
Mid-term Review, no later than November 1, 2002.
(b)    Submit to IDA a formal agreement between the Bureau of Statistics and TASAF MU on the Work
Program and timetable.
(c)    Submit quarterly financial reports to IDA.
(d)    Submit semi-annual implementation reports to IDA.
(e)    Submit annual audit reports to IDA.
H. Readiness for Implementation
E 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
El 1. b) Not applicable.
[II] 2. The procurement documents for the firstyear's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
r 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
B 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
P(                                  'f'S QXPAJ\X         /           ______
J    Norbert 0. Mugwagwa               Dzingai B. Mutumbuka               Jamnes W. Adams
Ip  Team Leader                         Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
- 30 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
TANZANIA: SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT
4L 
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To reduce poverty and      GDP increases from 4.75% in Reports from the National    Policy enviromnent conducive
promote sustainable        year 1 to 6.1% in year 4   Bureau of Statistics      to promotion of economic
development for the poor                                                         growth.
sections of the communities
Reduce % of the population   PRSP Draft paper         Strong and sustained
below poverty line from 48%                           govermnent commitment to
to 42% by year 4                                      anti-poverty initiatives
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To increase and enhance the  100% of projects to have  Monthly, quarterly, and   Continued Govermnent
capacities of community and  permanent maintenance    annual reports             conunitment to prudent fiscal
slakeliolders to prioritize  mechanisms               CWIQ Survey                policy, resource allocation and
implement and manage       Efficient back-up services    Beneficialy assessment  continued public sector
sustainable development    provided to 100% of the    Community Service Delivery  reform; Continued political
initiatives and in the process  communities           Survey                     support for poverty alleviation
improve socio economic     60% of population getting                             and willingness of key
services and opportunities    services from the constructed                      stakeholders, including
facilities                                            donors, to support the
80% of communities satisfied                          Govennment's strategy.
by the available services
- 31 -



ieradi <f ObeciviS    ;     i=e0s S w indicatotaSk MoI~inS-   vauation        ritkal MupiD-
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Output 1:                  No. of communities reached   Monthly, quarterly, and  Communities are interested in
Community sub-projects are  equals: 250 in PYI, 740 in   annual reports;         CDI and willing to participate
implemented                PY2, 778 in PY3, 444 in PY4 DSC, DMT minutes;
90% of sub projects completed Monitoring (field trips)
within budget, time and   reports;
sectoral norms            Project applications, appraisal,
50% of CPC participants to be implementation status forms
women                     MIS reports
CPC Minutes
PRA Reports
Output 2:                  No. of communities reached   Monthly, quarterly and annual
Safety net projects to support  equals: 42 in PYI, 130 in    reports;
vulnerable groups are initiated PY2, 120 in PY3, 36 in PY4  DSC, DMT meetings'
and implemented            32,800 of beneficiaries    minutes;
reached, with at least 40% of  Monitoring (field trips)
beneficiaries to be women.   reports)
90% of projects completed    MIS reports
within budget, time and   Application, appraisal,
sectoral norms            implementation status forms
Output 3:                  840 implementers to be     Training reports
Capacity of implementers and trained                  Quarterly reports
communities to manage      40,000 beneficiaries to be
projects is enhanced.     trained
50% of trained beneficiaries to
be women
Output 4:
Awareness and information to No. of people attending  Sensitization Meetings'
the communities and stake    awareness creation meetings  Reports
holders is improved       to increase by 30% per year   CWIQ
50% of persons participating
in decision making (CPCs) to
be female
% of population aware of
TASAF activities to increase
by 30% each year
Output 5:                  District and national reports   Quarterly Financial reports   Local govemments provide
Institutional Capacity to  available within 7 days of    CPC, DSC, NSC Meetings'  resources of appropriate
administer the Fund is     scheduled time             Minutes                    quality
established.               Disbursements effected within                         Competencies of partner
30 days of application                               institutions (IAs, NGOs) are
of appropriate qualitv
-32 -



Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
Activities for Output 1:  US$ 48.5 million           MIS
Al.l Identification, planning   *  200 sub-projects
and appraisal                  prioritized and
identified QI PY1
* Over 300 comprehensive
community plans
prepared Ql PYI
*  CPC elected and trained
*  350 proposals prepared
and submitted to TDO
A1.2 Support                * Over 200 sub-projects   MIS
implementation of              approved by DSC Q4
community projects             PYI
*  Community and
districts' Contributions
to total US $1 million by
end of PYI
* Over 200 sub-projects
under implementation
by end Q4 PYI.
A1.3 Monitoring and         * Data collected during   MIS review
evaluation                     project cycle regularly
and accurately entered
into MIS
A1.4 Facilitate the       Key staff in 200 CDCs trained MIS
communities to carry out   in M&E activities
monitoring and evaluation of
their projects
Actvities for Output 2:   US$ 15.8 million
A2.1 Define criteria for
qualification to employment
in Public Works projects
A2.2 Identify projects that
are beneficial to the most
vulnerable
A2.3 Supervise            PWP projects to be visited at
implementation of projects  least once a month by TASAF
staff during project
implementation
A2.4 Monitor and evaluate  Data collected during project MIS Review
projects.                 cycle regularly and accurately
entered into MIS
Activities for Output 3   US$ 0.6 million
A3.1      Design and      25 courses held
conduct training for
stakeholders
A3.2 Identify institutions to
carry out training
- 33 -



Activities for Output 4    US$ 1.2 million
A4. 1 Conduct awareness
creation at all levels
Activities For OutputS     US$ 5.7 million
A5.1 Operationalize TASAF
institutional structure at
central and district level
A5.2 Finalize Operational   Operational Manuals and
Manual and handbooks       handbooks edited and printed
Q4 PYI
A5.3 Strengthen National   Contractual agreements
Poverty Monitoring         established with NB S
A5.4 Implement M&E and   CDI/PWP Data base designs
MIS                        completed Q3 PYI
TMU Local area network
operational Q4 PYI
CDI/PWP Database
operational Ql PY2
MU/District Office staff
trained in the use IT software
tools and databases Q3 PYI
- 34 -



Annex 2: Project Description
TANZANIA: SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT
Recent poverty information indicates that about 50 percent of all Tanzanians live in households classified
as poor, while 36 percent of all Tanzanians live in households classified as "hard-core" poor. Poverty is
particularly prevalent in rural areas which has 85 percent of the poverty incidence. The poverty profile
also shows that there are stark differences between the poor and better-off households in their access to
water, health and education. The Govemment's basic strategy to reduce poverty--supported by the Bank in
its Country Assistance Strategy (Report No. 16554-TA)--relies on raising growth performance and
extending access to basic social and economic services. The govemment is also changing the overall
structure of the centre-local govermment relationship and continues to reform its public administration. The
Local Government Act of 1983 has been revised and approved by Parliament (February 1999). The
project will therefore be designed and implemented within the framework of this Act.
The establishment of the Tanzania Social Action Fund represents a critical step in the decentralization
efforts of the government and in giving substance to its Social Sector Strategy (The United Republic of
Tanzania, Social Sector Strategy, October 1994) which views households as active participants in
choosing and supporting services that offer them concrete benefits.
Overall objectives of TASAF
The objective of TASAF is to increase and enhance the capacity of communities and stakeholders to
prioritize, implement and manage sustainable development initiatives and in the process improve
socio-economic services and opportunities. The expected outputs of the Fund are: sustainable community
sub-projects; safety nets sub-projects; sub-projects identified and implemented by vulnerable groups; a
functioning, monitoring and evaluation system; better informed stakeholders; and improved capacity of
facilitation.
Broad principles of TASAF
The proposed structure, roles and responsibilities of TASAF are based on the following principles:
 TASAF will be independent but in harmony with other ongoing initiatives within the Local Government
reform in order to ensure sustainability of the Fund's achievements;
*   The Fund is demand-driven and follows a bottom-up planing and decision-making approach;
*   The Fund finances community-initiated projects directly;
*   The Fund acts a safety net by targeting vulnerable households and poor communities;
*   The Fund has to be non-partisan;
*   The Fund's operations have to be transparent;
*   The modalities to access the Fund have to be clear;
*   The accountability of different actors has to be clear;
*   The proposed structure has to ensure speedy operations;
*   There has to be adequate and timely technical support; and
*   The processing and management of the fund has to be cost-effective.
Objectives of the Pre-test phase
In order to develop the operational guidelines for TASAF, it was important to pre-test different mechanisms
- 35 -



for implementation as well as to operationalize them. Pre-testing (which is on-going) is essential in order to
fine-tune operational procedures for the larger project. Thus, the pre-test phase basically aimed at testing
the sub-project cycle--to test the proposed procedures and institutional set-up, and see if they can be
effectively and efficiently used for grassroots development initiatives. Based on the" learning by doing"
during the pretest phase, an improved operational guideline and institutional setup was prepared for the
larger project.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$48.52 million
Community Demand Initiative (CDI) Component: Total cost of component US$ 48.5 million (IDA
US$38 million; Government of Tanzania US$1.9 million; and Beneficiary Communities US$8.6 million)
This component will finance and support small demand-based community initiatives in the social sectors,
that improves the accessibility to and delivery of social and economic services and enhances the capacity of
communities and local development partners. The sub-projects menu will include, inter alia, the
improvement of basic health care facilities, such as health posts, village dispensaries and health centres; the
construction and rehabilitation of nursery and pre-schools, and of primary and secondary schools,
equipping primary and junior schools with essential furniture and equipment; water supply and sanitation
initiatives such as construction and rehabilitation of bore holes, dams, latrines, shallow wells; and
rehabilitation and construction of economic infrastructure such as crop storage facilities and markets. The
component will pay attention to vulnerable groups such as orphans, the handicapped, the elderly, widows,
divorced women and unemployed youth. Information, Education and Communication activities under this
component will seek to sensitize communities and other stakeholders, ensure transparent functioning and
document stakeholder experiences through the use of radio messages, folk drama, posters and newspaper
supplements.
As discussed in Annex 4 under 'Poverty Targeting Mechanisms for TASAF CDI and PWP Components', a
framework to undertake a regional ranking and district selection process has been developed for TASAF to
assist in the identification of priority areas. This methodology has been applied for both the CDI and PWP
components. Among the indicators used for the Regional ranking exercise are: poverty level; food
insecurity; primary school gross enrollment ratio; access to safe water; access to health facility; AIDS case
rates; and road accessibility. Based on the regional ranking, a number of districts (ranging from 3 for the
most deprived region down to I for the least deprived) were proposed. The next step to undertake district
selection within the regions combined available district-level vulnerability data along with the plot districts
and those districts targeted by local govemment reform. Some guidelines for selection beyond the district
level (including community) are also incorporated. The preliminary findings of the ranking exercise
indicate that priority should be given to the most deprived areas such as Tabora, Shinyanga, Kagera,
Kigoma and Lindi. A fuller description of the exercise and findings is detailed in Annex 4 of this
document.
Project Component 2 - US$15.75 million
Public Works Project (PWP) : Total cost of component US$ 15.8 million (IDA US$ 15.0 million;
Government of Tanzania US$ 0.8 million)
This component will finance labor-intensive works as a safety net scheme for targeted poor rural areas.
Regional and District selection for this component is the same as for the CDI, which is described above.
The objective is to provide cash income for the poor, especially women and youth, through the promotion
ofjob creation related to the construction of and rehabilitation of infrastructure facilities. Income-earning
- 36 -



will be complemented by the construction of productive assets. The types of works to be financed under
this component will include, inter alia, the rehabilitation, in rural areas, of village access roads, water
retention structures for small-scale irrigation, foot bridges; in urban areas, sewerage systems, access roads,
market places; and water and soil conservation/reclamation programs, afforestation programs, and the
construction of terraces. The component will also include IEC activities using, among other things, radio
programs, folk drama, posters, newspaper supplements. Just as in the CDI component, a regional ranking
exercise has been undertaken for PWP. This exercise will determine the TASAF allocations under the
PWP component.
Project Component 3 - US$ 7.50 million
Institutional Development: Total cost of component is US$ 7.5 million (IDA US$ 7.0 million; and
Government of Tanzania US$ 0.5 million)
Sub- Component (a) TASAF Management Unit (TMU)
The TASAF Management Unit (TMU) is set to provide the day-to-day operational support that is needed in
order for the TASAF districts to respond to the community demand-driven requests emanating from the
participatory planning process engendered by TASAF. Activities to be financed by the sub-component will
include: incremental staff salaries of the Executive Director and his/her team; systems development and
operational costs of the unit as well as the costs of running the district level TASAF Office within the
District Executive Directors Office; motor vehicles, equipment and computerization of the unit and district
offices.
Sub-Component (b) Capacity Building - Information, Education and Communication/Training:
Building on the lessons leamed from global development experience, the IEC sub-component will focus on
creating and sustaining a symmetrical information environment that will enhance the potential for
democratic decentralization, transparency and accountability. The sub-component will effectively be a
dynamic knowledge management tool that sensitizes the range of stakeholders about the project's
philosophy and methodology, defines the project cycle to all the stakeholders,clearly outlines the mutually
complementary roles and responsibilities of the various actors, reports consistently on the implementation
of the project, and builds a knowledge base of lessons learned. Above all, through this process, it will seek
to build a partnership and strategic alliances between government officials, NGOs, communities and the
private sector. While using media such as radio, newspapers, posters, etc. a distinct focus of the IEC
campaign will be on the use of local culture (folk dramas, songs, etc.) to disseminate information and
educate communities. Key activities financed by the project will include: information needs assessment,
message development, media costs--radio, television, print--newspapers, flyers, posters, and impact
evaluation.
Training: The component will focus on orienting stakeholders and partners such as the TMU, sector staff,
donors, NGOs, etc. to the dynamics of community development through seminars, workshops, exposure
visits, study tours, etc. It will also orient these audiences to the specifics associated with the TASAF
approach. Through targeted training, the sub-component will seek to build capacity within communities
and district-level staff to manage participatory development.
Subcomponent (c) : Monitoring and Evaluation (including MIS):
The project will put in place effective monitoring and evaluation arrangements to assess the pilot
operations, analyze the effects and project outcomes, establish a knowledge base and incorporate these
- 37 -



lessons into the design and implementation of future sub-projects. Appropriate monitoring indicators will
be developed to monitor the progress and quality of sub-projects. The project's MIS will provide data on
project types and loan processing indicators. When data from the financial and accounting systems and
reports from the District Offices are linked, an assessment of the project's performance (time-lapse between
project application and approval, speed of disbursement) and its poverty impact will emerge. The M&E
system will also provide data to assess the impact of the sub-projects on vulnerable groups such as the
elderly, women, AIDS orphans, and so on. The M&E system will draw on a wide range of information
sources, including participative M&E activities and survey results generated out of the national poverty
monitoring program (see subcomponent (d)). A Community Service Delivery Survey will be integrated into
the sub-project cycle and will provide the basis for monitoring improvements in the levels of use and
satisfaction with TASAF services by beneficiaries. The Management Information System (MIS) serves as
the primary source of information for the overall M&E system. It will be simple but efficient. It will be
used as a management tool to track TASAF inputs, processes, outputs and activities and to monitor
whether these are being delivered in line with the expectations of the TMU. It will also be used to collect,
store and generate information that will be used to measure benefits accruing to recipient communities and
to monitor the sustainability of the TASAF approach and the sustainability of community sub-projects.
The MIS is needed to provide TASAF managers access to physical and financial information about the
progress of project activities. The Management Information System (MIS) will permit managers, field
officers and beneficiaries to track the movement of resources as projects are implemented.
Sub-component (d) National Poverty Monitoring and Analysis:
This component will support the strengthening of the capacity of both government and other stakeholders to
collect, process analyze and disseminate data for poverty monitoring. This will include support to
implement and administer annual surveys using the Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ),
including the provision of the necessary equipment for implementation. It will also finance poverty analysis
initiatives. This sub-component will also facilitate the progressive refinement of the ranking process
through the building of capacity in the National Bureau of Statistics and elsewhere to create poverty maps
through the merging of household survey data, population census data and administrative data from
sectoral ministries. The poverty monitoring and analysis sub-component will complement other
Bank-assisted poverty initiatives in the context of the PRSP.
- 38 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
TANZANIA: SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT
Community Development Initiative                         37.84         0.97         38.81
Public Works                                             12.28         0.32         12.60
Institutional Development                                 5.58          0.42         6.00
Total Baseline Cost                                      55.70         1.71         57.41
Physical Contingencies                                   3.48         0.11          3.59
Price Contingencies                                     10.44         0.32         10.76
Total Project Costs             69.62         2.14         71.76
Total Financing Required             69.62          2.14        71.76
- 39 -



Annex 4
TANZANIA: SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT
Economic and Financial Analysis
Link to CAS and ESW
The proposed project would address one of the main tenets of the CAS by providing targeted social
improvements for poverty alleviation. TASAF's targeted areas of investment include community
development and empowerment, and the provision of a safety net for the poorest Tanzanians. The CAS
indicates that central government lacks the data and accountability necessary to provide sufficient local
services of adequate quality. In addition, budgeting methods and inadequate capacity within the civil
service delay the completion of new construction and raise unit costs. TASAF is designed to complement
the recent Local Government Act by supporting the phased devolution of responsibility to service-based
community organizations or local governments in order that they design, implement and manage basic
education, health, water, road maintenance, and other essential services. With improved quality of local
services and reduced unit costs of infrastructure, TASAF is expected to be an effective channel for
providing basic social services and facilitating the inclusion of the most vulnerable and deprived groups
into the mainstream socio-economic culture.
Target areas to receive TASAF financing are prioritized by using an index of relative poverty and
deprivation, constructed using data from the 1992 Income and Expenditure Survey (as better sources
become available during project implementation, they will be assessed and utilized to confirm and update
the initial analysis). In addition, participatory assessments have been conducted during project preparation
(with support from the PPF) to gain an understanding of the coping strategies utilized by the poor. The
findings have provided useful guidance to develop strategies that would complement the poor's own coping
mechanisms. The primary demands expressed at the community level were for schools, water points, and
health services.
Macroeconomic stabilization
Despite progress in recent years in terms of macroeconomic management and basic governance, Tanzania
remains one of the poorest countries in the world; measured not only by its 1997 per capita GNP of US$
246, but also in almost every measure of quality of life. Poverty has remained persistent, with more than
50 percent of the population below the poverty line. There was a decline in school enrollments in the 1990s
with primary gross enrollment falling from 70 to 66 percent of the school-age population; while health
expenditures and services are more pro-poor than in many neighboring countries, there are still many who
do not have access to care. Only 49 percent of the population has access to clean water. In terms of
transportation, much of the road network is not paved; further, the network does not reach a large share of
the population; and most of it is in poor or very poor condition. Improving these indicators is crucial to
creating a context for sustainable development.
Following the election of a new government in 1995, the Government, with support from the IMF and the
World Bank, renewed its program of economic stabilization and adjustment. While these reforms are
expected to bring about long-term economic development, in the short term they have led to reductions in
food subsidies and redundancies associated with cuts in parastatal and government employment. TASAF
aims to mitigate the short-term negative consequences of adjustment. The Public Works component is
designed to create short-term employment opportunities for those vulnerable groups able to work, while the
- 40 -



Community Development Initiatives (CDI) seeks to provide support for long-term development
opportunities for the poor through mobilizing communities to help themselves. TASAF requires
communities to prioritize investments and make contributions to investments and recurrent costs. In doing
so, its focus is more on helping the poor benefit from their own efforts, rather than simply providing
assistance. TASAF thus represents an important element in the process of macroeconomic adjustment, as
it provides ways to broaden the base of beneficiaries of economic change using the most cost-efficient
apparatus.
Economic Rates of Return
TASAF is primarily demand-driven. Under the CDI, representing about 60 percent of project funds,
communities identify and decide the type of project that is most needed in their area. As rational economic
actors, communities' choices will reflect those projects that provide the greatest rate of return to their
inputs of labor, time and materials. Given this, as well as that benefits gained are longer term rather than
short term, a traditional cost-benefit analysis is not suitable for the project.
Much of the returns to TASAF investments will be in the form of enhanced social capital and sustainability
of community assets. TASAF will pursue cost-effectiveness measures and simple screening procedures
where applicable. For example:
-   Cost-effectiveness of sub-projects will be ensured by provision to communities of project menus,
costed design options and encouragement of local competition in procurement of goods and services;
- Guidelines and checklists to guide the appraisal of sub-project proposals will be defined in the
Operational Manual, based on the experiences gained in other social fund projects, and district and
community participants will be trained in their use;
* Sub-projects will be appraised by TASAF in conjunction with relevant sectoral technical staff in order
to ensure that the technical specifications of sub-projects are consistent with sector technical standards
and that subsequent operating costs can be met;
* Under the CDI, community contributions as a share of sub-project cost will be taken as an indicator of
community ownership and commitment to maintain the productive life of the assets. An average of 20
percent of total sub-project cost is to be contributed by communities; and
* Beneficiary assessments, and additional modules in the MIS that is developed under the project, will
assess project impact on communities and beneficiaries.
Poverty Targeting Mechanism for TASAF CDI and PWP Components
A framework to undertake a systematic and transparent regional ranking and district selection criteria has
been developed to help TASAF identify priority areas. The Govemment of Tanzania would like to have
TASAF operate in all regions, both for equity reasons and to address and reach pockets of poor areas
within regions. In addition, in order to strengthen the ongoing Local Government Reform Program which
provides opportunity to adopt and introduce the broad-based community development approach and to
strengthen skills of district staff, the Government would like to have TASAF operate in at least 16 rural
districts (one district per region) that are presently undergoing reform. The above two themes are built into
the selection methodology that will relate to the issues of poverty, vulnerability and service accessibility. In
addition, Zanzibar will also be covered by the project. The total number of districts targeted for the project
are 42.
Regional Poverty and Service Accessibility Ranking: Ranking of regions was undertaken as a first step
to determine the number of districts (and consequently the amount of TASAF funding) that would be
- 41 -



assigned to each region. Given the scope of the project, and scarcity of reliable data, the indicators used for
the ranking exercise are: poverty level; food insecurity; primary school gross enrollment ratio; access to
safe water; access to health facility; AIDS case rates; and road accessibility. Next, a weight, based on the
importance and level of accuracy of each indicator, was assigned. Individual rankings are then weighted
and summed up across regions to produce a composite regional weight ranging from the most deprived (1)
to the least deprived (20). One issue to factor in is that even though a region may have a good overall
rating, there are pockets within regions which are worse off, thus, aggregation at the regional level will not
capture disparities within a region. This implies that there is a need to do an intra-regional (district-level)
ranking for those regions that are going to be covered by TASAF. The result from the regional ranking
exercise, and the number of districts proposed for each region, is given in the following table on regional
ranking.
Annex 4: Regional Ranking
Region                    Composite       Rank       Number of TASAF Districts
Index
TABORA                    5.1             1          3
SHINYANGA                 6.4             2          3
KAGERA                    7.1             3          3
KIGOMA                    7.5             4          3
LINDI                     7.7             5          3
MOROGORO                  8.4             6          2
ARUSHA                    8.7             7          2
RUKWA                     9.4             8          2
SINGIDA                   9.9             9          2
DODOMA                    10.0            10         2
COAST                     10.2            1 1        2
MBEYA                     10.7            12         2
MWANZA                    10.8            13         2
RUVUMA                    12.0            14         2
MTWARA                    12.4            15         2
IRINGA                    12.7            16         1
TANGA                     12.8            17         1
MARA                      14.4            18         1
KILIMANJARO               16.2            19         1
DARES SALAAM              17.5            20         1
ZANZIBAR                  n/a             N/a        2
TOTAL                                                42
The table indicates that priority should be given to the most-deprived districts such as Tabora, Shinyanga,
and Kagera, with less focus on areas such as Kilimanjaro and Dar es Salaam, when rolling out TASAF
project. Due to lack of comparable data, Zanzibar could not be included in the above exercise. But since
Zanzibar is known to have as much poverty and lacks adequate access to facilities, the Government has
decided to include Zanzibar, with two districts identified for TASAF activities.
- 42 -



District Selection: The next step involved district selection in the regions. The districts chosen as pilot
sites were retained for the main project. In addition, a list of districts where local government reform is
taking place, and the available district-level vulnerability data were provided. These three specifications
(pilot, local govemment and vulnerable districts) were combined to identify the proposed districts for
TASAF activities (except in Zanzibar). There was a significant number of overlaps amongst districts when
applying these criteria. The results are presented below.
Annex 4: District Selection
Region                     Number of TASAF          Proposed District for TASAF Activities*
Districts
TABORA                     3                        Tabora(v), Sikonge(v), Urambo(v)
SIENYANGA                  3                        Shinyanga DC (p,lg,v), Bariadi(v), Meatu(v)
KAGERA                     3                        Bukoba DC (p,lg), Muleba(v), Ngara(v)
KIGOMA                     3                        Kasulu (1g), Kibondo(v), Kigoma DC
LINDI                      3                        Kilwa (1g), Lindi(v), Nachingwea(v)
MOROGORO                   2                        Morogoro (v), Ulanga(lg)
ARUSHA                     2                        Mbulu(v), One Ig district
RUKWA                      2                        Sumbawanga DC (Ig, v). XX
SINGIDA                    2                        Singida DC (p,lg), choose Iramba or Manyoni (v)
DODOMA                     2                        Dodoma DC (p, Ig), Kondoa(v)
COAST                      2                        Kibaha DC (p), Bagamoyo DC (p)
MBEYA                      2                        Rungwe DC (1g), Kyela(v)
MWANZA                     2                        Magu DC (1g), Kwimba
RUVUMA                     2                        Songea DC (1g), Tunduru(v)
MTWARA                     2                        Tandahimba DC (Pilot), Newala(v)
IRINGA                     I                        Iringa DC (Ig, v)
TANGA                      I                        Muheza(v)
MARA                       I                        Bunda (v)
KILIMANJARO                I                        Rombo DC (p, Ig)
DAR ES SALAAM              1                        Temeke MC (1g)
ZANZIBAR                   2                        Pemba, Unguja (inclusion)
TOTAL                      42
* Note: v = vulnerability,     p  pilot districts, lg = local government selected districts.
- 43 -



NOTE: XX = regions to select vulnerable districts.
Selection Beyond the District Level:
Community Selection: Since the Public Works component is supply-driven, it is expected that the
districts and/or wards themselves will select communities in which the Public Works Component will
be functioning. They will use measurable and transparent criteria, such as poverty, vulnerability level,
and access to services, to select areas in which to function. The demand-driven aspect of the
Community Development Initiative component will not necessitate community selection; however,
districts may target weaker communities, using the kind of criteria outlined above, to carry out a more
focused facilitation.
Beneficiary selection: For the Public Works component, it is expected that some self-selection
targeting will take place due to the low wage rate (below the market or Government's minimum wage
rate, taking the lower of the two rates). In addition, during a participatory process, the village
assembly, using a set of objective criteria will identify those community members who are the neediest,
to participate in the program. These objective criteria may include demography (women-headed
household, and households with orphans for instance), asset ownership (land size, cattle, etc.), or
income. These criterianeed to be specified at the outset. Community Project Committees (CPCs)
should include all the identified needy members to the extent possible.
For Community Development Initiatives, the facilitation process will identify and ensure that
vulnerable groups (such as the elderly and orphans) are included in the Community Development
Initiative process, and that the sub-projects chosen reflect the needs and desires of these groups. In
addition, the process will ensure that at least 40% of the CPC members are women.
The Monitoring and Evaluation subcomponent of TASAF (under Component 3) will facilitate the
progressive refinement of the ranking process through the building of capacity in the National Bureau of
Statistics and elsewhere to create poverty maps through the merging of household survey data, population
census data and administrative data from sectoral ministries.
Financial Management
The Executive Director of TASAF will be accountable to the National Steering Committee for all the
financial activities of the Fund. Reporting to him on these matters will be a Director of Finance (DoF), a
senior member of the TASAF management team. The DoF will also be responsible for the Fund's staff
regulations, policies and procedures.
TASAF will establish the necessary Bank Accounts at National and District levels. Communities and other
implementing agencies will open bank accounts specifically for the project funds. The TASAF
Management Unit will transfer funds directly into the relevant Project Account and will keep and maintain
a database of all project accounts. The project will be implemented over a four year period, starting
November 1, 2000. TASAF's financial year ends on the 30th of June each year. The Project Completion
date will be November 1, 2004 and the credit closing date will be June 1, 2005.
The TMU will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting standards meet GOT
and World Bank standards. While activities such as appropriate staffing (Director of Finance, Internal
Auditor, TASAF District Accountants, Assistant Accountant and Cashier), agreement on the Terms of
Reference for external audits and the selection of an auditor, and an IDA-approved Financial Management
- 44 -



System constitute Phase 1 and are to precede project effectiveness, the adoption of a PMR-based
disbursement system will constitute Phase 2 of this process. The Executive Director and Director of
Finance for TASAF were appointed prior to Negotiations. A Financial Management Action Plan has been
developed and was made available at Negotiations.
At this point of planning the establishment of TASAF's financial management system, TASAF is not yet
ready for disbursements based on Project Management Reports (PMR), as detailed in the World Bank's
Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI, September 1998). Consequently, in the interim period, the
implementing agency will follow existing disbursement procedures as outlined in the World Bank's
Disbursement Handbook, but will also be expected to produce the PMR statements (Financial Statement -
Report IA and Section 3 - Procurement Management Reports) as set out in the World Bank's Accounting
Handbook. A time-bound Action Plan to begin PMR-based Disbursements was submitted prior to
Negotiations. The completion date for the transfer from the existing disbursement procedures to
PMR-based disbursement is September 30, 2001. A financial management review of the project should be
undertaken by a World Bank Financial Management Specialist within twelve months of credit effectiveness
(on or about November 2001) to assess progress. A Financial Management Assessment Report (based on
the findings of the Appraisal Mission) follows. Other relevant documents are to be found in the Project
Files.
The project has engaged a consulting firm to prepare the project accounting manual, and also to develop
and install a comprehensive integrated computerized accounting system. This computerized system will
deal with the multiplicity of financial transactions at the central, district and community levels and will also
be suitably integrated into the system being used by the Accountant-General's Office. A suitable
Management Information System will be developed to link financial information to technical and
operational data. The development of a suitable accounting system for use by all implementing agencies
will be a pre-requisite for the disbursement of funds to the districts and communities.
At the community level, Community Project Committees (CPCs) will be trained in project accounting and
book-keeping and will be responsible for maintenance of the project accounts based on the Accounting
Handbook being developed by the consultants. This Handbook will also include internal control guidelines
and procedures.
Financial Management Review. A thorough review of financial management was conducted during the
TASAF appraisal mission. The objective of the review was to determine whether the project has in place a
financial management system as required by the Bank under OP/BP 10.02, and the Project Financial
Management Handbook dated February 1999, as well as the capacity to properly manage and account for
all project proceeds and to produce timely, accurate and reliable Project Management Reports (PMRs) for
use by management and submission to the World Bank. The appraisal's review highlighted inadequacies in
existing systems and institutional capacity and concluded that TASAF is not prepared to adopt PMR-based
disbursement. A report and detailed action plan was therefore drafted outlining the steps to be taken by
TASAF to move the project to PMR-based Disbursement. As this would take some time, during the
interim period, the project will follow the existing or traditional disbursement procedure until IDA is
satisfied that the project has satisfactory financial management system in place and can move to
PMR-based disbursement. The action plan was reviewed and agreed upon during Negotiations. In
addition to this overall recommendation and follow-up action, the financial management review highlighted
a number of other issues and recommendations that are described below.
Institutional Arrangements. Recruitment of qualified accounting staff and development of satisfactory
accounting and procurement manual approved by IDA will be a condition of project effectiveness. The
- 45 -



following organization chart indicates the organizational structure and reporting arrangements that will be
followed.
Organization Chart (as in the Operational Manual)
TASAF Organizational Structure
Executive Director
Office Manager
Messenger
Internal Auditor
M&E/MIS
IEC/Training
Admin. Officer
Director PWP                  Director CDI                  Director Finance
Program Officers               PPT Specialist                   Accountant
Draftsman                       PDO                         Procurement
Tracer                    Program Officers                 Justification
TASAF Dt. Officers           TASAF Dt. Officers              Accounts Assistants
Account Assistants           Account Assistants                    Clerk
Drivers                      Drivers                          Cler
Messencers                   Messengers                        Cashier
Project Financial Management Systems. Based on the review carried out during the appraisal mission
the project does not have an adequate and satisfactory project financial system that satisfies the Bank's
minimum financial management requirements. In response to this finding, the project has engaged a
consulting firm to prepare the project accounting handbook, and also to develop and install a
comprehensive integrated computerized accounting system. The financial management information system
will be for the entire project, which also includes the accounting systems to be used at the district and
community level in order to ensure proper accountability of TASAF funds. The development of a suitable
accounting system for use by all implementing agencies will be a pre-requisite for the disbursement of
funds to the districts and communities. The system being developed should be adequate to meet TASAF
and Bank requirements and simple enough to be used and maintained at the community level with minimum
assistance. (See the FMS TOR, and Accounting Manual outline provided to the consultants - Project
Files). Accounts will be maintained in accordance with International Accounting Standards (LAS) on a
PC-based accounting program. To facilitate the production of financial information in a manner that will
allow it to be linked to technical and operational data, a Management Information System will be developed
in a manner that will permit the full integration of accounting information. Part of the impact of this
pre-testing will be the development of simple but effective systems to support the decentralization of
financial and management decisions.
At the community level, Community Project Committees (CPC) will be responsible for maintenance of the
project accounts based on the accounting manual being developed by the consultants. All accounts will be
- 46 -



available for inspection by TASAF or its authorized representatives Special training programs and the
training materials for communities should offer guidance on project accounting and simple bookkeeping.
These will need to be cleared by IDA. The computerized accounting system to be used at TMU will be the
Platinum System which is currently being used by GOT. The system can produce the PMRs.
Accounting Standards, Financial and Management Reporting. The project will apply international
accounting standards and the accounts will be reported on an accrual basis. One of the consultant's jobs is
to design the accounting system and develop the PMRs to be used for project reporting, identify parties
responsible for preparing and submitting reports; and identify and define the project chart of accounts to be
utilized. Project management will be provided with monthly information on the status of funds and on
project activities. Reporting will be prepared using PMR. The annual financial statement will also follow
this format but will include an additional schedule of supporting information on the accounting policies and
notes to the accounts. This will be reflected in the financial procedure manual.
Internal Control Environment. The review highlighted the need for the PPF-fmanced consultant to
strengthen intemal control guidelines and procedures in the accounting handbook that will provide
reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of objectives in the following categories:
*   Effectiveness and efficiency of operations.
*   Reliability of financial reporting.
-   Compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Currently, the project has a skeleton management, which is managing the pilot projects in the eight districts.
The current management consists of an Executive Director and Director of Finance. Under the proposed
TASAF organizational structure more positions will be filled both at TASAF HQ, and at the district level.
The recruitment of the proposed qualified accounting personnel is one of the conditions of project
effectiveness.
Disbursement Processing and Supporting Documentation. Disbursement will be made directly to the
local bank accounts opened in the name of the sub-project by the Community Project Committee (CPC) or
Implementing Agencies. This procedure would allow a decentralized approach combined with monitored
autonomy in the management and implementation of sub-projects. Disbursement will be made upon receipt
by TASAF of the following documents:
*  a summary appraisal report with recommendation/approval signed by the DSC or NSC;
*  details of the bank account to which the funds must be transferred;
*   documentary evidence of deposit by community of 5% of total project costs;
*   a procurement plan for the sub-project.
Upon such conditions being fulfilled, TASAF will transfer the project funds to the respective communities
in three installments of 30%, 40% and 30% of total project costs, respectively. The second and third
installments will be transferred upon TASAF receiving:
*   a statement of expenditures of all purchases made by the IA;
*   a bank statement for the sub-project which reconciles these expenditures;
*   a brief report (fornat to be prepared) on planned and actual progress; and
*  the procurement plan for the next phase.
The second installment will only be paid after the community has accounted for at least 70% of the first
- 47 -



installment and the third installment will only be disbursed if 70% of the second installment and 100% of
the first installment have been accounted for.
Before the third installment is disbursed, a re-assessment of the remaining requirements will be undertaken
by the TASAF District Officer in collaboration with the implementing agency to arrive at a revised budget
for the completion of the project. Originals of the purchase order, payment voucher and expenditure
documentation will be kept in the project file by the CPC. Copies of the purchase order, payment voucher,
and expenditure documentation will be submitted to TASAF.
With regard to the Public Works Project sub-projects, the TASAF District Accountant will open a project
local bank account. The disbursement to the sub-project will be in three tranches: 30%, 40% and 30%.
Release of the second and third tranches will be made on 70% justification of the previous tranche. The
TASAF District Accountant, under the supervision of the District Executive Director and the sector officer
responsible, e.g. from the Ministry of Works for roads, will be responsible for disbursing the tranches.
Disbursements for Public Works sub-projects will be made on receipt on evidence of direct transfers to the
District Council Accounts - evidence here will constitute a Bank transfer instruction to the respective Bank
account of the District Council.
Replenishment of Funds into IDA SpecialAccount. As funds get utilized both at TASAF-HQ/District
level and community level, the reporting of the funds utilized as per each sub-project/activity of project
category together with bank reconciliation will be done on a monthly basis to allow the Project Accountant
at TASAF HQ to submit withdrawal applications to IDA for replenishment of funds in the IDA Special
Account. Where the mode of disbursement is based on PMR, TASAF will be required to submit to IDA
within 45 days after end of the quarter a withdrawal application, the PMRs together with the bank
reconciliation; and a six-month cash forecast. (Refer to the LACI Implementation Handbook, Development
Credit Agreement and the Disbursement letter). For all expenditure claimed under SOE procedure or
PMR, all supporting documents will be retained at the respective project implementing agencies for internal
and external audit review, including IDA mission
review as agreed.
Sltal.ing. An assessment and evaluation of financial management staff backgrounds, experience,
qualifications and job descriptions was carried out (refer to the FM checklist in the Project Files).
Currently, the Director of Finance is in charge of the TASAF- PPF funds. More qualified staff such as the
Internal Auditor, Accounts Assistant, Justification Officer, and TASAF District Accountants will be
recruited before project effectiveness in order to enhance the Finance Department. Their qualifications and
job descriptions have been cleared by IDA and are covered in the Project Administrative Manual.
Audit Arrangements. Project External Audits: The annual financial statements of the project will be
audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank appointed in sufficient time to carry out the audit
in accordance with International Standards that are acceptable to the Bank. The audit report will be
submitted to IDA within six months after the end of the project financial year. According to GOT law, all
IDA projects which are implemented by the ministry are required to be audited by the Office of the
Controller and Auditor General (CAG). It is expected that TASAF project accounts will audited by the
CAG. The external auditor will conduct at year-end, both financial and performance audit in randomly
selected sub-projects based on TOR cleared by IDA. Auditing arrangements including the audit TOR will
be agreed on during negotiations.
Internal Audit: The District Intemal Auditor will conduct regular audit verification (statement of
expenditure review), preferably every month, and after completion of the sub-project to ascertain whether
individual expenditures are fully supported by adequate documentation. This includes assessing the
- 48 -



reliability and accuracy of the supporting documents to ensure that expenditures claimed are eligible for
financing under the agreed sub-projects and to verify the physical progress/completion of the sub-projects.
The Intemal Auditor will prepare and submit a monthly audit review report to the District Steering
Committee, the Community Project Committee and to the Internal Auditor based at TMU for further
follow-up/actions as needed. The technical and financial audits carried out regularly by the intemal
auditors will be used as part of the monitoring and evaluation exercise, and also may be used as a basis for
further fund releases to the districts and communities. In addition, the TASAF intemal auditor based at
TMU will conduct spot audits in some randomly-selected communities and as part of the mid-term review.
Budgeting and Monitoring. Once the project is submitted to the TASAF District Officer the project will
be appraised. During the appraisal, project proposals will be reviewed against the appraisal criteria set
forth in the Operational Manual of TASAF both at desk and field levels. Then the District Officer will
present project proposals and cost estimates to the District Management Team to appraise and approve the
sub-projects. The appraisal process will be based on: (i) the accuracy of architectural and construction
plans, technical specifications, cost break-downs, implementation arrangements etc. against the appraisal
criteria set out in the Operational Manual; (ii) the minutes of community meetings and direct interviews
with the beneficiaries to establish whether the proposed sub-project is a priority need of the community,
and if they have participated in the participatory planing process to identify the project in question and if
the CPC is democratically elected; (iii) the community's commitment, capability and willingness to
contribute 20 % of the total project cost and to make post-completion contributions to the maintenance and
operation of the facility; and also (iv) the commitment to and concurrence of the Village Development
Committee and Ward Development Committee. The District Steering Committee reviews the project
proposals against the basic objectives, principles, procedures set out in the Fund's Operational Manual and
the development priorities of the District.
If the project is found to be acceptable and costs less or equal to US$25,000 for the CDI component and
less or equal to US$50,000 for the PWP component, the District Steering Committee will approve the
project. On the other hand, for projects costing over US$ 25,000 and US$50,000 for the CDI and PWP
components respectively, the DSC will prioritize and rank these according to their importance to the
District's socio-economic development and forward them to the National Steering Committee for review.
Projects approved at District level will be sent to the HQ for information. For sub-projects approved by
the District Steering Committee, the TASAF District Officer will send to the TMU only copies of the
summary profile of sub-projects and the decisions reached by the District Steering Committee on such
projects at each particular meeting.
A well-defined computerized MIS (Management Information System) is being developed enable the project
to monitor physical progress and link it with financial expenditures.
Risk Assessment. The overall risk assessment is high at this stage of the project. The main reasons are
that the control systems and environment that will provide discipline and the structure are now being
developed. This includes the recruitment of qualified personnel, putting in place an adequate organization
structure, developing an accounting manual and an operational manual, and putting in place internal
control procedures and guidelines, including procurement guidelines. Until these are in place and reviewed
by IDA, the risk will appear high. The list of supporting documents for financial management are available
in Project Files and include:
* TASAF Financial Management Appraisal Check list
* TASAF Institutional Structure
- 49 -



* PMR Action Plan
*  TOR for development of the Financial Management system
- 50 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
TANZANIA: SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT
Years Ending
| Year  I | Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           6.1       16.1       27.0       16.3       2.5        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.9        0.9       1.0        0.9        0.1        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          7.0       17.0       28.0       17.2       2.6        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              7.0       17.0       28.0       17.2       2.6        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   5.4       13.2      24.1       15.1        2.2       0.0        0.0
Government                 0.6        0.9       0.9        0.7        0.1       0.0       0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries    1.0        2.9       3.0        1.4        0.3       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      7.0      17.0       28.0       17.2       2.6       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
Recurrent cost includes administrative cost for the TASAF Management Unit (TMU).
- 51 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
TANZANIA: SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT
Procurement
General
For procurement arrangements under TASAF, the exact mix of goods and services to be financed under the
project's Community Development Initiatives (CDI) and the Public Works Program (PWP) components
will depend on the results of community-prioritized sub-projects. Community Project Committees (CPCs)
will take the primary responsibility for procuring goods, services and civil works, but will be supported in
this by the TASAF Management Unit (TMU). Other procurement, such as technical assistance and
training, are agreed based on the needs identified for the first year of the project. Costs for the following
years are only indicative, and the exact mix of procurement will be determined on an annual basis.
Procurement for all IDA-financed activities will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in January and August
1996, September 1997, and January 1999), in particular, Section 3.15, Community Participation in
Procurement. Consulting services by firms or individuals financed by IDA will be awarded in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January
1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
Procurement Management
The TMU will be responsible for procurement of goods and consulting services that will be required at the
National coordinating office and TASAF District Office. The District Office will be responsible for the
coordination of project activities at the District level.
An Operational Manual has been prepared by the Govemnment. It is a living document that will be
continuously modified, subject to agreements between GOT and IDA, as new lessons are learned and
incorporated for future use. It will include basic guidelines for the sub-project cycle, procurement of goods
and services, disbursement arrangements, accounting and reporting requirements. More details will be
described in various handbooks to be developed, e.g., a Procurement Handbook, a Financial Management
handbook, and a Community Implementation Handbook. Procurement for TASAF-financed community
sub-projects will follow procedures described in the Procurement Handbook and the Community
Implementation Handbook, and the Financing Agreement to be signed between the TASAF and the
community will spell out the responsibilities of each party in procurement, disbursement and financial
management.
TASAF will operate in accordance with detailed procurement procedures to be specified in the Procurement
Handbook. Procurement of equipment, vehicles, supplies and services for the TASAF will be the
responsibility of the TMU. The TMU will also provide assistance to the District Office to facilitate
procurement under all the three components of the project. Procurement for sub-projects will be the
responsibility of the beneficiary community. In limited cases, and only when project materials are not
available locally and upon request from the beneficiary community, the TMU will procure on behalf of the
community. Procurement training will be offered to each beneficiary community at the time of project
launch.
TASAF's 42 District Offices, each of which will be headed by a TASAF District Officer (TDO), assisted
- 52 -



by the relevant Technical Officer in the District Management Team (DMT), will be responsible for: (i)
when asked, assisting the community and District Management Teams (DMT), to identify and prioritize
sub-projects; (ii) provide the community with standardized designs (developed by line ministries) and
market prices (from a databank); (iii) monitoring contracts entered into by the communities at the local
level and, when asked, assisting the communities in undertaking the tendering process for goods and
materials procured by the communities; (iv) supervise the works (this may be done by NGOs chosen
primarily on a competitive basis); and (v) coordinate and obtain clearances from the TMU. The TDOs will
also be responsible for maintaining appropriate forms for contracts to be used by the communities. In
cases where National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for the sub-projects is necessary, the TMU, with the
assistance of relevant Line Ministries, will coordinate the bidding process on behalf of the conimunity. The
TMU will prepare the material requirements and bills of quantities. The TMU will also be responsible for
conducting ex-post audits of the adequacy of procurement procedures by the TDO on a selective basis, for
contracts US$10,000 equivalent and above. Monitoring and audit procedures for procurement by the TDO
will be detailed in the Procurement Handbook. TASAF staff will be trained, once recruited, in IDA
procurement procedures, and ongoing support will be provided from the World Bank throughout the project
life.
Procurement Planning
The TMU will prepare a draft General Procurement Notice (GPN), in particular describing procurement of
goods and services; finalized and published in the United Nations Development Business (UNDB) and in
local newspapers immediately after negotiations. The GPN will be updated every year and submitted to
IDA. It will show all outstanding ICB for goods and consulting assigrments. A procurement plan for the
first year will be prepared by the Borrower and agreed upon at negotiations. The procurement plan will
include relevant infornation on all goods, and consulting services under the project as well as timing of
each milestone in the procurement process. The management and actual status of all procurement will be
reflected in the quarterly reports prepared by the TMU and submitted to IDA.
At the TASAF District Office, the TDO shall prepare the General Advertising of the Opportunity to Bid
(GAOB) for approval by the District Steering Committee (DSC). The TDO shall make arrangements for
the approved GAOB to be published in the local newspapers and the localities or places where potential
contractors and suppliers are likely to visit. This advertisement would be equivalent to the GPN for ICB
contract. The GAOB will be published as soon as the first set of sub-projects in the District ( or
respective local area) is coming for approval. The GAOB will be updated every year.
Price Databank
The TMU will develop and maintain a data base of regionally specific market prices, as part of the cost
control system and to assure that contract selection is transparent and economic. It will include costs and
rates for at least 40 of the most commonly required items based on project costs during the previous three
months, or from a random sample of suppliers and employers. Such unit prices will be updated at least on
a quarterly basis. Unit prices for other required items will be updated on a rotational basis, to be updated
at least twice a year. The data will be used in appraisal and monitoring, as a tool to review the project
budget and as a guide when procurement is through direct contracting. Details of the methodology for
preparing the database will be provided in the Operational Manual.
Procurement Monitoring and Evaluation
The TMU will monitor all procurement-related information for project implementation. Such monitoring
will provide information including the TDO supervising the procurement process, number and amount of
- 53 -



contracts awarded under each TDO's supervision, procurement methods, amount and nature of contracts
procured through each method, number and amount of contracts subject to prior review by IDA, and
number of beneficiary communities that have been direcfly contracted to execute works. The reports will
be reviewed by IDA during the supervision missions.
Procurement methods (see Table A and Al), and Prior Review Thresholds (see Table B).
TASAF Sub-projects
As far as possible, subprojects that involve works will be implemented through civil works contracts.
Contracts under the TASAF sub-projects would be mostly small, labor intensive, community-based
activities such as construction of classrooms, water wells, dug-out ponds, and trees planting. It is unlikely,
therefore, those contracts will attract international bidders. Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) for
works is therefore not anticipated. A popularly elected Community Project Committee (CPC) will be
responsible for procuring all goods, materials, labor, transport, and other inputs for the works, or hiring an
appropriate implementing agency or contractor, following the procedures described in the Procurement
Manual and the Community Implementation Handbook.
Such Implementing Agencies (lAs), selected based on criteria established in the CDI handbook, will use
community labour and will purchase goods or materials through methods prescribed in their contract
agreement signed with the community. TASAF will disburse funds to the communities in tranches against
certified completion. The CDI component finances and supports small demand-driven initiatives in the
social sectors that improves the accessibility and delivery of social and economic services and enhances the
capacity of communities and local development partners. The average size of a CDI sub-project will be
US$ 20,000, with a maximum size of US$ 25,000, and will include a minimum community contribution of
20% in the form of labour, materials and cash.
The types of work to be financed under the PWP component will include the rehabilitation and maintenance
of feeder roads, water retention structures for small-scale irrigation, water and soil conservation
reclamation programs, afforestation programs, and the construction of terraces. In peri-urban areas,
sewerage systems, access roads, and pavement at market places and car parks will be constructed,
rehabilitated or maintained.
The average size of a PWP sub-project will be US$ 40,000, with a maximum size of US$ 50,000. It is
expected that sub-projects of this size will provide sufficient income transfer to vulnerable members of the
community, be manageable within existing district and zonal implementation capacity, while maximizing
the number of projects throughout the country. Approximately 350 sub-projects are expected throughout
the life of TASAF. Initial implementation will take place in ten districts, with priority given to those
districts where pilots have been initiated and to those districts identified under the poverty ranking exercise
undertaken during TASAF preparation. After the first year, the PWP component will expand to take place
in the same number of districts as under the CDI component. The phasing of the PWP component,
whereby sub-projects will be operating simultaneously in ten districts, will minimize constraints to zonal
and national implementation capacity and allow sufficient time to build up processes and mechanisms for
TASAF PWP delivery.
Contracts under PWP sub-projects would be implemented by public agencies (technical teams comprising
the Govemment's sector specialists, the District Council's Purchasing Officer and Treasurer and the TDO
and Accounting Officer) through labour contracts with local communities and through contracts with
qualified local village contractors selected--to the extent possible--on the basis of at least three quotations.
- 54 -



When insufficient qualified local contractors are available, public agencies may, with the prior approval of
the TDO or PO, resort to direct contracting with a local village contractor on the basis of prices
periodically published by TASAF.
Given the social objectives of the project and the intended use of NGO, community labor, and
labor-intensive methods, small works and procurement of goods and supplies for TASAF sub-projects
costing less than the equivalent of US$ 25,000 per contract will be carried out by Community Participation
methods in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank and described in the Procurement Manual.
These procedures include: lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained
from three qualified domestic contractors/suppliers in response to a written specification. Contracts
exceeding the equivalent of US$ 25,000, where sufficient competition from national bidders maybe
expected to be available, will be procured using the National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures.
Where works are very small and scattered or are in remote locations for which there is no local capacity or
no qualified contractors, Force Account may be used in accordance with Paragraph 3.8 of the Procurement
Guidelines, each contract not exceeding the amount of US$ 10,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$
200,000.
Goods and equipment to be procured would includevehicles, office equipment, computers and software for
TASAF district and central offices The total estimated amount for goods and equipment isUS$ 3 million.
Contracts which are estimated to cost more than the equivalent of US$ 100,000 will be procured by
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000,
but more than US$ 25,000, will be procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures.
Goods and equipment that are estimated to cost less than US$ 25,000 per contract may be procured by
Shopping procedures in accordance with the Guidelines. Contracts on or above the individual threshold of
US$ 100,000 equivalent will be subject to IDA's prior review.
Consultancy Services:
The project will finance consultancy services for preparation of the Financial and Accounting Manual;
Management Information System (MIS); Monitoring and Evaluation System; and Capacity building. The
consultancy services will be procured in accordance with Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997, revised in September 1997, and
January 1999, and using the appropriate Standard Form of Contract. In principle, the project will
encourage, to the extent possible, engagement of national consultants with a view to develop local capacity,
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. This may be done through short-listing of national consultants
in cases of contracts of small value (below thresholds; see below) or by setting selection criteria which
provides higher weights to national consultants when candidates have similar qualifications and experience.
However, foreign firms/consultants will probably be used for more complex assignments and, in case of
expression of interest, they will not be excluded from the selection process for smaller assignments.
Contracts estimated to cost on or above the threshold of $100,000 for firms will be awarded through the
Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method (refer to Section II, para. 2.1-2.28, of the Consultant
Guidelines). The short-list for contracts below the threshold of $100,000, in which local capacity is
readily available, may comprise entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of individual consultants will be made according to
Section V, para. 5.1-5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
The Standard "Request for Proposals (RFP)" and Form of Contracts as developed by the Bank will be used
for appointment of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short term assignment, i.e., those not
- 55 -



exceeding three months, carried out by firms or individual consultants. Firms will be invited to submit
expression of interest for each assignment. Prior IDA review will apply for: (i) Terms of Reference (TOR)
for all consultancy services; (ii) contracts to be awarded on the basis of sole source recruitment; (iii)
selection procedures, short-list and request for proposals (RFP), qualifying technical proposals, final
evaluation reports, and draft contracts when the estimated cost of the contract exceeds US$ 25,000 for
individual consultants and US$ 50,000 for firms; (iv) assignments of critical nature (as reasonably
determined by the Bank) for individuals and firmns estimated to cost less than US$ 25,000 and US$ 50,000
respectively; and (v) contract amendments raising the values over US$ 25,000 and US$ 50,000 for
individuals and firmns respectively. All consultancy services not subject to prior review will be subject to
post review in accordance with Appendix 1 of the Guidelines for selection of consultants. The TASAF
Executive Director has been briefed about the features of the new Guidelines (January 1997, revised in
September 1997 and January 1999--with a copy provided to him), in particular with regard to
advertisement and public opening. Training workshops on the selection of consultants will be conducted
prior to or during the project launching workshops.
Procurement methods (Table A)
ICB       NCB        C muity          Othe        N.F*           Total
~Part~ictipation  ~,~Methods*_____
CDI                                                    34.5                        9.4          43.8
.(IDA Share)                                           34.5                                     34.5
PWVP                                                   13.8                         0.4         14.1
(IDA Share)                                            13.8                                     13.8
Goods                         1.7         0.6                         0.7                       3.0
(IDA Share)                   1.7         0.6                         0.7                       3.0
Consultants/TA/Workshop_                                              4.7          0.8           5.5
(IDA Share)                                                           4.7                        4.7
Operating Costs                                                       4.1          1.2           5.4
(IDA Share)                                                           4.1                       4.1
Total                         1.7         0.6          48-3           9.5          11.8         71.7
(IDA Share)                   1.7         0.6          48.3           9.5                       60.0
Note: Operating costs include office supplies, utility costs, operation and maintenance, and salaries of the
TMU support staff (such as clerks, secretaries and drivers) and all office rentals for the duration of the project.
- 56 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Conultnt  .- , . .2, ':..0j ,'X''-.v'.<,1.ct ,  ;~o..
A. Firms            0.50       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.33      0.00       0.00      0.83
(0.50)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.33)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.83)
B. Individuals      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      3.82       0.82      4.64
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (3.82)    (0.00)    (3.82)
Total   0.50      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.33      3.82       0.82      5.47
. 1  (0.50)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.33)    (3.82)    (0.00)    (4.65)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consulants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure                 Contract Value   Procurement           Contracts Subject to
Category                   (Threshold)    Method                   Prior Review / Estimated
Total Value Subject to
Prior Review (US$ rnil)
1. Community Development    < $25,000      Conununity participation    First five contracts under
Initiatives                (sub-project    and Minor Works         sub-projects2/
value)         Procurement ( three
quotations)
>$25,000      NCB                      First five contracts
2. Public Works             <$50,000       Community Participation,   Post Review
(sub-project   and Minor Works
value)         procurement (three
quotations)             Post Review
<$25,000
(individual    National Shopping       First five contracts
contracts)
>$25,000       NCB
- 57 -



3. Equipment and Furniture   < $25,000       Shopping, IAPSO           Post Review
Supplies and Vehicles       $25,000 and    NCB                       First five contracts
< $100,000
> $100,000      ICB                      All contracts
4. Consultant Servicesl/
Firms                     < $50,000        QCBS (CQ and methods    None3/
may be used, subject to
prior approval from IDA)
>$50,000       QCBS                      All contracts
Individuals               < $50,000        Bank Guidelines          None3/
>$50,000       Bank Guidelines           All contracts
ICB            =  International Competitive Bidding
NCB            =  National Competitive Bidding
IS            =  International Shopping
NS             =  National Shopping
IAPSO         =  United Nations Inter-Agency Procurement Office
QCBS          =  Quality and Cost-Based Selection
CQ            =  Consultant Qualifications-Based Selection
1/ All terms of reference for consulting services, including those specified in
the project manuals will be subject to IDA's prior review.
2/ Exemption from prior review does not apply to contracts under Force
Account.
3/ Exemption from prior review does not apply to consultant contracts in case of single-source selection of
firms and individuals, assignments of critical nature, and amendments to contracts raising the original
value above the respective thresholds.
Overall Risk Assessment
HIGH
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every Six (6) months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
- 58 -



Weaknesses:
(i) TASAF Management Unit (TMU)
There is no trained procurement staff (Procurement Expert) to coordinate and supervise the procurement
activities at TMU office, and to follow-up on all procurement activities in the districts. The TMU,
through implementation of the PPF, have acquired some experience in the planning and procurements of
small contract values (mainly procurement of goods through shopping, and selection of short-term
consultants).
(ii) Procurement Manual
No adequate procurement manual exists: TASAF had prepared the first draft document which was
reviewed by the appraisal mission. The document was found to be inadequately prepared. The major
weakness noted include the following : the manual did not (i) articulate the public procurement
procedures and IDA Guidelines; (ii) categorically indicate procurement methods, approval methods,
major procurement steps such as advertisement, tender submission and opening, etc.; (iii) prescribe any
procurement procedures as regards procurement of goods, works, and selection of consultants; (iv)
specify or make reference to Community Based Procurement; and (v) seem to have any convergence with
the TASAF Operational Manual.
(ii) Districts
Procurement responsibilities fragmented in different District Council Departments.
Recommendations
1. TASAF to finalize the Procurement Handbook at least before project effectiveness. The Procurement
Handbook should: (i) articulate the public procurement procedures and IDA Guidelines; (ii) categorically
indicate procurement methods, approval methods, major procurement steps such as advertisement, tender
submission and opening, etc.; (iii) prescribe procurement procedures as regards procurement of goods,
works, and selection of consultants; (iv) specify or refer to Community Based Procurement; and (v) be
prepared in the context of the TASAF Operational Manual.
2. TMU to recruit the Procurement Expert to head the procurement unit prior to project effectiveness.
The Procurement Expert will report directly to the Director of Finance subject to review after the first six
months.
3. Each District Council should assign one Supplier Officer and Storekeeper Assistant to assist the TDO
on TASAF procurements. In addition, each District Council should set aside a room to store tools and
materials designed for TASAF's PWP activities. Tools procured by districts for the first PWP
sub-project will probably be used for the subsequent sub-projects until they become unusable.
4. TASAF, in collaboration with IDA, to organize a 2-3 day workshop on procurement familiarization
exclusively for district personnel (Secretary to Tender Board--Treasurer; TDO; Supplies Officer; and
Storekeeper), and TMU, who will deal with TASAF procurements. This workshop should be conducted
prior to or at the time of launching the project.
- 59 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The proposed allocation of proceeds is shown in Table 6 C. Disbursement will be made directly to the
local bank accounts opened in the name of the sub-project by the Community Project Committee (CPC) or
Implementing Agencies. This procedure would allow a decentralized approach combined with monitored
autonomy in the management and implementation of sub-projects. Disbursement will be made upon receipt
by TASAF of the following documents:
*   a summary appraisal report with recommendation/approval signed by the DSC or NSC;
*   details of the bank account to which the funds must be transferred;
*   documentary evidence of cash deposit by community into a bank account;
*   a procurement plan for the sub-project.
Upon such conditions being fulfilled, TASAF will transfer the project funds to the respective communities
in three installments of 30%, 40% and 30% of total project costs, respectively. The second and third
installments will be transferred upon TASAF receiving:
*   a statement of expenditures of all purchases made by the IA;
*   a bank statement for the sub-project which reconciles these expenditures;
*   a brief report (format to be prepared) on planned and actual progress; and
-   the procurement plan for the next phase.
The second installment will only be paid after the community has accounted for at least 70% of the first
installment and the third installment will only be disbursed if 70% of the second installment and 100% of
the first installment has been accounted for.
Before the third installment is disbursed, a re-assessment of the remaining requirements will be undertaken
by the TASAF District Officer in collaboration with the implementing agency to arrive at a revised budget
for the completion of the project. Originals of the purchase order, payment voucher and expenditure
documentation will be kept in the project file by the CPC. Copies of the purchase order, payment voucher,
and expenditure documentation will be submitted to TASAF.
With regard to the Public Works Project sub-projects, the TASAF District Accountant will open a project
local bank account. The disbursement to the sub-project will be in three tranches: 30%, 40% and 30%.
Release of the subsequent tranches will be made on 70% justification of the previous tranche. The TASAF
District Accountant, under the supervision of the District Executive Director and the sector officer
responsible, e.g. from the Ministry of Works for roads, will be responsible for disbursing the tranches.
Disbursements for Public Works sub-projects will be made on receipt of evidence of direct transfers to the
District Council Accounts and evidence here will constitute a Bank transfer instruction to the respective
Bank account of the District Council.
The Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) is an integral part of GOT's decentralization program. Its
unique design feature is that it utilizes fully funded local government institutions and staff. Under the
Local Government Reform Program, the district is the focal point for all development interventions and has
the authority to allocate resources within its jurisdiction. Accordingly, resources for community level
interventions will be channeled via the districts. Since TASAF funding complements district development
programs that are part of the district development plans, districts have undertaken to co-finance the
sub-projects from their annual budgetary allocations. The demonstrated level of co-financing (this ranged
- 60 -



between 8% and 10% in the pilot areas) obviates the need for GOT to be obligated to put up counterpart
funds. The commitment to co-finance sub-projects has been formalized through a Memorandum of
Understanding that the districts will sign with the TMU. The MOU articulates and details the local
authorities involvement and responsibilities throughout the TASAF sub-project cycle. This undertaking
reaffirms TASAF's transparency and accountability principles as well as guarantees quality, cost
effectiveness and sustainability of the assets created.
The autonomous nature of TASAF eliminates any major role for the central government except as
exercised through the broad based National Steering Committee whose function is to provide policy
guidelines, approve annual workplans and financial transfers to districts, and monitor and evaluate overall
project implementation and impact. Central-level GOT contribution would therefore include the funding of
the NSC members, the provision of national office space and technical guidance from the desk officers of
the different ministries as provided through routine supervision of the district level technical staff. In
addition, GOT funding of other organs of government such as regional staff and functionaries, coupled
with indirect district financing of the District Steering Committees (DSC) District Management Teams
(DMT), village and ward executives (all of whom will undertake significant appraisal and supervision of
sub-projects) is estimated at between USD $500-800,000 per annum which is adequate to cover the indirect
tax element of TASAF.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
~Ex   ditur cgory           Amount in US$im Wfln          Fg-V  -.t.
Community Sub-Projects                     30.78           95% of amounts paid by TASAF MU
Public Works                               12.31           95% of amounts paid by TASAF MU
Equipment, furmiture, supplies and          2.63          100% of foreign expenditures and 90 %
Vehicles                                                          of local expenditures
Consultant Services, Training,             4.14                         100%
Workshops, Studies and Audits
Operating Costs                             4.14                90% of Local expenditure
Refunding of Project Preparation            1.20              Amount due pursuant to DCA
Advance
Unallocated                                4.80
Total Project Costs                        60.00
Total                                      60.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
All applications to withdraw proceeds from the credit will be fully documented, except for: (i) expenditures
of contracts with an estimated value of US$ 100,000 each or less for civil works; (ii) US$ 100,000 or less
for goods, consulting firms, training, workshops and studies; and (iii) US$50,000 or less for individual
consultants and incremental operating costs, which may be claimed on the basis of certified Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs). Documentation supporting expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained by the
TMU and will be available for review when requested by IDA supervision missions and project auditors.
All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the Development Credit Agreement and the procedures
defined in the Disbursement Letter.
- 61 -



Special account:
To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for works, goods and services, the Government will
open a special account in a commercial bank to cover part of IDA's share of eligible expenditures to be
managed and administered by the TMU. Authorized allocation of the special account would be US$
1,000,000 covering an estimated 4 months of eligible expenditures financed by IDA. The TMU will be
responsible for submitting monthly replenishment applications with appropriate supporting documents for
expenditures. To the extent possible, all of IDA's share of expenditures should be paid through the special
account.
As funds get utilized both at TASAF-HQ/District level and community level, the reporting of the funds
utilized as per each sub-project/activity of project category together of bank reconciliation will be done on a
monthly basis to allow the Project Accountant at TMU to submit a withdrawal application to IDA for
replenishment of funds to the IDA Special Account. In cases where the mode of disbursement is based on
PMR, TASAF will be required within 45 days after the end of the quarter to submit to IDA the withdrawal
application and the PMRs together with the bank reconciliation; and a six-month cash forecast. ( Refer
LACI implementation Handbook, DCA, and Disbursement letteo. For all expenditure claimed under SOE
procedure or PMR, all supporting documents will be retained at the respective project implementing
agencies for intemal and external audit review including IDA mission review as agreed.
- 62 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
TANZANIA: SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       12
First Bank mission (identification)              02/09/99                      02/09/99
Appraisal mission departure                      04/17/2000                    04/17/2000
Negotiations                                     06/19/2000                    06/19/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    12/01/2000                    12/01/2000
Prepared by:
Tanzania Social Action Fund-Management Unit, Government of Tanzania
Preparation assistance:
PPF No. Q157-0 TA = approx. $1,200,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialityj:-
Norbert Mugwagwa                   Pr. Operations Officer/Team Leader
Prasad C. Mohan                    Co-Task Manager and Communications Specialist
Emmanuel Malangalila               Co-Task Manager and Program Officer, Social Sectors
David Bruns                        Economist
V.S. Krishnakumar                  Sr. Procurement Specialist
Pascal Tegwa                       Procurement Analyst
Ghazali Raheem                     Information Tech. Analyst
Parmesh Shah                       Coordinator, Participation
Yisgedullish Amde                  Sr. Operations Analyst
Samantha De Silva                  Operations Officer
Florian Fichtl                     Operations Officer
Said Al Habsy                      Sr. Counsel
Timothy Marchant                   Pr. Statistician
Jean-Roger Mercier                 Pr. Environmental Specialist
Susan Opper                        Consultant
Pascale Dubois                     Counsel
Mercy Sabai                        Financial Management Specialist
Steen Jorgensen                    Peer Reviewer
Laura Frigenti                     Peer Reviewer
Luisa Ferreira                     Peer Reviewer
Jan Weetjens                       Rural Sociologist
Elizabeth Sakaya                   Disbursement Assistant
Rest Lasway                        Education Specialist
Victoria Fofanah                   Program Assistant
Evelyne Kapya                      Secretary, Social Sector
- 63 -



Gladys Minja                           Secretary, Social Sector
Rosalie Ferrao                         External Affairs Assistant
- 64 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
TANZANIA: SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Operational Manual and Handbooks for Tanzania Social Action Fund
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Economic Analysis
2   Aide Memoire - Identification Mission - February 17, 1999
3. Aide Memoire - Pre-appraisal Mission - April 28, 1999
4. Aide Memoire and Annexes- Appraisal Mission - April 16, 2000
5. Financial Management Capacity Assessment and Action Plan
6. Procurement Capacity Assessment and Action Plan
C. Other
1. Tanzania's Growth Potential: A background paper for the Country's 1995 Economic Memorandum
(CEM) by Haji Semboja and Samuel Wangwe, May 1995, Economic and Social Research
Foundation (ESRP) Discussion Paper Series No. 004.
2. Levels and Determinants of Expenditures on the Treatment of HIV/AIDS in Tanzania by Paula
Tibandebage, Samuel M. Wangwe, Phare Mujinja and Richard Bail, ESRF Discussion paper No.
13.
3. Managing Tanzania's Economy in Transition to Sustained Development by Benno J. Ndulu and
Samuel M.Wangwe, ESRF Discussion Paper No. 14.
4. The Management of Foreign Aid in Tanzania by Samuel M. Wangwe, ESRF Discussion paper No.
15.
5. Operational Manual, August 1999.
6. National AIDS Control Programme H1V/AIDS/STD Surveillance, Report No. 12, December 1997,
Ministry of Health, Tanzania Mainland.
7. Strategic Framework for the Third Medium Term Plan (MTP-III) for Prevention and Control of
HIV/AIDS/STDS 1998-2002, National AIDS Control program, Ministry of Health, Tanzania
(Mainland), Dar es Salaam, July 1998.
8. Report of Bagamoyo Workshop, 1999.
9. Environmental Analysis of TASAF-funded subprojects.
10. Memorandum of Understanding between District Executive Director and TASAF.
*Including electronic files
- 65 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
TANZANIA: SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Ortginal Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                     IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
TZ-PE-47761    1999 GOVT                      TAX ADMINISTRATION                                 0.00     40.00       0.00      38.27       0.00       0.00
TZ-PE-2789    1998 GOVT                       HUMAN RESOURCE DEV 1                               0.00     20.90       0.00      14.68       1.50       0.00
TZ-PE-2804    1998 GOVT                       AGRIC RESEARCH                                     0.00     21.80       0.00      18.94       0.63       0.00
TZ-PE-2753     1997 GOVERNMENT                NATEXTPROJPH.II                                    0.00      31.10      000       18.82       7.42       0.00
TZ-PE-2821    1997 GOVT OF TANZANIA           SAC I                                              0.00     131.50      0.00      24.15      24.98      27.46
TZ-PE-38570    1997 GOVT                      RIVER BASIN MGM.SMAL                               0.00     26.30       0.00      17.41       4.39       0.00
TZ-PE-46837    1997 GOVERNMENT                LAKE VICTORIA ENV.                                 0.00      10.10      0.00       6.98       1.57       0.00
TZ-PE-2758    1996 GOT                        URBAN SECTOR REHAB                                 0.00     105.00      0.00      76.50      16.21       0.00
TZ-PE-2812     1995 MINISTRY OF ENERGY        MINERAL SECTOR DEV.                                0.00      12.50      000        2.97       1.41       0.00
TZ-PE-2770     1994 GOVTOFTANZANIA            ROADSII                                            0.00     170.20      0.00     146.15     142.95       0.00
TZ-PE-2801    1994 GOVT OFTANZANIA            ASMP                                               0.00     24.50       2.48       5.87       5.70       0.00
TZ-PE-2756     1993 GOVT.                     POWER VI                                           0.00    20000        0.00      37.48      15.32       0.00
TZ-PE-2780    1993 GOVT                       TELECOM III                                        0.00     74.45       0.00      15.57      16.15      16.07
TZ-PE-2788    1993                            PRIV. PUB. SECT. MGT                               0.00     34.90       0.00       2.73       0.66       0.00
TZ-PE-2817    1993                            FIN&LEGALMGT PROJ                                  0.00     20.00       0.68       3.87       4.07       2.58
TZ-PE-2757    1991                            RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURI                               0.00     76.00      1097       18 33      25.43      -1 80
TZ-PE-2786    1991                            PETROL REHAB                                       000      44.00       0.00      14.77      12.60      12.29
Total:       0.00    1,043.25       14.13      463.49    280.99      56.60
- 66 -



TANZANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1989               TASCO                         0.88    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.88    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991               Mufindi Tea                   0.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.43    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/97            TPS Zanzibar                  1.01    0.10    0.19    0.00    1.01    0.10    0.19    0.00
1993               TPS (Tanzania)                7.00    1.04    0.87    0.00    7.00    1.04    0.87    0.00
1993/96            AEF Tanganyika                0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               AEF Moshi Lthr                0.00    0.00    0.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.19    0.00
1994               AEF Nomad Safari              0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               AEF Raffia Bags               0.33    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.33    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               Eurafrican Bank               0.00    0.00    0.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.73    0.00
1994               Tanzania Brewery              0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00
1994               ULC Leasing                   1.88    0.00    0.95    0.00    1.88    0.00    0.76    0.00
1995               AEF MIC Tanzania              0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               AEF Tanbreed                  0.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.70    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Contiflora                0.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.35    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Milcafe                   0.21    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.21    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Zainab Grain              0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               iHP                           1.41    0.00    0.60    0.00    1.41    0.00    0.60    0.00
1997               AEF Aquva Ginner              0.68    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.68    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Hort. Farms               0.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.70    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               DATEL                         2.25    0.00    0.51    0.00    1.35    0.00    0.48    0.00
1997/99            AEF Pallsons                  0.78    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.78    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Blue Bay                  1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Drop Zanziba              0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Maji Masafi               1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Tanzania Jubilee              0.00    0.00    0.29    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.29    0.00
TotalPortfolio:        22.77    1.14   10.39    0.00   20.87    1.14   10.11    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
- 67 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
TANZANIA: SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT
Sub-                                                     9/22/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Saharan        Low-
Tanzania      Africa   income       Development dlamond'
1998
Poosulation mid-vear(millionsl                            32 1        628      3515                    Life expectancy
GNP Der canita (Atlas method. US$)                         210        480        520
GNP (Atlas method US$ billions)                             R 7       3n4      1 R44
Averane annual arowth. 1992-98
Poeulation (%)                                              2 8        2 6        1.7
Labor force (%i                                             1 9        2 6        1 9     GNP                                 Gross
Most recent estimate ilatest vear available. 1992-981                                     capita                           prnirynt
Povertv 1% of ooDulation below national Dovertv line)
Urban ooDulation (% of total DoDulationl                    26         33         31
Life exnectancv at birth (vears)                            48         51         63
Infant mortalitv toer 1.000 live births)                    85         91         69
Child malniutrition f% /of children under 5)                31                                       Access to safe water
Access to safe water 1% of DoDulation)                      49         47         74
Illiteracv (% of ooDulation ane 15+1                        28         42         32
Gross orimarv enrollment (% of school-aae DoDulatiDn)       66         77        108                    Tanzania
Male                                                      67         84        113                   Low-income group
Female                                                    66         69        103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997       1998
Economic ratios'
GDP fUS5 billions)                                         3 8         71        7 9
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                             39.8        163       160
Fynnrts nf nnnds and sPrvircs/GnP                         107         176       1  R                       Trade
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                                20 1         5 4       6 0
Gross national savinoslGDP                                 16.2        4 3       4 4                          T
Current acnount halanne./GnP                               -27       -11 9      -14 1
Interest oavments/GDP                                       1 2        0 6       0 5      Domestic                       Investment
Total debtlGDP                                           146 0       101 6      894       Savings           \
Total debt service/exDorts                        8 3     35.4        120       135
Present value of debtlGDP                                             75.3
Present value of debtleynorts                                       405.0
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998   1999-03
(averaoe annual arowth)
GDP                                               2.9       4 0        3 4        5 3                    Tanzania
GNP oer caoita                                    0.1       1.4        0 2       2 6                     Low-income group
Exnorts of ooods and services                    103      -12.3      -12.8       5 4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987        1997      1998       Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Aariculture                                               59 2        473       46 3
Industrv                                                  11.9        143       141      1inO
Manufacturina                                             6 8        7 1        6 8      D
Services                                                  28.9       384        39 5      10      93
Private consumotion                                       67.2       84.6       85 2      -20
General oovernment consumotion                            127         10.0       88 8GDI                             e*GDP
Imoorts of ooods and services                             30.0       285        257
1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998       Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
faveraae annual orowfhl
Aoriculture                                                 3 5        31         2 7     so
Industrv                                                   2 1         67        6 8      40
Manufacturina                                             1 7        49         4 9     20
Services                                                   23          34        2 3
Private consumotion                                        2 8         2 6       2 1      20      93    94    9 
General covernment consumotion                             -5 0      -18 3       -9 8
Gross domestic investment                                 -0 2        -1 1        1 9     40
Imoorts of aoods and services                              0 2       -17 7      -15 0                    Exports    -    Imporits
Gross national oroduct                                     3 1         4 2        29
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
Thp diarmnnnd shnw foiur kpv indicatnrs in thp cnintrv (in hnlil orrmonared with its innmPe-ornur, avpranp If data arp missin. thp diAmond will
he innomnlptp
- 68 -



Tanzania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977      1987       1997       1993       Inflatlon(%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                                   so
Consumer prices                                    11 6      29.9       16 1       10.4  4D
Implicit GDP deflator                                          ..       20.0       15.3      3r
Governmentifnance                                                                            -o
(  aofGDP, mnctudes current grants)                                                           0
Current revenue                                      ..      16.1        13.5      12.3               93    94    95    96    97    98
Current budget balance                                       -21          1 0       1.5                      GDP deflator  -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                              ..      -8.5        -1.6      -2.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                    1977      1987        1997      1998       Export and Import levels (US$ mililons)
Total exports (fob)                                          426         794        645      1 600
Coffee                                             ..       147        118        111
Cotton                                                       3             8       9        ,0
Manufactures                                         .       51        102         68
Total imports (cif)                                  ..    1,099       1,388      1,402       Soo
Food                                                         8            7        8          0
Fuel and energy                                     .       1 57       1 94       138
Capital goods                                                86        t 981
Exoort orice Index (1995=1001                                                                       92   93   94   95   9c   97   go
Imoort orice index (1995=1001                                                                          5Exportns      *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=1001
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ mitlions)                                    1977      1987        1997       199l       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                      645       442       1,274      1,125       0
Imports o goods and services811                             1277       2040       2118 
Resource baiance                                   -165     -834        -767       -993
Net income                                                                                    1
Net current transfers1126                                                            3        1
Current account balance                             -70      -102       -842    -1,120        20
Financing items (net)                              230        97       1,114      1,120       25
Changes in net reserves                            -160         5       -272         -t      :0
Memo:
Reserves includinc aold (USS militons)                                   460        502
Conversion rate (DEC. Iocal/USS)                             51 2      599.5      637 8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977      1987       1997       1998
(US$ millions)                                                                                ComposItlon of total debt, 1 998 (USs millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              3,527    5,508       7,177      7,077
IBRD                                             113       325          34        34                          A:34
IDA                                              145       801       2,306      2,306                 G. 837
Total debt service                                   55       157        1 58       1 58           F. 289
IBRD                                               9        47          24         24
IDA                                                4        10          32         32
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                  135       481        434
Officiai creditors                               189       140         189       1189
Prvate creditors                                  30        38         -15        -15           E: 2,866                       246
Foreign direct investment                          0         -1        158          -
Portfolio equity                                   0         0           0                                             D 499
World Bank program
Commitments                                      102        23         150        150      A-IBRD                          E -Bilateral
Disbursements                                     63        95         183       183       B - IDA    0- Other multilateral   F -Priate
Principal repayments                               4        28          36         36      C-IMF                            G-Short-term
Net flows                                         59        S7         147       147
Interest payments                                  9        29          20         20
Net transfers                                     50        38         127       127
Development Economics                                                                                                              9/22199
- 69 -



ADDITIONAL
ANNEXES



Annex 11  Summary of Project Workplan
00            101             02              03             04             05
ID    O      Task Name                                            Duration    Finish   01 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q31 04  1 02 Q3 Q4 0Q 02 Q3 Q4 01 02 Q3 04 01 Q2
1           TASAF Plan of Action                                 1354 days 6/11/05 
2               TASAF MU ACTIVITIES                                169 days 11/1/00
3                    Advertise                                       4 days 3/29100     IV
8                    Recruit                                        30 days 5/4/00       W
15                   Procure                                       159 days 11/1100
21                   Move                                            2 days 3/27100          '
23                   Launch                                          4 days 11/1100          .
25               OUTREACH and DISSEMINATION                       1131 days 11/1/04                  : 
26                   Design                                         49 days 9/7/00
31                   Pre-Test                                       24 days 10/11/00
34                   Produce                                       123 days 4/2/01
42                   Disseminate                                    41 days 5/29101          .
1      49                    Evaluate                                       36 days 7/18/01 0
O .    56                    Train                                         858 days 11/1104                                                                               .
63               COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVE                 1108 days 11/1104
64                   Needs Assesment                               133 days 2/5/01
7n                   Preparation                                    60 days 4/30101          .         w.
75                   Appraisal                                      21 days 5/29101          .
79                   Launch                                         14 days 6/18/01 .
82                   Implementation                                 85 days 10/15/01
93                   Completion                                      0 days 11/1104          ..
95               PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAMME ACTIVITIES                1086 days 11/1104          '        
96                   Needs Assesment                               145 days 3/23101
103                   Appraisal                                      33 days 5/9/01           .
108                  Implementation                                 112 days 10/12/01
Task              E                    Summary                                Rolled Up Progress
Project: POAALLGRMAY25               Split                                  Rolled Up Task    E       .-  .:.|   External Tasks
Date: 6/20/00                        Progress                               Rolled Up Split                         Project Summary _
Milestone                              Rolled Up Milestone 0
Page 1



00             01             02             03            104            105
ID   0      Task Name                                           Duration  I Finish   Q1Q23Q4Q1Q2Q3IQ4|Q1|Q2Q31Q4Q1Q|Q2 Q3lQ4Q1Q|Q20310Q4IQ1|Q2
116                  Completion                                   796 days 11/1104
119              MIS COORDINATION ACTIVITIES                     1202 days 1111/04
120                  System Analysis                                9 days 4/5600       y 
134                  Develop computerized outputs                   4 days 3/29/00
139                  Systems Procurement and Customization         12 days 4/10/00          *
145                  Develop Training Plan                         14 days 4/12100     l 
154                  Prepare bidding documents/Request Prepara      4 days 3/29/00                                                .
164                  Test Equipment                                66 days 6/23/00
172                  System Operational                          1202 days 11/1/04      _                                                                    '
176              MONITORING AND EVALUATION                        218 days 5/21/01
177                  Finalize key performance indicators           16 days 8/10100
185                  Project completion report                    142 days 2/26101
193                  Annual CSDS report                            40 days 4/23101 1
197                  Evaluate                                      20 days 6/21101 1
199              Project Completion                                 0 days 5121101 i*  521
201              Project Closing                                    0 days 611/05
Task                 [                Summary                 _              Rolled Up Progress
Project: POAALLGRMAY25              Split                                 Rolled Up Task   | Z.Z:I.Z -| External Tasks
Date: 6/20/00                       Progress                              Rolled Up Split                        Project Summary
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone O
Page 2



Annex 12: Community Needs Assessment
TANZANIA: SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT
TASAF Goal
The primary beneficiaries under this project are the poor households in the poorest regions in
rural and peri-urban areas. In addition to directly seeking inputs from communities through field
visits, project preparation involved undertaking a community needs, capacity and institutional
assessment with communities in two regions using participatory methods.
Objectives
To obtain community perceptions regarding:
(a)  Community capacity to articulate demand, implement activities relating to the demand and
manage community level activities if funded;
(b)  Community organization and its potential contribution to better identify, plan, implement,
and manage community development interventions in a sustainable manner;
(c)  Community perceptions of extemal institutions and whether or not these institutions
contribute to the development of the communities;
(d)  Willingness to contribute to own development and thereby meaningfully participate, by the
communities, and the size of that contribution;
(e)  Nature of community priorities; and
(f)  The extent to which communities deal with vulnerability among them - wellbeing and
wealth ranking.
Findings and Recommendations
Community Capacity
The community's local technical skills, are as follows:
Masons, iron smiths, carpenters,
Village house builders
Traditional birth attendants
Traditional healers
Bicycle repairs, mechanics
Log servers
Radio repairs
However, there is weak capacity with respect to managerial skills to oversee finance, accounting
and store management.
- 72 -



Community Organization
Customary institutions and networks exist at the community level, which complement and work
hand-in-hand with formal structures. These institutions offer different socio-economic,
traditional and non-traditional opportunities' to various segments of the society, e.g. labor
mobilization, musical performance, traditional celebrations, investment and credit societies and
schemes. The various organizational units provide a variety of entry points, which TASAF could
utilize. Government through the district councils has introduced modem forms of village
organization, which included the village assembly, as well as the variety of village level
committees to handle specific sectoral activities such as water, health, education, agriculture, etc.
What is not obviously visible is the form of organization that addresses the vulnerable groups
within the communities. Internal traditional coping mechanisms enable the vulnerable, e.g. the
landless, the disabled, the orphans, the widows and the elders, to be catered for by their relatives.
However, with the increased severity of the HIV/AIDS pandemic, these coping mechanisms are
breaking down and showing signs of inability to provide for the many orphans.
Community Perceptions of External Institutions
The communities were able to identify and list the existing external institutions that they interact
with, e.g. district councils, village development committees, NGOs, churches, mosques, party
structures, etc. After establishing criteria for assessing how they perform, the majority of the
institutions were rated as not performing to the satisfaction of the purported beneficiary
communities. Even the government institutions that deliver essential public services such as
education, health and local administration ranked very poorly.
The communities indicated their concern with the quality of the services delivered by the support
institutions. The two criteria which the community used for evaluating external institutions
included the speed of response and accountability and feedback mechanisms. TASAF design and
monitoring systems would ensure that these aspects are monitored on a regular basis and that
qualitative assessments of TASAF performance are carried out with the communities in a
participatory manner. TASAF also envisages investing in the capacity building of ward and
District level govemment staff to be more responsive to the needs of the community.
Willingness to Contribute to Own Development
Cost sharing in community activities is a well-understood concept and willingness to contribute
exists provided that: (i) the intervention towards which the contribution is required is identified as
a priority need by the community after community consultations show that without it a sub-
optimal situation would arise (that they would be severely worse-off); (ii) the communities would
participate in the resource identification, plan the whole intervention and define the role of their
resource contribution; and (iii) the community would map out the way to monitor progress of
implementation of the activity. Full ownership and control of the full sub-project cycle by the
communities enhances their willingness to contribute. The findings show that communities are
Traditional local organizations include: Ireka, ngoi, ikhanda, iman and kurikha for Uhamaka, Mkumi,
likamba, ligango Chipelekani, dodndoa and Chama in Lwelu; and, chipelegani likampela, chingalangwanja
and ngongoti in Makukwe. Economic groups were found in all villages which include women's groups
implementing a goat project (Mpetu and Makukwe).



aware that they jointly own natural resources and have the responsibility to manage them to their
mutual benefit, e.g. water, land, forests, etc.
Vulnerable groups
The assessment identified the characteristics of vulnerable groups. These included landless,
disabled, orphans, widows with many children, HIV/AIDS affected and elders without support.
Many specific activities to deal with support infrastructure for these groups were identified in the
assessment. The vulnerable groups in the community stressed the need for targeting specific
interventions under TASAF. It is envisaged that the village level micro-planning process
methodology would specifically facilitate priority identification by the vulnerable groups and that
these activities would be incorporated in the activities funded by TASAF.
Conclusions and Next Steps
(a)  Communities are willing to use their resource base to improve their socio-economic
conditions;
(b)  Any development intervention at community level should include capacity building at
village, ward and district levels as an integral part of that effort;
(c)  Direct support to vulnerable groups should be considered as part of development
interventions at community level; and
(d)  Equal access to information is an integral part of development and therefore information
dissemination should take into account how the poor communities can be reached.
Issue:
To what extent can the participatory methodology used by the TA/Investigating Team be
harmonized for use throughout Tanzania to ensure that communities are consulted as an integral
part of the planning process.



Additional
Annexes



Annex 13 - Letter of Sector Po-icy
THE UNIT   RPUBLIC OF tANZANA
MINISTRY OF FE;NCE
Tulogmml "TRiA3rsuy", DAa 3s SALAM,                P.O. Bx. 911I,
Tel., 11117416, Fax: UOM26, Tolexo 41329.              V .  INt SALAA.
(AU Ofcial  nwounications should be
uddrssdtotbe 'rransntcSCtey to              r          rn
the Trnsury and NOT to indiVidlaa7s).
Tu reply please quote:
TYC/BI40155/02                           21" June,2000
Mr. James W. Adams,
Country Director for Tanzania and Uganda,
The World Bank Country Office,
DAR ES SALAAM.
Dear Mr. Adams,
Re, THE PROPOSED TANZANIA SOCIAL ACTION FUND
(TASAF) - POLICY LETTER
I1      I am writing to request, on behalf of the Government of the United
Republic of Tanzania, a credit of US$ 60 million equivalent, from
the Intemational Development Association (IDA) to finance various
components of the proposed Tanzania Social Action Fund Project.
2.     The government has decided to make ststainable poverty reduction
its central objective in the absence of a responsive institutional
framework for comnmunity development. This is well articulated in
the National Poverty Eradication Strategy (NPES). The National
Poverty Eradication Strategy is based on a participatory approach
and promotes movement away from  the traditional central
governmnent approach in addressing poverty issues.
TASAF Objectives
3.   The Objectives of the project are to enhance and sustain the provision
and use of resource endowments by Beneficiaries which will
- 75 -



contribute to Poverty Reduction through: (i) the improvement of
socio-econornic in tucture and basic social and economic services;
(ii) the increase in capacity and skills among rural and peri-urban
communities; and (iii) the creation of temporary safety-net
programmes for the poorest and most vulnerable sections of the
conmmunities. In order to facilitate the collection of data on project
perfornmance and impact as well as monitor changes to national
poverty levels, TASAF will fund a sub-component to be implemented
in conjunction with the Bureau of Statistics and the Vice President's
Office.
4.     As mentioned in our Letter of Development Policy reference
number TYC/I/210/2/01 dated 8h May, 2000, the government will
continue to implement targets related to macroeconomic reforms,
fiscal performance and social sector resource allocation in the
context of the ongoing Structural Adjustment Programme and
Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) arrangement
sponsored by IvI. The aim is to address poverty pervasiveness
which continues to undermine the sustenance of the very reforms
we are implementing. We are embarking on a more aggressive
poverty reduction strategy, which emphasises both higher growth
and more effective public service delivery.
5.     The proposed TASAF is expected to result in improved social and
economic infrastructure, and service delivery, provide employment
opportunities for poor households, target vulnerable groups in both
rural and urban areas including unemployed youth and address
specific issues such as HIV/AIDS. The govemment will ensure
that in the process. the project will provide opportunities for
communities to participate and take charge of key decision making
processes at the  local level, thereby  complementing  the
Government's ongoing administrative and local government
reforms. This is evidenced clearly in the Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP) stakeholders workshops currently
underway in the country which are drawing participants from the
grassroots.



TASAF and RIV/AI)S
6.     Tanzania understands that HIV/AIDS epidemic is a serious multi-
sectoral development problem  in  the  country.  HIV/AIDS
particularly targets the poor. The epidemic has overwhelmingly hit
the world's poorest countries and those with the greatest disparities
of income. Although people at all income levels are vulnerable to
HIV, the poor have suffered the most economically, as the costs of
care, foregone income and finerals are substantial. The poor also
have less access to basic health care. The epidemic has been found
to exacerbate both income inequality and absolute poverty. It is
therefore government's commitment to continue addressing the
HIV/AIDS epidemic during the implementation of TASAP.
Special attention will be given to the victims of the epidemic i.e. the
orphans who have lost both parents by creation of temporary safety-
net programmes for the poorest and most vulnerable sections of the
communities and this is consistent with the objectives of TASAF.
TASAF Community Focus and Decentralization
7.   It is the Government's clear intention to ensure that TASAF will
allocate funds for programmes targeted at the poor, promotes
development by involving communities in project selection,
preparation, implementation and encourage NGO's, private
institutions and Government agencies to provide facilitation where
needed. The fund will provide quick disbursing and community
responsive mechanisms to channel funds directly to projects identified
and managed by the communities themselves. The aim is to empower
communities; ensure ownership and promote real endogenous and
sustainable development. The participatory n4ture of TASAP will
facilitate and complement the process of decentralisation, which will
empower communities to take charge of their development process.
The government is conumitted to adopt and introduce the broad based
community development strategy thfrough the on-going Local
Govermment Reform Programme. By makin&TASAF an integral pat
of the Local Government Reform Prograrn, GOT will minimize
duplication of efforts at community level and thereby ensure that
maximum gains and mutual benefits go to the needy.



TASAF and Direct Financing
8.     The Government is committed to ensure that TASAF will operate
as a quick disbursing and direct financing mechanism. The
government will provide enabling enviroznent through ensuring
that there is less bureaucracy in the process of implementation and
financing the agreed activities. It will be responsive to community
needs articulated by the commnunity through projects identified,
managed and implemented by the community. The comTnunity
would participate from project concept, to project preparation
implementation,  monitoring  and  evaluation.   Community
commitment will be reflected by demonstration of community
willingness to contribute to the project in the form of cash,
materials and labour.
TASAF and Governance
9.     Good Governance is a key determinant of economic growth and a
precondition for sustainable social development, The government
will undertake all necessary measures to strengthen economic
govenance and enhance the effectiveness, efficiency and quality of
service delivery during the implementation of TASAF in order to
provide a solid foundation for sustainable poverty reduction and
growth. The proposed measures include actions in the following
areas (a) improved management of public finances including social
funds; (b) anti-corruption measures and enhanced financial
accountability in TASAF financial management; and (c) increased
efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of public services. In
addition, the government will continue to emphasise a rasparent
and consultative approach to project development which augurs
well for a social fund that depends on the participation of all key
stakeholders.
10.    Finally, the goverunent will act as a regulator and facilitator of
TASAF implementation to ensure that the components of the
projects i.e. (i) Community Development Initiatives; (ii) Public
Works Programme; and (iii) Institutional Development; are
implemented in the most rational way, with maximum participation
of the target groups of the poor population. In addition the



govemment is committed to strengthening and accelerating the
imnplementation processes of TASAF. The Government views the
partnership with IDA, particularly through the.proposed Tanzania
Social Action Fund, as a continuation of your institution's support
in these efforts.
Yours sincerely,
/                         ),
G.S. Mgonja
For PERMANENT SECRETARY






( 2' _.__                                           34-                     36                     38'
Lk  ctoria
7-                         f \  ukoba                  * n.
RWANDA             KAG                                                               KENY
o tron                      AFRtCA
A~~~~~~~~~
BURUNDIv          
SHNYANGA                     Manongo                  M onyora               KlLMi  NJARO                         4"
t X n R , OMA t/KX/,w 
9 \ / \ ) X~~~~~SINGIDA 3\X    
Lake                              (ARese                                                                                   INDtAN
The bou'esre cobr's.  Mbey reP{//t&
otenr inftonms ond sown                              9sX</;OGORO \t 
"tr      pKlOn mta dot, noa  \zt \    
Th,. World BarkGru.                           /              \/                                     tt          
z0vny udrnnto .1h-,1                                                                                            LINa  I >-   
or1  of o wy teMtof
6oundctnpeL               TAN8Z^|lANIAW                                                     /;                        ;/    UdQi -.-
- MAIN POADS            t)REGON CAPITAS                ,                                        <                  r
RAILROADS                  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                  RA _ 1e 8
RIYERS                      RECION BOUNDARIES fSne   MWR  
-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                   RUVUMA                 -                     9S                  a
C                            0          100       200                                                                    y
t3                30.                 1amOMElER5                                          3<      =_r 8~          3W     O    BIQU E



