                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 33856-TA

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (IDA-34090 PPFI-Q1570)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 60.0 MILLION

                    TO THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF

                                      TANZANIA

                                        FOR A

                             SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT




                                    March 30, 2006




Human Development 1
Country Department 4
Africa Regional Office

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective October 27, 2005)

                                     Currency Unit = TSh
                                           Tsh1140 = US$ 1
                                             US$ 1 = 1.44 SDR

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                          July 1   - June 30

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                   M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
CBOs     Community Based Organizations                 MIS           Management Information System
CDD      Community Demand-Driven                       MTR           Mid-Term Review
CDI      Community Development Initiatives             NBS           National Bureau of Statistics
CNA      Community Needs Assessment                    NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
CPC      Community Project Committee                   PAD           Project Appraisal Document
CSDS     Community Service Delivery Survey             PDO           Project Development Objective
CSO      Civil Society Organization                    PPF           Project Preparation Facility
CWIQ     Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire         PRA           Participatory Rural Appraisal
DCA      Development Credit Agreement                  PRS           Poverty Reduction Strategy
DMT      District Management Team                      PSR           Project Status Report
EOP      End of Project                                PWP           Public Works Program
GOT      Government of Tanzania                        SSP           Social Support Program
HIV/AIDS Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired         TASAF         Tanzania Social Action Fund
         Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ICR      Implementation Completion Report              TASAF II      Tanzania Second Social Action Fund
IDA      International Development Association         TMU           TASAF Management Unit
IEC      Information, Education and Communication
IGAs     Income Generating Activities
KPI      Key Performance Indicators
LGA      Local Government Authority




                                    Vice President:    Gobind Nankani
                                  Country Director     Judy O'Connor
                                   Sector Manager      Dzingai Mutumbuka
                Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Hope Phillips Volker

                                          TANZANIA
                                  Social Action Fund Project


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36
Annex 8. Borrower Implementation Completion Report                               37
Annex 9. Regional Poverty and Service Accessibility Ranking                      81
Annex 10. Data on indicators not reported on in Annex 1                          83
Annex 11. DCA-PAD editorial inconsistencies and DCA amendments                   88

Project ID: P065372                                                  Project Name: Social Action Fund Project
Team Leader: Hope C. Phillips                                        TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 30, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Social Action Fund Project                               L/C/TF Number: IDA-34090; PPFI-Q1570
   Country/Department: TANZANIA                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (40%); Primary education (30%); Sub-national government
                            administration (10%); General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (10%); Health
                            (10%)
                  Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P); Other social protection and risk management (P);
                            Social safety nets (P); Rural services and infrastructure (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/23/1999                                     Effective: 12/01/2000                11/09/2000
     Appraisal: 06/13/2000                                         MTR: 05/19/2003                  06/09/2003
      Approval: 08/22/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOT/GOT (PRESIDENT'S OFFICE)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankani                                 Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Judy M. O'Connor                               James W. Adams
Sector Manager:                 Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                           Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Team Leader at ICR:             Hope Phillips Volker                           Norbert O. Mugwagwa
ICR Primary Author:             Ida Manjolo


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to enhance and sustain the provision and use of
resource endowments by beneficiaries, which was to contribute to poverty reduction through (i)
the improvement of socioeconomic infrastructure, and basic social and economic services; (ii) the
increase in capacity and skills among rural and peri-urban communities; and (iii) the creation of
temporary safety-net programs for the poorest and most vulnerable sections of the communities.

The PDO was clear and realistic and consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS),
Report No. 16554-TA, June 15, 1997, whose objective included poverty reduction, growth,
protecting vulnerable groups, and also focused on increasing and enhancing the capacities of the
communities and stakeholders to undertake sustainable development initiatives and improve
socio-economic services. The PDO was also in line with the Government of Tanzania's Social
Sector Strategy, October 1994, which viewed households as active participants in choosing and
supporting services that offer them concrete benefits. The Project took into consideration the
Borrower's decentralization agenda, and was responsive to Government's development priorities
in that it was one of the major instruments of Government's poverty reduction initiatives under
the Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS).

The Project was not national, and only covered the 2 islands and 40 districts on the mainland;
however, it should be viewed as complex because of the number of institutions involved at the
national, district and sub-district levels. There were no co-financiers to the Project. .It is noted
that there are instances where the data provided in this Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
is not consistent with Government's ICR; this ICR is using the results of data made available
more recently from the Project.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF) had three components which are described below.

Community Development Initiatives (CDI) would finance community demand-driven (CDD)
initiatives to improve accessibility to, and delivery of, social and economic services, and to
enhance capacities of the communities and local development partners. The community initiatives
were to be generated through participatory rural appraisal (PRA) processes from a sub-project
menu which included construction/rehabilitation of basic health care facilities, schools, boreholes,
dams, latrines, shallow wells, and economic infrastructure. It was expected that special
consideration would be given to vulnerable groups. Implementation would be by democratically
elected community project committees (CPCs). The average cost of sub-projects was initially
estimated at US$20,000; later it was changed to US$25,000, with a minimum community
contribution in kind or cash of 20%. In order to respond to specific requests for support for
activities to address human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome
(HIV/AIDS) during implementation, a window (Social Support Projects-SSP) was made available
under the CDI component to pilot support for vulnerable individuals working with
non-governmental organizations/civil society organizations (NGOs/CSOs). An amount of US$1


                                                  - 2 -

million was ear-marked for SSPs, with the expectation that each sub-project would cost
approximately US$10,000.

Public Works Program (PWP) would finance labor-intensive public works as a safety net scheme
in poor rural and urban areas. The objective was to provide cash income for the poor, especially
women and the youth, during periods of seasonal food insecurity, by creating job opportunities
while supporting community infrastructure construction or rehabilitation. This was a
supply-driven component, with Districts selecting communities in which to work using criteria
such as food insecurity, poverty and access to services. Sub-projects were selected from the
District plans, and confirmed by the community during extended-PRAs, followed by the drawing
up of implementation plans by District PWP teams. Beneficiaries were self-targeting through the
adoption of a PWP wage rate set at 20% below the market. The average cost of a sub-project
under this component was initially estimated at US$40,000; later it was changed to US$50,000,
with no community contribution.

Institutional Development had four subcomponents as follows:

TASAF Management Unit (TMU) would provide day-to-day operational support to Districts
responding to the community demands emanating from the participatory processes. Financing
included incremental staff salaries, systems development, TMU operational costs, and later
included costs of running the District level TASAF Offices.

Capacity Building-Information Education and Communication (IEC)/Training was to create a
symmetrical information environment that was to enhance the potential democratic
decentralization, transparency and accountability. The IEC would sensitize TASAF stakeholders
on TASAF's philosophy, methodology, the sub-project cycle, roles and responsibilities of the
various actors; build a knowledge base of the lessons learnt from experiences; and build
partnerships and strategic alliances amongst stakeholders. Training would (a) expose all
stakeholders to the dynamics of community development and the TASAF approach; and (b) build
the capacity of communities, CPCs, and District level staff to manage participatory development,
including fiduciary aspects of sub-project implementation.

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) (including Management Information System (MIS) was to
make data available to assess the impact of sub-projects on vulnerable groups; institute a
participatory M&E through a Community Service Delivery Survey (CSDS); and monitor
improvements in the levels of beneficiaries' use and satisfaction with TASAF services. The MIS
was to be linked with the M&E and be a source of information for the overall M&E system: to
collect, store, and generate information for use in measuring benefits accruing to recipient
communities, in order to monitor the sustainability of the TASAF approach and community assets
created with support from the Project.

National Poverty Monitoring and Analysis was expected to provide support for strengthening
capacity at national, Local Government Authorities (LGAs or Districts) and community levels to
monitor the effects of poverty alleviation policies by developing: (a) tools for rapid community
and household surveys; (b) capacity in the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) to plan and



                                                 - 3 -

implement such surveys and use of Optical Mark Reader technology (scanners) to speed-up data
entry; (c) capacity in TASAF Districts to integrate execution of CSDS into CDI and PWPs; (d) an
integrated annual indicators' survey, using methodologies and approaches tested during the Core
Welfare Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ) pilot; and (e) progressively refined tools for the ranking
process and creation of poverty maps using various data sources.

The components, as designed, were reasonably related to achieving the objective, and took into
consideration the capacity of the implementing agency, including its administrative and financial
management capacity. Lessons from a Community Needs Assessment (CNA) during the pilot of
TASAF systems, emerging understanding of best practice in the design of social funds, and
extensive stakeholder consultation during design stage informed the design of the components.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

The Project was not subjected to a performance rating by the Quality Assurance Group review.
The Project objective was relevant and within the Government's overall PRS and the CAS. The
environmental and social safeguards were considered, and communities were to be sensitized
through the IEC strategy on how to screen sub-projects for positive and negative environmental
effects of sub-project activities, and to determine and implement mitigation measures. The design
identified the critical risks and mapped out minimization measures which were internalized into
the Project activities and processes: for example, the emphasis on capacity building which
strengthened partner institutions. There were editorial inconsistencies within the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) and with the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) following agreements
reached during negotiations, but these did not affect implementation as they were remedied
through a revision of the Operational Manual and amendments, and did not affect the outputs or
Project development outcome (see Annex 11). On the whole, a rating of moderately satisfactory
seems appropriate.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
On the basis of relevance, efficacy, and efficiency, the overall rating for the achievement of
objectives is satisfactory. The PDO continues to be consistent with current Government's
National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty, and is still relevant in terms of the most
recent CAS covering 2001-2003 (Report No. 20728-TA). The Project supported (a) sustainable
rural development to improve the livelihood of the majority of the poor who live in rural areas;
and (b) improved social infrastructure, to improve social indicators and enhance access for the
poor to essential public services. By working through Local Governments, TASAF remains
aligned with the revised Local Government Act, No. 6, 1999.

Secondly, the rating is based on efficacy as the Project financed sub-projects which led to (a)
improved socioeconomic infrastructure and basic services; (b) increased capacity and skills among
rural and peri-urban communities; and (c) employment opportunities in a safety-nets program for



                                                 - 4 -

poor households. On average between CDI and PWP, 93% of sub-project requests were
approved for funding, of which 81.9% were completed. All communities implementing
sub-projects received efficient back-up services through support from LGAs during the
sub-project cycle, and at the end of the Project, 90% of completed sub-projects had permanent
maintenance mechanisms. The Project financed investments that created potential improved
access to services for close to 2 million people. The percentage of population receiving services
from constructed facilities is estimated at 89%; surpassing the target of 60% (the failure to attain
100% is because community investments in the health sector were not fully operational due to
inadequate staffing and equipment ­ see Section 6.1). Community satisfaction with services
available from all investments was 78.2%, when a rapid assessment was conducted in 2005,
against a target of 80% set at Project design. A total of 2,700 vulnerable persons were reached
through the SSPs, and beneficiaries reported positive changes in their well-being as well as
increased economic activity in the rural economy (SSP Evaluation, 2004). Beneficiaries from the
PWP safety-nets sub-projects were able to smooth consumption while some even invested in
capital goods (Beneficiary Assessment, 2003).

Thirdly, the rating is based on efficiency, where preliminary data from an on-going cost-effective
study shows that communities were able to construct infrastructure at savings of between 3% and
48% compared to alternative financiers for similar investments (see Annex 3). This finding, that
communities using TASAF resources were able in most instances to build infrastructure at
comparable or lower costs, is consistent with findings from other social funds in the Region.

Finally, the rating is based on capacity building efforts. Training for communities and
stakeholders, and the funding of investments gave communities hands-on experience in planning
and implementation. The IEC program gave communities information which paved the way for
them to demand accountability from the implementers. The Project was targeted to the poorer
regions in the country through ranking on the basis of poverty data from 1999. The 2005 update
on poverty ranking of the same Regions showed changes that correlated with the number of
Districts funded by TASAF in a given Region (see Annex 9); Regions with three TASAF-funded
Districts did better than those with one or two Districts. While these changes in Regional poverty
rankings cannot be attributed to TASAF, it is reasonable to assume that TASAF made a
contribution since it provided significant resources for community investments in these Regions.

4.2 Outputs by components:
CDI (IDA US$38.0 million; Government US$1.90 million; beneficiary communities US$8.62
million). The component is rated satisfactory. The CDI reached 1,482 communities where 1,399
sub-projects were financed, against a target of 2,212. Even though this target was not reached,
from these sub-projects a total of 7,212 assets were created, surpassing the planned 3,906 by
3,306 (see Annex 1). This represents an over-achievement of the outputs produced by 84%,
three-quarters of which were completed on time. The range of outputs included Out-Patient
Departments, teachers' houses, health workers' houses, and water points. These health outputs
have resulted in over 1.7 million people having improved potential access to health services (this
number has been reduced to 1 million due to inadequate staffing and supplies), over 116,000
children with improved access to learning environments, and over 2,000 teachers and health
workers with improved accommodation, especially in the rural areas.



                                                 - 5 -

Many community sub-projects had to be given further funding to make them functional in line
with sector norms, which often led to the provision of services to more people as the outputs
were larger with more facilities (water, toilets, desks, etc.). The definition of "functionality"
varied from District-to-District, resulting in some communities constructing five double classroom
blocks, or whole primary and secondary schools. The average cost of a sub-project rose by an
average of 31% as "functionality" led to bigger sub-projects, fewer communities being reached,
and community contributions falling from 20% to 18%.

Women's participation in CPCs met the target set at 50%. SSPs piloted under the CDI
component responded to requests for income generating activities, vocational skills training,
response to HIV/AIDS, and early childhood development. All SSPs were in the rural areas, while
87% of the other CDI sub-projects were rural and the balance urban. The time required to access
safe water sources is reported to have been reduced from 3 hours to between 30-60 minutes,
thereby making more productive time available to women and girls. Over 600 women from these
water sub-projects were trained in operation and maintenance.

PWP (IDA US$15.0 million; Government US$0.75 million). The component is rated
satisfactory. TASAF financed 305 sub-projects (94% in the rural areas) which covered 581
communities, surpassing the target by 77%, with 85% of the sub-projects completed on time
against a target of 90%. Furthermore, a total of 113,646 direct beneficiaries were reached against
a target of 32,800. The very high demand for unskilled work in areas targeted with PWP led
community leaders to reduce the period of employment from 10 to 5 months ­ which produced
many small sub-projects with more people being employed. Female beneficiaries accounted for
47% of the total (exceeding the target); the share of unskilled labor in the PWP funds disbursed
was 41.3%, with 226,333 person-months of unskilled employment provided to the poor under this
component.

Institutional Development (IDA US$7.0 million; Government US$0.50 million). The overall
rating for the component is satisfactory. The component met its Key Performance Indicator
(KPI) targets, except for the reports from the District and national level, which were typically
available after two weeks, instead of one week; poor communication with remote Districts,
inadequate equipment, and often unreliable electricity led to these delays. Six studies were carried
out and disseminated to stakeholders.

TMU sub-component. The performance of TMU had mixed results. On the positive side, it
supported participatory planning processes to facilitate linkages between local governments,
NGOs/CSOs, and the private sector when responding to community demands. The TMU
processed disbursements to 74.4% of the sub-projects on time. Districts were supported with a
qualified TASAF accountant, and there were national-level program officers for backstopping.
Against these accomplishments there were major short-comings: the TMU changed the approach
after the Operational Manual was revised by insisting on the use of PAD indicative Project targets
as annual caps on sub-projects which could be funded; inadequate review of sub-projects without
always ensuring their compliance with sector norms, especially in education; resistance to
purchase off-the-shelf software to improve data management; a case of mis-procurement; inability



                                                  - 6 -

to produce accurate cash flow projections; and accounting and internal control issues in 38% of
the audit reports (which included ineligible expenditure against the DCA, and allowances not
receipted by payees).

Capacity Building-IEC/Training sub-component. The number of people trained exceeded the KPI
targets. The IEC Assessment (2004) indicated that there was 100% awareness about TASAF
throughout the country. IEC also contributed towards the development of accountability by both
the LGAs and the CPCs towards communities.

M&E (including MIS) sub-component. Data was collected on KPIs, guidelines were issued on
M&E report preparation, and quarterly and annual reports were produced. The project was able
to collect information on KPIs (Annex 1) as well as information on other indicators (Annex 10)
which formed the basis of an M&E system. The MIS for M&E was partially computerized, with
data collected from the Districts being consolidated at TMU. The Financial Management
Accounting System between Districts and TMU largely remained paper-based due to delays in the
Government roll-out of `Platinum' software to the Districts. This gave rise to difficulties in data
capture, assessment of Project performance, and monitoring benchmarks in the sub-project cycle;
all of which created uncertainties on the financial status of TASAF as it drew to a close.

National Poverty Monitoring and Analysis sub-component. Of the planned activities, only one
was carried out with TASAF funding: creation of capacity in TASAF Districts for integrating
participatory M&E through the CSDS into CDI and PWP components. Work on CSDS was
done only as a pilot and it did not go beyond the training of trainers' stage due to limitations in its
application at the community level. The NBS did not implement its obligation under the
Memorandum of Understanding to implement most of the activities under this sub-component. It
is noted that shortly after TASAF effectiveness, the Government established a fairly elaborate
poverty monitoring system under the Office of the Vice President; it is possible that this is the
reason for NBS's decision to pull out of the arrangement.

Ratings for the Achievement of objective/outputs of the components. The Project was not
expected to contribute to macro, financial, sector policies, or public sector management. On the
basis of the physical outputs under CDI and PWP, as well as unskilled wages paid out under
sub-projects financed under the PWP, the physical outputs are rated substantial. Institutional
development is also rated substantial (see Section 4.5 for the rationale). Achievements on
poverty reduction and gender were substantial: the Project targeted communities in the poorer
regions (see Annex 9 for positive changes in ranking for regions with TASAF-funded Districts),
and female participation in CPCs was 50%, and 47% of the beneficiaries under PWP were female.
On the basis of community interest in applying for, contributing to, and implementing
sub-projects, participatory demand-driven development is rated high. Because of capacity
building at central level, District level, and community level (where people were trained,
communities implemented CDI sub-projects, and Districts managed the PWP), capacity building
of stakeholders is rated substantial. Although the outputs of components did not specifically
include measurements for achieving environmental or private sector development, there were
modest contributions to both: over 20,000 private individuals participated in CPCs which
procured goods and services from the private sector, and forms were available and communities



                                                  - 7 -

were trained in sub-project environmental impact assessments and formulation of mitigation
measures; however their rigorous application was limited.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An economic rate of return was not calculated at appraisal. An assumption was made that
communities are rational economic actors and that their choices reflect the greatest return for
their time, labor and materials. In addition, the CNA indicated community willingness to make
cash and in-kind contributions to interventions that reflected their priorities. Sector distribution of
sub-projects reflected community priorities and at the end of Project, 56% were in education,
23% in health, 15% in water, and 6% in socioeconomic infrastructure under the CDI component.
Communities on average made a contribution of 18% towards CDI sub-projects. Communities
were able to construct these facilities with savings of between 3 and 48% compared to
infrastructure put up by other financing sources (Annex 3).

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated for the project at appraisal.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated substantial. At the community level, the Project
contributed to empowering communities to realize their potential in harnessing available local
human and material resources for their own development. A total of 22,687 CPC members were
trained in sub-project implementation (procurement, financial management, environmental impact
and mitigation, report-writing, reporting back, etc.). Communities also demonstrated their
capacity to target the vulnerable with suitable interventions. Village Councils were trained on
implementation, and IEC spelled out stakeholder roles during implementation, thereby enhancing
accountability and transparency at the community level through regular reporting on activities
(Beneficiary Assessment, 2003).

At the Local Government level, TASAF supported LGAs' capacity enhancement activities to
accompany funds disbursed to communities under CDI and to LGAs under PWP. A total of 732
implementers were trained in various fields. TASAF provided PRA training to LGA staff, which
strengthened the District planning framework by including communities in the setting of priorities
and in detailed costing of sub-projects.

At the national level, a TASAF National Steering Committee included civil society
representatives, demonstrating Government's willingness to work with civil society. The Project
strengthened partnerships between LGAs, NGOs, communities and the private sector (as
suppliers of goods and services), to improve service delivery. The institutional arrangements for
TASAF were directly linked to the decentralization governance structure. The Project
strengthened national and Local Government systems in Project implementation by using an
Operational Manual that has been adopted by other Projects supporting activities at the District
and community levels; this is part of mainstreaming TASAF approaches into Local Government
systems. TASAF's experience with sector norms and standards has demonstrated the importance
of having well-developed bills of quantities for use at the District and community levels; a priority
for effective sector devolution. Lessons from the Project were used by Government when
preparing service guidelines for use by the stakeholders in the implementation of TASAF II.



                                                  - 8 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Material cost increases. Frequent price increases for construction materials and transportation
costs affected sub-project budgets, which contributed to increased costs of sub-projects over and
above the initial budget allocations. This had a negative impact on the number of sub-projects
which could be financed. There is anecdotal evidence that the cost of materials also increased as a
result of demand created by sub-project procurement activities, especially in communities where
there was only one or two suppliers.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Equipping and staffing health facilities. The Tanzania health sector has experienced difficulties
staffing and/or equipping health facilities, including those built with TASAF support (see Section
6.1). Of the 328 health facilities supported by TASAF, 45% (149 facilities equivalent to 11% of
total CDI sub-projects) have inadequate staff and/or supplies. This means that communities
cannot access adequate services from facilities in which they have invested their money, time and
labor. The short-term community planning horizon was initially poorly synchronized with
medium-term district and national planning, leading to delayed provisions of recurrent funding for
community-built health facilities when these were ready for commissioning. In response to this
concern, the Ministry of Health has indicated that recurrent costs for all facilities are included in
the 2005/06 budget.

Failure to expeditiously roll-out `Platinum'. Government insistence that TASAF use `Platinum'
(the software selected for financial management at District level), and the subsequent delays in its
roll-out led to delays in receiving information which could have been used by TMU and IDA for
decision making.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Slow management response. TMU's failure to take corrective action on findings from audit
reports relating to inadequate internal controls and budgeting systems, as well as its refusal to use
off-the-shelf software while waiting for the `Platinum' rollout, affected the ability of the TMU to
provide real time data on sub-project financing, which would have allowed the TMU to more
accurately monitor its financial position. This unavailability of information was more apparent at
Project closure than at the beginning (see Section 4.l).

5.4 Costs and financing:
The Project was to be financed by US$60 million from IDA, US$3.15 from Government, and
US$8.62 million from in kind or cash community contributions (community contribution is
reported under co-financiers in Annex 2). A Project Preparation Facility (PPF), which utilized
US$925,000 out of US$1.2 million allocated, financed a CNA and piloted sub-projects in 17
communities. Price and physical contingencies in the Project cost by component table in the PAD
amounted to approximately 21% in recognition of the demand driven nature of the Project, and
the difficulty in knowing a priori the exact split between the CDI and PWP components. As noted
above, DCA amendments were required to more accurately reflect the anticipated expenditures.
An amount of US$39,200 was cancelled as a result of mis-procurement at TMU, an exchange rate
gain of US$1.69 million was realized, and at the end of the Project IDA disbursed US$61.69



                                                     - 9 -

million. The expenditures by disbursement categories were by and large in line with the original
estimates. In analyzing the financing by components, the actuals in both CDI and PWP
sub-projects were lower than the original estimates (by US$3.46 million and US$2.1 million
respectively). Government contribution exceeded the original estimate as a result of the exchange
rate gains. The Institutional Development component disbursed US$7.25 million above the
original estimate; funds for this came from the CDI ($3.46 million), PWP ($2.1 million), and
exchange rate gain ($1.69 million). The CDI and PWP amounts ($5.56 million) to cover the cost
of six CDI/PWP Program Officers, 42 TASAF District Accountants and various sub-project
supervision costs at District level, originally costed under the CDI and PWP components, were
charged to the Institutional Development component on advice from Financial Management
colleagues.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated likely. TASAF enjoyed political support from the highest levels in
Government as well as commitment from communities. As a consequence, a follow-on Project
with national coverage (TASAF II) was requested and became effective in 2005. The
Government's National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty (June 2005) notes that
TASAF is one of the major poverty reduction instruments supporting communities to participate
in the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. Two studies, an `Impact Evaluation of
TASAF' and an `Implementation and Cost Effectiveness Study under TASAF I', are under way
and will provide useful information on TASAF development impact.

TASAF operated within the decentralized structure of Local Governments and supported capacity
building through training implementers at District and community levels, including CBOs/NGOs.
Training of CPCs and PWP beneficiaries through hands-on experience enhanced community
capacities' beyond levels identified in the CNA. Community participation at all stages and levels
engendered social cohesion and ownership of the development process; demonstrated by the level
of community contribution and adherence to the sub-project cycle.

Since most of the infrastructure is constructed by the communities and then handed over to the
sectors upon completion, responsibility for maintenance rests with the sectors; one would expect
that these assets will be maintained to the same standard prevailing in a District. Health facilities
constituted 23% of CDI sub-projects, with 45% of them not fully staffed and supplied at the close
of TASAF. In recognition of the challenges facing community­funded health facilities, there was
a slow-down in the approval of new health facilities after the mid-term review, and TASAF II will
not finance any new health facilities. There are plans by LGAs to establish Community Health
Funds, and, so far, 40 such funds exist to supplement Government recurrent funding for the health
sector; but it is too early to judge their effectiveness. Most investments (56%) went to the
education sector where School Parent-Teachers Committees have a long history of collecting
funds from parents for school maintenance and to finance other running costs to supplement
Government budgets. Some School Committees, having been trained in maintenance, can more
effectively use the funds set aside in the capitation grant to the school from Central Government
for maintenance. The water sector, in which Community Water Committees (responsible for



                                                   - 10 -

operation and maintenance of water assets) always set up a water fund before they can receive
funds for water investments, received 15% of TASAF resources. Furthermore, 629 women in
Community Water Committees were trained by the Project as caretakers for TASAF- funded
water sub-projects. With respect to the transport sector, there are no formal mechanisms for
community roads maintenance, but most TASAF roads link remote communities to markets; it is
expected that these are likely to be maintained by communities and LGAs. The SSPs supported
activities which communities would normally manage on their own, and members have been
trained in business management and have savings accounts from which to draw funds if necessary.
Environmental and social mitigation measures were implemented by communities. Continued
capacity enhancement will take place at District level, and within TASAF, to facilitate
communities with environmental and social aspects under TASAF II ­ where safeguards have
been more fully integrated into the Operational Manual and the sub-project cycle processes.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The design of TASAF II is based on the understanding that as more Districts meet fiduciary
criteria set out under a national Local Government Reform Program, the management of TASAF
funds will be taken over by LGAs, and future community financing will be through Government
budget systems. Through TASAF II, Village Governments will receive development funds and lay
the foundation for them to become more active service providers within a decentralized
framework. An assessment of the convergence between TASAF II and the Bank-funded Local
Government Support Project (LGSP) is planned for the TASAF II mid-term review.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank's lending performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank quickly responded to the Borrower's
request for a social fund, preparation was participatory, and piloting of activities provided
valuable lessons for Project design. The Project design was coherent, in line with the CAS, and
took into account the country's National Poverty Reduction Strategy­itself based on a
participatory approach to addressing poverty issues. The Project was identified in February 1999,
pre-appraised in April 1999 and appraised in April 2000. A total of five missions were undertaken
by Bank teams with a good skills mix. The Project was negotiated in June 2000, approved by the
Board in August 2000, and became effective in November 2000. The Bank granted the
Government's request for a PPF to undertake a CNA, and to test out the proposed approach
(processes, procedures and implementation arrangements), and community capacities in 17
communities. By appraisal, there was sufficient information from the pilots to glean lessons and
to demonstrate how the proposed mechanisms were working. As part of the preparatory
activities, the Bank also consulted widely with communities, stakeholders, and donors. A
financial management analysis and procurement assessment of the implementing agency was
carried out, risks were identified and appropriate mitigation measures were put in place. An
environmental analysis was undertaken and recommendations with respect to mitigation measures
were included in the sub-project cycle. Inconsistencies, presented previously, between PAD and
the DCA were addressed in the Operational Manual and did not affect implementation or
outcome.




                                                  - 11 -

7.2 Supervision:
The rating for supervision was challenging, with satisfactory performance in most aspects, and
better performance required in a few aspects; and as a consequence the rating given is moderately
satisfactory. Between effectiveness and the closing date, 11 implementation reviews were
undertaken. All reviews received input from procurement and financial management staff,
whether their work was undertaken during or prior to the reviews. The reviews included the
requisite skill mix except for the environmental and social safeguard specialists who were not
included in the latter part of the Project life. In addition to the need for inclusion of the
environmental specialist, the only other shortcoming was that challenges faced by the TMU with
respect to financial management should have been detected earlier. The reviews were sufficiently
resourced; documentation was comprehensive and appropriate guidance was provided to the
client. Examples include (a) the provision of a window through which support to the vulnerable
could be provided having noticed that HIV/AIDS requests were not getting support through the
CDI component; (b) recommendation that a review of already funded sub-projects be undertaken
to ensure that sector norms (functionality) were followed and ensure service delivery to the
beneficiary communities; (c) emphasizing the need to track the use of environmental checklists,
implementation of mitigation measures, and building capacity at community level; (d) supporting
the establishment of a new directorate to ensure quality control of Project operations; and (e)
supporting the redeployment of Program Officers to TMU after noticing that they were not being
effectively used and supported at the regional level. The placement of a Bank staff in the Country
Office during the final year of implementation enhanced the follow-up which the team was able to
provide.

In 2003, TASAF was one of the Projects selected for an audit by the Bank Internal Audit
Department, wherein weaknesses in procurement and financial management were identified.
Records indicate that the team responded to these recommendations in subsequent missions. A
thematic supervision mission on environment and social safeguards was carried out in March
2005, which recommended strengthening the review team to include an environmental and social
safeguard specialist, and supervision of environmental and social safeguards through capacity
enhancement of the TMU and District level staff. This recommendation is being implemented
under TASAF II, and it is expected that having a Lead Environmental Specialist in the Bank
Country Office will further enhance capacity building efforts.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is considered satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Preparation by the Borrower is rated satisfactory. His Excellency, President Benjamin William
Mkapa of the United Republic of Tanzania, visited Malawi in 1998 where he was impressed by
the Malawi Social Action Fund which was financing communities to build schools and clinics,
while providing cash transfers to the poor, and providing support to the vulnerable. As a
consequence, the President requested the World Bank to send a team to design a similar fund in
Tanzania. Government took the lead in preparing the Project concept, actively participating in all
the stages of preparation, and producing all the required documentation from pre-appraisal



                                                  - 12 -

through to effectiveness in a timely manner. Government organized stakeholders' workshops,
meetings and study tours to existing social funds, which allowed for participatory consultations in
the Project design process. A CNA was carried out to inform the Project design, and, as noted
above, piloting took place to test out the procedures and process, which brought out lessons that
fed into the Project design. An environmental analysis was carried out on the pilot sub-projects
which met the Bank's safeguard requirements and provided the basis for designing the processes
to mitigate potential environmental impact. In order to complement the decentralization process
which expected to lead to community empowerment, the proposed institutional arrangements for
implementation by Government formed an integral part of the Local Government Reform
Program because of its participatory nature.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory. Government continues to support
the poverty alleviation agenda as articulated in its PRS, and its commitment was demonstrated
through the provision of required counterpart funding. TASAF was an autonomous body under
the oversight of the National Steering Committee which provided policy guidance to the TMU.
Implementation of sub-projects was supported by the District, which, in addition to providing
contributions directly for the sub-projects, also contributed to the Project by providing staff,
transport, and office space. The one area where periodic conflicts arose was between the Village
Council and the CPCs, since the implementation arrangements of the Project was silent on the
role of village governments; this has been addressed in the design of TASAF II. Due to the
geographic dispersion of the Project's coverage, and the thoroughness of the auditors, delays
were encountered in the provision of audit reports to the Bank.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The team also found this rating to be a challenge. If taken as a whole, the performance might be
rated satisfactory; however, on the basis of fiduciary issues which surfaced toward the end of
implementation, the implementing agency, is rated moderately satisfactory. TMU's financial
management got worse in the last nine months which led to both Project management and
financial management being rated unsatisfactory by the Bank. There were challenges of internal
controls. The Government integrated computerized financial management system only worked at
the centre; Districts used a manual system which led to delays in financial reporting. The bulk of
procurement was carried out satisfactorily at community level by CPCs, but the Bank declared
mis-procurement in the amount of US$39,200 in one case at the TMU level. By not acting as a
facilitator, who obtains norms and standards for use by Districts and communities, the TMU
missed an opportunity to ensure sub-projects adhered to existing norms and standards. The TMU
undertook a number of activities in order to improve quality, efficiency and effectiveness of the
Project. These included: (a) setting up a Systems and Capacity Building Directorate after the
mid-term review; and (b) carrying out studies in order to further improve delivery mechanisms.
During implementation, the TMU was sufficiently staffed, with the initial Executive Director
being in post until three months before the closing date; in the final year of the Project two
Directors left the organization, and their positions were filled by staff from within the organization
on an acting basis. As the senior staff focused on the preparation of TASAF II, their work was
undertaken by acting staff who may not have received the requisite guidance from their
colleagues. This state of affairs contributed to some of the challenges during the final year of
implementation.


                                                 - 13 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

IEC is a powerful tool: An effectively implemented IEC strategy facilitates communities to
implement sub-projects successfully because they receive timely, consistent, and accurate
information on Project processes and procedures. A strong IEC initiative also helps to improve
mutual accountability between stakeholders and contributes to an improved governance structure
that is a key to community empowerment. It stimulates latent community capacities by expanding
the role of Village Governments. A nation-wide IEC program has been planned under TASAF II,
with a greater use of the print media to provide community-level reference materials.

Field-based Norms and Standards are helpful: A Project like TASAF, with a CDD approach,
involves many actors in implementation, which is greatly facilitated if norms and standards,
including operational bills of quantities, are available at District and community levels. For
TASAF II, Government has formulated Community Service Guidelines to assist Village
Governments; it has created a Sector Experts' Team to provide technical guidance to Local
Governments on sector norms and standards for community-level investments. The Team will
also address the identified problem of inadequate consultation between TASAF and the sectors
(i.e., health facilities established with inadequate staff and equipment).

Accountability is vital: Accountability of CPCs to the Village Government was strengthened; and
elected Local Government machinery was made responsible for sub-project approvals upon
advice from their technical staff. The Project strengthened village-level institutions, especially the
Village Council, and created a better climate for Community Management Organizations to
emerge. The community procurement process enabled communities to learn by doing while
remaining accountable through established Project rules. Community Score Cards have been
introduced into TASAF II as tools to systematically assess accountability trends at the
community-Local Government interface.

Harmonize documentation: As with any project, harmonizing various documents reduces
confusion. There is a tendency by implementers to rely heavily on the PAD as a guide, rather than
using the legal agreement, which is binding. The team for TASAF II invested time in harmonizing
the PAD with the DFA; and supported the TMU in harmonizing the OM with the DFA while
incorporating lessons from the preparation of TASAF's ICR.

Strengthening M&E system: The preparation of this ICR has generated lessons which have
improved TASAF II organizational structure. The multiple points for production and distribution
of information, with weak managerial oversight in TASAF, have been addressed by the creation
of a Directorate of Operations and Systems. Under TASAF II, District Accountants from TMU
will cover more than one District and have been given a capacity building role - with a greater
focus on systems audit and monitoring.




                                                  - 14 -

Sustainability enhanced: Supply-driven targets in TASAF were removed in TASAF II by
removing annual targets in the PAD, and giving Local Governments more responsibility to work
with communities in the Project. Given the shortage of health manpower, the construction of new
health facilities is on the negative list of community investments under TASAF II; emphasis has
been put on activities that communities can undertake to increase service access and contribute to
the attainment of specified Millennium Development Goal indicator targets rather than construct
more physical assets.

TMU weaknesses addressed: Procurement was strengthened by putting a Specialist under the
Executive Director, to work with a procurement committee. Financial management shortcomings
were addressed by separating disbursement from management as a way of streamlining
operations; and Internal Audit Unit was elevated to a Directorate level to improve the oversight
function. By revisiting the design of the organization (i.e., reducing its operational role and
strengthening its monitoring function while putting as much operational responsibility on Village
and Local Governments as possible), TASAF II will continue to build capacities at the grass roots
level. Local Government Reform Program fiduciary criteria were adopted as important criteria
for the gradual transfer of resource management from TMU to Local Government Authorities as
TASAF II is integrated into Local Government systems.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                 - 15 -

                              The United Republicof Tanzania
/                                   President'sOffice

                       TANZANIA SOCIAL ACTION FUND




                                                             OldKilwd Malit& Road
 Telephone:255 022 2123S82-84                                P.O.Box 9381
 Far..      255 022
                 2123582                                     Dar EsSalaam
  ail: info@rasaf.org                                        T'mia
  Website: WWW.tasaKoq


 In replyplease quote:

 RejNo:TSF/GEN/T/98/14                                        Dafee:22March2006

 Country Director .
 The World Bank,
 DARESSALAAM,

 Dear Madam,

 Re:     OFFICIALSUBMISSION OFADDENDUMTO GOVERNMENTICR--;4ND
         COMMENTS.TOIDAIMPLEMENTATIONCOMPLETION REPORTOCR)

 Kindly refer to the above mentioned subject and your letter dated 30th December 2005
 regarding the extensionof period for which the Government was to submit comments
 regarding the IDAICR.

 The requested meeting was held between Team and Government Team represented
                                           IDA
 by TMU staff and discussed in line with &e proposed agenda. The Minutes of the
 Meeting areattached herewithforyour reference.

 With regard to the Addendumto the GovernmentICR, theGovernment does not seethe
 reason forwithdrawalof itsICR. The Addendum isattached andshould replaceTables
 1to 5 of Annex 1. In thiscase, the Government ICR should be read dong with the
 submittedAddendum.

 The comments to the IDA ICR areas they were submipedpreviously with amendments
 made after the meeting between the IDA and Govement Teams. They are attached
 herewithforyour reference.

 We anticipatecontinuouscooperationin poverty reduction effortsthroughthe initiatives
 that directlytargetbeneficiariesat grassrootslevel.




 S. B. Likwelile          . ..

 EXECUTIVEDIRECTOR                         16-

Specific Comments to IDA ICR

S/No                   Issue                 TMU Comments
1.     Original Objective ­ (Section 3.1)     ­ Two different Project Development
                                              Objectives are presented in the two
                                              documents;
                                             ­ PDO in the revised Operational Manual
                                             (OM) is the one which was addressed during
                                             implementation; which should therefore be
                                             the one to be referred to in the ICR
2.     Average cost of sub project ­ (Section ­ The indicated average cost of CDI and
       3.3)                                   PWP sub projects, that is US$ 20,000 and
                                              US$40,000, respectively, was applicable
                                              before the OM was revised;
                                             ­ After revision of OM, ceiling of sub
                                             projects approved at district/island level were
                                             US$25,000 and US$50,000 for CDI and
                                             PWP, respectively. NSC was approving sub
                                             projects whose value exceeded that ceiling
3.     Inconsistencies within the Project     ­ The inconsistencies within the PAD and
       Appraisal Document (PAD) and           DCA cannot not be considered editorial, as it
       Development Credit Agreement           can be noted even Project Development
       (DCA) ­ (Section 3.5)                  Objectives presented in the two documents
                                              are different;
                                             ­ Revision of the OM departed from the
                                             design, for instance, number of outputs
                                             (communities to be reached) were changed.
                                             Aiming to meet earlier-on stipulated outputs
                                             was regarded as managing demand
4.     Functionality under CDI sub projects ­ Definition of `functionality' was provided
       ­ (Section 4.2)                        by respective sectors and not districts.
                                              ­ Due consideration was to be given to the
                                              role played by other partners in provision of
                                              similar assets/facilities was overlooked
                                             ­ In view of existence of many players in
                                             development including host LGA, other IDA
                                             projects, bilateral and multilateral agencies,
                                             NGOs and private sector, it was not
                                             expected that TASAF alone, certainly not
                                             within the spirit of community ownership
                                             and sustainability, would be able to finance
                                             everything to make all facilities functional,
                                             since such achievement would require much
                                             resources and more time




                                          17

4.    Functionality  ­ Definition of `functionality' was         No further comment
      under CDI sub  provided by respective sectors and not
      projects ­     districts.
      (Section 4.2)  ­ Due consideration was to be given to
                     the role played by other partners in
                     provision of similar assets/facilities; this
                     was not to be overlooked
                     ­ In view of existence of many players
                     in development including host LGA,
                     other IDA projects, bilateral and
                     multilateral agencies, NGOs and private
                     sector, it was not expected that TASAF
                     alone, certainly not within the spirit of
                     community ownership and
                     sustainability, would be able to finance
                     everything to make all facilities
                     functional, since such achievement
                     would require much resources and more
                     time.
5.    PWP wages ­    ­ The share of PWP unskilled labour in No further comment
      (Section 4.2)  the PWP funds disbursed was 41.3%
                     and not 36%. The percentage is
                     calculated based on the amount
                     disbursed to sub projects which was
                     US$ 11,024,714.64 and not total
                     disbursements spent under category 2
                     (PWP);
                     ­ IDA contribution of US$ 12.9 mil. to
                     PWP reported in Government ICR
                     included disbursement to sub projects,
                     cost of E- PRA and preparation of sub
                     projects as well as contribution of 25%
                     of TAOs salaries. The amount
                     disbursed to sub projects was US$
                     11,024,714.64 as reported in the
                     April-June 2005 Quarterly Report




                                         - 18 -

S/No       Issue                 TMU Comments                  IDA responses
6.    TMU              ­ TASAF was designed to meet set        See explanation in S/No 3.
      Sub-component: outputs; TMU planning was aimed at TASAF was a demand-driven
      Use of PAD       achieving stated outputs;               operation and the supply of targets
      Project outputs  ­ Revision of OM departed to some       by TMU to Districts were turning it
      ­ (Section 4.2)  extent from the earlier design,         into a supply-driven operation;
                       particularly on the number of outputs   where the centre gave targets,
                                                               districts applied them, and
                                                               communities could not request for
                                                               sub-projects above that target even
                                                               if their needs were greater. There
                                                               was concern that this supply-driven
                                                               approach was just stretching the
                                                               project to last the four years rather
                                                               than respond to community
                                                               demands. IDA team attempts to
                                                               persuade TMU to change the
                                                               approach failed.
7.    TMU             ­ District Steering Committees, Pemba No further comment
      Sub-component: and Unguja Steering Committees and
      Approval of sub National Steering Committee were
      projects -      responsible for approval of sub projects;
      (Section 4.2)   ­ TMU was facilitating the process
8.    Purchasing of    ­ The Government decision was to use The sole source was the problem
      off-the-shelf    `Platinum', TASAF being a               our procurement team had with
      software to      Government Project was expected to      Platinum, hence it took the IDA
      improve data     use the same software;                  team a long time to obtain the
      management ­     ­ Procedure for purchasing of           necessary clearance.
      (Section 4.2 and off-the-shelf software is the same as
      Section 5.3)     when procuring other products; it also
                       required customization and backlog
                       data capture, hence its acquisition
                       would not have solved the problem
                       immediately;
                       ­ Delay in acquiring `Platinum' is
                       largely attributable to time taken by
                       IDA to give `No Objection'. TMU had
                       to wait for about a year to get IDA's
                       No Objection for sole sourcing the
                       software (request for No Objection was
                       made in July 2001 while clearance to
                       sign contract was provided in May
                       2002).
                       ­ Then there was the task of capturing
                       of backlog data, data cleaning and
                       reconciliation.



                                            - 19 -

Specific Comments from TASAF with IDA responses

S/No           Issue                TMU Comments                  IDA responses
1.         Original        ­ Two different Project                The PDO in the PAD (page
           Objective ­     Development Objectives (PDO) are       2) has different wording from
           (Section 3.1)   presented in the two documents;        that in the DCA (schedule 2,
                           ­ PDO in the revised Operational       page 14). In revising the
                           Manual (OM) of 2003, is the one        OM, the teams tried to
                           which was addressed during             harmonize the two by (a)
                           implementation; which should           stating the objective from the
                           therefore be the one to be referred to PAD, and (b) amplifying it
                           in the ICR                             with a definition of "resource
                                                                  endowments" and "socio-
                                                                  economic infrastructure"
                                                                  from the DCA.
2.        Average cost of ­ The indicated average cost of CDI      The US$25,000 for CDI and
          sub project ­   and PWP sub projects, that is US$        $50,000 for PWP were
          (Section 3.3)   20,000 and US$40,000, respectively,      provided for in the DCA
                          was applicable before the OM was         (Schedule 4 paras 8(a) and
                          revised;                                 11(a)). The OM was revised
                          ­ After revision of OM, ceiling of sub to bring it into line with the
                          projects approved at district/island     DCA since the PAD at
                          level were US$25,000 and US$50,000 negotiation had estimates of
                          for CDI and PWP, respectively. NSC       $20,000 and $40,000.
                          was approving sub projects whose
                          value exceeded that ceiling.
3.        Inconsistencies ­ The inconsistencies within the PAD The revision of the OM and
          within the      and DCA cannot not be considered         other handbooks was in the
          Project         editorial, and as noted even the Project spirit of the DCA, which
          Appraisal       Development Objectives presented in      provides for their
          Document        the two documents are different;         "amendment from time to
          (PAD) and       ­ Revision of the OM departed from       time, in consultation with the
          Development     the design, for instance, number of      Association, and such term
          Credit          outputs (communities to be reached)      includes any schedules of the
          Agreement       were changed. Aiming to meet earlier- Project Manuals" (para (p)
          (DCA) ­         on stipulated outputs was regarded by    page 3 of DCA referring to
          (Section 3.5)   IDA as managing demand                   Manuals in Schedule 4 para
                                                                   1(b)). Such consultations
                                                                   took place at a meeting held
                                                                   in Zanzibar between IDA
                                                                   team and TMU when
                                                                   implementation was being
                                                                   hampered by the many
                                                                   interpretations in TMU and
                                                                   Districts on what the OM
                                                                   provisions meant.




                                               20

S/No       Issue               TMU Comments                  IDA responses
 4.   Functionality  ­ Definition of `functionality' was     No further comment
      under CDI sub  provided by respective sectors and not
      projects ­     districts.
      (Section 4.2)  ­ Due consideration was to be given to
                     the role played by other partners in
                     provision of similar assets/facilities;
                     this was not to be overlooked
                     ­ In view of existence of many players
                     in development including host LGA,
                     other IDA projects, bilateral and
                     multilateral agencies, NGOs and
                     private sector, it was not expected that
                     TASAF alone, certainly not within the
                     spirit of community ownership and
                     sustainability, would be able to finance
                     everything to make all facilities
                     functional, since such achievement
                     would require much resources and
                     more time.
5.    PWP wages ­    ­ The share of PWP unskilled labour     No further comment
      (Section 4.2)  in the PWP funds disbursed was 41.3%
                     and not 36%. The percentage is
                     calculated based on the amount
                     disbursed to sub projects which was
                     US$ 11,024,714.64 and not total
                     disbursements spent under category 2
                     (PWP);
                     ­ IDA contribution of US$ 12.9 mil. to
                     PWP reported in Government ICR
                     included disbursement to sub projects,
                     cost of E- PRA and preparation of sub
                     projects as well as contribution of 25%
                     of TAOs salaries. The amount
                     disbursed to sub projects was US$
                     11,024,714.64 as reported in the April-
                     June 2005 Quarterly Report




                                          21

S/No       Issue                TMU Comments                 IDA responses
6.     TMU Sub-        ­ TASAF was designed to meet set       See explanation in S/No 3.
      component: Use outputs; TMU planning was aimed at TASAF was a demand-driven
      of PAD Project achieving stated outputs;                operation and the supply of targets
      outputs ­        ­ Revision of OM departed to some      by TMU to Districts were turning
      (Section 4.2)    extent from the earlier design,        it into a supply-driven operation;
                       particularly on the number of outputs  where the centre gave targets,
                                                              districts applied them, and
                                                              communities could not request for
                                                              sub-projects above that target
                                                              even if their needs were greater.
                                                              There was concern that this
                                                              supply-driven approach was just
                                                              stretching the project to last the
                                                              four years rather than respond to
                                                              community demands. IDA team
                                                              attempts to persuade TMU to
                                                              change the approach failed.
7.    TMU Sub-         ­ District Steering Committees,        No further comment
      component:       Pemba and Unguja Steering
      Approval of sub Committees and National Steering
      projects -       Committee were responsible for
      (Section 4.2)    approval of sub projects;
                       ­ TMU was facilitating the process
8.    Purchasing of    ­ The Government decision was to       The sole source was the problem
      off-the-shelf    use `Platinum', TASAF being a          our procurement team had with
      software to      Government Project was expected to     Platinum, hence it took the IDA
      improve data     use the same software;                 team a long time to obtain the
      management ­     ­ Procedure for purchasing of off-the- necessary clearance.
      (Section 4.2 and shelf software is the same as when
      Section 5.3)     procuring other products; it also
                       required customization and backlog
                       data capture, hence its acquisition
                       would not have solved the problem
                       immediately;
                       ­ Delay in acquiring `Platinum' is
                       largely attributable to time taken by
                       IDA to give `No Objection'. TMU
                       had to wait for about a year to get
                       IDA's No Objection for sole sourcing
                       the software (request for No Objection
                       was made in July 2001 while clearance
                       to sign contract was provided in May
                       2002).
                       ­ Then there was the task of capturing
                       of backlog data, data cleaning and
                       reconciliation.
                       ­ Reasons for the delay are clarified
                       in Government ICR.



                                             22

S/No           Issue             TMU Comments          IDA responses
9.     NBS's decision to pull  ­ There is no official  The Community Score Card was a
       out: (Implementation of communication that      recommendation when the NBS-
       Core Welfare Indicator  NBS pulled out;         TASAF collaboration was not
       Questionnaire, CWIQ     ­ NBS was expected to   forthcoming. The M&E specialist
       and Community Service   administer CWIQ for     working on the NBS issue had a
       Delivery Survey,        several stakeholders    meeting with TMU and NBS early in
       CSDS) ­ (Section 4.2)   including TASAF.        the implementation of the project,
                               There was no adequate   and reported that the NBS was no
                               financial commitment to longer able to: "MOU with National
                               operationalize it.      Bureau of Statistics. The NBS has
                               TASAF alone had no      not yet decided whether it will
                               enough funds to         incorporate an annual monitoring
                               operationalize it;      survey into its household survey
                               ­ CSDS was piloted,     program. If it decides not to,
                               IDA recommended a       TASAF will need to amend the
                               different tool known as current MOU accordingly (with its
                               Community Score Card    implications for the DCA)" - Aide
                               (CSC) to be used during memoire of July 2002
                               TASAF-II.
10.    Borrower                - Senior staff focus    No comments.
       Performance:            on the Preparation of
       Implementing Agency     TASAF-II did not
       ­ (Section 7.6)         contribute to some
                               challenges of final
                               implementation;
                               - Acting staff were
                               provided with
                               guidance were free to
                               make consultations
                               with senior staff.




                                          23

S/No         Issue           TMU Comments          IDA responses
11.  Strengthening M&E     ­ The decision to create The revision of the OM after
     System (creating      a Directorate of         negotiations was to make sure that it was
     Directorate of        Operations and Systems   aligned with the DFA and that it was
     Operations and        is a controversial one   taking on board lessons from the ICR
     Systems) ­ Section 8  which seems to have      (which was being prepared). The option
                           originated from TTL.     had been to delay the design of TASAF
                           The structure is         II until the ICR was done, or to design
                           different from the one   TASAF II and take on board TASAF I
                           that was negotiated and  lessons as these were learnt. The former
                           also different from the  Executive Director and the team revising
                           organigram presented in  the OM met with IDA team members
                           the PAD;                 and agreed that a Directorate of
                           ­ Revision of TASAF-     Operations and Systems would address
                           II organigram was done   many of the data management challenges
                           after the Project was    that he had faced. When the new
                           negotiated;              Executive Director came on board, he
                           ­ The structure is       raised concerns, and the IDA team
                           different from one       agreed that after trying to work with
                           which was the basis of   Managers instead of one Director for a
                           the approved             six-month period, the Executive Director
                           Procurement Plan;        could propose to the IDA team a
                           ­ Revision of the        different configuration. The OM is
                           organigram was done      considered a 'living document' to take on
                           without consulting the   board any learning done by the team;
                           Government Project       hence the DFA provision that it " may be
                           Preparation Team         amended from time-to-time with the
                           (PPT);                   concurrence of the Association, and such
                           ­ A few months           term [of OM] includes any schedules
                           experience of            thereto" (para (t) page 3). Schedule 4
                           operationalizing the     para (1) extends the OM to specifically
                           new structure has        include the Service Guidelines in
                           shown that the proposed  Community Participation (and the IDA
                           structure creates        team agreed with the TMU to allow UN
                           unnecessary              agencies to make comments on these
                           bureaucracy and affects  guidelines after negotiations as the OM
                           the pace of              was being finalized). It is not possible to
                           implementation;­         have a final OM by negotiations without
                           Accordingly, Executive   leading to major delays; and
                           Director and TTL         Government was very anxious that
                           agreed to split the      TASAF II be designed with speed - IDA
                           Directorate as an        responded, but it meant there were
                           interim measure.         significant revisions to the OM as
                                                    lessons from TASAF I became available.




                                           24

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information

   None




                                             - 25 -

  Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix




Outcome / Impact Indicators:
          Indicator/Matrix           Projected in last PSR1    Actual/Latest Estimate
Percentage of projects to have               100%            90%, the remaining 10% are
permanent maintenance mechanisms                             health facilities not operational
                                                             due to lack of staff and
                                                             necessary equipment.
Percentage of communities provided           100%            100%
with efficient back-up services
Percentage of population getting             60%             89%
services from the constructed
facilities
Percentage of communities satisfied          80%             78.2%
by the available services



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR1    Actual/Latest Estimate

Community Development Initiatives
No. of communities reached under             2212            1,482 applications received,
community subprojects                                        1,399 funded and implemented.
                                                             Assets created, 7,212,
                                                             exceeded 3,906 planned by
                                                             3,306.
% sub-projects completed                     90%             83.3%
% of women on CPC                            50%             50%

Public Works Program
No. of communities reached under             328             581
safety net projects
No. of beneficiaries reached                32,800           113,646
% of women benefiting                        40%             47%
% projects completed within budget           90%             85.2%
and on time




                                          - 26 -

Institutional Development
 No. of implementers trained        840      732 at district and national levels
                                             including NGOs and CBOs; and
                                             22,687 CPC members at
                                             community level
 No. of beneficiaries trained      40,000    113,646 PWP beneficiaries
 No. women trained                 50%       51% (of implementers trained)
 % of increase attendance at       30%       100%
 awareness meetings (annual)
 % of women in CPCs                50%       50%
 % of population aware of           0%       100%
 TASAF (annual growth)
 Days to produce reports after       7       15
 target date
 Days within which to effect        30       15
 disbursement after application




                                   - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                         Estimate     Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                          US$ million  US$ million
Community Development Initiatives (Sub-Projects)           38.81         44.47           114.5
Public Works Program (Sub-Projects)                        12.60         13.58           107.8
Institutional Development                                   6.00         15.00             250

Total Baseline Cost                                        57.41         73.05
  Physical Contingencies                                    3.59
  Price Contingencies                                      10.76
                         Total Project Costs               71.76         73.05
                   Total Financing Required                71.76         73.05


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)

                                            Procurement Method
Expenditure Category ICB           NCB      Community       Other     N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                            Participation
Community                                          34.5                9.4         43.8
Sub-Projects                                      (34.5)                          (34.5)
Public Works                                       13.8                0.4         14.1
                                                  (13.8)                          (13.8)
Equipment, furniture,      1.7      0.6                       0.7                   3.0
supplies and vehicles     (1.7)    (0.6)                     (0.7)                 (3.0)
Consultant services,                                          4.7      0.8          5.5
training, workshops,                                         (4.7)                 (4.7)
studies and audits
Operating Costs                                               4.1      1.2          5.4
                                                             (4.1)                 (4.1)
Total                      1.7      0.6     48.3              9.5      11.8        71.7
(IDA Share)               (1.7)    (0.6)    (48.3)           (9.5)                (60.0)




                                                - 28 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)

                                              Procurement Method
   Expenditure               ICB     NCB       Community        Other          N.B.F.  Total Cost
   Category                                    Participation
   Community                                         34.54                     9.93       44.47
   Sub-Projects                                     (34.54)                              (34.54)
   Public Works                                      12.90                      .68       13.58
                                                    (12.90)                              (12.90)
   Equipment, furniture,     1.44    0.96                         0.20          .22       2.82
   supplies and vehicles (1.44)     (0.96)                       (0.20)                  (2.60)
   Consultant services,                                           6.88                    6.88
   training, workshops,                                          (6.88)                  (6.88)
   studies and audits
   Operating Costs                                                4.77          .53       5.30
                                                                 (4.77)                  (4.77)
   Total                     1.44    0.96            47.44       11.85         11.36      73.05
   (IDA Share)              (1.44)  (0.96)          (47.44)     (11.85)                  (61.69)


Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
        Component               Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                             IDA      Govt.       CoF.     Bank      Govt.       CoF.  IDA    Govt.   CoF.
Community Development       38.00     1.90        8.62     34.54      1.81       8.12  90.9    95.3    94.2
Initiatives (Sub-Projects)
Public Works                15.00     0.75        0.00     12.90      0.68       0.00  86.0    90.7    0.0
(Sub-Projects)
Institutional Development   7.00      0.50        0.00     14.25      0.75       0.00  203.6  150.0    0.0
TOTAL                       60.00     3.15        8.62     61.69      3.24       8.12  102.8  102.9    94.2




                                                   - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Comparison of Construction Cost of TASAF with that of other Organizations


Project                    Donor                  Cost   TASAF     % TASAF
                                                  $'000  Cost      Savings
                                                         $'000
Classroom                  PEDP                   6,889  4,461     35
Classroom                  AXIOS                  5,920  4,461     25
Teacher's House            AFRICARE               7,733  6,663     14
Dispensary and Staff house AFRICARE               20,226 14,035    31
Staff house                AFRICARE               9,100  7,800     15
Dispensary                 Japanese Embassy       61,000 32,000    48
Water Borehole             Ministry of Water      50,000 40,678    19
Shallow Well               RWSS                   3,000  2,915     3
Earth Road (Labor based)   LDF/UNDP/              8,319  4,500     46
                           UNCDF

Exchange Rate: US$1: Tsh1,100
Source: November 2005, Preliminary data from the on-going "TASAF CDI and PWP
Implementation and Cost Effectiveness Study".




                                            - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              2/9/1999                  2    TEAM LEADER (1); SP SPEC
                                             (1)
              4/28/1999               11     TEAM LEADER (1); OP
                                             ANALYST (1); SR
                                             STATISTICIAN (1);
                                             COMMUNICATIONS
                                             SPECIALIST (1); INFO
                                             ANALYST (1); PROGRAM
                                             OFFICER-SOCIAL SECTORS
                                             (2); FMS (1); PROC
                                             ANALYST(1);
                                             PARTICIPATION/COMMUNIT
                                             Y BASED DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SP
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              10/5/1999                 2    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             PARTICIPATION/COMMUNIT
                                             Y BASED DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              12/8/1999               12     TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             PARTICIPATION/COMMUNIT
                                             Y BASED DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (2); OP
                                             ANALYST (1); KNOWLEDGE
                                             & LEARNING OFFICER (1); SP
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PROGRAM
                                             OFFICER-SOCIAL SECTORS
                                             (2); DISBURSEMENT (2); FMS
                                             (1); EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              4/17/2000               14     TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             PROGRAM
                                             OFFICERS-SOCIAL
                                             SECTOR (2);
                                             COMMUNICATIONS
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SR
                                             STATISTICIAN (1);
                                             INFORMATION ANALYST
                                             (1); OP ANALYST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); SP
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PARTICIPATION/
                                             COMMUNITY BASED



                                              - 31 -

                            DEVELOPMENT
                            SPECIALIST; PROC
                            ANALYST (1); FMS (1);
                            DISBURSEMENT (1)

Supervision
           11/27/2000    7  TEAM LEADER (1); IEC              S    S
                            SPECIALIST (1);
                            INSTITUTIONAL DEV. (1);
                            ECONOMIST, PWP (1);
                            PUBLIC HEALTH (1);
                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                            DISBURSEMENT (1)
           03/09/2001    3  TEAM LEADER, SR. SP SPEC          S    S
                            (1); LEAD STAT (1); SR. PH
                            SPEC (1)
           09/14/2001    9  TTL/SP SPEC (1);                  S    S
                            COMMUNICATIONS SPEC (1);
                            HEALTH SPECIALIST (1); OP
                            OFFICER (1); PROC
                            SPECIALIST (1); EDUCATION
                            SPECIALIST (1);
                            MANAGEMENT
                            CONSULTANT (1);
                            CONSULTANT (1); FMS (1)
           07/05/2002    5  TTL, SR. SP SPEC. (1);            S    S
                            CO-TTL, SR. HEALTH SP. (1);
                            SR. COMMUNICATIONS
                            SPEC. (1); INFO OFFICER (1);
                            OP OFFICER (1)
           10/18/2002    2  TEAM LEADER, SP SPEC (1);         S    S
                            OP OFFICER (1)
           6/20/2003     10 TTL/SR. SP SPEC (1); SR.          S    S
                            COMM SPEC (1); SR. INFO
                            OFFICER (1); OP OFFICER (1);
                            INDIG KNOWLEDGE (1); FMS
                            (1); SR. PROC SPEC (1); EDUC
                            SPEC (1); SR. PH SPEC (1);
                            CONSULTANT (1)
           2/27/2004     5  TTL, OP. OFFICER (1);             S    S
                            INSTITUTIONAL/POLICY(1);
                            M&E, MIS (1);
                            INFRASTRUCTURE (1); SSP
                            (1)
           4/29/2004     1  SR. COMMUNIC SPEC (1)             S    S
           10/8/2004     8  TTL, SR.OPERATIONS OFF            S    S
                            (1); SR. SP SPEC. (1); SR. INFO
                            OFFICER (1); PROC ANALYST
                            (1); SR. PROC SPEC (1); SR.
                            FMS. (1); PROG ASST (1); SR.
                            PROG ASST (1)
           12/10/2004    6  SR SP SPEC (1); FMS (1);          S    S
                            DISBURSEMENT (2): PROG




                            - 32 -

                                           ASST (1); CONSULTANT (1)


 ICR
               04/08/05               6     TTL/SR. OP. OFFICER (1);          S    S
                                            PROG ASST (1); SR. SP
                                            SPEC (1); SP SPEC (1):
                                            PROC ANALYST (1):
                                            FMS (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            N/A                            125
  Appraisal/Negotiation                40.89                           132
  Supervision                        150.11                            378
  ICR                                   7.13                            12
  Total                              198.13                            647




                                            - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
   Macro policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
   Sector Policies                      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Physical                             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Financial                            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Institutional Development            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Environmental                        H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction           H        SU    M       N    NA
            Gender                      H        SU    M       N    NA
            Other (Please specify)      H        SU    M       N    NA
         Participatory Demand Drive
Development
   Private sector development           H        SU    M       N    NA
   Public sector management             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Other (Please specify)               H        SU    M       N    NA
Capacity building of stakeholders
(community level; CPCs; LGAs;
NGOs; CBOs; TMU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.   Project preparation documents
2.   TASAF I PAD
3.   Back to Office and Aide Memoires
4.   Project Annual and Quarterly Reports
5.   "Evaluation of the Social Support Program in the Pilot Districts of Bukoba Rural, Kibaha,
     Shinyanga Rural and Meatu" by Unique Consortium of Services Ltd. 2004
6.   A Model for Determining a Self Targeting Wage Rate ­ final Report by Business Care
     Services Ltd.
7.   Environmental Analysis of TASAF funded subprojects April-May 2000.
8.   Environmental Assessment of TASAF supported subprojects (June 2003) by EPCON
     Biotech Consultants
9.   Impact Assessment of IEC in TASAF Operation Areas 2004
10.  Assessment of Capacity Building Districts in Subprojects Management in the Context of
     Norms and Standards APEX Engineering Co. Ltd.
11.  "Beneficiary Assessment in TASAF Operation Areas" 2003 by Data Vision International
     (T) Ltd.




                                           - 36 -

        Additional Annex 8: Borrower's Implementation Completion Report


 UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                          PRESIDENT'S OFFICE




  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (ICR)

                                     For
                       Tanzania Social Action Fund




                                (2000 to 2005)




Dated June 16th 2005




                                       37

                   LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS

BA     -  Beneficiary Assessment

CDI    -  Community Development Initiatives

CBO    -  Community Based Organisation

CMO    -  Community Management Organization

CPC    -  Community Project Committee

DCDI   -  Director of Community Development Initiatives

DF     -  Director of Finance

DPWP   -  Director of Public Works Programme

ECD    -  Early Child Development

ED     -  Executive Director

GOT    -  Government of Tanzania

ID     -  Institutional Development

IDA    -  International Development Association

IEC    -  Information Education and Communication

KPI    -  Key Performance Indicators

MIS    -  Management Information System

MOU    -  Memorandum of Understanding

M&E    -  Monitoring and Evaluation

NGO    -  Non Government Organisation

NSC    -  National Steering Committee

PDO    -  Project Development Objective

PIA    -  Project Implementation Agency

PO     -  Program Officer

PrO    -  Procurement Officer

PWP    -  Public Works Programme

SSP    -  Social Support Programme

TAO    -  TASAF Accounts Officer

TDA    -  TASAF District Accountant

TDO    -  TASAF District Officer

TASAF  -  Tanzania Social Action Fund

TMU    -  TASAF Management Unit

TPC    -  TASAF Project Coordinator

VPO    -  Vice President Office

WB     -  World Bank



                               38

                                             TABLE OF CONTENTS


1.0   BACKGROUND......................................................................................................................................40

2.0   TASAF I DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE ..........................................................................................40

  2.1 INSTITUTIONAL SET UP AND PROJECT COMPONENTS                                                              40
    2.1.1 Community Development Initiatives (CDI).....................................................................................41
    2.1.2 Public Works Program (PWP)........................................................................................................41
    2.1.3 Institutional Development (ID) .......................................................................................................41

3.0   ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT ....................................................................................................42

  3.1 PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE (PDO)                                                        42
  3.2 PROJECT DESIGN                  42

4.0   ACHIEVEMENT OF THE OBJECTIVE............................................................................................42

  4.1 COMPONENT SPECIFIC ACHIEVEMENT                                              43
    4.1.1 CDI (including SSP Window) Achievement....................................................................................43
    4.1.2 PWP Achievement............................................................................................................................44
    4.1.3 Institution Development Achievement.............................................................................................45

5.0   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION CHALLENGES............................................................................45

  5.1 OVERALL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION CHALLENGES                                                                45
  5.2 COMPONENT SPECIFIC CHALLENGES                                               46
    5.2.1 CDI (including SSP Window)..........................................................................................................46
    5.2.2 PWP..................................................................................................................................................47
    5.2.3 Institutional Development Experience ............................................................................................48

6.0   OTHER CHALLENGES........................................................................................................................49

  6.1 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ISSUES 49
  6.2 PROCUREMENT ISSUES                             49
  6.3 SUSTAINABILITY                  50

7.0   BANK AND BORROWERS PERFORMANCE.................................................................................50

  7.1 BANK PERFORMANCE50
  7.2 BORROWERS PERFORMANCE50

8.0   LESSONS LEARNT ...............................................................................................................................50

9.0   ANNEXES................................................................................................................................................56




                                                                     39

                      TANZANIA SOCIAL ACTION FUND (TASAF) I
                    IMPLENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)


1.0    Background


The main development challenge of the United Republic of Tanzania is eradication of
poverty, which is widespread among its population. According to the Household Budget
Survey of 2000/01 the proportion of the population below the national food poverty line is
18.7 percent and that below the national basic needs poverty line is 35.7 percent. However,
income poverty is still widespread both in rural and urban areas although poverty remains
overwhelmingly in rural areas where 87 percent of the poor population live, and is highest
among households who depend on agriculture. The Government of Tanzania has put in place
many programs, policies, strategies and projects across the country to address this
development challenge. The Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF I) was one of them.

TASAF I assisted the United Republic of Tanzania to sustain its ongoing reforms through
mainstreaming its activities into Local Government Authorities and facilitating improvements
of socio-economic infrastructure, enhancing capacity and skills of implementers and
stakeholders rural and peri-urban communities, local government, NGOs and CBOs.who are
involved in the program. TASAF initiatives improved basic social and economic services and
protected vulnerable groups, including women and children. Specific attention was given to
the HIV/AIDS epidemic and the involvement of civil society and non-government
organizations (NGOs/CBOs) in rural development issues.


2.0    TASAF I Development Objective

The main objective of TASAF I was to increase and enhance the capacity of communities
and stakeholders to prioritize, implement, and manage sustainable development initiatives
and in the process improve socio-economic services and opportunities. The expected outputs
of the Fund were: community sub-projects; safety net sub-projects, sub-projects identified
and implemented for women and vulnerable groups; a functioning monitoring and evaluation
system; better informed stakeholders; and improved capacity for facilitation.

2.1    Institutional Set Up and Project Components

TASAF was located in the President's Office and the President appointed the TASAF
Executive Director and National Steering Committee (NSC) to manage TASAF initiatives.
The NSC was chaired by the Permanent Secretary in the Vice President`s Office. Other
members of the NSC included one representative from Vice President's Office, Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Community Development, Gender and Children, Ministry of Regional
Administration and Local Government, Ministry of Labour and Youth Development,
Presidential Trust Fund, National Income Generation Program, Research on Poverty
Alleviation, Interfaith Forum and State House. A total of eleven members constituted the NSC.

There was an autonomous TASAF Management Unit (TMU) that was comprised of the
Executive Director (ED), Director of Public Works Programme (DPW), Director of
Community Development Initiatives (DCDI) and Director of Finance (DF). The TMU was also
supported by Internal Audit and four technical units, namely Information, Education and
Communication (IEC), Training and Support, Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), Management



                                              40

Information System (MIS).        Also there were five Program Officers (POs) for CDI and two
Program Officers for PWP who were located to support the 42 operational areas. In the course
of project implementation the Directorate of Finance was merged with Administration, the
Procurement Office was moved to Executive Director's Office, the Technical Support units
were merged to form a directorate of Systems and Capacity Building. In the later stage the
seven POs were moved to TASAF Headquarters and be assigned new duties at TMU. These
changes were made to enhance efficiency in delivery of technical expertise to districts, based
on the experiences gained during operations for two years.

At the District/Island level TASAF operated through the Local Government machinery
whereby the Steering Committee and Management Committee were overseers of TASAF
supported activities in their areas of jurisdictions. At the Community/Shehia level a Community
Project Committee (CPC) was formed to manage subproject implementation processes except
for SSP sub projects where NGOs/CBOs were engaged as implementing agencies. According
to the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signed between the District Council and TMU,
the District Council/Island appointed the TASAF Project Coordinator (TPC) and TASAF
Management Unit appointed the TASAF Accounts Officer (TAO). The TPC and TAO were
engaged to coordinate and supervise TASAF supported initiatives at the district/island and
community levels.

The CDI (including Social Support Program [SSP] window), PWP and Institution
Development (ID) were the three Project Components through which TASAF I was to achieve
the objective.

2.1.1 Community Development Initiatives (CDI)

CDI supported small demand-based Community Initiatives in the socio-economic sectors that
improved the accessibility to, and delivery of social and economic services and enhance the
capacity of communities and local development partners.

The CDI Component total resource was US$38.00 million of IDA funding. The SSP was
financed through CDI Component to pilot the program aimed at responding to the needs of
vulnerable persons. Out of CDI resources, a total of US $ 1 million was allocated for SSP
window implementation.

2.1.2 Public Works Program (PWP)

Public Works Programme was a safety net scheme for targeted poor rural areas financing
labour intensive works. The objective of PWP was to provide cash income for the poor,
especially women and youth and particularly during periods of seasonal food shortage,
through the promotion of job creation related to the construction and rehabilitation of
infrastructure facilities. The PWP had been allocated US$ 15.00 million of IDA funding.

2.1.3 Institutional Development (ID)

The Institutional Development Component was set to provide the day to day operational
support that was needed for the districts to respond to the community demand-driven requests
emanating from the participatory planning process. Institutional Development had been
allocated US $ 7.00 million of IDA funding.




                                                  41

3.0     Assessment of the Project

3.1     Project Development Objective (PDO)

The PDO and design principles are assessed under this section in the context of Government
of Tanzania (GOT) development priorities as per appraised documents. The assessment
looked on the achievement of Key Performance Indicators (KPI) agreed upon.

Basing on the Project Appraisal Document of 27th July 2000 and the Project Operational
Manual the project objective did not change. This was due to its relevance to the overall
poverty alleviation strategy as the emphasis was to strengthen the capacities of the
communities and increase community participation as well as giving more power to local
government authorities in addressing poverty. Thus the shift of government from provider of
services to become overseer and regulator of service providers necessitated the drive for more
participation of communities.      That could be achieved by enhancing their management
capabilities in managing the development process for their betterment which was the main
focus of TASAF interventions. However, in some cases strategies have been changing to suit
the implementation environments and addressing some of the challenges encountered.

3.2     Project Design

The Project design, which features the broad principles of TASAF did not change. The key
principles that guided TASAF included:
        i.      Strengthening community empowerment through participatory project
                management and direct financing of demand driven subprojects;
        ii.     Enhancing community participation and contribution;
        iii.    Promoting transparency and accountability among stakeholders at all levels of
                TASAF operations;
        iv.     Enhancing the capacities of implementers at all levels to provide effective
                implementation management of sub projects within the context of
                decentralization; and
        v.      Promoting conformity to sector norms and standards in the process of sub
                project implementation.

The above principles were instrumental in bringing a sense of ownership, transparency and
accountability across the TASAF actors. IEC campaigns and other capacity enhancement
initiatives were used as instruments to disseminate these TASAF principles.


4.0 Achievement of the Objective


Achievement of TASAF objective was assessed through tracking the Key Performance
Indicators (KPI) agreed during project design. Table A provides the status of achievement as
at May 31st 2005. A total of 1704 (1338 CDI, 61 SSP and 305 PWP) were funded of which
1,426 (1124 CDI, 42 SSP and 260 PWP) subprojects have been providing services to targeted
communities and individual beneficiaries. The services provided make a difference to the
lives of communities in which the sub projects were implemented as they have improved
substantially. Assessment Achievement of the Project Objective was rated as satisfactory

TASAF interventions have empowered communities in terms of ownership of both the
development process and the facilities created. The beneficiaries saw TASAF approach as


                                              42

the most appropriate for improving their standard of living. This had been made manifested
by a Beneficiary Assessment carried out in 2003 which indicated that both communities as
beneficiaries and local government staff as facilitators viewed the project as an instrument of
poverty alleviation as it improved the service provision and enhanced transparency and
accountability. Income transfer to rural population was an aspect that contributed to poverty
alleviation since apart from addressing beneficiaries' problems on temporary basis, it
contributed to the creation of other economic activities by the beneficiaries which further
generate income and make them self sufficient in terms of attaining the basic needs such as
food, clothes and meeting the costs for education in terms of fees and uniforms. This is true
particularly to safety net sub projects. The fact that implementation of sub projects did not
look for big contractors gave community members within the communities who had skills in
particular trade relevant to sub projects being implemented to make the benefits remain
within the community. TASAF has benefited a total population of about 1.9 million direct
beneficiaries for communities in 42 operating areas.

Similarly, the expressed needs from non-TASAF areas, requesting for TASAF intervention in
their areas have demonstrated the need of implementing development initiatives using the
CDD approach. Some of the non-TASAF supported district councils have adopted the
labour-based technologies in implementing some of their construction activities especially in
road improvement, not only reducing implementation cost but also ensuring cash transfers to
rural poor households and individuals. In this case, TASAF had been relevant to poverty
alleviation in line with National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty (NSGRP).

4.1 Component Specific Achievement

The component specific achievement was rated satisfactory. Sub projects implementation by
communities created high quality assets, skills in implementation have been imparted to the
communities and stakeholders to manage the sub projects and ability of poorest section of
communities to cope with shortage of food was enhanced through cash transfer in form of
wages paid to the same being temporarily employed in public works. Although the baseline
information was missing to assess the specific component impacts, there is no doubt that
there were a number of benefits accruing to communities in the subproject areas. These
included the improved learning environment, reduced distance to water and health facilities
as well as increased access to socio-economic services.

4.1.1 CDI (including SSP Window) Achievement

The CDI Component including SSP window substantially achieved its objective by having
the number of communities whose applications of subprojects were approved and supported
reached 1399(1338 for CDI and 61 for SSP window). Out of these subprojects 1,178
subprojects have been completed and 149 of completed sub projects are not operating due to
lack of staff and equipment. However, the government has included them in the 2005/06
budget so that they also can start providing the intended services to the beneficiaries.

Through CDI component the following assets were created: Classrooms 2,586, Teachers'
offices 468, Teachers' houses 335, Toilets 951, Secondary school laboratories 18, Schools
administrative blocks 26, dormitories 13, OPD/MCH (dispensaries) 312, Clinical
officers'/nurses' houses 922, Out patient toilets 613, Incinerators 304, piped water systems 65
charco dams 2, earth dams 3, shallow wells 559, roads rehabilitated 5 (85 kms), small




                                               43

irrigation schemes 2, Village markets 4, storage facility 1, and Village office 1.       The
breakdown is provided in Annex II

The 1338 CPCs formed were democratically elected by respective communities. The CPCs
were comprised of 19,091 members of which 9,620 (50.4%) were men and 9,471 (49.6%)
were women.

The number of sub projects implemented fall short of the targeted 2,212. However, the
number of assets created exceeds the number of targeted assets by 3,306 over and above the
planned total of 3,906 assets

Under SSP Window a total of 61 pilot sub projects, mostly Income Generating Activities
(IGAs) have been funded benefiting a total of 2,737 vulnerable persons. Of these 875 were
widows, 1,262 orphans, 472 elderly persons, 22 chronically ill persons (mostly HIV victims)
and 106 people with disabilities. An Early Child Development (ECD) center was also
constructed, serving a total of 57 children. A total of 30,015 people who have been reached
by sub projects that had a component on awareness creation and education on HIV/AIDS. A
total of 47 NGOs and CBOs were engaged as Project Implementing Agencies for the pilot
SSP sub projects.

Whereas in terms of sub projects the number of sub projects implemented is below the target,
in reality the target has been surpassed under CDI component. This is due to the fact that
implementation was done to attain functionality, thus implementing additional units to meet
the sector requirements.

4.1.2 PWP Achievement

The PWP component reached 581 communities and transferred US $ 4,263,253 in total to
113,646 beneficiaries who were temporarily employed in safety net subprojects, 47% of them
were women, 7 percent above the target of 40 percent.

The PWP Component achieved its objective by having 305 subproject approved and funded.
The PWP sub projects were as follows: (i) 2173.6 kilometers of access roads, (ii) small earth
dams of 300,037 cubic meters of storage capacity and water supply, (iii) 46,820 meters canals
for small scale irrigation schemes, (iv) one footbridge (pedestrian) (v) 5,909,200 seedlings
were raised for environment protection (community woodlots and rehabilitation of gullies)
and 2,950 meters of storm water drainage ditches and (vi) village markets with floor area of
9157 square meters.

Thus PWP impacts were based on cash transfer to the very poor individuals in the poor
targeted households and an increase of access to economic services in remote villages. The
Beneficiary Assessment (2003) revealed that income from wages paid were used by the
beneficiaries for purchase of food, financing education such as payment of school fees and
buying uniform for pupils as well as investing into agriculture and Income Generating
Activities (IGA). Rural roads opened up many remote communities and enabled people to
have access to other social services outside their communities such as markets for their
agricultural produce and health services.




                                             44

4.1.3 Institution Development Achievement

The Institutional Development component achieved its objectives by having a total of
136,333 beneficiaries trained in sub-project implementation, supervision and management.
This number includes 22, 687 CPC members who were trained on sub project management
and 113,646 PWP beneficiaries who were trained on different skills in implementation of sub
projects such as road excavation, tree planting and construction. Using the attained skills,
some beneficiaries have been given other assignments similar to ones they were undertaking
in the sub projects and earn income therefrom. Similarly, 732 staff from local governments
and at national level was trained in various aspects of project management. The capacities of
different beneficiaries at all levels involved in sub-project implementation and supervision
and monitoring were improved. It was evidenced also that the pace of sub-project
implementation and the speed of funds absorption capacities by LGA and communities were
improved. These achievements strengthen the transparency and accountability of stakeholders
which resulted in proper funds justification.


5.0    Project Implementation Challenges

In the course of project implementation a number of challenges were met and they are
grouped as follows:

5.1    Overall Project Implementation Challenges

       i)      Inadequate skills and technical capacity at district/island and community
               levels: There was limited capacity at the district/island level to respond to
               inadequate technical capacity and management skills on project planning,
               implementation, monitoring of progress both physical and financial aspects at
               the community level.

       ii)     Extreme poverty and hunger: It was difficult to facilitate sufficient
               community participation due to severe poverty and hunger in communities;
               community members were more preoccupied with survival activities than
               participation in the implementation of their sub projects. This negatively
               affected community subprojects realization in some operational areas.

       iii)    Institutionalizing sector norms and standards:

               In most districts/islands, timely operationalisation of sector norms and
               standards was lacking.      While they are available at district levels, their
               application at community level was minimal. Through TASAF, communities
               were availed with sector norms and standards for use in sub projects
               implementation.

       iv)     Insufficient capacity and unavailability of NGOs and CBOs:
               NGOs and CBOs were marginally utilized in facilitation of sub project
               implementation processes. This was due to organizations' insufficient
               capacities and unavailability.     Most NGOs and CBOs concentrate their
               activities in urban areas and in few places and capacities in terms of skills and
               personnel were also not adequate to efficiently support implementation. It was
               not easy to meet the design requirements of using Non Government



                                              45

            Organizations (NGOs) and Community Based Organizations (CBOs) in the
            implementation of TASAF supported activities.

     v)     Material Cost increases: Frequent price increase for construction materials
            affected subproject budgets, which resulted to demand for additional funding
            over and above the initial budget.

     vi)    High community demand: Communities' demands exceeded the available
            financial resource. TASAF could only support subprojects based on the
            amount of funds available. A number of sub projects (510 applications) from
            the reached communities were not supported and hence demoralized the
            respective communities.

5.2   Component Specific Challenges

5.2.1 CDI (including SSP Window)

      (i)     Equipping and staffing of health facilities: A total of 149 health facilities
              funded by TASAF I did not start operating due to lack staff and health kits.
              This raised concern to the communities as they contributed a lot to such
              facilities so as to improve access to health facilities. The major reason was
              the unmatched budgeting period of Central Government and the CDD
              approach such that there was time lag between sub project completion and
              allocation of required health staff and equipment. The same have been
              submitted to the Ministry of Health to be budgeted for allocation of staff and
              equipment during the 2005/06 financial year.

     (ii)     Lack of experienced NGOs/CBOs at the community level: There were
              difficulties in getting the experienced NGOs and CBOs in supporting
              communities to implement sub projects. That slowed down the pace of
              implementation as those identified had to undergo capacity enhancement and
              required frequent follow up.
.
      (iii)   Competitive Market environment: Most of the SSP subprojects were
              income generating activities. It was difficult for some beneficiaries' products
              to be easily sold because market researches were not done prior to starting
              production. AS well, the quality of some products could not guarantee
              attractive price as the products could not compete with similar products of
              high quality.

      (iv)    Subprojects sustainability:         Assurance of continuous follow-up of
              sub projects implementation and support of extension services (e.g.
              livestock, agriculture, etc.) at the grassroots level was uncertain as the
              extension officers at the ward level are not adequately facilitated to reach the
              remote communities. Similarly, It was difficult to find suitable Community
              Management       Organizations   (CMOs)       to    take  over    management
              responsibilities of the subprojects from the PIAs. Even the PIAs normally
              reside in urban areas such that it is difficult to provide support to the
              community without having funds cover the costs for technical visits after the
              completion of sub projects.      More time is therefore needed to build



                                           46

              capacities of CMOs to sustain their activities. Continuous follow up and
              technical support from LGAs are also needed.

     (v)    Unavailability of suppliers of specialized goods at the community level.

              Suppliers for specialized goods for sub projects implementation such as
              building materials are normally established in the urban areas where they
              can better exposed to the market than at village level. Community Project
              Committees in most cases are required to travel away from their villages to
              the District and Regional H/quarters in search for project requirements. In
              some cases where the communities are situated far away from the District
              and regional headquarters this practice reduced the speed of implementation
              and was costly.

5.2.2 PWP

      Implementation of PWP subprojects faced the following challenges:

      (i)   Delayed Subprojects preparations and implementation

            PWP subprojects were designed at the LGA/Island level due to high technical
            inputs required. However, the labour based technology is not being used
            frequently in other development projects, this caused delayed in the
            submissions of community applications for funding. Applications were
            deferred most of the time to obtain the minimum beneficiary wages
            requirement. To arrest this situation training was given to some technicians
            depending on each case and technical backstopping was enhanced.


      (ii)  Availability of simple and durable equipment for work execution

            To get long lasting assets, some equipment were required to supplement some
            of the activities done by beneficiaries' e.g. Pedestrian rollers for compaction
            of road formation or earth dam embankment. These types of equipment were
            not readily available and negatively affected implementation of sub projects.


      (iii) Effects due to seasonality factor

            PWP subprojects were supposed to have been carried out in the dry seasons so
            as to minimize disruptions of agricultural activities and get beneficiaries
            available to engage in safety nets. Delays caused by subproject preparation
            disrupted this arrangement.


      (iv)  Roles of LGA/Island staff created conflict of interest

            The role played by the LGA/Island technical staff of being the designer,
            implementer and supervisor created conflict of interest. A pilot study was
            carried out in four LGAs whereby a local service provider was hired (small
            labour based contractor) to provide supervision instead of LGA as an
            alternative. More analytical work need to be done to assess the applicability
            of this procedure.



                                           47

(v)   The number of beneficiaries who needed intervention was very high

      There were more beneficiaries expected to gain temporary employment than
      the subproject could take. Taking more beneficiaries to work, it reduces the
      available cash for individuals. The experience shows that in some areas, cash
      transfer was very minimal to individual beneficiaries.

5.2.3 Institutional Development Experience

      In the course of implementation of project, the Institutional Development
      component faced a number of challenges which necessitated re-alignment in
      terms of Institutional set-up and organization. The key challenges were:

(i)   Re - orientation at various levels of operations

      The re-sensitization and reorientation of LGA staff was experienced due to
      transfer of trained and oriented staff to non-TASAF supported LGAs. TASAF
      had to plan for training, sensitization and orientation of LGA staff transferred
      to TASAF supported districts so that they could render the required services in
      accordance with the principles and procedures of social fund. These programs
      were costly and slowed down the pace of implementation in many places.

(ii)  Standard Operational Bills of Quantities

      Tracking of the sub-project physical and financial progress was made difficult
      as proper application systems to track OBOQs were not in place. However,
      OBOQs were prepared manually and district staff were trained to manage
      them. Nevertheless, the district based computerized MIS was lacking to be
      able to track inputs and outputs as subprojects were being implemented.

(iii) Technical Support to district technical staff

      Inadequacy of qualified technicians and sectors engineers slowed down the
      implementation pace. Therefore, technical support was necessary to those
      districts. In some cases technicians and engineers were hired from the market.

(iv)  Provision of budgetary allocations to districts and Islands

      In order to give a proper support to LGA during sub-projects start up and
      implementation, it was necessary to provide budget allocations so as to
      support the communities. Failure in provision of the budgetary allocation
      some activities will have to stop as most of the LGA will not be able to
      finance.




                                      48

6.0  Other Challenges


6.1  Financial Management issues

     The TASAF I total project cost was estimated (as per Project Appraisal Document -
     PAD) at US $71.77 million. Contribution by IDA was US $ 60 million (SDR 45.5
     million) and Government contribution was US $ 3.15 million.

     The actual disbursements show that IDA funding to the project was US $ 62.63
     million including PPF facility on historical base, equivalent to SDR 45.08 million
     representing 99% of the initial allocation. The Government of Tanzania contribution
     was US $ 3.06 million.

     At the beginning of the Project in November 2000, the special Account threshold was
     US$1 million however; later in January 2002 the IDA was requested to increase the
     threshold from US $ 1 million to 4 million.         This was in response to cash flow
     constraints emanating from rapid increase in demands for cash to fund Community
     Subproject activities. During the implementation two DCA amendments were made,
     one was for the increasing of the special account threshold and the other was for
     reallocation of funds between the DCA categories.            The reallocation between
     categories was essential for the following reasons:
     (i)     Category I (CDI) needed more funds than initially allocated in the DCA due to
             the fact that the communities came up with more demands for funds to finance
             approved projects to make them functional, and as a result the category was
             overdrawn;
     (ii)    Conducting and financing OPRA and training of Village Council members
             which were not earlier planned, had also affected TASAF I liquidity position.

     (iii)   Category 4 consultancy was also overdrawn due to the fact that initially
             salaries for all staff including long term consultants were charged in category
             5 - Operating costs although it was agreed during negotiations (Refer minutes
             of negotiations) that long ­ term consultants salaries should be under category
             4. Unfortunately, the financing category schedule I in the Development Credit
             Agreement was not amended to reflect this agreed change.

     Lack of a computerized financial management system for capturing financial data,
     processing them and producing monthly, quarterly and annual financial reports at
     earlier stage of start up was a constraint during implementation. It took too long to
     get a no objection from IDA to procure Epicor financial system and again it took
     sometime before the procurement aspect was cleared. This had a negative impact in
     the production of financial reports from a computerized system and hence monitoring
     of financial performance against actual progress was to be based on manually
     processed reports.

6.2 Procurement Issues

    In TASAF I the major procurement was done in the second, and the third year of
    implementation. This included procurement of vehicles, computers and consultancy
    services.   Procurement at the district and community level was done through the



                                              49

    Community Project Committee (CPC) who are democratically elected by their
    communities to manage the subproject funds in terms of financial accountability,
    procurement and reporting. The CPC received prior training from the district TASAF
    Office on simple record keeping accountability and procurement before they could start
    using the funds advanced for the subproject in line with the action plans.

6.3 Sustainability
    The sustainability of created assets is rated satisfactory. Communities have developed
    strategies to make sure that the created assets are functioning. Communities have
    formed various community groups depending on the type of created asset.                 For
    example, there are water committees, school communities and health boards. The
    government also allocates funds to cater for repair of assets and they are channeled
    through the local government authorities.       The local government authorities also
    provide expertise to communities. With increased revenue collection, the government
    is gradually increasing the allocation of resources to sectors to provide better services.


7.0   Bank and Borrowers performance


7.1   Bank Performance
      The Bank's performance is rated satisfactory. There was adequate technical         advice
      and support from the Bank staff from the World Bank County Office and during the
      Supervision Missions throughout the project implementation period.             The Bank
      addressed issues which were raised from time to time that needed action like DCA
      amendment to increase the special account threshold and to allow re allocation
      between categories. This has been one of the major contributions towards
      achievements of the TASAF objective.

7.2 Borrowers Performance

      The Government of Tanzania performance is rated highly satisfactory. In the course
      of implementation of TASAF I, the Government of Tanzania demonstrated a great
      level of commitment to TASAF activities by offering office accommodation to
      TASAF MU and to the TASAF District Offices in all the 42 Operational Areas.
      TASAF District Staff who were dedicated full time to TASAF activities were
      employed and paid by the Government.           These staff included TASAF Project
      Coordinator, the secretary, the driver and the Assistant TPC. The project had a very
      strong support from the National Audit Office as such always the Auditor General
      was on time for the audits as stipulated in the DCA. In terms of Counter part funding
      the Government of Tanzania contributed US $ 3.6 million against 3.1 million actual
      counter part funding spent to match the IDA funding.


8.0   Lessons Learnt

      Lessons learnt are the product of TASAF I implementation experience. Most of them
      were encountered during TASAF periodic implementation reporting, studies, direct
      feedback from communities and other stakeholders.

      (i)         Direct Financing to Subprojects




                                             50

       This is the most appropriate approach when considering scale­up of
       TASAF operations.          The approach enhanced transparency and
       accountability of the implementation and management of resources at the
       districts/islands, PIAs and Community levels.

(ii)   Strong Sector Linkages
       Implementation of TASAF initiatives require strong team work between
       the district and ward level staff who usually work with communities and
       sector ministries (Central Government Officials). This will enhance the
       institutionalization of the sector norms and standards. Although the
       immediate priority of the community was for example classroom, OPD or
       staff house, experience has shown that this resulted into low satisfaction of
       the facility by the beneficiaries. Therefore, there is a need to consider
       other elements of the service like staffing, water, desks to make it full
       functional. Functionality of the created facility was crucial.

(iii)  Emphasis on Road Subprojects
       About 67 percent of all implemented safety net subprojects were related to
       rehabilitate/construct access roads. This is because it was easily designed
       and could also meet the requirement of labour intensity in order to transfer
       substantial cash to beneficiaries. As well, that was an opportunity to open
       up the remote areas and contribute to improvement of living conditions of
       people in those areas by giving them accessibility to social services
       elsewhere. It is worth doing road works during dry season to tap the
       required beneficiaries (poor able bodied persons).

(iv)   Strengthened Monitoring and Evaluation System
       While it was possible to track inputs and outputs during TASAF
       implementation, lack of baseline data affected the assessment of TASAF
       impact to poverty alleviation as it was difficult to trace the change. There
       is a need of having baseline information to be able to qualify the TASAF
       achievements and contribution to national poverty reduction strategies.

(v)    Strengthening Capacity Building of LGA and NGOs/CBOs Officials
       Implementation experience revealed inadequate LGA and NGOs/CBOs
       capacity and skills to efficiently assess plan and implement processes of
       subprojects. There are number of cases identified where subprojects were
       deferred several times due to improper design and wrongly prepared
       project write-ups.

(vi)   Gender balance in Subproject Implementations Experience
       Experience shows that women can perform just as men or better in public
       works, financial management and subproject organization activities.
       Implementation of sub projects by communities and women's inclusion in
       CPC provided a proof that women are more accountable in financial
       management activities compared to men.           Even among pastoralists,
       women performed well in all aspects of sub projects management.




                                   51

(vii)     Sustainability and Scaling up of SSP Pilot
          a) Capacity of beneficiaries to manage subprojects
             In order for the beneficiaries to manage their subprojects efficiently
             and sustainably after the initial training there is a need to strongly build
             the capacities of the leadership of their formal groups who will
             subsequent teach the rest of beneficiaries repeatedly.

          b) Capacity of NGO/CBOs
             Most of the NGO/CBO have low capacity in terms of resources to
             meet their own recurrent costs and cannot effectively and efficiently
             support implementation of subprojects.

          c) Involvement of extension staff
             During project implementation, it was learnt that there were inadequate
             services of extension staff. Given the nature of IGA subprojects like
             livestock, agriculture etc, a continuous support and follow ups need to
             be done frequently by extension staff. Most of the NGOs/CBOs were
             based at district level or regional headquarters and therefore such that
             they do not make frequent visits to subprojects and provide the much
             needed support to the groups.

          d) Sub- projects that require big infrastructure
             Given     the   nature   of    beneficiary    groups     (e.g.   HIV/AIDS
             effected/affected) such type of big sub projects are costly and it takes
             too long to realize the benefit and sometimes the beneficiaries' dies
             before benefiting from the intervention. There is a need to work on
             specific type of subprojects which yields fruits in a short possible time
             to the intended beneficiaries.

          e) Subproject identification in relation to market acquisition
             In the course of implementation of some IGA subprojects markets for
             the produce becomes an issue.           It is therefore important during
             targeting of subprojects that the markets for the produce should be
             identified upfront to meet the competitive market environments and
             assure the producers of the continuous flow of income emanating from
             sales of their products.

(viii) Strategic Knowledge Management and Information sharing systems
        a)   Exchange visits
             It has been observed that exchange visits of district officials and CPCs
             has a positive impact in enhancing management of sub projects in their
             areas. Exchange visits conducted by CPCs and other decision makers
             made impressive improvement in terms of quality of work and in
             managing the subprojects. Some CPCs fired the contracted artisans and
             replaced them with the most competent ones. Districts are encouraged
             to facilitate community leaders and CPCs to make study visits to
             nearby communities within the districts which are successful so that
             they can learn the factors to success.




                                     52

           b) Having strategic plan and effective IEC programs in knowledge
               information sharing system
           It was learned that those communities that implemented sub-projects
           successfully had a thorough understanding of the process and procedures
           through IEC compared to communities that had limited information and
           knowledge of the processes. There is a need therefore, to find new ways of
           increasing knowledge and information sharing including making interested
           messages through drama and tradition in order to deliberate create listeners
           for TASAF messages, with a view to increasing both the quality and levels
           of participation in TASAF funded activities.

(ix)  The Need for Field based Standard Operational Bills Of Quantities

      The implementation of CDD program such as TASAF where acquisition of
      goods and services for the delivery of sub-projects involves many actors and
       therefore the costs estimates needs to be accurately done. This will facilitate
       cost effective sub-projects and will give comparative analysis to other
       different geographical locations in requirements and literacy levels to
       implementing agents.

(x)    Sub Project Cycle Management

       The subproject cycle provides the implementers with project management tool
       that is adaptable to a variety of operations in the districts/islands.
       Districts/Islands Management teams and leadership can benefit from tailored
       capacity building in project management. Indeed further intervention in this
       regard is called for.

(xi)   Community Empowerment
       Community members have ability to prioritize and implement their social
       development activities when given the necessary support in the areas of
       planning, monitoring, supervision, implementation and financial management
       of resources.

(xii)  Audit Activities
       The audit activities whether internal or external have been important tool in
       enhancing capacity of implementers in terms of accountability and
       transparency.

(xiii) Orientation and sensitization
       Re-orientation and sensitization of TASAF actors at all levels is very
       important because it develops capacity of actors as well as reviewing the
       processes for improving effectiveness of TASAF functions at all levels

(xiv) Significant role of IEC
       The experience gained from communities, LGA, NGOs, and other
       stakeholders evidenced that it is useful to retain development communication
       as an integral element of project design. It is therefore important to start
       production and distribution of IEC materials at the beginning of the project in




                                     53

       order to avoid misinterpretation of information due to lack of reference
       materials.

(xv)   Procurement

   (a) Empowering Communities Improve Efficiency

        In the procurement process communities are learning by doing particularly
        when performing procurement functions. This in turn builds capacity of
        carrying out development activities without a need for closer supervision
        from the district and regional authorities.

   (b) Community Fast Learning Process

        Speed and perfection of the sub-project implementation in TASAF
        supported sub-projects has been realized in areas where District Authorities
        have shown interest by providing uninterrupted technical support to the
        communities

   (c) Local shopping enables greater saving

        Communities buying decision is guided mainly by the cost factor. The
        lowest evaluated bidder in terms of price in principle is the successful bidder
        and is given first priority to supply the required goods and services. This
        environment create competition amongst suppliers who in turn get forced to
        lower down their prices at the advantage of the community budget saving.

   (d) Force Account enables utilization of local resources

        There is a problem of market for locally available resources in the
        communities. Designs of projects in the past were of supply driven nature
        managed by external experts favoring foreign inputs. Introduction of safety
        net sub-projects has helped in solving the problem of market for locally
        available resources such as materials and labour both skilled and unskilled.

   (e) Small contractors are better than big contractors in the implementation
       of Community Sub-projects

        TASAF has experienced good quality products in the sub-projects where
        local contractors such as local artisans have been involved in construction
        work under the supervision of the Community Project Committees compared
        with other construction works which were supported and managed
        differently from TASAF approach. This implies that communities have
        better working relations with contractors they are used to than strangers and
        that those contractors are much cheaper and flexible compared to external
        contractors.




                                     54

(f) Greater transparency and accountability enhances service delivery

    Transparency in managing the project, and involvement of the community in
    procurement decision making builds confidence to the community, which in
    turn promote morale




                              55

9.0 Annexes




               56

   ANNEX I

          TABLE 1:         PROGRESS TOWARDS INDICATORS


                              TASAF achievement: Key Performance Indicators ­ Actual versus Target (June 15, 2005)

        Objective                   Indicator             Target           Achievement                                            Remarks
Sector- related CAS         Outcome/Impact
Goal:                       indicators:
To reduce poverty and       Sector indicators:                        GDP increase from         The successes gained are attributed to the economic reforms the
promote sustainable         GDP increase from 4.75%                   4.75% in year 1999 to     government has instituted, implemented and coordinated for the last 10
development for the poor    in year 1 to 6.1% in year 4               6.7% in year 20041        years
sections of the
communities

                            Reduce % of the                           39% population living
                            population below poverty                  below    basic    needs
                            line from 48% to 42% by                   poverty    line;   19%
                            year 4                                    population       living   .
                                                                      below food poverty
                                                                      line        (Household
                                                                      Budget          Survey
                                                                      2000/2001)
To increase and enhance     100% of projects to have                  90 per cent of the        149 of the 1438 completed sub projects are currently not operating due
the capacities of           permanent maintenance                     completed sub projects    to lack of staff and equipment. These fall under the health sector and
community and               mechanisms                                have the permanent        could not get allocation of staff and equipment due to varying budget
stakeholders to prioritize,                                           maintenance               period between the Central and Local Governments. The same have
implement and manage                                                  mechanism.          The   been budgeted for by the Ministry of Health to be allocated staff and
sustainable development                                               remaining 10 per cent     equipment during the 2005/2006 financial year so that they can start
initiatives and in the                                                belong to the health      providing the intended services.
process improve social                                                sector.  They do not
economic services and                                                 operate due to lack of    Maintenance: The local government authorities bear responsibilities
opportunities.                                                        staff  and    necessary   to ensure that the facilities are maintained.


1URT (2005), Speech by the Minister of State, President's Office, Planning and Privatization presenting to the National Assembly the Economic Survey for 2004 and
proposal for the Medium Term Plan and Expenditure Framework for 2005/06 ­ 2007/08, Planning Commission, Government Printer, Dar Es Salaam.


                                                                                    57

       Objective              Indicator           Target      Achievement                                         Remarks
                                                         equipment.              Health Sector: Ministry of Health provides funds through budget
                                                                                 allocation to local authorities for operation and maintenance. To
                                                                                 guarantee ownership by communities, the local government authorities
                                                                                 insist on community participation during rehabilitation through
                                                                                 community contribution in kind and cash. The Community Health
                                                                                 Fund (CHF) is being established in all Local Government Authorities
                                                                                 which is intended to ensure that health services are provided in a
                                                                                 sustainable manner.
                                                                                 Education sector:, community is responsible for operation and
                                                                                 maintenance of the facilities through school committees. The
                                                                                 committees have been trained on their roles and responsibilities in the
                                                                                 management of schools including operation and maintenance. Part of
                                                                                 the capitation grant provided by the government to each school is used
                                                                                 for repairs of school assets.

                                                                                 Water sector: Beneficiaries form water user associations which are
                                                                                 responsible for operation and maintenance of the facilities they get
                                                                                 services from. Training are provided for facility care takers during
                                                                                 implementation of sub projects.

                                                                                 Social welfare: Beneficiaries of all sub projects for SSP have
                                                                                 committees to oversee sustainability issues, have opened Bank
                                                                                 accounts for depositing savings, and have been trained on skills such as
                                                                                 business management.
Please see the        Efficient back-up services         100%                    The main provider of back up (technical) support is the Local
Development Objective provided to 100% of the                                    government authorities and has been providing the required services to
Statement above.      communities                                                enhance management of sub projects along the sub project cycle.
                                                                                 Deficiencies in basic skills in providing back up support have been
                                                                                 mitigated through backstopping and provision of tailor-made training
                                                                                 organized by TMU throughout the period of Project implementation.
Please see the        60% of population getting          89                      The facilities have reduced the distance for service availability,
Development Objective services from the                                          improved access to other social services through improved
Statement above.      constructed facilities                                     communication and improved learning environment. Sector
                                                                                 distribution of assets is provided in Table 2, 3 and 4 below.
Please see the        80% of communities                 The level of
Development Objective satisfied by the available         satisfaction for
Statement above.      services                           available services from



                                                                       58

        Objective                           Indicator                Target              Achievement                                             Remarks
                                                                                  the constructed
                                                                                  facilities is 78.2%.
    Project Outputs                   Output Indicators
                                  - No. of communities            2212            14822                          Number of sub projects implemented is lower than the target.
Output 1 Community                reached.                                                                       However, the number of assets created exceeds the target. This is
Sub-project implemented                                                                                          because initially, functionality was not considered but in the course of
                                  - % sub-projects                                                               implementation, communities constructed additional 3,306 assets to
                                  completed                       90%             83.3%3                         complement the planned 3,906 assets so as to meet the standard sector
                                                                                                                 requirements. See Table (1 in Annex II)
                                  - % of women on CPC
                                                                  50%             50%
                                  - No. of communities            328             5814                           PWP serves more than one community.
Output 2 Safety net to            reached
support Vulnerable
groups are initiated and          - % sub-projects completed
implemented                       within budget and time          90%             85.2%

                                  - Beneficiaries reached         32,800          113,646

                                  - % of women benefiting         40%             47%




Output 3 Capacity of              - No. of implementers           840             732                            The number of implementers trained refers to technical staff at district,
Implementers and                  trained                                                                        NGOs, CBOs and national level including Management Unit staff.
communities to manage
projects is enhanced
                                  - No. of beneficiaries          40,000          22,687                         The number of beneficiaries trained were CPC members for each
                                  trained                                                                        subprojects


                                  - % of women trained            50%             51%



2This number refers to applications submitted to TMU (1408 CDI & 74 SSP)
3This number has been derived using 1178 (1136 CDI and 42 SSP) completed sub-projects out of 1399 (1338 CDI and 61SSP) funded sub-projects.
4Safety net subprojects involved more than one community (village).


                                                                                                    59

       Objective                  Indicator          Target    Achievement                                     Remarks
Output 4 Awareness and   - % of increase attendance
information to           at awareness meetings      30%     -                   The indicators set to measure awareness by considering 30 per cent
communities and          (annual)                                               increase annually are practically difficult to be computed.
stakeholders is improved
                         - % of women in CPCs
                                                    50%     50%
                         - % of population aware
                         of TASAF (annual
                         growth)                    30%     -
Output 5 Institutional   - Days to produce report
capacity to administer   after target date          7       15                  Geographical locations of some districts make timely availability of
the fund is established                                                         reports difficult
                         - Days within which to
                         effect disbursement after  30      15                  Good rapport with Commercial Banks made it easy for effecting
                         application                                            disbursement.

NB: Community as used in this document refers to people in certain locality or localities with common needs. Thus community is need defined.




                                                                      60

        TABLE 2  PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT (IN MILLION
                 EQUIVALENTS)

    Components        Appraisal             Actual/Latest      Percentage of Appraisal
                    Estimate(US $        estimate(us million)      against actual
                       million)
                        Bank
Community
Development
Initiatives                      38.00                    34.54               90.89.39
Public Works                     15.00                    12.90               86.00.71
Programme
Institutional                     7.00                    14.25                203.57
Development
TOTAL                            60.00                    61.69              102.81.21


        TABLE 3: PROJECT COSTS BY FINANCING (IN US $ MILLION
                 EQUIVALENTS)

Component          Appraisal estimates     Actual estimates    Percentage of appraisal
                 IDA    GOT      CoF    IDA     GOT       CoF  IDA      GOT      CoF
Community
Development
Initiatives       38.00   1.90      8.62 34.54     1.81    0.81  90.89    95.26   9.29.0
Public Works
Programme         1500    0.75      0.00 12.90     0.68    0.06  86.00    90.66 0.00
Institutional
Development        7.00   0.50      0.00 14.25     0.57 0.12    203.57 114.00 0.00
TOTAL             60.00   3.15      8.62 61.69     3.06    0.99 102.81    97.14  9.29.2




                                    61

   TABLE 4:       PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENT (US
                  $ MILLION EQUIVALENT) AT APPRAISAL

       Category       Procurement
                        Method
                          ICB             NCB      Community      Other   N.B.F   Total
                                                  Participation
  1. Community
     Development
     Initiatives(CDI                                      34.50             9.40    43.80
     ) (IDA Share)                                       (34.50)                  (34.50)

  2. Public Works                                         13.80             0.40    14.10
     (IDA Share)                                         (13.80)                  (13.80)
  3. Goods                       1.70       0.60                     0.70            3.00
     (IDA Share)               (1.70)      (0.60)                  (0.70)          (3.00)
  4. Consultants
     TA/Workshop                                                     4.70            5.50
     (IDA Share)                                                   (4.70)   0.80   (4.70)
  5. Incremental
     Operating                                                       4.10            5.40
     Costs                                                         (4.10)   1.20     4.10
     (IDA Share)
  Total                          1.70 0.60                48.30      9.50           71.70
  (IDA Share)                  (1.70) (0.60)             (48.30)   (9.50)  11.80  (60.00)


   TABLE 5:       PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENT (US
                  $ MILLION EQUIVALENT) ACTUAL

      Category        Procurement
                        Method
                                          NCB      Community      Other   N.B.F  Total
                          ICB                     Participation
1. Community
   Development
   Initiatives(CDI)                                       36.35             0.81  37.16
   (IDA Share)                                           (34.54)                 (34.54)

2. Public Works                                           13.58             0.60  13.58
   (IDA Share)                                           (12.90)                 (12.90)
3. Goods                         1.44       1.06           0.10      0.22          2.82
   (IDA Share)                 (1.44)      (0.96)                  (0.20)         (2.60)
4. Consultants
   TA/Workshop                                                       6.88          6.88
   (IDA Share)                                                     (6.88)         (6.88)
5. Incremental
   Operating Costs                                                   5.30          5.30
   (IDA Share)                                                     (4.77)         (4.77)
Total                            1.44      1.06           50.03    12.45    1.41  65.74
(IDA Share)                    (1.44)     (0.96)         (47.44)  (11.85)        (61.69)
   Note: Numbers in brackets refer to the amount financed by International
   Development Association.


                                        62

                                                                  ANNEX II

     TABLE 1: CDI SUB PROJECTS IMPLEMENTED AND ASSETS CREATED


                              No. of       Assets Created       Additional (Extra)
 Sector      Asset Name       Sub-
                             projects   Planned        Actual
Education Classrooms              448          896        2,586              1,690

          Teachers House          278          278          335                 57

          Teachers Office            -         468          468                  -

          VIP Latrines               -         896          951                 55

          Water Points               -           -           20                 20

          Laboratories              18          18           18
          Administration
          Block                     26          26           26

          Dormitories               13          13           13

       SUB TOTAL                  783        2,595        4,417              1,822


Health    OPD/MCH                 312          312          312
          Clinical Officers'
          House                     15          15          311                296

          Nurses' House              -           -          611                611

          VIP Latrine                          613          613

          Incinerator                -           -          304                304

       SUB TOTAL                  327          940        2,151              1,211


 Econ.    Rural Roads                5           5            5
Infrastr  Irrigation
          Schemes                    2           2            2

          Markets                    4           4            4

          Godowns                    2           2            2

          R/water harvest            1           1            1

         V/G Office                  1           1            1

       SUB TOTAL                    15          15           15


Water     Water
          Systems/Dams              70          70           70
          Deep/Shallow
          Wells                   143          286          559                273

       SUB TOTAL                  213          356          629                273

GRAND TOTAL                      1,338       3,906        7,212              3,306




                                      63

TABLE 3:            DISTRIBUTION OF CDI SUBPROJECTS AND ASSETS CREATED PER DISTRICT/ISLAND



                                         s             s                                                                                    evi                                                                      rs'efic                                                                                           eped
         ct            fo.   rojects                    rieo        seiro          rs'                                                                                                                                                          essuoh'                      seira          orst
                                                                                      he
                                                                         barat                         intsopre               g)nstie                              rs'
                                                                                                                                                                      he                                                    Ofl
                                                                                                                                                                             essu                                                      essu                                                                                                  mic      serutcur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ens                      intsopre        ow/l

  S/N      striDi         No        subp  assroomCl         Domit             La        aceT ces                   retawnia
                                                                                                Offi           Wat         (R        harv      Administrat kscoBl       aceT          lets)oi(Tseni
                                                                                                                                                                                 ho                Latr    OPD/MCH             Clinica     ho          essruN    rofseni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Latr         disp       Incenera           Wat         ha(S wells)      Econo         Infrast

1     Bagamoyo              31                     22                                                5                                                                              7                    4        19                         19               28                         36             19
2     Bariadi               34                     72                                                5                                   1                       6                 21                   23        15                         15               30                         30             15                                35
3     Bukoba Rural          29                     98                                               32                                   17                      1                  2                   28         5                          5               12                         10              5
4     Bunda                 29                     67                            3                   7                                                           4                 24                    3         2                          2                4                          4              2                                 4
5     Dodoma Rural
                            30                     95                                               27                                                                              6                   13         2                          2                4                          4              2                                 2
6     Iringa Rural          37                     60             2                                  6                                                           1                  4                   12        13                         13               32                         25             13                                38
7     Kasulu                28                     46                                                3                                                                              9                    9        15                         15               32                         29             15                                 4
8     Kibaha                28                     39             6                                  3                                                           2                  3                   20        10                         10               15                         19             10                                 4                         1
9     Kibondo
                            37                     82                                                8                                   1                       1                  4                   14        14                         14               28                         28             14                                20
10    Kigoma Rural

                            28                     45                                                5                                                           2                  6                   15        11                         11               24                         21             11                                 1
11    Kilwa                 30                     65                                               13                                                                             11                   30         5                          5               10                         10              2                                 1
12    Kiteto                36                     52             3                                 11                                   1                       2                 17                   19         4                          4                8                          8              4                                 9
13    Kondoa                26                     26                                                4                                                                             11                    3         6                          6               12                         12              6                                10
14    Kwimba                29                     115                                              24                                                           1                  3                   27         4                          4                8                          8              4
15    Kyela                 29                     77             2              2                   3                                                                              3                   21         6                          6               12                         12              6                                36
16    Lindi                 29                     28                                                3                                                                              7                   21        12                         12               24                         24             12                                22
17    Magu                  29                     93                            4                   3                                                           4                  8                   58         8                          8               16                         16              8
18    Manyoni               30                     34                                                2                                                                              3                   17        14                         14               28                         28             14                                14
19    Masasi                33                     100                                              11                                                                              4                   49         8                          8               16                         16              8                                 4



                                                                                                                                                                                   64

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            se
                          ctse                                                  rs'                                                                                                                                  fficO                    oush                                                                                        c
        ct                    roj                                                  he     s         tsinop      re                      evita
                                                                                                                                                               rs'                ts)elioT(                      'rse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             rof         seira
                                                                                                                                             nistri               he                                                      al                                                                           tsinop      ep                              se


  NS/     striDi    fo.                             esiro        iesrota                                          wat                                                                                                                                                                                                                      mi
                                      ssrooms                                                                                                                                                                                                     es'                         ens                                    w/dello
                                                                        bar
                       No        subp        Cla         Domit             La        aceT  ce             ter              g)nstie                                                         nesi                                                                 nesi
                                                                                             Offi            Wa      (Rain        harv             Adm ocksBl       aceT essu                          MCH/D
                                                                                                                                                                             ho                Latr         OP              inicCl essu                                                 rsotarene            ter                                     ucturrtsa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ho            Nurs           Latr         disp            Inc            Wa          (Sha wells)      Econo            Infr

20    Mbulu
                         36                     102                           1                  13                                                                            29                   26         5                          5               10                         10              5                                  4
21    Meatu
                         38                     57                                                4                                                                            22                   35         4                          5               10                          7              4                                 19
22    Morogoro
                         28                     27                                                3                                                                            14                   16        13                         13               26                         26             13                                 24
23    Muheza             34                     48                                               11                                                                                                 27         8                          8               18                         16              8                                 14
24    Muleba             34                     108                                              23                                                                             3                   44         3                          4                8                          5              3
25    Nachingwea         37                     68                                                8                                                                             4                   24         4                          4                8                          8              4                                 23
26    Ngara              25                     47                            6                  23                                                                                                 24         1                          2                4                          1              1                                  1
27    Nkasi              34                     62                                               25                                                                             5                    2         4                          4                8                          8              4                                 28
28    Rombo              35                     121                                              37                                                                                                 44         2                          2                4                          4              2
29    Rungwe             23                     57                                               17                                                                             2                    4         1                          1                2                          2              1                                  1
30    Shinyanga
                         33                     27                                                8                                                                             4                    2        10                         10               20                         20             10                                  9
31    Sikonge
                         32                     47                                               14                                                                             4                   24         8                         10               20                         14              8                                  5
32    Singida            43                     97                                               19                                                                            28                   36         8                          9               18                         16              8                                  9
33    Songea
                         38                     57                                               21                                                                            17                   34        10                         10               20                         20             10                                 58                         2
34    Sumbawanga         35                     57                                                3                                                                             5                   20         8                          8               16                         16              8                                 28
35    Tabora             30                     48                                                7                                                                            15                   44         4                          4                8                          8              4                                  6
36    Tandahimba         32                     56                                               20                                                          1                                      40         8                          8               16                         16              8                                  3                         4
37    Temeke             33                     36                                                5                                                                             3                   22         6                          6               12                         12              6                                 72                         2
38    Tunduru            33                     49                                                4                                                                             2                   25         2                          2                4                          4              2                                 61                         2
39    Unguja             33                     54                            2                   6                                                                            17                    8         9                          4                4                         18              4                                 23
40    Ulanga             30                     87                                                9                                                                             4                   32         3                          3                6                          6              3                                 22                         1


                                                                                                                                                                               65

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     se
                               ctse                                                 rs'                                                                                                                                       fficO                    oush                                                                                         c
        ct                         roj                                                 he     s         tsinop      re                       evita
                                                                                                                                                                     rs'                 ts)elioT(                        'rse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rof         seira
                                                                                                                                                  nistri                he                                                         al                                                                            tsinop      ep                              se


  NS/     striDi         fo.                            esiro        iesrota                                          wat                                                                                                                                                                                                                            mi
                                           ssrooms                                                                                                                                                                                                         es'                         ens                                     w/dello
                                                                            bar
                            No        subp        Cla        Domit             La        aceT  ce             ter              g)nstie                                                            nesi                                                                   nesi
                                                                                                 Offi            Wa      (Rain        harv              Adm ocksBl        aceT essu                            MCH/D
                                                                                                                                                                                   ho                 Latr          OP               inicCl essu                                                 rsotarene             ter                                     ucturrtsa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ho            Nurs           Latr         disp            Inc             Wa          (Sha wells)      Econo            Infr

41    Urambo                  32                     36                                              11                                                                                4                   24          14                         14               24                         28              14
42    Pemba                   28                     22                                               2                                                            1                                         8         4                           2                2                          8              4                                  15                         3
                         1,338 2,586                              13             18           468                                         20                      26                 335                   951        312                   311                   611            613                         304                          629                               15



TABLE 4:            PUBLIC WORKS' ASSETS

     S/N         TYPE OF SUB PROJECT                                               TOTAL                                                                                      Remarks
1                Access road                                                       204                                        2,173.6 km
2.               Environmental Protection                                          29                                         5,909,200 seedlings and 2,950 storm
                                                                                                                              water drainage ditches
3.               Water                                                             41                                         300,037m3 storage capacity and
                                                                                                                              water supply
4                Markets                                                           16                                                     Floor area of 9,157m2
5                Bus Stand                                                         3
6                Small Scale Irrigation                                            11                                         46,820m canals
7                Foot Bridge                                                       1




                                                                                                                                                                                      66

TABLE 5:       STRATEGIC AND TECHNICAL STUDIES CONDUCTED IN TASAF I
               (NOVEMBER 2000 ­ JUNE 2005)
NO. STUDY/CONSULTANCY                        DATE         DETAILS             BY WHOM
                                      start     end
1.  Environmental analysis.           22/2/2000 21/3/2000 Preparation of      M/s Epcon-Biotec of Dar-es-
                                                          checklist of        salaam
                                                          Environmental
                                                          analysis
2.  PWP Self-Targeting wage           3/4/2001  16/4/2001 Work out for        M/s. Business care
    Rate.                                                 determination of    Services.

                                                          self targeting wage
                                                          rate
3.  Testing and Fine-tuning           27/5/2001 3/7/2001  Establish           M/s. Information training
    Community service delivery                            methodology for     and agricultural
    survey                                                participatory M&E   development of England

                                                          and baseline study
4   Platinum software                 2/5/2002  22/7/2002 Putting in place    M/s. SoftTech Consultants
    licenses(Epicor), customization,                      computer based      Ltd of Dar-es-salaam
    training, installation and
    implementation                                        TASAF Financial
                                                          Management and
                                                          Accounting
                                                          System
5   Beneficiary assessment            25/2/2003 25/5/2003 Assessment of       M/s. Data vision
    in TASAF operating areas.                             beneficiaries'      international Tanzania Ltd.

                                                          opinion on the
                                                          design and
                                                          services provided
                                                          through TASAF
6   Review the community              6/4/2003  24/5/2003 Fine tuning the     M/s. Data vision
    Service delivery survey.                              CSDS                international Tanzania Ltd.

7   Environmental impact assessment   9/5/2003  6/6/2003  Assessing the       M/s Epcon-Biotec of Dar-es-
    of TASAF supported sub-projects                       effects of TASAF    salaam

                                                          supported sub
                                                          projects
                                                          implementation on
                                                          environment
8   Setting TASAF website and         10/1/2003 4/3/2003  To set up           M/s E-Biz solution Ltd of
    training.                                             information centre  Dar-es-salaam

                                                          and services for
                                                          current and
                                                          prospective
                                                          stakeholders to
                                                          share knowledge
                                                          and information.
9   Developing TASAF staff appraisal  26/5/2003 16/6/2003 Putting in place    M/s Bureau for Industrial
    system and procedure                                  detailed            cooperation. (BICO)

                                                          procedures of staff
                                                          performance
                                                          appraisal
10. Prepare District Baseline data on 24/5/2004 5/7/2004  Establishment of    M/s Business care services
    selected MDG targets



                                               67

NO. STUDY/CONSULTANCY                          DATE         DETAILS            BY WHOM
                                       start      end
                                                            Baseline Data for
                                                            TASAF II
11. IEC impact assessment in TASAF      5/5/2004  6/7/2004  Assessment of      M/s ST. Associates Ltd.
    operating areas.                                        effectiveness of   Process consultants and

                                                            IEC activities on  facilitators

                                                            TASAF
                                                            implementation
12. Assessment of capacity of           24/5/2004 24/6/2004 Determine the      M/s Apex Engineering co
    Districts in sub-project                                existence,         Ltd
    management within the context of
    sector norms and standards.                             availability and
                                                            use of sector
                                                            norms and
                                                            standards in
                                                            districts.
13. Conduct review of status of         30/5/2004 15/7/2004 Facilitated        M/s HR Consult
    participatory planning in Tanzania.                     development of
                                                            the most
                                                            appropriate
                                                            framework to
                                                            participatory
                                                            process to be
                                                            adopted by all
                                                            districts during
                                                            implementation of
                                                            TASAF II
14. Conduct information system          20/4/2004 8/6/2004  To review the      M/s MN Informatics Ltd of
    strategy planning (ISSP)study for                       organizational     DSM
    TASAF                                                   strategy of TASAF
                                                            in order to align
                                                            systems objectives
                                                            with the design of
                                                            TASAF II
15. Conduct review of community         24/5/2004 12/6/2004 Facilitate the     K-Rep Advisory services (T)
    saving practices                                        design of          Ltd

                                                            community
                                                            savings schemes in
                                                            the context of
                                                            social protection
16. Evaluation of Social Support        24/5/2004 26/7/2004 Assess the         M/s Unique consortium of
    Program                                                 effectiveness of   consultancy services.

                                                            SSP




                                                 68

TABLE 6:        TRAINING AND WORKSHOPS CONDUCTED
6A:    TRAINING
   Activity            No. of        No. of Participants by        Duration
                       Participants  Geographical Distribution
                                     National          District
1  Training         in 14            14                            14 days
   Intergraded
   Financial
   Management     and
   Accounting
   Systems       using
   Platinum (Epicor)
   Financial systems
2  Training of TAOs    42            42                            3 days
   to   operate   and
   manage computers,
   associated
   equipment      and
   MSOffice
   application
   package
3  Orientation      of 10                              10          4 days
   Rombo District E-
   PRA Team to E-
   PRA for PWP
4  Orientation      of 9                               9           5 days
   Rombo      DPT to
   TASAF and PWP
   operations
5  Training of         39                              39
   District E-PRA
   teams in E-PRA
   for HIV/AIDS
6  Orientation of      10                              10
   Uyui District E-
   PRA Team
7  Orientation of      1                               1
   Pemba team to
   Labor based
   Technology
8  Orientation of      5                               5           2 days
   newly appointed
   DCs, and DEDs
   and TPCs.
9  Training Course     3             3                             3 days
   in Technical
   Audit
10 Training in Safety  6                               6
   ­ net
11 Orientation of      6                               6
   Muheza DPT to
   TASAF and PWP
   operations
12 Orientation of      11                              11          8 days
   Manyoni District
   E-PRA Team
13 Orientation of E-   48                              48          1 days
   PRA on
   HIV/AIDS
14 Orientation of      40                              40          8days
   District E-PRA



                                               69

   Activity           No. of        No. of Participants by        Duration
                      Participants  Geographical Distribution
                                    National          District
   Teams to
   subproject
15 Orientation of     6                               6           1 day
   Sikonge District
   Project
   Team(DPT)
16 On the job         10                              10          2 days
   training of
   Sikonge district
   technicians
17 Stock Exchange     4             4                             3 days
   Markets Seminar
18 Training of        10                              10          2 weeks
   Trainers (TOT)
19 Training in Value  3             3                             2 week
   for Money
   Auditing
20 Orientation on     20                              20          2 weeks
   labour- based
   technology
21 Orientation of     30                              30          2 days
   DCs, DEDs and
   TPCs
22 Training of TAOs   42            42                            2 weeks
   in Computer ­
   Based FMAS
23 Training of        14                              14          4 days
   District Personnel
   in CSDS
24 Training of TAOs   8             8                             2 weeks
   in Financial
   Planning and
   Management
25 Re- orientation of 14                              14          1 day
   Kibaha District
   Management
   Team
26 On the job         6                               6           10 days
   training of Kibaha
   District Technical
   Committee
27 Labour Based       7                               7           5 days
   Technologies
   Seminar
28 Orientation        3                               3           3 days
   workshops on
   self-targeting
   wage rate
   determination
29 TOT Workshop       3                               3           6 days
   on Training of
   Shehia Advisory
   Councils and
   Shehia
   Development
   Committees
30 Regional Training  3             3                             5 days
   of Trainers
   Workshop on




                                              70

   Activity            No. of        No. of Participants by        Duration
                       Participants  Geographical Distribution
                                     National          District
   CDD
31 Training of         14                              14          6 days
   Engineers and
   technicians in
   Estimating Costs
   of Construction
   Works
32 Training of PIAs    142                             142
   and PSCs in four
   SSP Pilot Districts
33 Training of         28                              28          3 days
   trainers
   workshops on
   Business
   Management
34 Re-orientation
   Session for staff
   and Leaders of
   Lindi Region
35 Training in         116           32                84          3 days
   Computer ­Based
   FMS (EPICOR)
   and PTS
36 Training in Design  2             2                             2 weeks
   and
   Implementation of
   Effective Safety ­
   nets
37 Training Course in  5             5
   Disbursement
38 Training in         3             3                             2 weeks
   Protecting the
   Vulnerable: Deign
   and
   Implementation of
   Effective Social
   Safety-nets
39 Training of         1             1                             4 weeks
   Cashier in
   Advanced
   Accounting




                                               71

6B:    STUDY VISITS/TOURS
   Activity          No. of         No. of Participants by Geographical  Duration
                     Participants               Distribution
                                  National              District
1  Study Visit to    3            3
   India and
   Srilanka
2  Study visit to    6            6
   Malawi
3  Study visit by    14           14                                     1 week
   members of
   TASAF-II PPT
   to districts
4  Study visit for   3                                  3
   newly appointed
   TPCs to other
   districts
5  Study visit by    15                                 15
   DCs, DEDs,
   TPCs, DIAs and
   TAOs
6  Study visit by    5                                  5
   DCs and DEDs
   to Pemba
7  Study visit by    10                                 10               7days
   Members        of
   Parliament




                                             72

     6C:       WORKSHOPS
  Activity            No. of             No. of Participants by    Duration
                      Participants      Geographical Distribution
                                    National           District

1 Monitoring     and        26            18                  8    4 days
  Evaluation/Manag
  ement Information
  Systems
  Workshop         to
  Assess          the
  M&E/MIS tools
2 TASAF Planning            30            22                  8    4 days
  Workshop
3 Grant making               1                                     2 days
  Workshop
4 Workshop on                1             1                       1 day
  Environmental
  Accounting
5 Professional forum         1             1                       3 days
  on accounting




                                             73

                                                                                               __-.
                                The UnitedRepublic ofTanzania
                                        President's Office

                            TANZANIA SOCIAL ACTIONFUND.




                                                                    OldKilwd MaIina7 Road
2123582-84
        Telephone:255
        022                                                         P.U. Box 9381
       Fax:       255
                  022
                  2123582                                     ,    .Dar ,?GSalaam
       &Mail:    info@tasa~org                                      TanZania    ,
        @`&&e:  w~w.tasaforg


       In replyplease quote:

       Ref. No:EF/CEN/T/98/14                                       Duke:22 March2006

       CountryDirector
       The WorldBank,
       DAR ES SALAAM,

       Dear Madam,

       Re:     OFFICIALSUBMISSIONOF ADDENDUM TO GOVERNMEEtT-jlCRAND                        ._-


               COMMENTSTOIDAIMPLEMENTATIONCOMPLETIONREPORT(ICR)


                                                                                              ,
     ' Kindly refer to the above mentioned subject and your letter dated 30* December 2005
       regarding the extensionof period for which the Governmentwas to submit comments
       regardingtheIDAICR.

       The requested meetingwasheld between IDA Teamand GovernmentTeam represented
       by TMU staff and discussed in line with the proposed agenda. The Minutes of the
       Meetingareattached herewithforyourreference.

       With regard tothe Addendum b the GovernmentICR, theGovernment doesnot seethe
       reason forwithdrawalof its ICR. TheAddendumisattached and shouldreplace Tables
       1 to 5 of Annex 1. In this case, the Government ICR should be read dong with the
       submitted Addendum.

       The commentsto the IDA ICR areas they were submi#tedpreviously with amendments
       made after the meeting between the IDA and Government Teams.They are attached
       herewithforyour reference.

       We anticipate continuous cooperation poverty reduction effortsthroughthe initiatives
                                           in
       that directlytargetbenefichiesat grassrootslevel.




       EXECUTIVEDIRECTOR
                                            -74-

ANNEX I

TABLE 1:            PROGRESS TOWARDS INDICATORS


TASAF achievement: Key Performance Indicators ­ Actual versus Target (June 15, 2005)

        Objective                   Indicator             Target           Achievement                                            Remarks
Sector- related CAS         Outcome/Impact
Goal:                       indicators:
To reduce poverty and       Sector indicators:                        GDP increase from         The successes gained are attributed to the economic reforms the
promote sustainable         GDP increase from 4.75%                   4.75% in year 1999 to     government has instituted, implemented and coordinated for the last 10
development for the poor    in year 1 to 6.1% in year 4               6.7% in year 20041        years
sections of the
communities

                            Reduce % of the                           39% population living
                            population below poverty                  below    basic    needs
                            line from 48% to 42% by                   poverty    line;   19%
                            year 4                                    population       living   .
                                                                      below food poverty
                                                                      line        (Household
                                                                      Budget          Survey
                                                                      2000/2001)
To increase and enhance     100% of projects to have                  90 per cent of the        149 of the 1438 completed sub projects are currently not operating due
the capacities of           permanent maintenance                     completed sub projects    to lack of staff and equipment. These fall under the health sector and
community and               mechanisms                                have the permanent        could not get allocation of staff and equipment due to varying budget
stakeholders to prioritize,                                           maintenance               period between the Central and Local Governments. The same have
implement and manage                                                  mechanism.          The   been budgeted for by the Ministry of Health to be allocated staff and
sustainable development                                               remaining 10 per cent     equipment during the 2005/2006 financial year so that they can start
initiatives and in the                                                belong to the health      providing the intended services.
process improve social                                                sector.  They do not
economic services and                                                 operate due to lack of    Maintenance: The local government authorities bear responsibilities
opportunities.                                                        staff  and   necessary    to ensure that the facilities are maintained.
                                                                      equipment.                Health Sector: Ministry of Health provides funds through budget


1URT (2005), Speech by the Minister of State, President's Office, Planning and Privatization presenting to the National Assembly the Economic Survey for
2004 and proposal for the Medium Term Plan and Expenditure Framework for 2005/06 ­ 2007/08, Planning Commission, Government Printer, Dar Es Salaam.



                                                                             75

       Objective              Indicator           Target      Achievement                                         Remarks
                                                                                 allocation to local authorities for operation and maintenance. To
                                                                                 guarantee ownership by communities, the local government authorities
                                                                                 insist on community participation during rehabilitation through
                                                                                 community contribution in kind and cash. The Community Health
                                                                                 Fund (CHF) is being established in all Local Government Authorities
                                                                                 which is intended to ensure that health services are provided in a
                                                                                 sustainable manner.
                                                                                 Education sector:, community is responsible for operation and
                                                                                 maintenance of the facilities through school committees. The
                                                                                 committees have been trained on their roles and responsibilities in the
                                                                                 management of schools including operation and maintenance. Part of
                                                                                 the capitation grant provided by the government to each school is used
                                                                                 for repairs of school assets.

                                                                                 Water sector: Beneficiaries form water user associations which are
                                                                                 responsible for operation and maintenance of the facilities they get
                                                                                 services from. Training are provided for facility care takers during
                                                                                 implementation of sub projects.

                                                                                 Social welfare: Beneficiaries of all sub projects for SSP have
                                                                                 committees to oversee sustainability issues, have opened Bank
                                                                                 accounts for depositing savings, and have been trained on skills such as
                                                                                 business management.
Please see the        Efficient back-up services         100%                    The main provider of back up (technical) support is the Local
Development Objective provided to 100% of the                                    government authorities and has been providing the required services to
Statement above.      communities                                                enhance management of sub projects along the sub project cycle.
                                                                                 Deficiencies in basic skills in providing back up support have been
                                                                                 mitigated through backstopping and provision of tailor-made training
                                                                                 organized by TMU throughout the period of Project implementation.
Please see the        60% of population getting          89                      The facilities have reduced the distance for service availability,
Development Objective services from the                                          improved access to other social services through improved
Statement above.      constructed facilities                                     communication and improved learning environment. Sector
                                                                                 distribution of assets is provided in Table 2, 3 and 4 below.
Please see the        80% of communities                 The level of
Development Objective satisfied by the available         satisfaction for
Statement above.      services                           available services from
                                                         the constructed
                                                         facilities is 78.2%.




                                                                 76

       Objective                    Indicator           Target         Achievement                                          Remarks
    Project Outputs            Output Indicators
                           - No. of communities       2212         14822                    Number of sub projects implemented is lower than the target.
Output 1 Community         reached.                                                         However, the number of assets created exceeds the target. This is
Sub-project implemented                                                                     because initially, functionality was not considered but in the course of
                           - % sub-projects                                                 implementation, communities constructed additional 3,306 assets to
                           completed                  90%          83.3%3                   complement the planned 3,906 assets so as to meet the standard sector
                                                                                            requirements. See Table (1 in Annex II)
                           - % of women on CPC
                                                      50%          50%
                           - No. of communities       328          5814                     PWP serves more than one community.
Output 2 Safety net to     reached
support Vulnerable
groups are initiated and   - % sub-projects completed
implemented                within budget and time     90%          85.2%

                           - Beneficiaries reached    32,800       113,646

                           - % of women benefiting    40%          47%




Output 3 Capacity of       - No. of implementers      840          732                      The number of implementers trained refers to technical staff at district,
Implementers and           trained                                                          NGOs, CBOs and national level including Management Unit staff.
communities to manage
projects is enhanced
                           - No. of beneficiaries     40,000       136,333                  The number of beneficiaries trained were CPC members for each
                           trained                                                          subprojects (22,686) and PWP beneficiaries (113,646)


                           - % of women trained       50%          51%




2This number refers to applications submitted to TMU (1408 CDI & 74 SSP)
3This number has been derived using 1178 (1136 CDI and 42 SSP) completed sub-projects out of 1399 (1338 CDI and 61SSP) funded sub-projects.
4Safety net subprojects involved more than one community (village).



                                                                         77

       Objective                  Indicator          Target    Achievement                                    Remarks
Output 4 Awareness and   - % of increase attendance
information to           at awareness meetings      30%     100%                All planned awareness meetings for communities, local government
communities and          (annual)                                               authorities and other stakeholders were attended accordingly as per
stakeholders is improved                                                        arrangements. They were effectively used to disseminate knowledge
                                                                                about TASAF principles and procedures and rules of access for
                                                                                support.

                         - % of women in CPCs       50%     50%

                         - % of population aware
                         of TASAF (annual           30%     100%                The IEC impact Assessment (2004) and Beneficiary Assessment
                         growth)                                                (2003) indicated that surveyed people were all aware of TASAF
                                                                                operations.
Output 5 Institutional   - Days to produce report
capacity to administer   after target date          7       15                  Geographical locations of some districts make timely availability of
the fund is established                                                         reports difficult
                         - Days within which to
                         effect disbursement after  30      15                  Good rapport with Commercial Banks made it easy for effecting
                         application                                            disbursement.

NB: Community as used in this document refers to people in certain locality or localities with common needs. Thus community is
need defined.




                                                                78

TABLE 2:      PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT (IN MILLION EQUIVALENTS)

     Components         Appraisal           Actual/Latest       Percentage of Appraisal
                      Estimate(US $      estimate(us million)       against actual
                         million)
                          Bank
Community
Development
Initiatives                       38.00                   34.54                  90.89
Public Works                      15.00                   12.90                  86.00
Programme
Institutional                      7.00                   14.25                 203.57
Development
TOTAL                             60.00                   61.69                 102.81




TABLE 3:      PROJECT COSTS BY FINANCING (IN US $ MILLION EQUIVALENTS)

Component          Appraisal estimates    Actual estimates     Percentage of appraisal
                  IDA    GOT     CoF    IDA     GOT      CoF   IDA      GOT      CoF
Community
Development
Initiatives        38.00   1.90     8.62 34.54    1.81    8.12   90.89    95.26     23.5
Public Works
Programme          1500    0.75     0.00 12.90    0.68    0.00   86.00    90.66     0.00
Institutional
Development         7.00   0.50     0.00 14.25    0.57    0.00  203.57 114.00       0.00
TOTAL              60.00   3.15     8.62 61.69    3.06    8.12  102.81    97.14     23.5




                                         79

TABLE 4:       PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENT (US $
MILLION EQUIVALENT) AT APPRAISAL

       Category          Procurement
                            Method
                              ICB          NCB       Community       Other    N.B.F   Total
                                                    Participation
 1. Community
    Development
    Initiatives(CDI)                                         34.50              9.40    43.80
    (IDA Share)                                             (34.50)                   (34.50)

 2. Public Works                                             13.80              0.40    14.10
    (IDA Share)                                             (13.80)                   (13.80)
 3. Goods                            1.70     0.60                      0.70             3.00
    (IDA Share)                    (1.70)   (0.60)                    (0.70)            (3.00)
 4. Consultants
    TA/Workshop                                                         4.70             5.50
    (IDA Share)                                                       (4.70)    0.80    (4.70)
 5. Incremental
    Operating Costs                                                     4.10             5.40
    (IDA Share)                                                       (4.10)    1.20     4.10
 Total                               1.70 0.60               48.30      9.50            71.70
 (IDA Share)                       (1.70) (0.60)            (48.30)   (9.50)   11.80  (60.00)


TABLE 5:       PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENT (US $
MILLION EQUIVALENT) ACTUAL

       Category         Procurement
                           Method
                                          NCB       Community       Other    N.B.F  Total
                             ICB                    Participation
 1. Community
    Development
    Initiatives(CDI)                                        36.35              8.12  44.47
    (IDA Share)                                            (34.54)                  (34.54)

 2. Public Works                                            13.58                    13.58
    (IDA Share)                                            (12.90)                  (12.90)
 3. Goods                           1.44     1.06            0.10      0.22           2.82
    (IDA Share)                   (1.44)   (0.96)                    (0.20)          (2.60)
 4. Consultants
    TA/Workshop                                                        6.88           6.88
    (IDA Share)                                                      (6.88)          (6.88)
 5. Incremental
    Operating Costs                                                    5.30           5.30
    (IDA Share)                                                      (4.77)          (4.77)
 Total                              1.44    1.06            50.03    12.40     8.12  73.05
 (IDA Share)                      (1.44)   (0.96)          (47.44)  (11.85)         (61.69)


Note: Numbers in brackets refer to the amount financed by International Development
Association.
                                                  80

Additional Annex 9. Regional Poverty Ranking

  At appraisal, the selection of Districts for TASAF interventions was done on the basis of
  regional poverty ranking that was based on selected indicators - poverty level, food insecurity,
  primary school gross enrolment ratio, access to safe water, access to health facility, AIDS
  case rates and road accessibility. The regions with low composite indices were allocated a
  maximum of three Districts whereas those with high composite indices were allocated with
  one District as they were considered well off. Regional ranking in year 2005 based on similar
  indicators gives a different picture with regions shifting positions as indicated in columns (f)
  and (h) in the table below:

  S/N Region             Composite       Rank     Number        Composite Rank          Change in
                         Index           2000     of TASAF Index               2005     Ranking
                         2000                     Districts     2005

  (a)  (b)               (c)             (d)      (e)           (f)            (g)      (h)

 1      Tabora            5.1              1        3           5.7             14        +13
 2      Shinyanga         6.4              2        3           6.3             19        +17
  3     Kagera            7.1              3        3           4.4             5         +2
  4     Kigoma            7.5              4        3           3.6             1         -3
 5      Lindi             7.7              5        3           4.5             7         +2
 6      Morogoro          8.4              6        2           4.3             4         -2
 7      Arusha            8.7              7        2           5.3             10        +3
        (Manyara)
 8      Rukwa             9.4              8        2           4.7             8         0
 9      Singida           9.9              9        2           5.3             11        +2
 10     Dodoma            10.0             10       2           5.8             17        +5
 11     Coast             10.2             11       2           4.2             2         -9
 12     Mbeya             10.7             12       2           5.8             15        +3
 13     Mwanza            10.8             13       2           8.0             20        +7
 14     Ruvuma            12.0             14       2           4.5             6         -8
 15     Mtwara            12.4             15       2           5.9             18        +3
 16     Iringa            12.7             16       1           5.8             16        0
 17     Tanga             12.8             17       1           4.2             3         -14
 18     Mara              14.4             18       1           5.6             12        -6
 19     Kilimanjaro       16.2             19       1           5.6             13        -6
 20     Dar Es            17.5             20       1           4.8             9         -11
        Salaam
 21     Zanzibar          n/a              n/a      2           n/a             n/a       -
        Total                                       42




                                               - 81 -

A recent ranking of the 20 Regions using recent data shows that TASAF, as well as other
development partners, made a contribution to poverty reduction in some of the Regions. Five
regions that were ranked as poorest each had three Districts supported by TASAF; and four have
improved in the ranking while only Kagera Region is worse off. The reason for Kagera's decline
could perhaps be due to the influx into the Region of refugees from a neighboring country. Seven
of the ten Regions that supported two Districts each have improved their position; two have seen
a fall, while one has no change in ranking. A positive figure in column (h) indicates that there has
been some economic growth in the Region; whereas a negative figure means that the Region had
become worse in terms of poverty ranking. Regions with 1 District funded by TASAF declined in
ranking by an average of 5; Regions with 2 Districts went up the scale by an average of 0.4; while
those with 3 Districts went up by an average of 6 points. Tabora and Shinyanga, each with three
TASAF supported Districts, registered high economic growth. Further research would be
required to establish the reasons for the decline in the other Regions, particularly the two Regions
along the coast. While it is difficult to attribute these positive changes in Regional poverty levels
wholly to TASAF, it is reasonable to assume that TASAF made a significant contribution since it
provided the resources for community investments and created economic opportunities.

Reference Data Sources:

1. Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security, Rapid Vulnerability Assessment (RVA) Report on
    Drought Affected Areas in Tanzania for the 2005/06 Market Year, August 29, 2005
2. The United Republic of Tanzania, Basic Statistics in Education, 2004, Regional Data
3. Tanzania Mainland, HIV Indicator Survey, 2003-04, Key Findings
4. The United Republic of Tanzania, Ministry of Health: Health Statistics Abstract 2002, Vol II.
    Inventory Statistics
5. District Baseline Data on Selected Millennium Development Goals Targets. Final Report,
    2003, by Business Care Services Limited, commissioned by TASAF




                                                  - 82 -

Additional Annex 10. Data on indicators not reported on in Annex 1

(a)   From PAD page 2

S/N   Description                                     Achievement
     Input Indicators (Monitored through the MIS)
 1    TASAF support system at district level and       42 districts/islands fully staffed.
      national level (Number of fully staffed and      MIS developed working at the national
      functional district programs and level of        level, at district level it was paper based,
      development of MIS and accounting                Accounting systems developed and working
      systems)                                         at national and district level.
 2    Mobilization of TASAF funds:                    For CDI Community contribution:
      Community (and total disbursements)             US$7,256,545.04
                                                      District Councils/Islands:
                                                      US$864,233.89
      Government Contribution                          US$ 4,376,785.71
3      Overhead costs as percentage of project cost    11.7%
     Output Indicators (Monitored though the MIS)
4     TASAF staff trained                              147
5     Partners institutions trained                    585
6     Number sub-projects submitted,                   CDI:
      appraised, accepted, completed                   Submitted: 1,482
                                                       Appraised: 1,482
                                                       Accepted: 1,399
                                                       Completed: 1,136
                                                       Health : 56%
                                                       Education: 23%
                                                       Water: 15%
                                                       Socio-economic Infrastructure: 6%
                                                       PWP:
                                                       Submitted: 344
                                                       Appraised: 305
                                                       Accepted: 305
                                                       Completed: 260
7     Percentage of sub-projects with 20%             53% (906 sub-projects)
      cost overrun over appraisal.
8     Average total community investment as            18.25%
      percentage of sub-project costs




                                              - 83 -

 9    Project processing time by type of
      project (standard schedule to be defined)
      - % of projects with 10% time overrun                  71%
      (submission to financing)
      - % of projects with 10% time overrun                  72%
      -(financing          agreement         to
      implementation)
      - % of project with 10% time overrun                   74%
      (implementation to completion)


     Outcome Indicators (Monitored at post completion)
 10   Number of beneficiaries reached                        1.9 million
 11   % of sub-projects with satisfactory                    Not available
      maintenance rating by local authorities
      % of sub-projects with satisfactory                    91%
      utilization rating

(b)  Indicators from Schedule 6 of DCA

   Indicator description                        Status
   CDI
   Number of women trained in the operation 629
   and maintenance of water facilities
   Access to safe water sources: distance to 200-400m          (30 to 60 minutes
   water points and time saving                   from
                                                  3 to six hours)
   PWP
   Number persons/months of employment            226,333:
   created by gender under the urban and rural    § Female106,377
   sub-projects **                                § Male119,956
   Number of Households benefiting                113,646
   Labour intensity: Percentage of unskilled 36%
   labour cost to total project cost
   Total Wage transferred in US$                  $4,556,531




                                             - 84 -

   Institutional Development
    Workshops/meetings/studies/field visit by    Workshops 5; 59 district and national level
    type of training provided and number and     participants
    type of participants                         Study tours 7; 56 national and district level
                                                 stakeholders
    Number of people trained in project cycle    732 participants at district and national
    management and basic bookkeeping             level implementers
                                                 22,687 CPCs members
    Number of strategic and technical studies,   16
    beneficiary and impact assessments carried
    out and disseminated
    IEC
    Meetings                                     2,243
    Radio Programs                               1,168
    Newsletters                                  500,000
    Brochures                                    18,000
    Leaflets                                     58,000
    Newspapers Articles                          84
    T shirts                                     38,000

** The person months relate to the total amount of money paid out as wages divided by the
average wage to get person days of employment created, and then divide by the number of
working days in a month (24).




                                              - 85 -

                                                                    (c) Geographical Distribution of CDI Subprojects and assets created
                                                                                           (Excluding the 61 SSPs)


S/N    District No. of sub-  Classrooms Dormitories Laboratories Teachers' Water points Administrative Teachers' Latrines  OPD/   Clinical  Nurses'  Latrines for Incinerators Water points (Shallow/ Economic
                projects                                        Offices    (Rain water  Blocks         houses    (Toilets) MCH    Officers' houses   dispensaries              deep wells)            Infrastructures
                                                                           harvesting)                                            houses

     1 Bagamoyo            31         22                                  5                                     7         4     19        19       28          36           19


     2 Bariadi             34         72                                  5            1              6       21         23     15        15       30          30           15                      35
     3 Bukoba              29         98                                32            17              1         2        28      5         5       12          10             5
       Rural
     4 Bunda               29         67                       3          7                           4       24          3      2         2        4           4             2                      4
     5 Dodoma              30         95                                27                                      6        13      2         2        4           4             2                      2
       Rural
     6 Iringa              37         60           2                      6                           1         4        12     13        13       32          25           13                      38
       Rural
     7 Kasulu              28         46                                  3                                     9         9     15        15       32          29           15                       4
     8 Kibaha              28         39           6                      3                           2         3        20     10        10       15          19           10                       4               1
     9 Kibondo             37         82                                  8            1              1         4        14     14        14       28          28           14                      20
    10 Kigoma              28         45                                  5                           2         6        15     11        11       24          21           11                       1
       Rural
    11 Kilwa               30         65                                13                                    11         30      5         5       10          10             2                      1
    12 Kiteto              36         52           3                    11             1              2       17         19      4         4        8           8             4                      9
    13 Kondoa              26         26                                  4                                   11          3      6         6       12          12             6                     10
    14 Kwimba              29        115                                24                            1         3        27      4         4        8           8             4
    15 Kyela               29         77           2           2          3                                     3        21      6         6       12          12             6                     36
    16 Lindi               29         28                                  3                                     7        21     12        12       24          24           12                      22
    17 Magu                29         93                       4          3                           4         8        58      8         8       16          16             8
    18 Manyoni             30         34                                  2                                     3        17     14        14       28          28           14                      14
    19 Masasi              33        100                                11                                      4        49      8         8       16          16             8                      4
    20 Mbulu               36        102                       1        13                                    29         26      5         5       10          10             5                      4
    21 Meatu               38         57                                  4                                   22         35      4         5       10           7             4                     19
    22 Morogoro            28         27                                  3                                   14         16     13        13       26          26           13                      24


    23 Muheza              34         48                                11                                               27      8         8       18          16             8                     14
    24 Muleba              34        108                                23                                      3        44      3         4        8           5             3
    25 Nachingw            37         68                                  8                                     4        24      4         4        8           8             4                     23
       ea
    26 Ngara               25         47                       6        23                                               24      1         2        4           1             1                      1
    27 Nkasi               34         62                                25                                      5         2      4         4        8           8             4                     28
    28 Rombo               35        121                                37                                               44      2         2        4           4             2
    29 Rungwe              23         57                                17                                      2         4      1         1        2           2             1                      1
    30 Shinyanga           33         27                                  8                                     4         2     10        10       20          20           10                       9


    31 Sikonge             32         47                                14                                      4        24      8        10       20          14             8                      5
    32 Singida             43         97                                19                                    28         36      8         9       18          16             8                      9
    33 Songea              38         57                                21                                    17         34     10        10       20          20           10                      58               2
    34 Sumbawa             35         57                                  3                                     5        20      8         8       16          16             8                     28
       nga




                                                                                                       86

S/N   District No. of sub-   Classrooms  Dormitories Laboratories Teachers' Water points Administrative Teachers' Latrines  OPD/    Clinical  Nurses'  Latrines for Incinerators Water points (Shallow/ Economic
               projects                                          Offices    (Rain water  Blocks         houses    (Toilets) MCH     Officers' houses   dispensaries              deep wells)            Infrastructures
                                                                            harvesting)                                             houses

    35 Tabora              30          48                                  7                                   15         44       4         4        8           8             4                      6
    36 Tandahim            32          56                                20                            1                  40       8         8       16          16             8                      3               4
       ba
    37 Temeke              33          36                                  5                                     3        22       6         6       12          12             6                     72               2
    38 Tunduru             33          49                                  4                                     2        25       2         2        4           4             2                     61               2
    39 Unguja              33          54                       2          6                                   17          8       9         4        4          18             4                     23
    40 Ulanga              30          87                                  9                                     4        32       3         3        6           6             3                     22               1
    41 Urambo              32          36                                11                                      4        24      14        14       24          28           14
    42 Pemba               28          22                                  2                           1                   8       4         2        2           8             4                     15               3
                        1,338       2,586          13          18      468             20             26      335        951     312      311       611        613           304                     629              15




                                                                                                        87

Additional Annex 11. DCA-PAD editorial inconsistencies and DCA amendments


DCA text and amendments                        PAD text
PDO: "to enhance and sustain the provision PDO: "to increase and enhance the
and    use  of   resource    endowments    by capacities   of  communities    and  other
Beneficiaries, which will contribute to stakeholders to prioritize, implement and
poverty reduction through......"               manage sustainable development initiatives
                                               and in the process improve socio-economic
                                               services and opportunities"
Schedule 6, Performance Indicators includes Some Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
indicators not in the PAD, i.e., "labor from main text are not in Annex 1, i.e., ratio
intensity: percentage of unskilled labor cost of female to male beneficiaries; text
to total project cost, # of projects approved, indicates Annex 1 has a more complete list
funded and completed by sector and distinguishing between CDI and PWP
geographic distribution, # of households components
benefiting from employment, total wage
income transferred in US dollar equivalent."
Schedule 3 indicates first five contracts Annex 6 prior review thresholds table
under CDI and PWP above $25,000 will be indicates first five contracts under CDI and
prior reviewed                                 PWP below $25,000 will be prior reviewed
Schedule 1 indicates Operating Costs will be Annex 6 Table C Allocation of Credit
financed at 90%                                Proceeds indicates Operating Costs will be
                                               financed at 90% of local expenditure
August 2002:       Amendment required to
increase Special Account threshold, and to
reflect    agreements       reached     during
negotiations: remove TASAF MU contract
staff remuneration.
April 2004: To allocate amounts required
under Category 4 to reflect the change in
operating cost definition, and increasing
shopping aggregate.
February    2005:       Reallocation   among
categories to reflect anticipated expenditure
to closing.




                                               - 88 -

