R RN TOCI
REPORTS DESK1                                                     FII  COPY
wITHIN                                                      FL COPy
IONE W£EEK 
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Uwe
Report No. 177a-PE
APPRAISAL OF
A FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
PERU
October 4, 1973
Education Projects Divisíon
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It mnay not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or comnpleteness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit              Sol (S/)
US$1                        S S/38.70
US$1,000,000     =          S/38,700,000
S/1              =         US$0.026
S/h,ooo,oo=                uS$25,840
Measures
1 m                        1.09 yd.
1 m              =10.8 sq. ft.
1 km                        0.62 mi.
1 km2                        .39 sq. mi.
1 hectare        =          2.!47 acres
Fiscal Period (a biennium)
January 1 - December 31 of the following year



PERU
BASIC DATA
1971
Population  (1972)                                           1h.1 million
Annual growth rate (1961-1972)                            3.1%
14 years and under                                        6.5 million
Density per km2                                          11.0
Labor force (estimated)                                   4.4 million
Enrollment ratios by age group:
6-9 in lower primary education                           70%
10-14 in upper primary and lower secondary education  74%
15-17 in upper secondary education                       18%
18-24 in higher education                                14%
25-34 in higher and graduate education                    2.6%
Higher Education Graduates per year
per 100,000 population                                  116
Literacy Rate                                                72%
Total Expenditures on Education as % of GNP                 4.5%
Total Publi.c Expenditures on Education as % of
Total Public Expenditure                               21.1%
Total Education expenditure per capita                 US$18.0






GLOSSARY
Terminology
Given the problems of the terminology of an education system in
transition, as in Peru, a standard grading terminology is used for the
purpose of this report. Grades 1-6 comprises primary, 7-9 lower and
10-11/12 upper secondary education. Although the Peru education reform
incorporates grades 10-11/12 as the first cycle of higher education,
this report will refer to them as upper secondary, or the ESEP system.
Schools                     Grades           Relevant Ages
- Pre-school education            -                   2-5
- Primary 1/1-6                                       6-11
- Lower seacondary               7-9                12-14
- Upper secondary (SSEPs)       10-12               15-17
These two types will be integrated into the "second level" or basic
general education.
A.CRONYMS
CECAPE              -    Centro de Capacitacion Profesional Extraordinaria
(Center of Extraordinary Professional Training),
a non-formal education program offering industrial
skills and commercial training in selected education
institutions throughout the country
CIDA                -     Canadian International DevelopTnent Agency
CONUP               -     Consejo Nacional de la Universidad Peruana
(National Council of the Peruvian University),existing
semi-autonomous government agency in charge
of university administration
CORESU              -    Consejo Representativo del Sistema Universitario
(New University Council of the Peruvian University)
EDP                       Education Development Plan (1971-1975)



- 2 -
ERTV             -      Education Radio and Television, itincludes various
education programs broadeast through commercial
TV channels
ERC              -      Education Reform Ccmmission, an advisory group
appointed by the president in charge of drafting
the education reform
ESEPs            -      Escuelas Superiores de Educacion Profesional
(Upper secondary schools for professional training),
ed=cation institutions that will replace the former
upper secondary education (grades 10-1U) and the
preparatory year of the university (grade 12). As
referred to in the general educatiom law of March,
1972.
IDB              -      Inter-American Development Bank
NDP              _      National Development Plan (1971-1975)
NIERD            -      National Institute of Educational Research and
Development
OAS              -      Organization of American States
PIM              -      Project Identification Mission
SENATI           -      Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje y Trabajo Industrial
(National Apprentlceship Service), a sesii-autonomous
government agency offering apecialized on-the-job
training course for skilled workers
UNDP             -      United Nations Development Program
UNESCO           -      United Nationa Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization
USAID            -      United States Agency for International Development



PERU
APPRAISAL OF A FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............. .......................i- iii
I.   INTRODUCTION - SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING .1
The Request . .                                                   1
The 'Cbuntry, the People, the Economy .................           1
Employment..                                                      2
II.   THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM AND THE REFORM                   5
General..                                                         5
The Education Reform and Development Strategy                     6
The Education System in Transition.                               8
III.   EDUCATION FINANCE .......*, .                                     13
IV. THE PROJECT .15
Elements of the Project    ..16
Lower Secondary Schools   .              .16
The ESEPs System (grades 10-12)    .         .17
Technícal Assistance ...........................           17
Cost of the Project             ....                             ............   19
V.  IMPIEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT ..22
Admi.nístration .22
Construction .22
Procurement of Furniture and Equipment .22
Maintenance .23
Disbursement.                                                    23
Periodic Review of the Implementation of the Reform
and of the Project                                             23
VI.   RECO MENDATIONS ......................                           24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal miasion whích vísited
Peru in Septeiber/October 1972.  The mission consisted of Messrs. A. Cespedes
(general educator), J. P. Jallade (economist), E. Vergara (archítect), D. Beal
(agricultural educator, FAO) and M. Strong (technical educator, consultant).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
APPENDICES
1.   Financial Implications of the Educational Reform up to 1980
2.   The Education Reform and its Implementation
3.   Technical Assistance
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Actual and Projected Enrollment in Public and Private Schools,
1965-1980
3.   Evolution of the University System, 1960-1970
4.   Uníversity Enrollment by Fíeld of Study, 1960-1970
5.   Education Expenditures, 1965-1975
6.   Requirements and Supply of Primary and Secondary School
Teachers in Government and Private Schools, 1971-1980
7.   Summary of Estimated Capital Costs of the Proposed Project
8.   Contingency Allowances
9.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10. Project Implementation and Expenditure Schedule
CHARTS
1.   Schedule for Implementation of the Educational Reform, 1972-1985
2.   Present Structure of the School System
3.   Reformed Structure of the Education System
4.   Administration of Education, 1972
5.   Education Pyramid, 1971
MAP



PERU
APPRAISAL OF A FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraíses a first education project in Peru for which
a loan of US$24.0 millíon is proposed. The proposed project would help imple-
ment the government's education development strategy, particularly the educa-
tional reform that began in 1970. It would concentrate on qualitative improve-
ments in the education system and help alleviate shortages of qualified teach-
ers and school administratora. With almost all project institutiona located
outside Lima, the project would aleo help reduce existing regional imbalances
of educational opportunities.
ii.       The government i  undertaking a complete overhaul of education
through substantial institutional changes and significant reforms in educa-
tional administration, curricula, teacher training, and agricultural and rural
education. The Education Development Plan (1971-1975) is being revised within
the framework of two new education laws passed in March and November 1972.
While the new laws embody sweepíng reforma at all levels and in all programs
of the system, considerable emphasis ls given to the quality of instruction
and the internal efficiency of the system. The educational reform aim at
having a system better suited to the country's needs, thereby fostering econ-
omic and social development.
iii.      The government faces major problems in developing its education
system. Fírst, the centralized administration in Lima has not fully utilized
the potential of regional and local leadership in planning and programming
designed to reflect regional needs. Second, the university-oriented curricu-
lum lacks relevance to the training needs of the economy. And third, the out-
moded and rigid educational atructure with uncoordinated programs and low
effíciency permita duplication of efforts and wastage of resources. Moreover,
the system has been beset by a lack of teaching/learning materíals and equip-
ment and well-qualífied teachers and administrators, particularly outsíde
Lima. The government la consclous of these problems and therefore initíated
a major reform of the system. It la approaching external sources for financ-
ing and technical assistance.
iv.       Development strategy under the education reform stresses the develop-
ment of human resources and calls for a comprehensive approach to solving
education problema by: (a) decentralizing education administratíon; (b)
modernizíng curricula; (c) reducing dropout and repeater rates; (d) upgrading
the quality of teachers, particularly those of science, mathematics and prac-
tical subjects; and (e) increasing the relevance of education to the needs
of both the student and the economy.



- ji -
v.        The proposed project would assist the government in implementing
its educational development strategy by: (a) financing a number of institu-
tions (at the lower and upper secondary level) that would be the forerunnera
of the reformed education system; (b) extending the coverage of the reform
in basic general and upper secondary education (grades 1-9 and 10-12) to
regions outside Lima; (c) introducing practical subjects and integrating
them with existing academic courses, in an upper secondary school system
(ESEP); (d) upgrading teacher training facilities; and (e) improving educa-
tional planning, research and curriculum design through technical assistance.
vi.       Specifically, the proposed project would finance:
(a) site development, construction, furniture and equipment for:
- thirty-three new lower secondary schools of which 10 will
have primary school facilities;
- sixteen new upper secondary schools (ESEPs); and
(b) the cost of 17 man-years of apecialists' services and 80
man-years of fellowships for the project institutions and
asaistance in overall educational planning, curriculum
development, teacher training, and project implementation.
vii.      A project unit to be established within the Ministry of Education
would be responsible for project implementation and liaison with the Bank.
The design and supervision of civil works would be handled by consultant ar-
chitects or by the Ministry of Education Architectural Services. Schedules
of accomodation are appropriate; furniture and equipment estimates are ac-
ceptable; detailed lista will be prepared during implementatíon and reviewed
by the Bank before procurement.
viii.           The Ministry of Education is streamlining its architectural
staff and has negotiated with the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA) the technical assistance needed for the macro-planning of the educa-
tion reform. The Bank would finance any supplementary technical assistance
needed for the overall education planning and the required asslstance for
project implementation. The government should then be able to ímplement
properly the proposed project and the reform. As a means to ensuring a real-
istic pace of implementation of the reform and of the project, during negotia-
tions the Bank reached an agreement with the government on a periodie
review mechanlsm, for the exchange of views, approximately every two years,
ín mattera concerning progress in the training and supply of ESEP teachers,
the implementation of technical assistance, and the availability of financial
resources for the project and the reform.
ix.       The project would be completed in about 5 years.  Contracts for
construction and for the procurement of equipment would be awarded on the



- iii -
basis of international competitive biddíng, but it is expected that only the
equipment component will attract foreign bidders. A preferential margin
(equal to 15% of the c.i.f. price or the existing duty on importa, whichever
i8 lower) would be accorded to domestic manufacturero, as requested by the
government.  The procurement of furniture (expected to cost US$1.6 million)
wíll be nationally advertised.
x.        Total project cost is estimated at US$40.0 million.  The proposed
loan on US$24.0) million would meet the foreign exchange component estimated
at US$20.2 mlllion and local expenditures of US$3.8 million.
xi.       Subject to the provisions of paragraph 6.01 and 6.02 the proposed
project would be suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$24.0 million to Peru
for a term of 25 years including a grace period of 10 years.






1.  INTRODUCTION - SOCIO-ECONONIC SETTING
The Request
1.01      The proposed project stems from a Unesco PIM of March, 1972.
During a Bank reconnaisance mission in May, 1972, agreement, in principle,
was reached with the government on the project items to be considered for Bank
financing and it prepared these items in June, 1972 with assistance from
Unesco. The project was appraised in September-October 1972 by a mission
composed of Messrs. A. Cespedes (general educator), J.P. Jallade (economist),
E. Vergara (architect), D. Beal (agricultural educator, FAO) and M. Strong
(technical educator, consultant).
1.02      During appraisal and in agreement with the government, technical
assistance was added to the proposed project. It consists of:
(a)  construction and equipment of:
- thirty-three new lower secondary schools of which 10
will have primary school facilities;
-  sixteen new upper secondary schools (ESEPs); and
(b)  the cost of 17 man-years of specialists' services and 80
man-years of fellowships for the project institutions and
assistance in overall educational planning, curriculum
development and teacher training.
The proposed project is considered suitable for a Bank loan of
US$24.0 millíon for a term of 25 years including a grace period of 10 years.
The Country, the People, the Economy
1.03      The government is undertaking a broad reform of its socio-economic
system, aiming at restoring economic growth and financial stability, and at
reducing poverty and social inequity.  Substantial institutional changes and
significant reforms are being pursued in the agrarian, industrial, mining and
education sectors. In agriculture, for instance, inadequately used large
estates (latifundios) are being redistributed so as to increase production
and improve income distribution, while in the industrial and mining sector
new laws have been passed aiming at diversifying and increasing production,
as is further indicated in the latest economic report. In education, the
system is being transformed so as to facilitate the socio-economic reform and
to train the manpower needed to sustain the expansion and diversification of
the economy.
1.04      Peru's population has been growing at 3.1% p.a. and reached 14.1
million ín 1972. The nietropolitan area of Lima-Callao is the nain adminis-
trative and economic center and accounts for about 30% of total urban popu-
lation; twelve cities have population in excess of 100,000. About 50% of
the population live in scattered small towns, villages and landholdings
maínly in the high Andean mountains, semi-desert areas or undeveloped jungle.



- 2 -
Communications are poor and the provision of social services such as educa-
tion and public health has been particularly difficult. This explains why
illiteracy rates are as high as 40% in the provinces, while the country's
average is 28%. Only about 70% of the population speak Spanish and the re-
mainder Quechua or Aimara; this creates problems in providing education to
the rural population. Although the Spanish-Catholic tradition plays a domi-
nant role in people's lives, the governiment is encouraging the understanding
and appreciation of the cultural values of the indigenous Indian population,
particularly those of the Incas.
1.05      The economy grew at 6.2% p.a. during 1969-1972 and per capita
GNP reached US$500 in 1972. Manufacturing is the leading sector wIfth 21%
of GNP and 15% of employment. Agriculture accotunts for only 18% of GNP even
though it employs 44% of the labor force. Outptut per person engaged in agri-
culture is about one-fifth of that in other sectors; this disparity deter-
sines the distribution of income and affects adversely the rural population
and particularly those living in the high mountains and the undeveloped east-
ern areas.  The government's strategy for social and economic development is
designed to correct these imbalances.
1.06      The country's overall development strategy and economic targets
are set forth in the National Development Plan, 1971-1975 (NDP). The stra-
tegy aims at accelerating the growth of the commodity-producing sectors to
achieve a 6.5% annual growth in GNP and a per capita income of about US$600
by 1975. Primary production (fishery, agriculture, forestry products) is to
be expanded and diversified. The strategy stresses industrial development
in the coastal region. The economic and social infrastructure of the Sierra
(highlands) and of the Selva (eastern jungle) will receive special attentíon
so that the economy of these regions may be fully integrated in the modern
monetized sector. The development strategy is designed to assist the lower
income groups and to achieve a better distribution of income. A more equal
distribution of education opportunities will help to achieve this goal. Ex-
ternally, the country supports policies of regional economic integration,
particularly those of the Andean Group whose headquarters are in Lima.
Emplovment
1.07      In 1971 the active population was estimated at 4.4 million and,
witlh the 3.1% growth rate recorded in the sixties, it will reach 6 million
by 1980. Some two million are considered either under-employed or unemployed.
In 1971 the economy was able to provide the equivalent of full employment for
only about 70% of the labor force; it is anticipated by the governnent that
this figure wjould be raised to about 80% by 1975. Although the percentage of
active population employed in agrículture is steadily decreasing (about 44%
in 1971 as against 49% in 1960), employment in absolute numbers is still in-
creasing and is expected to reach 2.1 million by 1975 as against 1.5 million
in 1960.
1.08      For the success of the government's socio-economic development
efforts, a competent work force is required. Growth and diversification of
production will need a better educated and more skilled supply of manpower.



-3-
The present levels of educational attainnent of the active population are
recorded in the following table together with incone levels and unemplo'7rnent
rates:
PERU:   AveraS,e Incomes and Unemployrnent Rates by Leve] of
Educational Attainment
Proportion of
Levels of Fduc.   Average monthlv       l!nemnloyed 1/ ard
of Active Popu-   Income Among           1!nder-Emploved
1970             lation         Emnloyed (Soles)         Bv Levels
No schooling             24.2%                 Rán                 66%
Primary e,ducation       52.7%              3,0nn                  337
Secondarv education    17.87                5,500                  30%
Higher education          5.3%             10,n00                  227
Sources:   Ministry of Labor and Centro de Estudios de Poblacion v Desarollo.
1.09      As expected, the level of earnings is closely associated witlh the
level of educational attainment. people with higher education earn twice as
inuch as people with secondary education, more than three times as much as
people with only primary education and 12 times as much as people with no
education at all.  It is also clear that people with little education are un-
employed or under-employed in greater proportions than those with more educa-
tlon: only one-third of illiterates can be considered as adequately employed
as against close to 80% of the higher education group. Both relative earning
level.s and employment rates have proved to be powerful incentives to acquire
more education in the past and are expected to play a similar role in the fu-
ture. As a result, the level of educational attainment of the labor force
changed considerably between 1960 and 1970 and this trend is expected to con-
tinue in the future as shown in the following table:
PERU: % Active Population by Level of Educational Attainment
1960             1970            1980
No school-Lng                  33.0%             24.2%           15.0%
Primary education              52.6%             52.7%           52.0%
Secondarv education            11.2%)135%        17.8%)23.1%    25.0%)33.0%
Higher eduication               2.3%)             5.3%)           8.0%)
Uncetermi,ed                    0.9% 
Total (millions)                3.1               4.3             6.0
Sources:   19711 -- Ministry of Labor, Situacion ocupacional del Peru, Informe.
1980 -- Bank Staff Projections
1/   Urban area8s ü.1Y.  The "under-employed" category includes all those who
work less than 35 hours and those who, although workilng 35 hours or more,
receive ail 4`-"p inferior to the minimum level, established by law.



-4-
1.10      The proportion of illiterates in the active population has fallen
from one-third in 1960 to one-fourth in 1970 and is expected to be no more
than 15% in 1980. By contrast, the proportion of the educated labor force
(secondary and higher education) rose from 13.5% in 1960 to 23% in 1970 and
may reach 33% by 1980. These forecasts will require about 1.3 million new
entrants in the labor force with those levels of education between 1970 and
1980. The ability of the education system to meet these forecasts ís war-
ranted considering that it may be expected to produce about 1.8 million 1/
secondary school graduates between 1970 and 1980, 15% of whom (270,000) will
not seek employment, 50% (900,000) will be available for employment with a
secondary school degree, while 35% (630,000) will undertake higher education.
About 20% of this latter category are expected to enter the labor market wíth
some universíty education during the period.
1.11      Quantitatively, tliere seems to be no manpower shortage in Peru.  The
recorded rate of unemployment and under-employment for persons with secondary
schooling and above is not due to an over-supply from the education system
vis-a-vis the needs of the economy but, rather, to the lack of relevance of
the content of education to the jobs available. Hence, the priority given
by the government to gualitative improvements in the content of education
aiming at increasing the employment prospects of school-leavers. By emphasiz-
ing the technical/vocational side of education, the education reform will
contribute to reducing present labor market rigidities which cause many school
leavers to refuse jobs considered too menial, to increasing the capacity of
the economy to absorb the available manpower and to achieving a more efficient
allocation of educated manpower throughout the economy.
1.12      The proposed education project, as an integral part of the ongoing
educational reform, represents a first step in helping the governnent to
achieve the goal of qualitative improvement. Employment prospects for the
ESEPs graduates (upper secondary schools for professional training) are good.
In the agricultiral sector, the total number of new niddle-level technicians
required between 1973 and 1980 for the implementation of the Agrarian Reformn
and the establishment of self-managing cooperatives is estimated at 6,800
persons, 12% of whom will be trained in predominantly agrícultural ESEPs.
The large capital investments presently being made in the mining sector and
the downstream processing of minerals as well as in the construction sector
%,íll provide employment opportunities to graduates of the largely industrial
ESEPs. As the education reform is implemented, the needs for better trained
teachers of technical/vocational subjects in the education basica (grades 1-9)
will Increase and the teaching profession is expected to be a most important
oultlet for the graduates of service oriented ESEPs (para. 2.16).
1/   This Bank forecast is based on a 10% annual increase of enrollments
in the 12th grade between 1970 and 1980, as against 13% between 1960
and 1970. The slower growth takes into account the administrative
capacity of the education system, the absorptive capacity of the labor
market and the financial capacity of the government.



- 5 -
1.13      In short, the prime purpose of the reform is to improve the qual-
ity and relevance of education and thereby to increase the scope for employ-
ment of school-leavers, their mobility and their university prospects. The
proposed project is consistent with these objectives and indeed pioneers the
establishment cf the diversified secondary education whiclh is the core of the
education reform.
II.  MUE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTE  AND THE REFORM
General
2.01      The education system in Peru is in a stage of transition.  In 1969,
the government announced a new policy aimed at transforming the academically-
oriented system into a more modern and practical one, related to the employ-
ment needs of t:he country. In implementing this policy, an Education Reform
Commission (ERC) was appointed to examine the needs of the system and to
suggest appropriate changes. After a thorough study, ERC identified the
following majoar shortcomings, namely:
(a)  the centralized administrative setting in Lina which has
not made maximum use of the contributions possible through
regional participation in education;
(b)  the i.nflexible and university-oriented curriculum that does
not reflect the training needs of the economy;
(c)  the cutmoded and rigid education structure that does not
allow a proper flow of students between levels and pro-
grams and results in duplication of efforts, wastage of
resources and low efficiency due mainly to high dropout
and repeater rates;
(d)  the system is beset by a lack of teachingllearning equipment
which nmakes instruction highly theoretical and of low quality;
and
(e)  in the provinces, education is not only affected by a lack of
equipment and IrAterials for instruction but by a lack of
quali.fied teachers of science, mathematics and practical
subj ects.
2.02      In it:s recommendations to the government ERC aimed at having an
education system that would:  (a) encourage community participation and
self-help in education through a gradual decentralization of education
administration; (b) direct education/training towards the world of work;
(c) establish compulsory free education ap to the age of fourteen thereby
offering equal education opportunities to all; and (d) upgrade the teachíng
force and provi.de additional education facilities, particularly in the rural
areas where shortages of such facilities exist.



The Education Reform and Development Strategy
2.03      Following the changes in the agrarian, industrial and mining sec-
tors (para. 1.02) and as a response to the education problems and recominen-
dations presented by ERC, the government passed a radical education law in
March 1972. This law (Decreto Ley No. 19326) is unique in both its scope--
coveríng all levels and types of education-and its potential impact on the
socio-economaic growth of the country, as it calls for an effective participa-
tion of the community in the education proceas and aims at establishing a
curriculum related to the country's economic needs. The first education law
deals only with obJectives and broad issues, but a second law approved on
November 7, 1972, (Decreto Ley No. 19602), defines adminlstrative and opera-
tional procedures, particularly those concerning the role and responsibilities
of the educational regions established in the new system. In addition, this
second law gives to the Minister of Education special powers and administrative
authority to reorganize and strengthen the Ministry of Education, mainly those
departments (planning, supervision, teacher training) which are critical in
the implementation of the reform.
2.04      The basic goal of the reform ís to modernize and rationalize educa-
tion and training to ensure an efficient and productive system, responsive
to the socio-economic needs of the country. The new education laws consider
the education system as an organic unit, and take into account the fact tlat
all levels of education programs should be interrelated. Reforms in adminis-
tration, curricula, teacher training and rural education are now being under-
taken. At the secondary level practical training (commercial courses, metal
mechanics, agriculture and home economics) for all students is being planned
so as to emphasize the orientation of education towards the world of work.
Specifically, the reform education system is designed to:
(i)  give more emphasis to non-formal education/training outside the
schools;
(it) improve quality through teacher training and the provision of
adequate teaching/learning aids including Educational Television
(ETV);
(iíi)  emphasize community participation and self-education to "encourage
the self-affirmation and cultural independence of the Peruvian
nation";
(iv)  decentralize educational administration and leadership through the
establishment of nine educational regions, 33 school zones and
about 950 "school nuclei." Each "nucleus" is to consist of one
central school (grades 1-9) and some 5-10 satellite elermentary
achools (grades 1-6); and



-7-
(v) integrate practical and academic courses in an upper secondary
school system (first cycle of higher education) called ESEP
(Escuelas Superiores de Educacion Profesional). Although about
40% of the work will be devoted to academic courses, there will be
no pu.rely academic or practical streams as such; and
(vi) create "the National Service Corps of Graduates" by which gradua-
ting seniors at the upper secondary level (ESEP Schools) will be
required to work on civil works, as a pre-requisite for graduation.
2.05      The reform is expected to be implemented in three phases and over
a period of 15-20 years (Chart 1).  The proposed project relates to the fírst
two phases.  The first phase, now under implementation, is concentrating upon
institutional changes, reforms in educational administration and primary educa-
tion. The second phase will cover the transformation of secondary education
into the ESEP system and the third will extend the reformed system countrywide
by 1985-1990. The Education Development Plan (1971-1975) is now being revised
within the framework of the two education laws mentioned above and will cover
the implementat.ion of the reform up to the first phase. Plans for the other
two phases are only beginning and have been hindered somewhat by shortages of
qualified staff at the planning office of the Ministry of Education.  The
Ministry, however, ¡s gradually streamlining its staff and negotiated with
the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) the technical assistance
needed for the macro-planning of the implementation of the reform, particularly
for the last two phases. This measure will greatly strengthen the administra-
tive capacity of the Ministry and thereby help assure proper planning of the
implementation of the reform. In addition, taking into account the extensive
coverage of this reform vis-a-vis the need to develop further the capacíty to.
carry out the program, during negotiations assurances were obtained from the
Government that: it vill periodícally review with the Bank its progress in
executing the program (para. 5.07). The financial implications of the reform
are stnmarized in Chapter III and further discussed in Appendix 1.
2.06      The education reform ls comprehensive and innovative.  It covers
all levels and programs of education and provides a framework for a reformed
education system which will go far in meeting the needs of the country's
socio-economic structure over the next two decades or so. The reform is
particularly reponsive to the needs of two groups: (a) students unable tco
proceed to higher levels of academic education, and (b) workers who want to
continue their education after having acquired enployment experience (paras.
2.16 and 2.25). Although the aims and objectives of the education reform are
well conceived, there are some elements that need to be further examined.
For example, the role of the university, under the reformed system, in natters
concerning its operational and student-admission procedures together with
revisions so needed in curricula; the rate of transformation of the traditional
secondary school into the ESEP system; and the financing and rate of implemen-
tation of the reform which can be realistícally envisaged, given the constraints
and shortcomings of the education system (para. 2.01). The university role in



the reform is expected to be clarifíed by a law to be passed by the end of
1973 (University Statutes). Assurances on this matter were obtained from the
government (para. 4.07). The technical assistance negotiated with CIDÁ
(para. 2.05) will help the government In the planning of the implementation
of the reform in its administrative and financial aspects and in its academic
content. The new levels and types of education are díscussed below in conjunc-
tion with a review of the present system. Further detaíls on the education
reform are given in Appendix 2.
The Education System in Transition
2.07      Some of the elements of the traditional systen wíll co-exist during
implementation of the reformed structure. The folloving profile by levels
and types of education indícates the existing system and the measures being
taken by the government to ímplement the reforms in each instance.  In so
doing, a brief analysis of the problems presently confronting the system
(para. 2.01) is also given.
2.08      The present structure (Chart 2) consists of six years of primary and
five years of general secondary education. Secondary vocational education
includes sections for agricultural, industrial and commercial education and
ís offered mostly at the upper secondary grades (10-11). Higher education/
trainíng is offered in courses of varying duration (grades 12-15 and above)
in universities, teacher training and technical institutes. Private educa-
tion, cateríng for about 15% of primary and 20% of secondary school enroll-
ments, plays an important role within the system. The reformed structure
(Chart 3) comprises `levels" and "cycles" as follows: "first level" or pre-
school education (ages 2-5 yeara); `second level` or basic general education
(grades 1-9) comprising 'three cycles" (grades 1-4, 5-6 and 7-9). The sec-
ond level will have two parallel yet integrated programs: the basic proper
and the "basica laboral" or work-oriented scheme (non-formal). Students
will be able to move from one program to the other according to their abili-
ties and needs. The hígher level covers upper secondary education in ESEP
schools (grades 10-12) and university educatíon (grades 13-16 and above).
2.09      A comparíson between Charts 2 and 3 will índicate how the frag-
mented programs at the secondary level will be eliminated by the creation
of the ESEP system and how the basic general education (grades 1-9) wíll
be integrated with the "basica laboral" or work-oriented education. The
non-formal traíning programs CECAPE (Center for Extraordinary Professional
Training) and SENATI (National Apprenticeship Service) are particularly
important since they offer a channel for further education/training to school
leavers and adults, for semi-skllled and skilled occupations.
2.10      The organízation and admlnistration of primary and secondary educa-
tcon has been centralized at the Mínlstry of Education (MOE), but, until re-
cently, was too complex, and caused duplication of efforts and wastage of



- 9 -
resources because of lack of clear delineation of responsibilities among un-
coordinated departments in charge of primary, general secondary, vocational
education and t:eacher training. Supervision has been carried out by school
inspectors fromn MOE, but given the geographic conditions of the country and
the scattered population of the rural areas (para. 1.03) the effective action
by the school inspectorate has been limited. Little control has been exercised
over private eclucation, catering for a considerable part of the primary and
secondary school enrollment (para. 2.08). The university system has been
administered through the National Council of the Peruvian UniveraJty (CONUP)
or Consejo Nacional de la Universidad Peruana. Under the reform a new univer-
sity council is being established (para. 2.27).
2.11      The Ministry of Education is now being reorganized ín accordance
with the new education laws (Chart 4). This reorganization wíll affect mainly
(i) ERC that has been transformed into the Higher Council on Education with
its functions being extended to cover supervision and overall coordination
of all major departments of the Ministry; (ií) the National Inspectorate,
which is in charge of coordinating regional inspectors; and (iii) the Educa-
tion Planning Office, which is to be strengthened by the establishment of a
new Office for System Analysis.
2.12      Follcwing the improvements now under way within the administratíve
machinery of the Ministry of Education, the second critical step in pursuing
the reform is the decentralization of administration. This is being envisaged
in order to improve local conditions and to help in the correctíon of marked
imbalances of education opportunities between Lima and the provinces. Decen-
tralization of education administration is also being sought as a means to
encourage commtunity participation ín education activities. The decentralíza-
tion program irncludes the establishment of nine education regions, 33 school
zones and about 950 "school nuclei."  Each "nucleus" will consíst of one
central school (grades 1-9) and some 5-10 satellite elementary schools (grades
1-6). The Direictor of the school nucleus will adminíster all the schools
within the nucleus.  Although a major thrust of the administrative reform is
this division of the country into regions, school zones and nuclei, the govern-
ment is facing problems in establishing the latter because of shortages ot
education leadetrs. A National Institute of Research and Educational DeveloD-
ment has been established for in-service training of educa tíon administrators
and of lower secondary school teachers. Unesco and USAID are providíng tech-
nical assistance for this program on a continuing basis.
2.13      The inadequate conditions of the primary and secondary schocis
were among the factors that induced the reform (Annex 1).  Although 2.riar
education (grades 1-6) is free in public schools and coripulsory between the
ages of 6 and 11 the law has not been enforced because of shortages of educa-
tional facilities, particularly outside Llma. In 1971, enrollment was 2.4
million, representing over 100% of the age group, but thís percentage includes
some 20% of overage students. As in some other Latín American countries
(Colombia, Ecuador, Paraguay), the nrinary level in Peru ís characterized not
only by the presence of overage students, but by irregular attendance, anc
high dropout rates as only 38% finish the primary course. About 40% of the
primary teaching force is unqualified by government standards and this also
adversely affects the quality of instruction.



2.14      In 1971, enrollment in secondary education (grades 7-11) was about
600,000 representing about 30% of the age group, 12-16 years. It is estim-
ated that about 30% of the secondary school teaching force is unqualified
by government standards. Thus, the supply of qualified teachers, particular-
ly for science, mathematics and practical subjects has not matched the ex-
pansion of the system and the quality of education has suffered considerably.
In 1970, the retention rate was 56% (as against 67% in 1968). General se-
condary courses account for about 85% of the total enrollment and have been
traditionally oriented to university preparation rather than to manpower re-
quirements. Hence five years are spent by most students taking strictly
academic courses. This pattern of edujcation has contributed to a highly
theoretical approach to learning. The changes envisaged under the reform
aim at achieving a balanced combination of academic and practical courses
(para. 2.04 and Annex 2)
2.15      Under the educational reform, pre-school education constitutes the
"first level" of the system. It would have the objective of counter-balancing
the negatíve influence of adverse economic, social, cultural and nutritional
conditions in the early stages of the children's development (2-5 years of
age) and of assisting families - particularly those of the poor areas - in
bringing up their children.
2.16      The Basic General Education (basica regular) or "second level"
(grades 1-9) will integrate into one program the former primary and lower
secondary education levels. Curriculum in grades 7-9 will include practical
subjects (seven of the 35 weekly periods). This "level" is expected to offer
academic experience equivalent to that provided by former grades 1-11, which
is an ambitious goal. Tlis "level" will be free in the public schools and is
expected to be compulsory by 1980. The combined enrollment of this level is
now 2.8 million and is expected to reach about 4.0 million by 1980. The
teaching force needed will be about 115,000 by 1980 but no problems are
anticipated for the supply of teachers, provided existing in-service teacher
training prograns (para. 2.12) are fully implemented.
2.17      A work-oriented program (basica laboral), equivalent to the basic
general education program has been established. Besides the traditional
literacy programs, the "basica laboral` emphasized practical work and pre-
vocational orientation (conmercial courses, wood and metal work, electrical
wiring, etc.). This program is offered as evening courses to adolescents
and adults (15-31 years of age) in selected basic general education institu"-
tions and at the school nuclei. Entry to it can be at any suitable grade
according to the indívidual's needs and abilities.  In 1971, enrollment in
this program was 360,000 and it is expected that by 1980 the number will
increase to about 500,000 students. The teachers and instructors needed
(some 20,000 by 1980) will be trained at the ESEP schools and at the polytech-
nic institutes (para. 2.23).
2.18      The `third level` x-ill consis£ of the ESEP system followed by
university courses (grades 13-16 and above). ESEP schools will be open to



- 11 -
all basic education graduates and will replace the former upper secondary
education (grades 10-11) and the preparatory year of the university (grade 12).
In some cases an additional year will be added (grade 13) for technician train-
ing of ESEP graduates. The ESEP curriculum will integrate practical and
academic courses in a comprehensive program. Although 40% of the work will
be devoted to academic courses, there will be no purely academic or practical
streams as such. The program will concentrate on professional education/
training in areas such as agriculture, industrial training, teacher train-
ing, commerce and other sector service occupations. Except for some largely
agricultural ESEPs, all institutes will include more than one of the above
areas. Flexibility will be built lnto the system to permit the ESEP curri-
culum to be structured in accordance with local needs. In agriculture,
for example, the courses offered (animal husbandry, forestry, industrial
fishing) will be related to the regional needs. In addition, this flexi-
bility should allow university-oriented students to have some elective
courses (perhaps 20%) beyond the basic 40% academic program. Thus, for
these students the program may be 60% academically-oriented and 40% prac-
tically-oriented.
2.19      The teaching force needed for the ESEP level (sorne 9,500 by 1980)
will be trained at the university level and in some Teacher Colleges (Escue-
las Normales Superiores). Of the above number at least 4,000 will be prac-
tical-subjects teachers.  These will continue to be trained in three
universities and in some selected polytechnic institutes (para. 2.23 and
Annex 6).
2.20      Vocational and technical education courses are offered in lower
(grades 7-9) and upper secondary schools (grades 10-12). In 1970, there
vere some 66,000 students enrolled and the output from the lower level was
about 3,000 (mainly from commercial) and 4,000 from the upper level (indus-
trial traíning schools). Graduates from these schools seek employment or
pursue post-secondary studies. Technician training is offered for graduates
from vocational schools (and occasionally for graduates from the academic
program) at selected polytechnic institutes or "intermediate schools" (grades
10-13). Courses are provided in architecture, construction, electricity,
electronics, industrial and fishery occupations. There is need for a tracer
system to follow-up these graduates in their employment and therefore the
proposed project includes technical assistance for this purpose (Appendix 3).
2.21      In general, the quality of instruction in vocational schools is
low. They are poorly equipped and in need of maintenance for buildings,
equipment and furniture. Although some emphasis is placed on manual skills,
inadequate working materials and tools constitute a real limitation to the
success of vocational training. Moreover, the lack of qualified practical-
subjects teachers makes instruction a theoretical exercise rather than a
skill training program.  The aforementioned problems were among the factors
that induced the diversification of the secondary level and, therefore, one
of the main aims of the reform is to transform all the vocational and tech-
nical schools into industrial ESEPs beginning with the nine included in the
proposed project.



- 12 -
2.22      A2ricultural education and training ís offered at all levels of the
system, but the quality of instruction is low. Primary and some lower second-
ary schools conduct agricultural courses. More formal agricultural programs
are offered at some 116 secondary schools (Institutos Nacionales Agropecuarios,
grades 7-11); in 1971, these institutions enrolled about 16,000 and graduated
some 2,000. Agricultural technicians are trained at seven higher technical
agricultural institutes in two-year post-secondary courses. The low quality
of instruction in the above programs is due mainly to deficiences in buildings,
land for practical work, laboratories, teaching/learning materials and farm
equipment. All these problems are being considered in the course of trans-
forming these schools into agricultural ESEPs, beginning with the four included
in the proposed project.
2.23      Higher level agricultural education is offered at 18 universities
with an enrollment (1969) of about 5,500 and an output of about 370 in the
same year. The distribution of enrollment was: agriculture (55% of total),
animal science (11%), veterinary science (10%), fishery (10%), and the re-
mainder 14% in agricultural snd rural engineering, forestry and social
sciences. Graduate courses are offered only at La Molina Agricultural
University.
2.24      Teacher training is offered at Teacher Training Colleges (TTCs)
and at the departments of education of the universities, in three- and five-
year courses for primary and secondary education respectively. In 1970,
there were some 16,000 students in the TTCs and about 34,000 in the univer-
sity teacher training program. The output was 4,600 and 5,300 teachers
respectively. The quality of training is low as the programs over-emphas-
ized academic courses and rote learníng. Practical-subjects teachers are
trained at six TTCs, four university departments of education, snd 14 poly-
technic institutes, in three- and four-year post-secondary courses. In 1970,
enrollment in these programs was about 1,000 with 230 graduates. As for other
education institutions, quality of instruction is affected adversely by lack
of equipment and inadequate maintenance. The education reform proposes the
establishment of several ESEP schools with teacher traíning programs, beginn-
ing with three of this kind in the proposed project.
2.25      Non-formal education and training for skilled workers ís organized
by government agencies and the private sector. Extension work is carried
out mainly by the Ministry of Agriculture and by other Ministries including
the Ministry of Education. Short training courses (nutrition, health, farm
management and functional literacy) are organized for adults (15-39 years)
in farm training centers, rural schools, churches and various national clubs.
In 1971, about 20,000 adults participated in these programs.
2.26      SENATI and CECAPE are training programs more systematically struc-
tured to offer on-the-job training for skilled workers. SENATI (Servicio
Nacional de Aprendizaje y Trabajo Industrial), is supported by a 1-1/2 pay-
roll levy on industrial firms with more than 15 workers. It was established
with bilateral assistance (U.K., Belgium, Holland, Germany, UNDP/ILO).  About
100,00 industrial workers have participated in the courses offered in 1963-
1972. Instructors are recruited from industry and given in-plant training in



- 13 -
education courses. In addition, about 70% of the present instructional staff
have received training abroad. Finally, industrial employers cooperate with
SENATI in organizing in-plant training courses for their workers. CECAPE
(Centro de Capacitacion Professional Extraordinaria) is financed by the govern-
ment. It offers courses in mechanical, electrical and building trades. In
1971, there were about 30,000 adults enrolled in 200 centers. The reformed
system calls for an effective utilization of all the educational institutions
for the CECAPE program.
2.27      Universíty Education.  In the 33 universities, enrollment has tripled
since 1960 to reach 105,612 in 1970 (Annexes 3 and 4). Of these institutiona,
14 are located in metropolitan Lima with 60% of the total enrollment. Private
uníversity education accounts for 25% of the total enrollment. In 1969, only
six universities had enrollments over 5,000 including San Marcos with about
20,000. The rapid expansion of the university enrollment has resulted in a
proliferation of institutions, low quality of teaching and high dropout rate,
as only about 35-40% of those who enter finish the university course. In-
creased efficiency is being sought through better coordination and control
of academic standards and by the establishment of a new University Council:
El Consejo Representativo del Sistema Universitario (CORESU) that will replace
CONUP (para. 2.10).
III. EDUCATION FINANCE
3.01      Responsibility for the financing of education rests primarily on
the central government, but under the reform, local authorities will co-
operate by providing funds for maintenance of buildings and equipment. In
the public sector, education will continue to be provided free of charge at
all levels. The private sector, which accounts for 15% of total enrollment
at the primary and 20% at the secondary level and post-secondary levels, is
financed mainly by student fees. The existence and the need for government
subsidies to private education has been acknowledged by the education laws,
but the budget allocated for this purpose is not known. Private industry
finances in-plant training programs and contributes to the financing of
SENATI (para. 2.25).
3.02      The budgeting process used for allocating funds to the various
types and levels of education will increasingly involve the participation
of local education authorities who are now to provide detaíled requests cover-
ing their needs for the next two calendar years as well as larger financial
contributions. The Ministry of Education will then be in a better position
to evaluate the various budget proposals at the national level. However, the
final decision on the level of authorized spending will continue to rest with
the Ministry of Finance.
3.03      During 1965-1971 public education expenditures increased by 9.2%
a year as against 13.7% for total public expenditures. Consequently, the
proportion of the public budget devoted to education fell from 27% in 1965
to 21.2% in 1971.  Considering both private and public expenditures, 4.5% of



- 14 -
GNP was devoted to education in 1971 as against 5.6% ín 1965. Capital ex-
penditures on education did not increase over the period while recurrent ex-
penditures rose by 9.7% annually. In 1971 primary education absorbed about
50% of the recurrent expenditures with secondary education (22%) and higher
education (15%) coming next. The remainder (13%) was spent on administra-
tion and other education programs includíng pre-primary and adult education,
and in-service training. Teacher salaries account for over 90% of recurrent
expenditures and little is spent on maintenance of buildings and equipment
(less than 1%). The unrest of the teaching force observed in the last two
years has been reduced because of a 20% salary increase that went into ef-
fect in January, 1973 (AAnnex 5).
3.04      Short-term prospects for education finance, as set forth in the NDP
include two important reversals of past trends: between 1971-1975 education
expenditures are estimated to increase at a faster rate than total public ex-
penditures, thus emphasizing the priorlty given to education ín the public
sector.  Secondly, capital expenditures are planned to grow much faster than
recurrent expenditures.
3.05      Total recurrent expenditures for public education are expected to
reach about S/15,000 million (about US$400.0 million) in 1975 or about 60%
higher than in 1971. Capital expenditures on education will be four times asi
high.
3.06      Trends in the financing of education (1965-1971) together with a
projection by the mission for 1975, are summarized below:
1965         1971      Annual    1975
(Millions of current   Increase  (Projection)
Soles)             1965-1971 (Millíons of
(%)    1971 Soles)
Total Public Expenditure        21,232        45,929        13.7    67,200
- Recurrent                   16,244        32,834        12.5    54,777
- Capital                      4,988        13,095        17.5    12,423
Public Expenditures on Educa-
tion                             5,732         9,720         9.2    16,340
- Recurrent                    5,371         9,378         9.7    14,980
- Capital                         361          342          -      1,360
Public Expenditures on Educa-
tion as % of Total Public
Expenditure                       27.0          21.1                  24.3
Private Education Expenditure
(estimated)                      570         1,861          22     4,000
Source:  See Table 3, Appendix 3 for sources and assumptions.



- 15 -
3.07      Looking further ahead to 1980, by which time the reform should be
well under way, the mission has tried to assess the fiscal implicatiors of
the reform. The analysis i given in detaíl in Appendix I and l8 sutmnarized
below.
3.08      By 1980, recurrent expenditures for the system as a whole are ex-
pected to be more than twice the 1971 level, rising from 9.4 billion to 23.4
billion Soles. Of this increase, some 2.8 bíllion Soles can be attributed
to the education reform, including 1.2 billion Soles for the ESEP program
involing 170,000 of the 370,000 secondary school students. There will also
need to be a substantíal increase in capital outlays which are estimated to
rise from 340.0 million Soles in 1971 to 3.5 billion Soles in 1980, almost
all of which would be attrlbutable to the reform, including 38 percent due
to the ESEP program.
3.09      In total, the reform would increase government education expenditures
in 1980 by some 4.3 billion Soles per year, of which 60 percent would represent
the introduction of the ESEP schools. Education expenditures in 1980 would
therefore be about 15 percent higher than if there were no reform, constitut-
ing 25 percent instead of 21 percent of estimated government expenditure.
Given the revenue prospecto for the government, this increased commitment
appears to be a reallstic objective. Clearly, the increase in expenditures
for education depend on the pace of implementation of the reform and assur-
ance has beent obtained from the government that the review procedures with
the Bank will take into account the fiscal constraints as well as other limita-
tions in phasing the implementation of the reform (para. 5.07).
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The proposed project, estimated to cost US$40.0 million (Annex 7),
would assist the government in achieving its educational reform by providing:
(i)  priority investments in a number of institutions that would
become the forerunners of the reformed education system so
that it could meet the needs outlíned in paragraph 2.01; and
(ii)  technical assistance needed for furthering the reform in
critical areas such as planning, currículum design, and teacher
training.
While the maln purpose of the project is to raise the quality of education by
helping improve curricula and modernizing educational facilities, it would
also contribute to alleviatlng shortages of education facilities in provinces
where such facilíties are inadequate (para. 2.01). The proposed project by
itself would account for a emall provision of the ongoing reform, for example
only 7% of the total expected enrollment at the ESEP schools by 1980. However,
it is a píoneering effort in the key sector of secondary education being more
effectively adapted to the needs of the economy. Moreover, given continuing
efforts in implementing the reform, further Bank projects can be envisaged.



- 16 -
4.02      The project would consist of:
New        Student
Student      Boarding   Housing
Places       Places      Units
(a) Site development construction,
furniture and equipment for:
- thirty-three new lower
secondary schools (grades
7-9), of which ten will have
primary school facilities
(3,700 student places)              21,000            -          -
- sixteen new upper secondary
schools or ESEPs (grades 10-12)    11,500           1,400       28
(b)  the cost of 17 man-years of specialists' services (some 10 special-
ist8) and 80 man-years of fellowships (50-60 persons) for the pro-
ject institutions and assistance in planning, curriculum development
and teacher training.
Elements of the Project
4.03      Lower Secondary Schools (at the Centros de Educacion Basica).  The
project would finance the construction, furniture and equipment of thirty-
three new lower secondary schools (grades 7-9) to be located in medium-size
cities, in líne with the government's decentralization policy.
4.04      Although primary school facilities are either in existence or will
be built mainly by governnent funds, in 10 of the 33 lower secondary schools,
the project would provide facilities for the primary grades 1-6 (about 3,700
student-places). These schools would be models in implementing the new prí-
mary school curriculum, now in experimental use, which provides for new ap-
proaches in science, mathematics, social sciences and languages. In addition
to being the forerunners of the plan to reform the first six grades of the
basic education level, the facilities will be used for student-teacher prac-
tice by the ESEP primary school teacher training program (para. 2.23).
4.05      All 33 project schools wíll be co-educational with a capacity of
21,000 student-places. Thev will offer two parallel yet integrated programs:
(a) "basica regular" with an enrollment of 21,000 students and an output of
about 6,000 p.a., and (b) "basica laboral" or the work-oriented program (para.
2.16) that will function as a second shift with an enrollment of 11,000 and
an output of about 3,000 p.a. The schools will also organize non-fozinal and
work-oriented courses for about 4,000 adults annually with courses to be of-
fered under the CECAPE program (para. 2.25) mainly for skilled workers. The
project schools will provide facilities for the development of local educa--
tion leadership and in particular for the administrative and educational actí-
vities of each school nucleus (para. 2.12).



- 17 -
4.06      Initially, teachers will be provided by the existing teacher train-
ing programs. But once the ESEP teacher training program is established, this
will become the main source for the basic education teachers. By 1980, about
1,500 teachers will be needed by the project schools at a student/teacher
ratio of 24:1. The government with Unesco/USAID assistance has organized in-
service courses for the upgrading of teachers at the National Institute of
Research and Educational Development (para. 2.12). Therefore, no shortage of
qualified teachers is anticipated for the basic education level (Annex 6).
4.07      The ESEPs system (grades 10-12).  Sixteen ESEP schools will be
constructed and equipped as a first step towards integrating the former upper
secondary level and the first grade of higher education into the ESEP system.
The ESEP curriculum will integrate practical and academic courses in a compre-
hensive program. Although 40% of the school work will be devoted to academic
subjects, there will be no purely academic or practical streams (para. 2.17).
Major occupational fields would be covered by the technical training programs
in agriculture, industrial training, service occupations and teacher training.
These schools will have a total capacity of 11,500 student-places including
1,400 boarding places for the four ESEPs with agricultural programs.  The out-
put of the project ESEPs will be about 3,200 p.a., of whom about 30% are expec-
ted to continue university studies. Since the university admission of ESEP
graduates still remains unclear, during negotiations the government gave
assurances that in the new admission procedures -as specified in the forth-
coming university law- (para. 2.06), the ESEP graduates will be given oppor-
tunity for admission tqual to that given to the graduates of the traditional
system.
4.08      By 1980, the new teachers needed to staff these ESEPs would be about
600 of whom 300 would be practical-subjects teachers (teacher:student ratio of
20:1). To overcome present shortages of qualified practical-subjects teachers
and to meet the project and education reform needs, the government is organiz-
ing in-service training courses in cooperation with some universities, and
polytechnic institutes.  The university community, however, has yet to become
fully involved. This is needed not only for the training of ESEP teachers,
but for defining the admission procedures of ESEP graduates and also for aca-
demic guidance in curriculum design, teacher training and educational research.
To ensure the provision of qualified teachers for the ESEP schools, the pro-
posed project provides for speciaiísts to assist in organizing accelerated
in-service training programa to upgrade scíence and practical-subjects teach-
-          ers.  During negotiations, the government gave assurances that within six
months of the signing of the Loan Agreement, it will submit a comprehensive
plan for the recruitment, selection and training of personnel for the ESEPs
with emphasis given to in-service training for the up-grading of ESEP science,
mathematics and practical-subjects teachers.
4.09      Technical Assistance.  To assist the project institutions in intro-
ducing the new programa and the Ministry of Education in launching the first
two phases of ita education development strategy, the project would help to



- 18 -
finance 17 man-years of specialists' services (some 10 specialists) and 80
man-years of fellowships (50-60) for overseas training. During negotiations
the government provided assurances that within six months of the signing of
the Loan Agreement a detailed plan for implementation of this part of the
project will be drawn up and sent to the Bank for comment and that qualified
local counterparts would be assigned to work with the specialists who would
be appointed on terms and conditions agreeable to the Bank.
4.10      The technical assistance is summarized below (numbers in parenthe-
ses indicate man-years) and gíven in detall in Appendix 3. Thls plan takes
into account the proposed technical assistance from CIDA (part B).
A.   Specialists Services (17)
(M) Education Planning Office (EPO) (3): to assist the govern-
ment in the implementation of its education reform, particu-
larly in planning and programming, costing of the reform and
education administration; the group will be under the direc-
tion of the Director of the Planning Office;
(ii) Project Unit (3): to help design buildinga and the specifi-
cation and procurement of equipment and furniture (para. 5.04).
The group will be attached to the Director of Higher Education
of the Ministry of Education;
(iii)  ESEP Curricula Development (2):  to assist in developing and
introducing the new curricula. This specialist will also be
attached to the Director of Higher Education;
(iv) Teacher Training (3): to assist in teacher training, particu-
larly in the upgrading of science and practical-subjects
teachers. The group will be under the supervision of the
director of the teacher training department of the Ministry
of Education;
(v)  National Institute of Education Research and Development (4):
to assist in developing and introducing the new curricula for
the "Centros Basicos" with emphasis on science, mathematics
and practícal subjects. The group will be coordinated by the
Director of NIERD; and
(vi) Follow-up-Study of ESEP Graduates (2): to assist in the design
and development of a tracer system to follow-up ESEP graduates.
Such a specialist will report to the Director of the EPO and
will work closely with the Mínistry of Labor and the National
Planning Department.



- 19 -
B.   Fellowships for Graduate Studies Overseas (80):  to assist in the train-
Ing of local counterparts and in the upgrading of educators and administrators
needed for the new institutions and for implementing the reform as a whole.
The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) has negotiated with the
government the technical assistance needed for the macro-planning of the reform
(8 man years of specialist services and 20 man years of fellowships) and this
project item has been ad_usted accordingly.
Cost of the Project
4.11      The cost of the project is estimated at US$40.0 million.  The com-
ponents given in Annex 7 are summarized below:
Soles (millions)       US Dollars (millions) % of Total
Project
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    Cost
33 Lower Secondary
Schools, of which
10 will have I'ri-
mary School Facil-
ities               348.2   250.6   598.8    9.0        6.5   15.5      38.6
16 Upper Secondary
Schools or ESEPS   238.5   326.5   565.0    6.1         8.4   14.5      36.4
Technical Assistance   3.9    38.7    42.6    0.1         1.0    1.1       2.7
Contingencies
Physical             58.6    57.7   116.3    1.5        1.5    3.0       7.5
Price               120.8   108.1   228.9    3.1        2.8    5.9      14.8
TOTAL                 770.0   781.6 1,551.6   19.8       20.2   40.0    100.0
-  -a                                -  _ 



- 20 -
4.12      The estimated cost by various categories of expenditure is given
below:
% of
Soles (millions)           US Dollars (millions)       Total
Project
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total       Cost
1. Construction
Academic &
Communal
Facilities  409.9    240.7       650.6      10.6      6.2       16.8    41.9
Boarding
Facilities   17.7       10.4      28.1       0.4      0.3        0.7     1.8
Staff Housing   5.7        3.3       9.0       0.1      0.1        0.2     0.6
Site Develop-
ment          67.1      27.4      94.5       1.8      0.7        2.5     6.0
Professional
Services      42.1      4.7       46.8       1.1      0.1        1.2     3.0
Sub-Total      542.5    286.5      829.0      14.0      7.4       21.4    53.3
2.  Furniture       35.9      26.0       61.9      0.9      0.7        1.6      3.9
3.  Equipment        8.2    264.6       272.8      0.2      6.8        7.0    17.6
4. Technical
Assistance    3.9       38.7      42.6       0.1      1.0        1.1     2.7
5.  Contingencies 179.5    165.8        345.3      4.6      4.3        8.9    22.5
TOTAL              770.0    781.6   1.551.6        19.8    20.2       40.0   100.0
4.13      Construction cost estimates are derived from acceptable accommodation
schedules and present unit building costs.  The latter average US$80 per m2 for
academic facilities at lower secondary schools, US$76 for academic facilities
at higher secondary schools, US$100 for boarding facilities and US$33 for
farm buildings at higher secondary schools. Higher coste at the lower second-
ary than at ESEP schools are due mainly to the fact that the former institu-
tions are located in areas where construction is expensive (30% - 40% over
Lima cost average). These figures derive from recent similar building proj-
jects in Peru and are reasonable for the type and standard of construction
required. The Ministry of Education is increasing its staff of architects.
However, services of specialized local or foreign consultants, advisors and
additional supporting personnel will be required in order to improve designs,
bidding documents, and field supervision. Funda amounting to US$1.2 million
are included in the project.



- 21 -
4.14      Furniture and equipment costs were estimated by Peruvian authorities
and reviewed by the appraisal missíon. Detailed lists will be prepared bv the
project unit and reviewed by the Bank prior to procurement. It is expected
that most furniture will be manufactured locally and that almost all equipment
will be imported. Peruvian law forbids import of goods similar to articles
listed by the Ministry of Industry as local products.  Special permits would
have to be provided for all project items having similar specifications to
those available from local manufacturers. Hence, during negotiations, the
government gave assurances that such permits will be given and that contracts
for construction and for the procurement of equipment would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
4.15      The foreign exchange component of US$20.2 million, representing 50.0%
of total project cost, has been calculated as follows: equipment, 100% of
the c.i.f. price or 97% of the co0t at the point of installation; construction
and site development, 35%; furniture, 40%; professional services, 10%; and
technical assistance, 100%.
4.16      The project cost includes contingency allowances for.  (i) possible
price increases estimated at 5% p.a. for imported goods and services and at
7% p.a. for domestic goods and services; and (ii) unforeseen factors equal to
about 10% of the estimated costs of site development, construction, furniture
and equipment. The comparatively high contingency allowance, 22.5 % of total
project cost including contingencies and some 28% of the basic cost before
adding contingencies, is explained mainly by high cost increases for domestic
goods and services in the building industry, particularly outside Lima, ac-
cording to present trends (Annex 8).
4.17      In view of the limited resources of the governnient, in the next five
years, it is proposed that the Bank finances the foreign exchange component of
the total cost of the project and US$3.8 million of local expenditures. The
government would therefore be providing US$16.0 million (40%) of the total
cost of the project over five years. This compares with US$9.0 million p.a.
presently invested in public educatíon (Appendix 1, Table 3). The recurrent
costs generated by the project are estimated at about 1.6% of all public recur-
rent expenditures on education in 1975/76.  The government should be abl.e to
meet these recurrent costs and its share of the capital costs without over-
burdening the education budget.



- 22 -
V. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
5.01      Administration.  A project unit would be established within the
Ministry of Education to coordinate implementation of the project and provide
liaison with the Bank. The functions of the unit would include:
(a) engagement, briefing and coordination of the specialists to
be employed under the technical asaistance provisions of the
project;
(b)  briefing and coordination of the architects and review and
approval of their designs;
(c) preparation of master lists of furniture and equipment;
(d) preparation of bidding and contract documents and subse-
quent evaluation of bids;
(e)  overall supervision of construction and procurement;
(f)  preparation and administration of the fellowship program; and
(g) preparation of withdraval applications.
5.02       The project unit would include, on a full-time basís, a project
director, a project architect and a procurement officer, all appointed in con-
sultation with the Bank. The project umit would also include an accountant
and adequate supporting staff. Its establishment and the appointment of the
project unit director and the project architect would be a condition of ef-
fectivenesa of the Loan. The fellowships provided under the project would be
awarded by a fellowship committee, including the project director.
5.03      Construction.  Construction contracta would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding to pre-qualified contractors in accord-
ance with IBRD guidelines. It is expected, however, that the contracts will go
to local firma as the country has a competitive construction industry capable
of carrying out the proposed project. Suitable sites for the majority of the
project institutiona have been selected and the government has agreed that all
sites would be acquired with sufficient lead time to avoid delays in construc-
tion.
5.04      Procurement of Furniture and Equipment.  Contracts for the supply of
furniture and equipment would be avarded on the basis of international competZ-
tive bidding, except for items that cannot be grouped in packages of at least
US$25,000 would be procured in accordance with the Borrower's regular procure-
ment procedures and would not in aggregate exceed the equivalent of US$250,00d.
Domestic manufacturers would be accorded a preferential Tnargin, equal to 15%
of the c.i.f. price or the existing duty on imports, whichever is lower. Since
no interest is expected from abroad, the procurement of furniture (estimated
to cost US$1.6 million) would be nationally advertised.



- 23 -
5.05      Maíitenance.  Budget appropriations for the maintenance of education
buildings and equipment have been erratic and sometimes inadequate. During
loan negotiations, assurances were obtained that the government will make
adequate funds available and establish effective procedures for regular main-
tenance of the project schools.
5.06      Disbursement.  The proposed loan of US$24.0 míllion would be disburs-
ed to finance the estimated foreign exchange component (US$20.2 million) of
the project arnd local expenditures of US$3.8 míllion (Annex 9). It would be
disbursed to n:eet:
(a) 1002 of the c.i.f. price of directly imported instructional
equippment or the ex-factory cost of locally procured furniture
and equipment;
(b) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of technical assistance
specialists and fellowships; and
(c) 47% of the total cost of construction, site development
ano architectural fees.
The percentage of (c) above would be adjusted as necessary to spread disburse-
ment over the estimated project implementation period of about 5 years (Annex
10). If the project should cost less than estimated, any savings from the
Loan should be cancelled, unless the Bank agrees to use them to finance other
exnenses related to the project. Retroactive disbursement not exceeding
USS100,000 would be made available for expenditures incurred from September 1,
1973, to the date of signing the Agreement in respect of professional services
and other project related expenditures.
5.07      Periolic. PeevieiT of the Imtlementation of the Reformr and of the
Project.  The governvent is noii in the process of reviewing the programming
straints discussed above (para. 2.nl).  With a view to ensuring a realistic
pace of implementation of the reform and of the project (para. 2.06), during
negotiations the Bank reached agreement with the government by which periodic
reviews will be jointlv undertaken with the Bank at intervals of approximately
two years, during. which particular attention would be given to questions con-
cerning progresR in the training and sirnnly of ESEP teachers, the implementa-
tion of technical assistance and the availability of financial resources for
the project and the reforTn as a whole, as well as on the ernployment oppor-
tunities for ESEP graduates. Such reviews would take nlace throughout the
execution of the project.



- 24 -
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal matters:
(i) development of close cooperation with the universities for the pur-
pose of implementing the educational reform (paras. 2.06 and
4.07);
(ii)  establishment of a monitoring system with a view to ensur-
ing the implementation of the reform and of the project (paras.
2.06 and 5.07);
(iii) the training and supply of ESEP teachers (para. 4.08);
(iv)  the timing and conditions for the implementation of the technical
assistance component (para. 4.09);
(v) the procurement of goods and services (para. 4.14);
(vi) the acquisition of sites for the project institutions (para.
5.03); and
(vii) the allocation of funds and the establishment of regular procedures
for ,taintenance of equipment and buildings (para. 5.05).
6.02      The establishment of the project unit and the appointment of the
project unit director and the project architect would be conditions for the
effectiveness of the Loan (para. 5.02).
6.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$24.0 million equivalent to Peru for a term of 25 years including a
10 year grace period.



APPENDIX 1
Page 1
FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS OF THE EDUCATION REFORM UP TO 1980
The financial implications of the education reform in Peru are
two-fold: (i) expenditures per pupil are expected to increase at all le-
vels, and (ii) the total education budget will increase as a result of the
expansion of the reformed system, especíally the implementation of the new
ESEP program.
Recurrent Expenditures
It is estimated that the various educational policies aiming at
increasing the relevance of the Peruvian education system to the economy
will require an across-the-board increase in recurrent expenditures per pu-
píl between 1971-1975: see Table 1. In this respect, the government will
concentrate ita effort in vocational training, adult education (basic laboral),
upper-primary and secondary education. University education which í8 granted
a lower priority than other levels will be granted a 10% increase only.
Recurrent expendítures per pupil enrolled in the new ESEPs schools
will be twice as high as in the traditional schools (SI 9,680 as against
S/ 4,680) which themselves are expected to increase by 28% in the next four
years. However, the cost per ESEP graduate would not increase as much as
the ratio of dropouts would be lower. In any event, the extra $300-$400 per
student for the full ESEP course should be well compensated by increased
productivity in the labor market.  Recurrent expenditures per pupil are
expected to remain stable, between 1975 and 1980 (see Table 2).
An esttmate for education expenditures in 1980 was also made by
the mission. The purpose of this estimate ís to give an idea of education
expenditures in 1980 with and without education reform. The additional recur-
rent expenditures entailed by the education reform in 1980 can then be gauged.
In the case of upper secondary education, forecaste are made on the basis of
370,000 studente being enrolled in grades 10-12 in 1980, including 170,000
in ESEP achools.
The recurrent costa of the reform are thus estimated at 2,842
milllon Soles (US$73.4 million), or 14% above a non-reformed system. The
additional recurrent costa entailed by the ESEP program alone are SI 1,230
with (US$31.8 million), that in, 5.2% of total estimated recurrent expendítures
on education in 1980, which ie a emall % increase for bringing a modern educa-
tion curriculum to almost one-half of the school student population.
The l'eruvian government acknowledges that the education reform
cannot be carried out properly without a substantial increase ín the proví-
sion and renovation of school buildlngs.  Clearly, total capital outlays
depend heavily on the pace of implementation of the reform and, particularly,
on the pace of implementation of the ESEP program.



APPENDIX 1
Page 2
Estimates of capital expenditures on education in 1980 are pre-
sented sepatately for the ESEP schools and all other levels of education
in Table 3:
(i) As far as the ESEP program is concerned, the required in-
vestment per pupil amounts to US$1,400 in the case of new ESEPs and to
US$700 in the case of existing schools converted into ESEPs. It Is esti-
mated that about 50% of students will be enrolled in new ESEPs and 50% in
converted ESEPs. However, most existing secondary schools are too small
(300-400 students) as against the 800-1,000 students for an ESEP of optimum
size.  "Conversion" entaila improvement of facilities for existing students,
addition of specialized facilities for all students, and extension of
facilities for new students.  For most "converted" schoois, the
capital cost per student would come out to US$700 or more.
(íi) It has been assumed that capital expenditures for all levels
of education other than ESEPs will amount to 10% of recurrent expenditures
at those levels as against 3.6% in 1971. The latter precentage was used to
compute a theoretical estimate of capital expenditures in 1980 with no educa-
tion reform being implemented.
As a result, capital expenditures would amount to SI 3,530 million
in 1980 (US$91.2 million), 38% of which for the ESEP Drogram alone.
Total Expenditures
In 1980 the total additional expenditure -- capital and recurrent --
entailed by the reform would be SI 4,317 million (US$111.6). Expenditures
on the ESEP program alone would amount to SI 2,586 million (US$66.8 million),
that is, 60% of the increase.
No long-term forecasts of public expenditures and GNP are presently
available. The starting point of estimates is the 7% growth rate expected by
the Government and the economic mission for GNP during 1971-1975 period. It
has been assumed that this growth rate can be maintained until 1980. If true,
a slightly higher growth rate in total public expenditures may be expected,
given the increasing responsibilities of the public sector in the management
of the economy: as a working hypothesis, a 10% annual growth rate for the
expenditures of the public sector appears to be reasonable. According to
these estiinates, presented in Table 3, the country would devote one-fourth
of total public expenditures and 5.6% of GNP to education by 1980.
Another point ls whether there will be enough public revenue to
meet the competing claims in the public sector. It can be argued that any
forecast of total public revenue based on present trends would greatly under-
estimate the future revenue of the public sector. The government is conscious
that, íf its ambitious economic goals are to be met, the fiscal system nust
be markedlv improved.



PERU
Public Recurrent Expenditures for pupil 1971 - 1975
(Soles 1971)
1971                        1                   1975                            1
education                         Pupils-teacher   Expenditures per pupil          Pupils-teacher    Expenditures per pupil           per pupil during 1971 - 1975
ratio         Personnel      Total                ratio           Personnel      Total                  1971 = 100
Pre-primary education                   40              1776          1798                39               2009          2169                    121
Lower primary (grade 1 to 6)            35              2127          2147                37               2219          2394                    112
Upper primary (grade 7 to 9)            27              3530          3654                26               4040          4680                    128
Secondary school (grade 10 to 12)
- New regime (ESEPs)                   --               --            --                 18               7218          9678                     _
- Old regime                           25              3531          3655                26               4040          4680                    128
Higher education
- Non-university                       11              7870          8088                13               7218          9678                    120
- University
- Public                             9             15041        15041                 10              16600         16600                    110
- private                           --               --            686                --                --            759                    110
Adult basic education (laboral)
- lst and 2nd cycle                    58               907           919                48               1225          1315                    143
- 3rd cycle                            24              4213          4373                28               4040          4680                    107
Vocational training (CECAPE)            18              2414          2574                21               4040          4955                    193
Special education                       10             17276         13793                13              10420         12040                     87
Retraining                              25              7469          8619                28               7350          8525                     99
Source Ministry of Education, Planning office
H H
><
05A3 I



PERU
Public Recurrent E-penditures on Educaton 1971-1975-1980
(Enrollments in thousands)
(Expenditures per pupil in 1971 soles)
(Total expenditures in Milllons 1971 soles)
1971                                            19/5                                                                     1980
Levels of Education                       Enrollments  Expenditures         Total        Enrollments  Expenditures         Total                  Enrollments                   Total expenditures 2/         Total expenditures
per pupil   expenditures                      per pupil    expenditures  __                                                                        (without reform)4
Pre-príiary edcaticon                               60.4         1798            108.6           143.0          2169              310.2                   200.0                             433.8                        359.6
Lower primary (grade 1 to 6)                      2053.5         2147           4408.9          2430.9          2394             5819.6                 2940.0                              7038.4                     6312.2
Upper priíary (grade 7 to 9)                       341,5         3654           1247.8           475.8          4680             2226.7                  560.0                              2620.8                      2046.2
Secondary education (grade 10 to 12)
- New regime (ESEPs)                              ---           ----            ___              27.4          9678              265.2                  170.0                             1645.3                      1352.4
- Old regime                                      154 .9        3655            566.1           215.8          4680             1009.9                  200.0                              936.0
Higher education
- Non university                                   21.5         8088            173.9            25.5          9678              246.8                   30.0                              290.3                        242.6
- University
- public                                      82.8        15041           1245.4           103,5         16600             1718.1                   120.0                             1992.0                      1804.9
- private                                    (29.6)         686             20.3           (34,5)          759                26.2                  (40.0)                              30.4                        27.4
Adult basic education (laboral)
- lst and 2nd cycle                               226,3          919            208.0           367.7          1315              483.5
- 3rd cycle                                       111.2         4373            486.3           164.0          4680              767.5
Vocational training (CECAPE)                        33.8         2574             87.0            71.3          4955              353.3
Special education                                     2,9       13793             40.0             6.9         12040               83.1
Retraining                                          11.3         8619             97.4            26 8          8525               228.5                                                          3/                           3/
Other expenditures-                                   --          --             688.3             --            --              1439.0                                                    8400.0                       8400 0
Total                                                                           9378 0                                          14977.6                                                    23387.0                     20545 3
Source: 1971 and 1975, Planning office of the Ministry of Education- 1980: Bank staff project-ons.
1/  Include administrative expenditures of the Ministry of Educatin and of local education authorities, transfers to private edacation and miscellaneous.
2/  Total expenditures in 1980 have been obtained by multiplying enrollments in 1980 by expenditures-per-pupil in 1975.
3/  Basad en an extrapolation of the1971 - 75 trend.
4/  Obtained by multiplying enrollments in 1980 hy expenditures-per-pupil in 1971.
ses



PERU
Education Expenditures: 1971-1980*
(Millions Soles 1971)
80-
1971          1975       With Reform As.'    Without Reform_/
Total recurrent expenditures                         9378          14980           23387                 20545
Total capital Expenditures                             342          1360            35303/                20553/
- Excluding ESEPs schools                           342           1360            ¿174-                 2055
- ESEPs schools (50% new)                                                          9   /                  _
(50% converted)                     _              _              45k5/
Total public education expenditures                  97z0          16340           ¿6917                 ¿2600
Tota]l public expenditures                          459¿9          67o006/        108300 /              1083006/
Total public revenue                                41248             _               _                    _
GNP                                                 ¿62000        343000          48WooW/               4880o0o08/
Public expenditures on education as a percentage
of GNP                                              3.7            4.8              5.6                  4.7
Public expenditures on education as a percentage
of total public expenditures                      ¿1.1           2h.3             ¿4h9                 z0.9
*Ministry of Education                                                                                                               M H =
1/ Enrollment in grades 10-1z: 370,000 pupils, of which 170,000 are enrolled in ESEPs schools.                                   nD
7/ See Text (Appendix 1, page 1)
1/ ioi  of Total recurrent expenditures at all levels excluding ESEPs schools.                                                       H
-1/ Capital costs-per-pupil are 53,200 soles US$1,hoo in new ESEPs (Source: Bank mission). Capital costs are spread over 5 years.
5/ tapital costs-per-pupil in converted ESEPs are estimated at ¿6,6oo Soles (US$700). Capital costs are spread over 5 years.
6/ Based on a 10% annual growth rate between 1971 and 1980.
7/ Central government only.
U/ Basecd on a 7` annual growth rate between 1971 and 1980.






APPENDIX 2
Page 1
TME EDUCATION REFOR' AND ITS IMPLEMENTATION
1.        Following substantial institutional changes and significant reforms
in the agrarian, industrial and mining sectora, on March 21, 1972, the govern-
ment passed a first law, reforming the education system (Decreto Ley No.
19326). This law deals only with broad issues, but a second law, approved
on November 7, 1972, (Decreto Ley No. 19602), defines administrative and op-
erational procedures, particularly those concerning the role and responsibil-
ities of the educational regions established in the new system. In addition,
this second law gives to the Minister of Education special powers and admin-
istrative authority to reorganize and strengthen the Ministry of Educatíon,
particularly those departments (planning, supervision, teacher training)
which are critical in the implementation of the reform.
2.        The Education Development Plan (1971-1975) is now being revised
within the framework of the two education laws mentioned above. The basic
goal of the reform plan is to modernize and rationalize education and train-
tng to ensure an efficient and productive system, responsive to the socio-
economic needs of the country. The new education laws consider the education
system as an organic unit, and take into account the fact that all levels of
education programs are interrelated. Reforms in administration, curricula,
teacher training and rural education are now being implemented. At the
secondary level practical training for all students is introduced so as to
emphasize the orientation of education towards the world of work.
3.        Specifícally, the reformed education system is designed to:
(1)  provide more equal education opportunities through modified
education structure;
(ii)  establish programs and curricula oriented towards the world
of work;
(iii)  give more emphasis to non-formal education/training outside
the schools;
(iv) improve quality through teacher training and the provision
of adequate teaching/learning aids including Educational
Television (ETV);
(v)  emphasize community participation and self-education to en-
courage the self-affirmation and cultural independence of
the Peruvian nation;
(vi)  decentralize educational administration and leadership
through the establishment of nine educational regions,
33 school zones and about 950 "school nuclei." Each
"nucleus" is to consist of one central school (grades 1-9)
and some 5-10 satellite elementary schools (grades 1-6);
anLd



APPENDIX 2
Page 2
(vii) integrate practical and academic courses in an upper second-
ary school system (first cycle of higher education) called
ESEP. Although about 40% of the work will be devoted to
academic courses, there will be no purely academic or prac-
tical streams as such.
4.        Charts 2 and 3 show the present and the reformed educational struc-
tures. A comparison between them will indicate how the fragmented programs
at the secondary level will be eliminated by the creation of the ESEP sys-
tem (grades 10-12) and how the basic general education (grades 1-9) will be
organized into two parallel yet integrated programs: "basica regular" and
"basica laboral" or labor-oriented education. The non-formal training pro-
gram called CECAPE (Centro de Capacitacion Profesional Extraordinaria) is
particularly important since it offers a channel for further education/train-
ing to school leavers and adults, for semi-skilled and skilled occupations.
5.        The reformed system envisages integration of vocational education/
training with general education. At the ESEP level, vocational prograns will
be fully integrated with academic courses, hence there will be no purely voca-
tional or academic streams as such. In addition to the CECAPE program, ESEP
graduates, once employed, will have the opportunity to continue their educa-
tion by taking in-service training courses at SENATI (Servicio Nacional de
Aprendizaje y Trabajo Industrial). The SENATI program is supported by a
1-1/2% payroll levy required from industrial firms with more than 15 workers.
SENATI is under the Ministry of Labor, but its governing board responsible
for budgeting and overall policies includes a representative from the Min-
ístry of Education. Thus, integration will be achieved not only between
general education and vocational education but between formal and non-formal
education/training systems. ESEP graduates will also have direct access to
university education in all fields of study. However, the precise admission
procedures for these graduates are yet to be defined.
6.        Higher education institutions (grades 10-16 and above) will have
three cycles of education: the first is for three years, the ESEP program;
the second is for three to five years in Universities, offering courses for
Bachelor and Masters degrees; and the third of varying duration which pro-
vides for education to the doctoral level under the aegis of the Instituto
Nacional de Altos Estudios. Entry into ESEPs will be open to all students
hlo have completed the basic general education or the work-oriented program,
paragraphs 2.15 and 2.16. Less than 30% of the ESEP graduates are expected to
continue university educatíon with the remainder seeking employment. Comple-
mentary vocational training will be available at some industrial and agricul-
tural ESEPs and Polytechnic Institutes that will offer technical courses for
a fourth year of specialization.
7.        The basic issues concerning the structure of the university system,
that is, the second and third cycle of higher education have been defined by
the education laws mentioned in paragraph 1. Rowever, the government is now



APPENDIX 2
Page 3
revíewing a draft of the university statutes (Estatutos Universitarios) which
will establish policy for admission procedures (para. 5) and for operational,
administrative and curricular changes for the university system.  The pro-
posed uníversity atatutes envisaged vill define the new role of the Peruvian
uníversity system in fostering the desired changes of the system, particular-
ly in matters concerning educational and scientific research, currículum de-
velopment and teacher traíning.
8.        Adult education will receive special attention in the reformed
system. In addition to the labor-oriented training program (para. 4) adults
will have the opportunity  to participate in literacy programa and in continu-
ing education and vocational training programs organized by the National
Institute of Teleducation (NIT). It is expected that by 1975 about 100,000
adults will be participating in these programs. Further, the Ministry of
Education is organizing adult education programs in agrarian reform areas
jointly with the Ministry of Agriculture. The budget for these programs was
about US$1.4 million for 1971/72.
9.        Primary teacher training will be strengthened and its curriculum
will be revised to prepare teachers for the new Centros Basicos. Existing
normal schools will be reorganized to conform to the ESEP system. A recently
created Instituto Nacional de Investigacion y Desarrollo de la Educacion is
fostering educational research, designing school textbooks for the Centros
Basicos, and developing in-service training courses for primary and lower sec-
ondary school teachers. In 1971/72, about 15,000 teachers attended these
courses and it is expected that in 1973/74 about 40,000 teachers will parti-
cipate.
10.       Teachers for the traditional schools and for ESEPs will be trained
at the uníversity level and in some Escuelas Normales Superiores.  In 1970,
there were about 30 University Faculties of Education involved with a total
enrollment of 34,000 and an output in that year of 4,500 secondary school
teachers. Three universities are training teachers of practical subjects. In
1970, this total enrollment was 500 with an output of about 130 teachers.
In addition to the university training programs, the governnent intends to
utilize existing equipment and facilities in selected higher technical educa-
tion institutions for in-service training of ESEP teachers.
11.       Implementation of the Reform.  A preliminary timetable published
by the Ministry of Education called for a full implementation of the educa-
tion reform by 1978: later, this date was extended to 1980 (Chart 1). How-
ever, the government now realízes that better planning is needed and that
financial and staff constraints must be taken into consideration, hence a
more realistic attitude is being adopted towards the rate of implementation
of the reform plan. New targets are being discussed for full implementation
(perhaps 1990). An ESEP commission consisting of high-level universíty per-
sonnel has been appointed to examine this matter and is reviewing the whole
reform program, paying particular attention to planning and programming the
provision of IESEP teachers, and the upgrading of existing teachers.



APPENDIX 2
Page 4
12.       The transformation of the system started in January 1972, for grade
1 of basic general education (Ciclo Basico) and will extend to grade 9 by
1980-1985. The transformation of secondary education into the ESEP system
will begin by 1976 with grade 10 and will be gradually extended to grades 11
and 12 by 1977/78 and countrywide by 1985-1990. Since the existing secondary
school system will coexist with the ESEP schocli over thís whole period, the
ESEP commission, paragraph 11, is studying ways in *hich these two programs
will best interrelate.
13.       The first general law of education (para. 1) provides for measures
to redress imbalances in educational opportunity between urban and rural
areas. It does so by: (i) estabiíshing free and obligatory basic general
education for all in state schools; (ii) organizing basic (labor) education
for adolescents and adulta (over 15 years) who have dropped out from the
general education scheme; (ii)l organizing the school calendar in a flexible
way so that the education reg4ons, zones and scheol nuclei can adapt their
school timetables to the geographic and socio-economic conditions of the rural
areas; (iv) offering opportunities for extensive community involvement through
the decentralization of administration, and by the organization of non-formal
education schemes in the 950 school nuclei into which the country is going to
be divided; and (v) creating the "National Service Corps of Graduates" by
which all ESEP graduates wll be required to work for a given time on civil
works as a pre-requisite for graduation.
14.       The reform is also being implemented in private education institu-
tions. The general education law establishes government supervision and con-
trol over admission procedures and student fees. Private schools cannot
charge fees beyond those necessary to cover administratíve and maintenance
expenses. Moreover, the government is promoting the organization of private
education attached to the sugar plantation cooperatives, to be run by special
committees appointed by the people with the purpoae of further increasing
educational opportunities to all. Tnese schools will be mainly at the basic
general education level, and their budgeting and administrative arrangements
will follow those of the cooperative system. Supervision and quality control
will be carried out by the Ministry of Education.
15.       The Government has take-n a positive step towards implementing the
reform by givíng special powers to the Ministry of Education under the second
Law to enable It to reorganize and strengthen ita own admínistrative units
and programs. This reorganizatlon will affect ma4nly: (í) the Natíonal
Council of Education, whose functions are being extended to cover supervision
and overall coordination of all major departments of the Ministry; (ii) the
National Inspectorate, which is in charge of coordinating regional inspectors;
and (iii) the Education llannírf Office, which is to be strengthened by the
creation of a "General Plannting Cow;mittee" and by the appointment of several
education economísts. It willi also bring about the creation of a new Office
of Organization and System Analysís in charge of evaluarion of the Ministry
and the education system as a whole.



APPENDIX 2
Page 5
16.       Following the internal reorganization within the Ministry of Educa-
tion, the secor.d critical step in implementing the educational reform will
be the decentralization of educational administration by delegating respon-
sibílity to Regional Directors for managing, coordinating, and school pro-
gramning ín their regions.  As mentioned before, (para. 3 (vi)) the nine
regions will be divided into 3-4 zones each and the zones will organize the
school nuclei (a total of about 950). The education regions and zones are
already defined and in operation. But only a few (about 140) of the school
nuclei (or Nuclearizacion Educativa) are so far operating. The government
is now organizing in-service training courses and seminars to train the
directors of school nuclei, who are being selected from among experienced
teachers concerned to promóte rural development.
17.       The revision of the Education Development Plan (para. 2) includes
more realistic enrollment targete to be achieved by 1980. The priorities
are: (a) to transform the primary and lower secondary schools to the basic
general education scheme and (b) to convert the upper secondary level into
the ESEP system. Actual and projected enrollments, shown in Annex 2, are
summarized below:
ENROLLMENT TARGETS
Thousands of Students
Age    Actual    Projected      % Age GrouD
Group    1971         1980     1971       1980
Pre-School                (2-5)   (80.9)      (280.0)     40         45
Basic General Education  (6-14) (2,830.9)  (3,890.0)
Primary               6-11   2,401.8    3,270.0    100-       100
Lower Secondary      12-14     429.1       620.0     40         85
U2per Secondary          (15-17)   (163.6)    (370.0)
Traditional System  15-17      163.6       200.0     18         20
ESEP System          15-17       -         170.0      -         14
Higher                   (18-24)   (140.3)    (190.0)    11          13
Grand Total                 -     3,215.7    4,730.0
/1   Thio percentage includes some 20% overage students.



APPENDIX 2
Page 6
18.       During 1973-1975 about 50% uf public education investment will be
used to construct new school buildinga and to adapt old ones (by building ad-
ditional facilíties such as workshops and secence laboratories) to serve the
reformed system. About 10,000 primary, 2,300 lower secondary and 2,500 senior
secondary class-rooms will be needed to accomaodate zhe projected new enroll-
ments.  The education plan allocate4 about 32% of tre capital budget for teach-
ing/learning equípment. Part of this equipment (the equivalent of US$13.0
million) has been financed by Hungary and i3 already being installed.
19.       The government is conscious that the success of the reform will de-
pend greatly on the kind and quality of teachers that Che teacher training
institutions can produce and up-grade during the 1970s. Accordíng to the
above enrollment targets, the teachers needed by 1980 are presented in Annex
6.  The annual requirements during 1973-1980 are summarized below:
Average Annual Teacher Reguirements
Academic Subjects (Total)
Primary Education                                6,800
Lover Secondary                                  1,950
Upper Secondary                                    800
Practical SubJects (Total)
Upper Secondary                                    450
ESEP System:                                     1,300 (beginning 1976)
Agricultural ESEP                             (70)
20.       In summary, the Peru goverr21nent is engaged in planning and achleving
a radical reform in education.  It alms at modernizlng educarion/training to
ensure an efficient and productive iystem, responsive to the socio-economic
needs of the country. The reform is unique iits t scope -- coveríng all levels
of the system -- and in its potential impact on the economy, dlrecting educa-
tlon towards the world of work. An effective integration of vocational educa-
tion/training with general education 1s envisaged. Rence basic reforms in
education administration and planr&ing, curriculum deyelopment and teacher
training are being undertaken.  While the main goal of such reform is to raise
the quality of education, it would also contribute to alleviatíng shortages
of educatíon facilities.
21.       The Education Developument Plan (1971-1975) ¡s Deing reviewed and
new targets for implementíng the refor= are being aa., taking into considera-
tion a more realistic appreciation or the main constrainta facing the system,



APPENDIX 2
Page 7
namely: the financial and staff shortages and the need for strengthening the
administrative capacity of the Ministry of Education which is now well under
way. No major problems are antícipated in the implementation of the Basic
General Education Program (with a projected enrollment of 3.9 million by
1980). An ESEP coumnieion is now reviewing the planning and programming for
the integration of the practical and academic courses into the ESEP system.
The government expects that by 1980 about 170,000 of the 370,000 upper second-
ary students will be receiving a more modern education through the ESEP sys-
tem. While the traditional system will co-exist during implementation (per-
haps for 15-20 years) with the reformed system, the government ls making
efforts to extend the latter countrywide by 1985-1990.  To this effect, the
government is seeking financial and technical assistance from external sources
(Unesco, USAID, CIDA, Hungary, IBRD).
22.       Despi.te the issues and constraints discussed above, there are cer-
tain clear needs which the Bank can help meet at this stage, without taking
any unusual risk. The government's policies as set forth in the education
reform are well defined and acceptable as a basis for a project to assist the
government in the implementation of the first two phases of the reform,
through: (a) improving basic general education by financing schools with
workshops and laboratories in which more effective teaching can take place;
(b) integrating fragmented programa of vocational and general education into
a more balanced curriculum at the ESEP system; and (c) extending education
facilities to medium-size cities and rural areas in which shortages exist.
While the training and supply of ESEP teachers, and the curriculum content
for the ESEP program, need further planning and programming, an early involve-
ment of the Bank in the reform would appreciably help in its full formulation
and implementation. Additional Bank projects may also be envisaged to support
the reform as it proceeds.






APPENDIX 3
Page 1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.        The implementation of the Education Development Strategy (para. 2.03)
calls for effective efforts so that the recently introduced educational reform
measures can be extended to cover the education systea in a comprehensive
way. Mechanismas for the flow of students between the reformed levela need to
be established; the position regarding the unadapted secondary schools, has
yet to be defined; plans for teacher training (para. 4.06) have to be devel-
oped and implemented; and further steps should be taken to improve the in-
ternal efficiency of the system and to upgrade quality of instruction. More-
over, a more realistic programming and overall planning should be developed,
taking into account personnel and budgetary constraints. To these ende, the
proposed project would include the cost of 17 man-years of specialists' serv-
íce (10- experts from abroad) and 80 man-years of fellowships - overseas
training (for about 50-60 Peruvian educators and administrators). Total cost
i estimated at US$1.1 million (US$620,000 for specialists and US$480,000 for
fellowships); implementation would be over about four years. If part of the
assistance is obtained from external sources, like for example, CIDA, adjust-
mente would be made in the financing requested from the Bank.
2.        The program would consist of the following specialists and fellow-
ships (number in parantheses indicate man-years):
A.   Specialists' Services (17)
(l)  Education Planning Office (3). An education planner
(2.5) and an education economist (0.5).
(ii) Project Unit (3). An architect (2) and a specialist
ín equipment (1).
(iii) ESEP Curriculum Development (2). A vocational educa-
tion specialist (2).
(iv) Teacher Training (3). A specialist in practical-sub-
jecta teacher training (3); and a specialist in
ecience teacher training (2).
(v) National Institute of Educational Research and
Development (4). A specialist in curriculum devel-
opment for the Centros Basicos (2) and a specialiet
in ecience teacher training for lower secondary
education (2).



APPENDIX 3
Page 2
(vi)  Yollow-uP Studíes of ISEP Graduates (2).  A apecialist
ln follov-up studles (2).
B. Fellowship* for Graduate S tudies Overseas (800)
(1)  ?out specialiuts ín education pling and budget-
ing (8).
(ií)  An architect, a epecialist in seeince equipment andt
a specialiut ¡u technical educátioíi equipment (7),
(íii)  About 10-1:5 specalista in curriculum development
for ESRP (15>.
(iv)  About 15-20 secondary school dlrectors, practical
subject aId ocience teachers for teacher training
(20).
(v)  About 15-20 specialists ii lower secondary schools
(25).
(vi)  Five education planners for the follow-up 8tudies
(5).
The National Fellowship Comittee (para. 5.02) should have sore fiezhity
in the urard of these fellovahips.
3.        iThe Planning óffice (EPO) of the Ministry of Education, wtth the
asgistance of the educatión plaúner in paragraph 2 (i) would coordí»ate the
entire operation of all the pecialists financed by the proposed proje"t.
The educatIon planner 9hould aálo ásiast the felloweilp eoid ttee which will
a&múiister the program.
4.        The specialicts seldeted for the Project Unhit should be respoasible
to the Project Unit Director.  The architect would:  Mi) as8i8t in overa-l
architectural planning; (Ii) çoordinate the work of the architecto; uad (iii)
review and approve design*.  fi aquipiaent OPecIahiat would assist,  It,r
alía, in the ptepatition of Mster lista of equipment and furniture i¡¡Tn
the preparation of biddlng and contract documento, This apec±aliat vould
also help in the establishment of the equipment maintenance unit.
5.        The ESEP Curriculum  Development Group would be attached to the
Direction Gneral of Professingal Education of the Ministry of Education.
The dhief of the gt0Up would coordinate the activities of these spec$Ulists,
who vould function at the Ministry of Education and at the ESEP schoola.
The Group will heilp the goverInent and che ESEP directora to plan, de8ign
and introduce the *ew curricula. These specialists wlll also pay particular



APPENDIX 3
Page 3
attention to the needed coordination between the Ministry of Education and
other Iinistries or agencies involved in education, Darticularly in agricul-
tural education.
6.        The teacher training specialists would be attached to the Teacher
Training Department of the Ministry of Education.  The specialist in prac-
tical subjects - teacher training should have the cooperation of the tech-
nical educatiorn institutes and of the non-formal training institutions. The
science trainirig specialist will work closely with the faculties of science
of the Universities that will be involve1 in teacher training.
7.        Since the National Institute of Educational Research and Teacher
Training is already preparing and urgrading the lower secondary school teach-
ers, the specialists for the Centros Basicos should be attached to this
Institution. They will assist in curriculum developnent and in-service train-
ing prograris for tlie teachers of the Centros Basicos.
8.        The follow-up study group should be attached to the Planning Office
Of M0E but should work closely with the ESEP Education Department and with
the enterprise which are rmost likely to emplov the ESEP graduates.
9.        About 50-60 local teachers and administrators would each receive
one to two vears of training overseas at the graduate level in the fíelds
of educational planning, curriculun development, teacher training, education-
al research and adninistration.  On return they would work, under special
contracts, at ithe Ministry of Education and/or in the project institutions.
They would colLaborate closely with the specialists in planning and imple-
menting the changes envisaged in the educational svstem.
10.       The schedule for imDplerentation of the technical assistance con-
ponent is presented in the attached Table 1.



PERU
Tentative Schedule for Implemnentation of Technical Assistance
1973                 1974              1975              1976                1977              Total
Quarter             Quarter            Quarter            Quarter            Quarter          Mar-years
1   2   3   4      1   2   3   4       1  2   3   4       1  2   3   4       1   2   3   4
A.   Specialists for the:
(i)  Education Planning Office                                                                                                                  (3.0)
Education Planner                               x   x      x   x   x   x      x  x   x   x                                                 2.5
Education Economist                                                x   x                                                                   0.5
(ii)  Project Unit                                                                                                                               (3.o>
Architect                                       x   x      x   x   x   x      x  x                                                         2.0
Equipment Specialist                                       x   x   x   x                                                                   1.0
(iMi)  ESEP Curriculum Developnent Group                                                                                                          (2.0)
Education Specia.2ists                                     x   x   x   x      x  x   x   x       x  x   x   x                              2.0
(iv)  Teacher Training
Specialists in Practical Subjects                                                                                                          (3.0)
Teacher Training                               x   x     x   x   x   x       x  x   x   x       x  x                                       3.0
(v)  National Institute of Educational
Research and Development                                                                                                                  (4.0)
Specialist in Lower Secondary School
Curriculum                                                x   x   x   x      x  x   x   x                                                 2.0
Specialist in Science Teacher Training                     x   x   x   x      x  x   x   x                                                 2.0
(vi)  Follow-up Studies                                                                                                                          '2.0)
Specialist in Follow-up Studies                                                                  x  x   x   x       x   x   x   x          2.0
TOTAL                                                                                                                              -
(17-0)            '*0r 
1-~ ti
(D m



1973                1974               1975                 1976                1977              Total
Quarter             Quarter            Quarter              Quarter             Quarter           Manevrears
1   2   3   4       1   2   3   4       1   2   3   4       1   2   3   4       1   2   3   4
B.   Fellowships
Four Local Education Planners
and Economists                                    x   x       x   x   x   x                                                                        (8)
Three Staff Members of the
Project Unit                                      x   x       x   x   x   x       x   x   x   x                                                    (7)
About 10-15 Local Educators
in Curriculum Development                         x   x       x   x   x   x       x   x   x   x       x   x   x   x       x   x   x   x           (1S)
About 15 to 20 Secondary School
Directors, Teachers and
Administrators                                     x   x      x   x   x   x       x   x   x   x       x   x   x   x       x   x   x   x           (20)
About 15 to 20 Lower Secondary
School Teachers                                    x   x      x   x   x   x       x   x   x   x       x   x   x   x       x   x   x   x           (25)
Five Local Education Planners
for the Follow-up Studies                                     x   x   x   x       x   x   x   x                                                    (5)
TOTAL                                                                                                                                    (80)
September 20, 1973
e Hl 
Oqa ehJ
OQ ole
jtIS






T ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~~~ 
E~~~jE    4 ~         ~                                                                              4






PERU
Actual and Projected Enrollment in Public and Private Schools
(in '000s)
1/                  4/                         ANNUAL
ACuA 1                               - RE  1             PERCENTAGE INCREASE
Actual                   Projected 4
1965        1971           1975        1980           1965-1971         1971-1975         1975-1980
Pre-School                                       4904        80.9          190.0       280.0                 8.5            24.0                8.0
Elementary -                                 2,004.0      2,401.8        2,800.0     3,270.0                 3.0              4.0               2.5
Lower Secondary                                 246.0       429.1          500.0       620.0                 2.7              4.0               4.0
Upper Secondary                                  79.1       163.6          250.0       370,0                12.9             11.0               8.0
Higher                                           79.9       140.3          160,0       190.0                 9.8              3.4               3.5
Grand Total (all levels)                     2,458.4      3,215.7        3,900.0     4,730.0                 4.6              5.0               4.0
1/ It does not include non-formal education schemes at all levels estimated at about 430,000 in 1971.
2/ These two levels constitute the Basic Regular Education Program.,
3/ It is the ESEP school system which in the reform is called the first cycle of higher education.
/ All rounded figures.
Source:   Ministry of Education and Bank staff projections.
November 14, 1972






PERIJ
Evolution of th'. tkÚT.Ii~ty &g tGm
1960-1970
Oitpt                    Staff
Nuaber of                                                                      Adm. and
Uti±veruitios  &¡rofljnt  Entrante GradnateaV  nUtulado2"2/ j29lhia/ Service Pers.
1960                  10         30,983       5,429       n.a.             n.a.       3,.544          10259
1961                  15         34,993       7,060       n.a.             n.a.       3,432           1,385
1962                  22         40,696       8,577       n.a.             n.a.       44,614          1,751
1963                  24         46I,032      9,719       n.a.             n.a.       5,450           2,053
1964                  27         54,230       8,648       n.a.             n.a.       6,193          -4,576
1965                  28         64,541      15,766       n.a.             nea        7,125           2,803
1966                  30          73,923     17,105      2,265            4,688       8,1474          2,887
1967                  32         83,509      19,499      2,678            43,410      9,648           3,410
1968                  34         93,903      22,268      2,623            5,296       9,889           3,209
1969                  34         96,533      21,118      3,062            5,153       8,,493          6,725
1970 41               33        195,612      25,452       n.a.             n.a.      11,817           5,241
1/ Including "Bachilleres  añid "Doctores".
2/ Including professional certificatees
1/  Including professors and laboratory assistanteo
li/ Fetimates.                                                                                                          >
SoURcE: CONUP, Memoria 1969-1970 and flLreccion de Planificacion Universitaria.
December 28, 1972



PERU
1PInaity roUlment by Field Study
1960 - 1970
1960                      1965                      1-
(Total BroIllt)                 (3'Dj983)                  (64,54a1 )(1 05,' 1 2.),
(Percentags in Public
Inatitutiona)                 (89.6)                     (83.7)                     (75.0)
Solano.                           2,66M4                     3,367                      4s 5
Percentage of Total                 8.6                        5.2                        4.r
Education                         6,381                     23,730                     3L4,21-
Percentage of Total                20.6                       36.8                       32.
Humanities                       11 ,855                    22,481                     42,021
Percentage of Total                38e3                       34h8                       35. -
]tgineering and Architecture      6,303                     10,534                     1é,1&k
Percentage of Total                20.3                       16r3                       17.2
Medicine                          3,780                      4,h29                      63
Percentage of Total                12.2                        6.9
SOURCE: Yáni.stry of Education and CONUP, 1972
Deceriber 26, 1972                                                                              k



PERU
Education Expenditures 1965-1975
(Millions Soles)
Annual Growth Rate         1975  2/
1965     1966      1967      1968     1969      1970    1971          1965-1971         Projections
Total Public Expenditures                     21,232   25,198   29,530   31,925   34,469   40,136  45,929               13.7%               67,200
-  Recurrent                              16,244   19,459   23,513   24,683   25,242   28,505  32,834                12.5%
-  Capital                                 4,988    5,739    6,017    7,242    9,227   11,631  13,095                17.5%                  -
Public Expenditures on Education               5,732    7,155    7,869    7,297    8,386    9,027   9,720                9.2%               16,340
-  Recurrent                               5,371    6,964    7,746    7,228    8,216    8,752   9,378                 9.7%               14,980
-  Capital                                    361      191       123        69       170      275      342             -                  1,360 -
Private Expenditures on Education -/             570       603      869       987    1,449    1,766   1,861             22.0%                4,000
Total Education Expenditures                   6,302    7,758    8,738    8,284    9,835   10,793  11,581               10.7%               20,340
Total Education Expenditures as a
Percentage of GDP                             5.6      5.8       5.7       4.6       5.0      4.7      4.5              -                   5.6
Public Expenditures on Education
as a Percentage of Total
Public Expenditures                          27.0     28.4      26.6      22.9      24.3     22.5    21.2                                  24.3
1/ Estination based on enrollments in the private sector and expenditures for
pupil in the public sector. For 1975, extrapolation of 1967-1971 trend.
2/ In Soles 1971
3/ Ministry of Education: Hypothesis II
4/ Extrapolation of the 1967-1971 trend.



PERU
REQUIREMENTS AND SUPPLY OF PRIMARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS
IN GOVERNMENT AND PRIVATE SCHOOLS 1971-1980
Qualified Teachers 1971-1980
Actual             Target                                 2/
Levels                                              1971                1980 -                 Requirements -        Supply          Remarks
Pre-School
Enrollment                                     80,900             280,000
Pupil/Teacher ratio                                30                   31
Teachers:  total                                2,700                9,000
qualified                           1,215 (45%)          5,400 (60%)
Primary
Enrollment                                   2,401,800           3,270,000
Pupil/Teacher  ratio                                37                   37
Teachers:  total                                65,000               88,400                      61,000              72,000         11,000
qualified                           39,000 (60%)         74,200 (84%)                                                   surplus 3/
Lower Secondary
Enrollment                                    429,100              620,000
Pupil/Teacher ratio                                22                   24
Teachers:  total                               19,500               26,000                       17,500             27,000          9,500 4
qualified                          13,650 (70%)         23,000 (88%)                                                   surplus-
Upper Secondary
Enrollment                                    163,600              370,000
Pupil/Teacher ratio                                18                   20
Teachers:  total                                9,055               18,500                       17,300             13,000          4,270  4
qualified                           5,885 (65%)         14,800 (80%)                                                  shortage -
1/  All rounded figures
2/  Total requirements include epansion needs based on enrollment projections shown in Annex 2 and replacement
needs of about 4% p.a.
3/  The goverrunent is reducing and transforming into ESEPs the number of Normal Schools to reduce the surplus
of Primary School teachers.
4/  A conversion of this program is now being planned to meet the shortage in the ESEP system .
November 16, 1972



4-                           999                                        9          99-99                                                                                  íí119
.9.999991         111               9.999999                        9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  9    .                                                                   1c5-l        jJ.  
1                 1,                 99  .9     99 9 9.1           9          1, 711¡7.-.-9
9.1                         9               9199          199.         ,~.               .                                                                                                     .11
9   9   -             1                               .1í               999.9       99       ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~ 7 91 1    
9999      . *1 99999    ~~71                                                                      4 , .  99 -        .,              
íI,.991                                               9            ,í~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..9   ~~~~.1  997 99.:,9 
1~      9949                                                                                  1,     .4.                     1          999                                                                                                        9   9
9.9999999919999919   999                               .91 ~~~~~~~~~~~41*97 99 99,9                  19999.      1919--.
1-19  9999999991  999                        99999               9999          999,9           999       9999~~~~~~~~7,11                    7~ 
9    9    9.9999                       199                              9999 9'9 -99,9                                9,97999                                                                                                                  99499.
9.99  19999919  991                            9, 1              99999.9.11.91999999~~~~~~~~~---21    1 9, 911.1112,                                                                                                    299,91. 1
2   7                                                                                  27,. 1                            .7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~99991.999.9 --






PERU
First Edu.ation Project
Contingency Allo.an.e.
(in thou.and. of dolloar)
SITE DEVELOPdENT                CONSTRUCTION                       FURNITURE                    EQUIPMENT                 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES            TECHNICAL A8SISTANCE                    TOTAL
Loc-1   Foreign   Total      Locúl      Foreign     Total       Local   Foreign    Total    Local        Foreign   Totol    Local       Foreign    Total      L-ocl      Foreign    tloal       Local         9oreign       Tot.l
TOTAL PROJECT COST EXCLUDING
CONTINGENCIES                      1,733.3    708.0   2,441.3   11,195.0   6,574.9   17,769.9        928.4    672.4    1,600.8    211.4    6,836.8  7,048.2  1,089.3          121.0    1,210.3        99.0    1,001.0  1,100.0    15,256.4    15,914.1         31,170,5
X of Total                                71%       29%     100%          63%       37X       100%         58%      42%      100%         3%        97%      1007.    90%         107!       100%          9X        91%       100%
CONTINGENCIES
(a) Allowances for Probable Frite
ncreaoses
(i)  X (2 ye-r-)                     21%      18Y.      20%         21%       18 7.       20X        17%       157      16%         17.       18%      18X       18X         12%        17%         18%        12%        13%
(tí)  Amount                        364.0    127.4    491,4      2,350.9  1,183.5      3,534.4      157.8      98.3    256.1        35.9   1,246.0  1,281.9   196.1          14.5       210.6       17.8      124.1      141.9      3,122.5      2,793.8       5,916.3
(b) All--ooce fo- Uoforeo--
Fac toro
(i   X                                X10%   1 0%       10%       10%         10          1.0%       10%       10        10%       10%       10%       10%       10%         10%X       10%
(ii)  Amoun.t                       173.3     70.8    244.1      1,119.5    657.5    1,777.0         92.8      67.2    160.0       21.1    683.7      704.8    108.9         12.1       121.0                                       1,515.6      1,491.3       3,006.9
(c) Totol Contiogency All owaces
(i)  %                               31%     28%        30%       31%         28%         30%        27%       25%      26%        227%     28'X       287'      78%         22%         27%         18,       12%         13%
(ii)  Amount                        537.3    198.2    735.5      3,470.4  1,841.0    5,311.4        250.6    165.5    416.1        57.0   1,929.7  1,986.7    305.0          26.6       331.6       17.8      124.1      141.9      4,638.1      4,285.1       8,923.2
X of Total                          73.0%     27%        1007!      65.3%    34.7%        100%       60.2%    39.8%    100X         2.8X    97.2%    100%         92%          8%        100%        12.5'%    87.3%        100%
TOTAL PROJECT C00T INCLUDING
CONTINGENCIES                      2,270.6    906.2  3,176.8    14,665.4  8,415.9   23,081,3    1,179.0    837.9  2,016.9          268,4  8,766.3  9.034.9       1,394.3    147.6    1,541.9         116.8   1,125.1   1.241.9   19,894.5    20,199.2          40,093.7
/ of Total                               5.7%     2.2%      7.9%        37.6%    70.07      57.8%         2.9%     2.1%      5.0%       0.6%    21.9%    22.50         3.5%      0.3%        3.68%       0.47      2.87%      3.2X        49.6%        50.4%          100%
October 2, 1973






ANNEX 9
PERU
First Education Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(Us$ '000)
1/                          Accumulated         Undisbursed
Quarter        Disbursements        Disbursements          Balance
1                 100                   100             23,900
2                 100                   200             23,800
3                 100                   300             23,700
4                 150                   450             23,550
5                 300                   750             23,250
6                 600                1,350              22,650
7                 655                2?005              21,995
8                 785                2,790              21,210
9                 965                3,755              20,245
10               1,225                4,980              19,020
11               1,640                6,620              17,380
12               1,720                 8,340             15,660
13               2,065               10,405              13,595
14               2,380               12,785              11,215
15               2,290               15,075               8,925
16               2,170               17,245               6,755
17               2,125               19,370               4,630
18               2,090               21,460               2,540
19               1,490               22,950               1,050
20                 790               23,740                 260
21                 260               24,000
1/ Starting from date of effectiveness
October 5, 1973



YrAR,                                    1                           2                                                          4                                5                               6
IMIPLI39ENTATION SCHEDULE
QIJA;i£IVRS                    1     2      3      4       5      6      7     8       9      10    11    12        13    14       15      16        17     10       19     20        21      22    23       24
C0NSTRUCT ION
10 Lower Sec...dary .¡th PcOmary 
OcelFail¡i..e                                          *** -4$   $$5   XXX    xxx   XXX   XXX   XXX    XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX                XXX   000    0V       0V      000
23 Lowe S.---d.oy S.h.o1s                                      '4$   $$$   xxx   XXX    XXX   XXX   xxx   XXX    XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX               0Vv   VOv    0V      000
4 Upp-c S----dacy (ESEP) wjtl
Ag"-cltur-1 raa"* '*                                                                   **   ~-- t$)   XXX    XXX   XXX                 XXX      XX    XX       XXX    0V       000     000    000                         -
12 Upp-er     . íod---y (ESEP)                                                     "4       '      '      "' 4+0$   $03   xxx   xxx   XXX            XXX   XXX    m,y    YXX        x<j      V00    000    OVO        OVO
Total________________
TICONICAL ASS100ANCE
Speci.11sts                                                               6      6       18    18    24    24    18         18    15    13          9     9      6       6         3       3       3       3 
FellowcOlpS                                            3~~~~~         ~~~ ~~~~7 57  66    66    60    60    63  63    63    63  45    45    42       42        42      42      42      42a
EXPENDITURE SCHEDULE
CONSTRUCTION                                      21.4          0,04   0,04  0.39  0.70   0.90  1.00  1.10  1.40   1.60  1.90  1.90  2.07    2.02  1.87  1.37   1.20                  1.15   0.50
FURNIXTURE                                         1.6                                                                          0.10  0.15  0.20    0.25  0.20  0.20   0.15           0.15   0.10   0.10
EOOIPISNT                                          7.0                                                                    0.20  0.30  0.40  0.70    0.70  0.80  0.90   1.00            0.90   0.80   0.20   0.10
TECHNICAL AS0ISTANCX                               1.1                         O.M'  0.05   0.08  0.09  0.11  0.11   0.09  0.08  0.02  0.07    0.00  0.03  0.04   0.04                 0.03   0.03   0.03   0.03
_INALLOCATED                                        8.9                                                     0.10  0.10   0.15  0.35  0.35  0.40    0.90  0.90  0.90   1.15             1.25   1.05   0.90   0.40
MOJOECT TOTA                                      40.0          0.04   0.04  0.44  0.75   0.98  1.09  1.31  1.61.   204  2.73  2.87  3.44    3.97  3.82  3.61   3.54                   3.48   2.48   1.23    .53
1/  I.pl~metatln síarto 0t dale of effectie---..
LOEGEND
Sele-tion and app0int.ent of consultante
OSorvey of  ites
*Design and ..onstroctín document pha.e
+ Review of desig. ---d constr-tion docu-ente
$ Teodecíng of bid.
X ConstrOctío. pIase
V Goarantee phaoe
septenbel 28, 1973



PERU
SCHEDULE FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EDUCATIONAL REFORM, 1972 - 1985
Ao           First Phase                                                                                              e Second Phase  o   Third Phase
(grades1   . 1972    1973     1974     1975    1976      1977     1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983          1984     1985       (grades>
/«    2 and . d  g  Z        g       E        R        E         E       g        g        g                                            13 and
~r á--                                                                                                                                    2ove,    8
1                                                                                                                                                     4-
2 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
a-   8
_ t~~~~~_
fl,1 1B=
Sour3e. Minist,y of-Eduwt,on and
7  c~~~~~c
¡ 4 1    __                                                                                        T . ¡ si~~~~~~~~~~~4 
School grades withinc the traditional sycstem  T  I School grades wcthin the reformed sYstem
Source. Micacssry of Educascon and
Bank Staff fcndcngs, 1972.                                                                                             World iiank - 7285
E)
jD
j_






PERU: PRESENT STRUCTURE OF THE SCHOOL SYSTEM
1971
AGES  6       7      8      9      10    11    12    13    14         15     16    17    18        19     20     21     22    23       24
PRIMARY EDUCATION                SECONDARY EDUCATION          *                   HIGHER EDUCATION
FIRST CYCLE    SECOND CYCLE
SCIENCES
O MAJOR EXAMINATIONS
GENERAL
* CERTIFICATE
O DIPLOMA
* BACHELORS DEGREE                                                 HUMANITIES
UNIVERSITIES
1  2  3  4  5   6      7      8      9      10    11    12       13    14       15     160-0 -D o  17    87  1
NOMA SCHOOLS1
_    _             ~~~~INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION FOR BOYS                    
a   21            ~~~COMMERCIAL EDUCAT ne    
t}{<1 ) ~AGRICULTUR» L EDUCATION FOR BOYS
PRE-VOCTOA 
CMMERCIAL EDUCATION
G R A D ES    1  2  3  4;   5      6      7      o      9      1                                                       W0 11    12  13    14  15  16  17  18    19
Worid Bank-7283(R)  






PERU
REFORMED STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
1972
lo                               Cycles                                    0                                                       Cycles
Labor
Key                                                                                                          Polytechnic Institutes                                                                Force
Major Exarminations                                                                                                                      Technicianíci ns  --  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
*Certiftcate 
o Diploma                                                                                       ESEPs                           Colleges and Universities
Bachelor's Degree                                                                                                                                                                              c.2
DMaster's Degreepr
ProtoaeBasic Regular Education                                                                  .        _ Lo_   _r  _  L   P  iessionalsL
First                               Second             Third                      |
=Non-formal Schemes 
Source   }inis  of Education and Ap sal Mition     -  -d-n-  - 1972-World-Ban ---7-284
Basic Labor Oriented EducationE
Fírst             Second                     Third 
Gae:1         2        3        4         5        6        7        8         9            1 0      1 1       1 2        1 3      1 4       1 5       1 6      1 7        1 8      1 9
Ages:     i        i        i         i                 i        i                                i                             i        i                   i        i                  
6        7        8         9       1 0       1 1      1 2       1 3     1 4            1 5      1 6      1 7        1 8      1 9       20        21       22         23       24
<              ~~~~BASIC GENERAL EDUCATION                            *l*                                          HIGHER EDUCATION 
Upper
i              ~~~~~Primary                 p    l       Lwr             l        l      Secondary                                       University
Seonary                           ESEP
(System)
Sourcee  Ministry of Education and Appraisal Mission Findings, 1972                                                                                                                             World Bank-7284






PERU
ADMINISTRATION OF EDUCATION
1972
Higher Council
_on Education
Minster
HPermanent
Co-ordinative Council
co
~~~5o |AvisoryComittee   |
o
Co-ordinatie                       DSuperioriector          --
¡Committee
Education
- IPlanning Committee
Education¡
lanning Office
General Inspectorate                                          I  Wupervision
w          Office                                                          O-1ffice
ILegal Advisory
Secretariat                                                        Office
>                                                                         --10ffce offf.Oficicoessn
e sraio  jOfc uj_j 
stration                                                                                                      i
Directorate           irectorate    1eorate
of Basic           _ of Higher                    of Educational  -l
Education         1 l Education(ESEP)            ¡IExtension Work
Regional Directions                    |      ID
IV      I II I" ILima                              D
EJ--[   ii                                         ñv  vl \Il1vi      T
| National Institute               na lnttt                |c-
| of Research and             of Educational TV 
IEducational                                                                         IGDr
Development      II
° o                        |Peruvian                   National Institute         National Institute
University                for Sport                  of Culture
ñand Recreation
Source: Ministry of Education, 1972.                                                                World Bank -7286






PERU
EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID, 1971
Grades
17                                                               2.81   1.0
16                                                             10.2,    6.8
Male                                                              Female
University      15                                                             11.2      7.4
13                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Higher
1 3                                                           17 .4    h8 11.6                                                                      Education
12                                                          28.0          17.6
ESEP        1 1                                                       4 0              32.1
1 10                                                       50.0     É            41.5
9                                                        50.2É          mÉ         .2
Lower
Secondary       8                                                    70.0         i700
7                                                 94.-4                                 94. 3
6                                       135.5                           ....            1007.8
5                                     14440                                                    14.7. . . *T - i  4 7.8                             EBasic General
Education
Primary 31
2     11ttX:3                 195.0 
1    343.0                                                                                                                   32 T   X   _ 3323.8  l
Pre-School                3__0 ________45.9  |                                                                                                      J
400   300       200              1 00                              100              200              300              400
Worid Bank -7287






c 0    0 M  B 1 A
AMERtC
É  C  U            D  (D
Í
Tumo
A-24ffl
"¡Afl                                                                         QUIT7
.5z:
U  R A
Í             --Z
T   0
OYAEIBA
L.---d
Y                                      -2
j!A
21A
A                i            _i
e                        B IR   A         Z   1
IIvl A R  1(N i
D
A-39                             (P   O.
T
b.N
H    A
HUANUIC
p         1
Í
,_A             p---d..
c e a n
J U  N  1 N
Ib---.A
a -21
MADRE  DE  DiOS
cm                       UAPIIISO
ETROPOL
IMA
MA-3                                                (Í                     PUERTO MALDONAD(,
CAVELIC           Mh P,.h.
>                                 0
URIMAC
PERU
FIRST  EDUCATION  PROJECT                                                                                              EA-'28         7
A-g-
N 0\
EA 1 L.
AB-2 upp., w-~     (ESEM
Ed~--- "- b ... d---
D.p.,t~  b~---                                                   A R E 0 u 1 P A
to;
MOQ
M.H.
N07'E                                                                                              M0OYE16
A c A
:l N)



