. 4~                 11                _9  '  .
.,              Document of
-                 ThecWorld Ban,A
YOR OFFICIAL  SE ONLY
Report No. 6679-GU
STAFP APPRAISAL                        lRT
GVUA
LTS I SERVICES DEVELOPIN  PROJECT
Hay 29, 1987
'A
-~ ~~~~~~-
Population, Health and Nutrition Depatmtent
This doeal   as a regukte diuributiou and may be wed by repits odly in the performance of
their Ockia du i its  teps may sot odmwis b diseleW withot WAd Bank abutoriation.



: .-l
Cmrrency Unit   =  Guiea, Franc (Gt)
05$1.00      GUOt   410
a" 1      =  0US.00244
off 1 Million      U 0S 2,439
Metric Syste
January 1 - Decemer 31
AiD3     Africa Developmt Bank
MI       Association Guindeo  de Bie.tre Feailiel
(Guins" Asociation for Fmdly Velib1ng)
CV?      Centre de Fomtion Fdinine (W  omeIs Training Center)
co       CaCitd de Geation (Health Nan_gnt'Coitt*e)
C7V      C.itd Technique de Coordination
(Technical Coordinating Comittee)
DAT      Division de l'Administration et ds Finas
(Division of Administrtion and F1in e)
-P  Division d'Etudew de Pleification et Fonation
(Division of iamins, Trainig and Studies)
DS       Direction de la SSatd (Directorate of _eltb)
USC      Helth Mhnagant Comittee
IDA      rnternatioual Develquat Association
lee      Imforation, Education ad Ccanication
IMW      tnternational Mobetary Fund
iWV      International Planned Panthood Ftedation
IRAS    Inspection Rdgionale de Ia SatE et des Atfairm Sociales
(Regional Inapectorate of Health and Social Affairs)
MCI/VP   Meternal and Child Health/tFinly Planning
HIS         a n      t Info mation Syates    i              ;
fUAS     Minist6re de la Santo et db Affaires Soci ales
(Ministry of Health and Social Affairs)
NWO      No4ovenmnuental Organization
PPF      Project Proparation facility
mR       Rsdio-Tdldvision Ouindenne
SEaS     Secretariat d'Etat aux Affairms Sociales
(Secretariat of State for Social Affairs)
WlP      U.itd de Gestion du Projet (Project M1mt Unit)
UWPA     United Nations Fund for Population Actiities
UIIICEF   United Nations Children's fund
UFIIDO    United Nations Industrial Developent Organization
USAID    United States Agency for International Developmt
WHO      World Health Organizatioo



FOR OffiILAL UR ONLY -
C"Ts   ADWU =
nrr            :   Republic of guinea
wLisi.s       :   tMinitry of Isalth  nd Social Affairs (fB)
t :SR 15.1 ;,i1lion (US$19.7 million oquivalent)
-             :  8Staudrd
fte11        t      roThe project will suppattgovrznt's efforts to (i)
JAi              ,1Qdevelop planins and _mnagement capabilities within the
MM and introdce policy  nd administrative reform  to
improve the qulity and efficiency of basic bohlth        /
s_vicw,  taludig tomitly plmtng; A(i) improve -
helth care in the ragion of Middle Ogiiea; (iii)
strengthn  finacial and operational    g     t o tie
region of Mddle auinea; and (iv) develop and evaluate
cost recovry activities.
ltitgtj       :   The project will help the Government to establiah a
permanent capability for improved health sector
planing, policy imlementation and coordintion of
external asistne.  The project will als  improve the
quality and accessibility of helth and ocial -service
for about 1.3 million people in Middle Guinea. TSe
establishment of regular program of in-srvice training
ad suprvision of medical and pd   pernel
will upgrade their skills and imrove the overall
quality of services. Strengtbhing of MCO, nutrition
and helth education pgrm, including the prmotion
and extension of family plaming sorvices, should reduce
morbidity and mortality amg women and children.
This document has a estced distribution'and may be used by recipients only in the performan
of their offlcia duties Its contents may not otherwis be diclosed without World Bank authoriaton.



- ii -
Nuim          :   lecaueo this will be the tfit  k-ftianced operation ia
the helth sector In Guine, there i the risk of dela.
in ipl_tation. aoermet's comitment cod the
ca_petence of the umit set up to coordinate
Iwlinmntatiou have almbly been effectively
dmstrated by the suaceful and timely completion of
project pnaratioa. Techical mistan    and training
will help minimize the risk of delay ed unatisfactory
ixplwnmtation. This risk will be further mitigated by
the direct participation of locl authorities and
comimittlie  in projact mmngmt and implmntation.
Anoher risk in that the cost recvry progr  desi
to mbilise additioal r     _sorcs for non-lried
VperatIng Costs ay not succeed. To minidmi  this risk,
cost revery is limited to curative services including
the cost of drut, for which the populion bh
dm-ntrated a willinss to pWy ad the _mtgemt of
esursm Is being decantrmlised to develop locl
cotrol ud improve manag_nt within each facility.
annul evalustion  of coat recovey activities shold
asble _nagmet comittee  and halth authorities to
tak  timely, corrective action.



Ia1t.aJLua                                   JoL1        For          Toa
Malmet2d agAm  ontat                       FWO~US* mLli TOW
A. ntiNttIal         t      t    m
1. Strengtheig of mom Suppot fiti.           0.1 -         1.1         1.2
2. Str           of MM  techical ftntiams  0.3,            0.8          1.2
subtotal A.                               0.5            1.9        2.4
B. Develo,amt of 1mith Sector    erMtIm in Middlie 
1. Strenenn of  Ibnal kith                   0.3           0.6         0.9
2. Strghing of Baic Neulth Services    4.8                 6.6        10.4
3. Upgrading Shill. of Oegional Ilth         0.0           0.1         0.1
Personnel
4. Improving finacial         t    d Cost   0.0            0.0          0.1
Rovery
subtotal 3.                              8.2           6.3         11.5
C. Project _uasgenunt ed Administration      0.6            1.5         2.1
D. Project Prertion Advanc                   0.2           0.7         0.9
Total BDmline Costs                      6.4          10.5        16.9
phical Contingecie.                      0.6            0.9         1.l
Price Contingenies.                      3.7           0.4         4.1
TOTAL PJECT 005                          10.8         11.8        22.5
Note:  Total. my  not add up due to roedint.  kttimted project coot  re
net of taxes and duties frc, which the project would be expt.



i                              iiv
n ~ ~~~~~~~~~48                            tOWi        Te
DA                                    7.9          11.8        19.7
Gov.tint-                             2.0            -          2.0
Imficiari..                           0.8            -          o.a
Total                                10.8           11.8       22.5
Notisted Didbur"_
ms   m   nso  nml FM  rm  94
midll a
- Anual             2.2k'  3.1    5.0    4.3   2.9   1.8    0.4
-    wGlattv        2.2    5.3   10.3   14.6  17.0  19.3   19.7
Ibt ofg Ibh: D. a.
ProJect -let io   Date: Jm  30, 1993
~:  MI=D 20128 and 201
1/  includes repaymet of I advanm o Of us0.9 milion.



Table gfCotet
Credit md Projeat Smrwy  . . . ..*.   .**... . .                *     I
Definitios                  . . .              .....  
X1 0*    90009909t    9   0    S  4  , 9  *  *  1
II.  TEPPUlN   ELHAND UUU                  $207MR**..                2
A.  Populations Nslthad Nutrition Status   . . . . . .    2
S.    me thyst              ..........                          3
1. Orguiizatiom  9 4 9 9 9 0 0 9 0 9 * 9   9 n.. 9 S    3
2. Lavel .and Typ.f5ervicm o f. .S.. .. .'                 3
3.  .fwu                                               4
4. Drug Pfr cue't md Distribution ....'.. .                6
C.   elthtihimaod t . ........... ... . .                      . a
1.  cDrtr t     .eaditures  . . . . . . . . . . . ....    6
3. bxt.wul Assistance        .....         ..              8
D.  Halith Syatan PewOX *inuaoe- and Constraints   . . .        9
1. P.rforumnc.  9 .   9   *  9   9 0    * 9      * *   0   3
2. Constraints   . ... ....... . . . . . -.    9
This report is based on the findigs of an IDA ubiouaiohich visited
gauIDe in Decombr 1966. lbs aissin um composed of M. Anefor (Mission
a )  B. Sederlof (_in.o_al Analyst), D. Vaillancourt (Operatio_s
nalyst), D. Jolly (Constant, Public Nmith .asginut Specialist), C.
sywr (Caosultant, Health Edation and Cmmications Specialist)* C.
Suftan (Conltsnt, Public Nalth Specialist) and J. Wechter (Consulta
Architect).



i~~~-v 
'I~ ~ ~ ~~~V
S.   SectorPUc a   8trte    ...          ..........           10
2t *        . trtio    . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . .. . ;    12
2. Nlutrition                                            .2
3. Population   .*. . . . *.99  @940. ,            .     13
F.    DA's Role                                               13
Irl.      P ID * 913
A.  Project Objectives  .....   .  ,            -             13
Z.  Sumwy Project Desoiptio    .........                      14
C.  Detailed ProjectDincription  .                            1
1. Institutionsl Delogmt of MM    ......                 15
a.  Stregthening of Mm Suport  mtio          . .    16
b. Strengthesing of  8M  Techical  mctic. .    17
2. Dee1oi.t of ealth Sector Oprattie  ic
Middle uia                                           20
a. Strengthning of RIgioaol Health Ne_amt .    20
b. Str   thing of ami    ilth Svice   . . .    21
C.  Vprading Skills of Regional Helth
d. lmprovIg fiacial   _        t  and
coat Recovery            . . . . .4
IV.P3JUOTCOT   NDFinm               ..  ........... .              26
-              . -. P... ...                                       29
VI.   Pl m IT 1                                                    34.
VII*P.J? IENEITOD  ANO       AND          A0I*SI                   36
I        BasicData  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      '       39
2-1      Orgnizational Chart of the Ministry of Hblth
and Social Affairs                                     40



- Vii -
2-2      Orsgizatiomal Cart of the Secetariat of state
mm A In Chwr   of 8ial Affairs   .......            41
2-3      Helth XnvestssIt Budget, is--7"                       42
3-1      Vital staffing for central MBAs ubits
To BID tr.t_me undr the Project                     43
3-2      Tecdoaul Training Progrm for medical and
Perutdic'L Pe1ersoupex in Middle Gue  . . . . .    46
3-3            e f ees tor Helth Center Services
o Be Tested Utr the Project  . . ....   .           47
3-4      lutited Nate of humuption by Ienficiwiss
of elth Ceter  rug Costs and Comsequet
Pr_opo    IDA Flnacig of Drugs   .........          48
4-1     ySr     Account by Project Componet . . . . . . . .    49
4-2      Project C _oSn  by Yer . ............  *50
4-3   B reekdo   of umry hAounts   .... . . . .                81
4-4           for lstiamtl  Project costs   . . . . . . . .    82
4-6      Dotils of Inar_metal Rncurret Costs
fw Yew Six of the Project  . . . . . . . . . .      83
5-1      Projct Orgaixstion Scheme   .W....87
8-2      Sumwyof Tecbiclh Aistanc    . . . . . .               88
5-3       s7ry of FlO hips                                     89
8-4      ImpleatationSchedules                 .60
-6.   Disburant. Plan          . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    63
8-6      Esid th:timated   ofDibarnits   . . . . . . -   .    64
Selected Documents aud D%ta Availuale to the Project file   . .    66
MAPS:    IID 20128 and 20129
.



Adult Literacy-Rate     :,,,The percentage of persons age  15 and over who.
can read and write.
Chil,d Death Rate;,              a Tenmber oif deaths among children 1-4 years'-
of age per '1,000 Tchildren in the seams g
grouw in a given yearo
Crude Birth Rate         : The 'numbr of live birth. per year per ljOOO-
population in a given year.
Crude Death Rate         : The numher of deiftbo per year per -1,000
population' in a given year.-
Infant MortalitylBate    :   Tae number of death. of infants under I yewr
-       ~~of age in agiven yewrper 1,00O live births
during the saeasyear.
Life Expetotacy at Birth:    N erof years a newborn child would live if-
subject to the mortality risks prevailing for
the crass-section of population at time of
birth.
Maternal Mortality Rate       ume of deaths to wamenWm whode -due, to
pregnancy and cbiIltserS.ngcoqplicat ions in a
given year per 1,000 birth. in that year.
Morbidity               : ~The frequency of diseaem and -i llness in -a
population.
Rate of Natural Increase : Rate at which a population is increasing (or
deceasng)in a given year due to a surplus
(or a deficit) of births over deaths. rhe
rate of natural increase equals, the crude
birth rate u$puu the crude death rate.
Total fertility Rate    : The average number of children that would be
born alive to a wooma during her lifetius if
ehe were to conform,, duEtiog ber reproductive
life, to age-specific fertility rates of a 
given year.
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l



l,         -                                   '1:
,~~~~~~ -
*  ~      s'         ,. '- .
1.01     Althogb G.in. Is Well e sd  With IWV+A=t grultural,
mineral and enegrg resources, economic growth ilm ince  indepneire has beem
limited. Poor ecoomic pwor c           be       In lo    pert to
In-rpate  onomic policies ad'to weak             t  of thw econay.
Eonomic dl        t'ha ao been cosmtraine  by the rapid ate of'
populatin   wth which coutinue to outstrip the rate of   wth o the
,on__w ad of food production.
1102     As a copoooeof the abov factors,  uinea ramaiwc one of the
lea1t deelXod Wt African couotries. Social indicat#rs ae low eves by
African stendard: life expectanc at birth is under 40 year; the 6dult
litercy rate Is 20 percent; the priawy school eoroll_mt rate is 26
percet;  accs to sae  ttr ts limited to les thl 20 peret of the
po  lation; and (M  per cwita in only US$230 (x  1).
1.03     With DW ad IDA _sistane, the   nn       t in'l   iebxd en en
eXtensve progrm  to rebabilitate the eo6ny end to stimlate development.
so pro ' a'tour 'an deloent poritie  awe (i) monetary ,
includin  improvemetst in the bankig otm and xchgs rt adtetmet;
(ii) tatio f pvat setor  el             ent; (ii) strenghi  qf the
Capacity and Pe     oe' f      t           or, water supply and social
-ectors; end (iv) the increae ad divenafication of exports through
_UpenteI dmetic production.' lie onoin economic atuastment. progr  will.
introduc policy r¢ef    to increae tho-efficiecy of existing and fture
1.04     A concerted effort to duelop the contryl's human resouwces and
slow population gowth is ads  essetial for improvipg Guiea's Owth
prospects. In or4er to improve the overall helth and wellbeing of the
population, the  oot  deloped a progr  to Upove the
efficiency, availability end qulity of key balth svices, including
fmily plmiw. That progrm  which the Goverment -has asked IDA to
fince-through the proposed prject, uld focus on mr efficient sectoral
meegeeaut, a model for the improved delivey of primwy health cae,
inclug family plmang,  nd the mobiliation of additionsl financial
resourcesthrough ost recovery. It sould help over the medium and long
term to reduce mrbidity and mortality, promte fertility declines, and
increae the productivity and delopmt potential of the Guinean
population.



IL  ¶   qU&IU   L     An3 aRinow SgOT
A. bemilkatid.   a         Mit     tat,,
2.01     Bmw      . Th population of Guina -s estimated at 6. millm
in idd-19. Th  atural rate of poulation growth ts estimated at 2.7
PMrt Per _num. Coined with a not emiration lte .f 0.3 perent, th.
anu1 rato flor      t gw thisetated to be 2.4 pwret.  With a
total fertility rate of 6.0 sd a crude  irth rte of 47 pr thUm_d,
fertility Is higb and c_srablh to the averg  for SAa fria.
Mortality is als hig; the crud -doeth rate is estimatod at 20 Per
tb_umnd2  Averae populai  diuty is 24 pwr q.      ad- the -tely  rura
population io  vely distribte  throughmt tbh country. Iternal m ion
has a  odet influene on settl_mt patterns.   ilq migration t t
capital city Con,     acelated in recent yer,   peondry tan  hiv
sated as a ber      he sloed growth In tecpital to 5 perc;vt pir
saoa. T?e ag structue of the population io youthful: 46 percet ae
elow aso 16.
2.02      s ng a sldoq_ in   gation, with lare cohorts entering
prodctiv  ag,d with fertility rea_ining hig, pouatin growth will
upproech.3 prt averthe nXt tdecet, and tbe polatio  will wo,ed
10 'pllion by the twa of the ientury. This i       tothe ost
Of bm                      mt  d acntrai the giowth of pe cpita  DP.
It will b eame Anceenintly difficult for Guine to t3sob the w=rIin eo
population ito its  bor fore,,  d thls will aeratera migration
and _ualoymmt.  fforts to address population rowth will hav to focus
on improving msiaa and chld  ealth and on reducing -fertility, since
sinficant fortility declin  will not oocu til infant ed childhood
motlity has decreese s ttiay.
2.03,      "k.T  health status of the popul*tiou in Guinea is asmon
the pooret In the world. Lifo eupetalcy at birth is a low 38 yeawn.
Infant ad cild mortality rates we both hg  at 176  d 44, repectively,
aDd accomt tpr 60 percet of all death, in the country.  1tsrne mortality
is aelo high:  naly 800 out of 100,000 prsmc   result in the death of
the mothe. While helth status has be    r       over the past two,
decades, it apeer that tbh rate of i4 e;h slowed da si   tbh
second half of the 1970s, oe helth cae services beganto deteriorate.
2.04     Repiratory 4dseases3, tr_i   and burns, malwia and diarrhas
account for 514 percent of all dises" reported. Other preventable and
esily treate6le dis-ea , such as measles, tubrculois, pertussis,
polioyelitia, and tet    aelso very prevalent. Morbidity- ona
children und"   five is domiated by inlaria, qper respiratory disorder,
sad  easles, bhich togeter account fior thre quter of reported cses.
IDaccessibility to potable water ad poor sitation cau  a bigh prvalence
of parsitic and endemic disees, especially among children under the
of 5.



-3-
2.05      Nutriti. Malnutrition i         d ,  with srious implications
for susceptibility to diseae ad death, labor force productivity and
phYSical ad mtal grm*I.  While rtes vary ever tim  and acros rgion,
theY are consistetly high mog the most vulable groups -  children and
nursing mther. Survey  sug t that abot 50 pecent of the children
under five suffer frm sum  deree of minutriti n. Per capita food
availability has decreased over the pat 10 years; in 1994 it reached only
93 percent of the 1974-76 level. A lack of u rstandling of basic
autrition, traditional eating habits and food taboo that deprive pregnant
women and young children of nutritious foods also contribute to poor
nutritional status.
D. The salth Bsytes
1. frgfanigton
2.06      The Ministry of Ebalth and Social Affairs (UBAS) is responsible
for the formulation and implementation of national health policy and for
overall administration, coordination and management of the country's health
system.  It was created by decree in December 19  tbrough a merger of the
previous Ministries of RHalth and of Social Affairs. That erger was
undrLtaken to eliminate duplication of taks betwee, the two ministries,
which had seriously obotructed the eoffectiveness and efficiency of priority
healtb ervices, most particularly those for internal and dcild bealth and
family plaming, nutrition, bealth education and training. In accordance
with the new organizational structure of the MBAS, the Geverneant bas
recently integrated budgetary end staff resources of units responsible for
these priority services (pars. 2.31). Within this now structure, three
divisions are responsible for coordinating key services: primary health
care; administration and finance; and planning, training and studies. A
Socretariat of State for Social  ffairs (SlA) ha  been retained within MMS
to assume reoponsibility for social affairs, woman in deelopmet and
services for the handicapped. Regional    gt  of bhelth operations is
decentralized along the lines of Guinea's administrative structure. Four
regional inspectors of health end social affairs are responsible for
Inspection and coordination of health activities and for execution of in-
service training of staff. In each of the 36 prefectures a director of
health and social affairs is responsible for allocation and utilization of
human, physical and financial resources; plaiming and programming of
activities; supportive supervision; and monitoring and evaluation of
activities. Organization charts for MAS and SLAS are presented in Annexes
2-1 and 2-2, respectively.
2. Levels and Tines of Services
2.07      Public health services in Guinea are provided through a pyramid of
facilities comprising 2 teaching hospitals in Conakry, 4 regional hospitals,
29 prefectoral hospitals, 313 sub-prefectoral health centers and 205 village
health posts. The distribution of facilities throughout the country is
reasonably equitable. Mobile health teems are supposed to serve comunities
without fixed facilities; however, they are unable to fill this role
effectively due to a lack of adequate funding (pars. 2.18).



- 4 -
2.08      gvn whe villag  helth posts do exist, they he been
relatively isolated from the forml belth sstm duo to the preset
inability on the part of helth centers to provide adequate outreah
includin  Support end upervision of village helth workers and refrral
service  (pars. 2.25).  Thus, the first forml entry point into the public
helth syst  in the subprefectorel health cnter, which is dsigned to
provide a variety of curative ad preventive services, including maternity
and maternal and child helth sevices, limited in-patieont srvices, health
and nutrition education and outreach services. ealth problem that cannot
be reolved at the  elath enter level are referred to the prefeoctoral
hospital, designed to provide g ral medical, urgical, maternity and
dental services. The four regional and two teaching bospitals provide
tertiary care. A separate network of 15 public matemrl and child health
car centors, located priwarily in urban aresw, completes the publip health
care system.
2.09      Private sector health services are comprised of two hospitals run
by bauxite companies in the secodarwy towns of lasar and Bokd, whose
service are available to the entire population living within their
respective catchment areas. There is also one private medical clinic in
Conakry with 17 bedb and four private medical offices for outpatient
consultations, of which three are in Conakry and one in lindia. In
addition, some 6,000 traditional healors provide bealth services and several
traditional birth attendants attend deliveries in each village. Finally,
the Guineou Association for Family Wellbeing (AGREF), a recently established
affiliate of the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF),
provides information on family plaming services and distributes some non-
medical contraceptives. At present, its activities are limited largely to
Conakry.
3. t      r
2.10      Numbers and Distribution.  A total of 7,089 medical and
paramedical personnel presetly work in Guinea's public health system,
including 636 physicians, 261 pharmacists, 34 laboratory technicians, 22
dentists, 343 midwives, 2,113 nurses, 1,403 public health agents and 2,278
support staff. Overall ratios of population to health personnel are
favorable in Guinea, relative to other West African countries, for all
medical and paramedical personnel except midwives. However, their hez vy
concentration in urban areas (92 percent of physicians, 96 percent of
midwives and 78 percent of nurses) leaves rural areas, where 73 percent of
the population resides, severely disadvantaged. The technical skills of
medical and pearaedical personnel are iradequate, due to the poor quality of
basic training (paras. 2.11 - 2.13) and to the complete absence of an in-
service training program.
2.11      Basic training of physicians and pharmacists has been provided
locally at the University of Conakry since 1967. The quality of training
has been poor due to the low level of secondary education in Guinea, low
entry require ents, inadequate teaching staff and facilities, inappropriate
curricule, a relatively short training program of 5 years and excessively



large mual enrollments. Growing disatisfbation with the quality of
graduates led the Govenment in 196 to imp.. stricter entry requirements
*         anad extend training to 7 yers. It has also begu  to upgrade the quality of
teaching facilities and capabilities. Durig the period 1980-84 the medicl
school produced 564 doctor and 120 pharmacists.  ecus the number of
*         doctors and parmcists in guinea is suficiet, the Governmt
a"ropriately cut anmual intake begining in tCe sol yer 1984/65, from
99 to 20  edical studets and frm 44 to 10 pharmacy studets. Redued
output of training program, accompaied by a reallocation of existing
edical personel to rectify existing Imalances in their distribution,
would satisfy the liidtod incrmntal staffing needs murging fro, the
Government's sector developuent strateg.
2.12     The quality of paramedical traini   has also bee poor due'to low
entry requirements, an umuitable curriculus and inadequate teachi  staff
end facilities. The Government ha also taken masures to improve the
quality of paradical training, icluding the revision of curricula ad the
Imposition of stricter entry rairments. Before 1975, basic training of
state registered nurs, msidwiuve and laboratory technicians had been
provided at the Univrsity of CGakry medicl scol, but training program
for thee staff, which, wvre of poor quality, wer dicontinued in 1975 for 8
year. In 193, a ne Natioal ;chool of EOlth in  india wcastablihed
and it now provides forml trainiag for tbhe 3 categories of staff.
Coined with the reallocation of some existing staff, the shool's amnal
intake of 46 studets will satisfy the quantitative needs for thbe
categories of staff in the medium term.
2.13     Loer level pamdical staff (asistant nurs_ and public health
agents) are trained in 3 geographicaly dispersed juior nuring schools
located in Lab6, RIankn and   6rdkorA, which wer establishd in 1982;
before 1982, lower level     ecstaff wer trained In hospitals. The
absence of full tim  teahing staffs the acute shortage of teaching -
material, and the lack of course focus on sector needs compromie the
quality of this training. The Government, with WEI aistance, ha begu  to
addres these deficiencies. In keeping with Governamet policy to favor the
rehabilitation of existing facilities over the construction of nmw on,  the
G n    has cut annual intake to the lower level health schools beginning
in the school year 1986/86 from 76 to 20 students per school; this decreased
intake should satisfy projected needs for lowr level paramedical personnel
in the near and medim term.
2.14     The NIAS has recently completed an inventory of health personnel
and is redefining ideal staffing of its health facility network. Based on
the results of this work, the MBAS Human Resources Service, to be
strengthened under the proposed project, will project the staffing needs of
the MSAS, beginning in the project's first year. This will provide the
*         b4ais for determining future intake of medical and paramedical schools (para
3.06).
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-6-
4.  ru   rorement and Digtribution
2.15      Until 18  two state _mpolies unde the m  We  active in the
phamaceutical subsector. Pb de iported and distributed drugs free
of chare to health faciliti  ad sold drus to the public throlp  a
network of drug stores ina  conday tas. Its Imports were ostly brad
nme and wwr procured on the basis of direct purchae, which in many
instances elicited unnecessrily high prices. With UNIDO mistance, the-
Governmt in 1979 edbrked on an abitious iroject to establish
nigphargui, a state compay wich produced aos drug  locally and sold thm
to Ph     dn  for distribution.
2.16     Poor mnagemt of Kniphargui and               , the
miappropriation of stocks ad funds'and the perennial shortage of foreign
ecchage led to a chronic shortage of drug  in health facilities.  It also
encouged the mergen  of a prallel mrket in drugp,  hoe oupplies case
from stocok mi priated frm the public sector and illicit imports. In
1983, diversions of drugs fttmm public facilities were estimated at U$1.0
million equivalent, or 53 percet of the Governmentts drug budget. Poor
planning and iefficient   nmt in Inipbargui also led to higher prices
for local than imported drugs.
2.17     To address these problem  end mke drugs more readily available in
the sector, the Gonment io 1985 introduced reform  to stop the local
production of drug and to liit the functions and activities of
Pamui"4"Lnde to the prcurmnt and distribution of ssJential drugs for
public health facilltie.  The Gvemoent, with the assistance of The
African Developeent Bank (AtIJ), is reorganixing Pbsrmsguindesabd
strengthening its muigensut capabilities to enable it to- assume the more
limited role of only procuing ad distributing essetial drug  for public
sector facilities within the next 2-3 years. The decision to open the
pharmaceutical market to the private sector in 1985 has led to th
establishment of several private pharmacies and the creation of eight
private pharmaceutical wholesalers to supply private sector services.
Ieaures taken thus far by the Govermnt to addres the low availability
and high cost of drugs ar appropriate; however, the GovOrnmeot still needs
to refine its policies related to drug procuren t, distribution, quality
control and pricing. The Goverament's strategy on drugs is discussed in
para 2.34.
C. Health Financinw
1. Recurrent ituresi - -
2.18     Recurrent Ludfgeft for Wealth. Public financing of health sector
recurrent costs cmes from the MMA budget, a budget allocation for training
within the Ministry of Education, and local taxes at the prefectural level.
The MSAS share of the national recurrent budget suffered a slow decline from
5.9 percent in 1979 to 4.5 percent in 1983. However, it has since risen to
GNF 2,161 million (US15.2 million equivalent) or 5.6 percent. This level,
about average for countries with astandard of living comparable to that of
Guina, is not adequate to meet the recurrent financing needs of the health



-7-
sector, especially where private health care service are limited. In 1986,
the Social Affairs budget amounted to WNF 75.7 million (US$ 0.2 million
equivalent), or an additional 0.2 percent of the national recurrent budget
and, like the health budget, falls far short of meting recwurrt financing
needs. An additional GNF 60 million (US10.2 million equivalent) was
allocated to the technical Ministries responsible for training to finance
basic training for doctors and paramedicals.
2.19      Of the combined health and social affairs budgets, 48 percent is
allocated to salaries. This relatively low ratio of salaries to supplies
may appear favorable compared with those of other West African health
budgets, whose salary components range from 60 to over 80 percent. However,
it is largely reflective of very low salaries. Government economic reform
programs will raise salary levels at a time when the recurrent budget for
health is not likely to be increased. Thus, it in likely that increased
salaries will consume a greater portion of the health budget in the medium
term, leaving less for drugs, supplies and other operating costs. This will
occur at a time when funds for drugs and supplies are already inadequate to
meet the needs of the health services and their allocation has been heavily
biased towards hospitals and urban areas.
2.20      Local Government becurront fowenditures. Prefectures allocate
part of their own budgets, received from the central level, to the health
sector to finance salaries of unskilled staff and, in certain cases, to
defray other operating costs. Annual expenditure of local budgets On health
amounts to about GNF 25 million (US$0.1 million equivalent). In addition,
an estimated GW 200 million (US$ 0.5 million equivalent) of locally
collected tax revenues ("ristournes") are spent on health sector operations.
2.21      Private lxvenditagEs.  The population is participating to a rather
significant extent in the tinancing of the public health system. Cost
recovery is already implemented in hospitals in Guinea. At present most
revenues collected by hospitals through cost recovery activities are
remitted to the Treasury. The two teaching hospitals, Ignace Deen and
Donka, may retain collected funds over and above the amounts of GNF 6 and 8
million, respectively, which must be remitted to the Treasury. These
hospitals have in fact been unable to collect more than these amounts and so
have not benefitted directly from collected revenues. Two prefectoral
hospitals have been authorized to retain all funds collected, in order to
facilitate financing of their operating costs. In addition to paymebt of
hospital fees, the population also purchases drugs sold through public
pharmacies. In 1983, private expenditure on services and drugs in public
health facilities amounted to WNF 128 million (US$0.3 million equivalent) or
about GNF 22 (US$0.05 equivalent) per capita, about one fifth of per capita
public expenditure on health for that same year. While information on the
total amount of private expenditure on health is not available, it appeara
to be substantial. Data from a 1984 household budget survey in Conakry
reveal an average annual expenditure per person of GNF 2,464 (US$6), of
which 85 percent was for modern medicine.



-8-
2.
2.22     A thre     r in m nt p          hbs bo  dram up for the 1967-6
period (     2.-3). The estimated cst of the progros is OR 19,94.5
million (UU48.7 llion equivalent) or bout 7 prct of the oveall
national invetnt budget. about 90 peret of the propes would bae to
bo financed by mternm  assitane. The pIsn reflect GVWr      A. s stratop
to uprovWe coverage sa  quality of bsic halth srvices, eospially in
rurl ara, and to rebabilitate misting srvies.    Ir, It cm only be
conidered indicative ince it w_  not prepaed on the bsis of a careful
ass__mant of priorities and of the reaurrt cot implicatios of proposd
inetmets.*
3. MtervhahAlsUM
2.23     Guie did not, imtil recetly, blenit 1fromternl aidd In
heath care . IOmver, in rent Yer  ut$rnal finanin  b  been
increaintg. DecOs of curret fianial difficlties which ae likely to
Perist for sam  tim* the bulk of Govemmt capital epeadit     willb.e
to be fianced by foreig  dno  and   oew  conterar funding in thoe
invet_ uta will be limited. finanming of helth seator recurret costs by
exterli           app_ws to be Astsntil, as well. incldin  the
rviasi  of drus id       ines ad'tbe finwAntci  of salaries ud othe
orating cost of health progrm.
2.24     Duri  the period 18-W, extnal  st            to the health
sector amunted to 03*7.8 million (US31.3 Wr cpita). Among wltilateal
donors, the  orld  ealth Organiatio  (MD) proides techical assistance
ad trainin, UNICIW proge  focu on drug procurxment and im       is;
the Uted Nation Fund for Pouation Activitti  (UVlPA) uppworts faily
Planning activitiesi AM  supports INOrovements in   eatioal plannit
within UMt, iludin"  the establin_it of a    _mment normtio  sytm
ad the provision or mamt  training; ad the Iuropean DON ment Fund
supports the rehailitation of the Ignac Dea tehing hospital ed the
establishment of a children's nutrition institute in Coay. The smai
bilateral donors are: Saui Arabia, which supports tbh extension of sub-
prefectol health cters  into the Upwr uineeo; the 
Republic of Germy, which is stregtheni      m   balth cae in the
Forest Region and rehabilitating the Do   thoiwtal; and the United
States Agency for Internatioa Deelopmet (USD), which is finacing
technical asistance, medicines, vacines and other equipment to control
childhood comuicable diseases In  eritim  Guinea. A n _r of otber
docra provide training, solarshIP,  technial assistane and equipmt.
Nongovernntal orgaiation  (MO), including spital san Frontiire nd
The nternational Plannd Prthood Federation, hae recently been to
swport basic helth sevice  in the countryside.



-9-
D. Iaith  yte   erfoc   d Ctrait
2.25      The bhlth sytm is not rpin  a             tely to th  needs of
the population. While inufficient reswurce  severely constrain the
provision of satisfactory health erviceo at all levels, urban fobilities
tend to be better staffed and equipped and hence provide better servics
than their rural counterparts. The ystem is weakest at the priphery - at
the pretectoral and sub-prefectoral levels - wbre the neglect ot health
services bas been most pronound. luildings and technical equ$p.not have
dtriorated, drugs are scarce, facilities era isficiently staffed ad
poorly equipped, and medial services are limited. VAny prefectoral
hopitals, intended to serve as referral conters, are so smal Od ill-
equipped that they are only able to fulfill uom of their rexpoQsibilities.
Sub-prefectoralhealth cetersare functionally inadequate and frequently
lack electricity and adequto water supply. They are staffed by personl
whobo performanc  is bnpered by poor definition of tasks and poor
inttgration of key preventive progra, such as imounisation, educational
ad outrch actvities, and a lack of training. Poor staff performanc  is
a xacebated by a almost total lack of in-service training and technical
supervision of middle- and lower-level personnel. As a result of low
quality services, the population's confidence in the system has eroded and
se of public health servics is low, especially in rural areas, where
health center only average ame 850 visits per year. These issues are'
ecemined below.
2. Coamtuinat
2.26     1b I -ment.  Within the newly integrsted units of MEAS,
capabilities in planning and *anagement of health ector resources and
operations are very limited due to the absence of: qualified staff,
appropriate training, a management information system and a well defined
mrk progrm.  Investmnt plamning is not effectively carried out. Ratbhr,
the investmet plan consists of a listing of various, uncoordinated
intervetiom of aid donors; and Insufficient regrd is given to  urrent
cost implication  of investment or to their appropriateness visa--vis
bealth sector policy. Decision making responsibilities are too highly
centralixed, leaving local authorities with little autonomy for utilising
health resources and tailoring services in a *m8ner most appropriate to
local realities.
2.27     Financial Resources. The chronic shortage of operating funds is a
major caome of acute shortages in medical equipment, supplies of essntial
drugs, fuel and of the state of disrepair of infrastructure and vehicles.
The lock of fundb also limits needed in-ervice training and upervision
activities and the effective delivery of services. Financial constraints
are acmpounded by the iadequate management of financial resources.
Allocation of budgetary resources, for example, is not censurate with
priorities but rather is based on the previous year's budget. to addition,
there is little accountability for the use of funds. Consequently, MM  has



- 10 -
little informtion with wch to proparo ad proeet to the Ministry of
conomy and Finance realistic and justifiable anual budget requests.
2.28     medical and Parmedical Staff. The low quality of staff skills
severly comtrains the efficienc  of MM. Bsic training for doctors and
pamedical personel ha bee  so inadequate In the past that the large
mjority of existing helth personnl are not effectively qualified to carry
out their respomibilities.  The low level of technical skills of these
poeoel deteriorates even further in the abse   of ia-srvice traiing
and supervision.    rtroe  the current distribution of existing medical
and paramedical personel has a heavy urban bias, leaving rural populatiom
sevrely disadvantaged.
2.29      Dru.  The current scarcity and high cost of drugp, whi6h
seriowsly compromise the effective delivery of basic health care, are the
reoult of the inefficient sanagement and mnopolistic status of
Pharmauinde, the ambitious but unsucoessful attempt at local drug
production undertaken by Snigphargui, and the shortage of budgetary
resaource for the purchas of drugs naeded in health facilities (paras. 2.15
- 2.16). Current procr-n practices elicit unnecesar-ily high prices and
load to significat misappropriation of stocks. Until recently, policies
prohibited the development of an efficient private sector that could improve
drug sWplies.
3. Sector Policy and Stratesv
1. Ijlh
2.30     Pollv.  The Government remain  committed to a policy of primary
bhlth care, incorporating curative and preventive services, and aimed
largely at rural areas. That policy would expand coverage and improve the
quality of health services, particularly those oriented towards woome and
children, who are the most vulnerable groups. The Government is aware of
the constraints that obstruct implementation of its policy and of the need
to correct them if the sector is to contribute to the country's development
effort in an efficient and effective mnr. Moreover, as budget resources
can be expected to remain severely constrained for the foreseeable future,
successful adjustmet in the sector will depend on the Government's ability
to control growth in expenditures and make more cost effective use of
existing resources.  In order to respood to the exigencies, the Governaent
has outlined the strateU noted below.
2.31     Sector management. The MSAS has recently integrated the budget
ad  _mawr resources for units in charge of priority health programs and
services within its newly organized structure. Administrative units
responsible for maternal and child health/family planning (MCH/FP),
nutrition, training and health education are now under the full control of
the Minister of Health and Social Affairs. The Government recognizes that
what rem ins crucial for sector development is the upgrading of skills of
MBk8 staff in planning and program development, and in mnitoring and
evaluation. It is undertaking to improve these capabilities through the
development of technical and mnaerial in-service training program and the



- 11 -
establishent of a  _nagmt informtion  stm, all of which will be
etended to regional and local staff to facilitate the  ovenmt's
decetralization policy in the halth sector.  Under this policy, regionl
and prefectoral bealth authorities will be give more autonom  to able
th_ to carry out their responibilities more effectively and efficiently
(par. 2.06). Greater cunity participation in the financing and
maament of srvice  will be sout through the creation of1 belth
man_gemet  comittees (Pra. 3.18) for each levl of service.  ncreased--
coordination of aid will be encouraged throug  anna metinge with major
donor in the setor, based on comonly understood sector policies and on
coherent investment program.
2.32     Cgot Rryg.  In recognition of the necesity of mobili;ing
additional financing for health sector operations, the Government inteds  to
elaborate a cohereat policy of cost recovery and to improve and extend cost
re overy activities to all levels of services. The MBMS has drum up
several cost recovery schemes for initiating coast recovery activities at thn
health center level end for strengthbning cost recovery activities at tvw,
hospital level. These scheme will be tested and evaluated in the next few
years in various part of the country, uwder a number of projects, including
the proposed IDA project, with a view to their eventual extension
nationwide.
2.33     Staff Deve}loamet. The Governsent will establish regular Prograe
of in-service training for all categories of health personel and develop a
"stem of supervision to provide technical support and guidance to field
staft.  To inprove the quality of basic training, the entry requirmnts for
medical and ursing schools have been raised, the syllabus updated and the
annual in-take curtailed. The Government will undertake an ongoing review
of the adequacy of intake in these schools to ensure that future graduates
can be easily absorbed in the bealth system. The Governmnt also env
selective specialized training abroad for medical doctors to Improve the
qwality of referral services.  It bas druen up program  for technical in-
service training of medical and paramdical personnel, which it also intends
to test and evaluate under the proposed project and eventually implinet
countrywide. The Goverment has just completed an inventory of its health
sector personnel and intende to elaborate and implement during the first
year of the proposed project a program of staff redeployment to achieve a
more equitable geographical distribution of staff (para. 3.06).
2.34     Essential Drug.  In an effort to lower costs and increase the
availability of essential drugs, the Governaent has adopted an essential
drugs policy and has drawn up a list of esential drugs and a national
formulary to educate drug prescribers in the use of essential drugs. . It is
also plaming activities to inform the population at large about essential
drugs and has scheduled the first of a series of training program for
health personnel in September 1987. To enwure rational procure ent and
efficient distribution of essential drug in the public health system, the
role of Pharmaguin6e has been limited to the procurement and distribution of
essential drugs for the public health system. AfDB-financed studies on the
financial and organizational restructuring of Phl nrmagun6e and the



12 -
strengtbhning of its management t cabilties, incluitg the introduction of
appropr-ate procureMent, stock        t and inventory cotrol practice
have been completed. In 1985 the GNM t itrodcd reforms to stop the
local production of drus by biiphagul; and is currently revieing the
potential role of Enipborgui. The AtDD-financed studies Include proposals
to privatize the compay. Private pham} acts are being licensed to import
and sell drug to the public (para. 2.36). which is expected to- improve the
supply and availability of drugs in Cosaky ad in secondary tUwns. Once
the Governmt has improved its   n      t  capabilities in the drug sector,
it will addres more complicated issues uh     the setting up of a drug
quality control laboratory and the deelopmet of a aore refind pricing
systm for the private setor. During neotiations, the results of the AfDB
studie  were discused and Gvernment agreed to submit to the Asociation
for its review and agr    t by March 31, 1988 a national drug policy and a
plan of action for its implementation. To asist the Goverumt in furthe
delopig and implementing its national drug poli¢, the appropriatenes of
the policy and Goverment progress in its  mplemetion will be reviewed
annally by the Asciation under the proposd project (par. 3.07).
2.35     Private health srvices. As part of its overall policy to
liberalie all sectors of the economy, the Goverment is encouragn  private
Initiatives in health care by gramting private physicians and    Cit
licess_  to set up clinics and pharmacies.  It ha also athorized eight
wholesale pharmaceutical companies to iwport drugs to be retailed by  private
pharmacists licensd to operate drug stores.
2. Nhurition
2.36     While the Governmt acowledges thet mLantrition is a major
helth problem in Guinea, data On the extent and prevale  of nutritional
deficiencies in the coutry have not bee collected syteatically, and the
problem of mlutrition and its deterniants is not well undetood. Thi
contributes to the absn   of any policy or coberent national program to
improve nutritional status. Some inforxtion will become available from a
household survey to be supported by France and a nutrition study to be
undertaken with USAID assistance, both of which will be implemented within
the next year. The proposed project will enable the Govermnent to Improve
further its knowledge about the degree and extent of malnutrition through
the undertaking of nutrition surveys and through the introduction of a
nutrition surveillance program to be carried out by urban and rural bealth
centers (pare. 3.26). It intends to improve nutritional status through its
primary health care program by providing nutrition education to women and
the community at large at health facilities as well a through outresch
progran.  The Government's progrm to encourage greater participation of
woen In economic and social activities through its network of women's
training centers (par 3.25) will place emphsis an improving women's
knowledge of basic nutrition and will strengthen food production and other
income genoerting activities that will give women the means to put acquired
nutrition education into practice.



- 13 -
3. muation
2.37     lntil 1984, Guinea had a pronstalist approach to population
*     -     issue, baed an the view that Guina has bundat natural resources that
reuiro a lager populatioe to exploit thl. Hower, this peception bao
undergonea gradual chang        national economic and finacial difficulties
bve deepened. The Govrnmt to today concened at st the effects of
population trowth on developmet and about the poristance of high rates of
infant, childhood ad maternal mortality in the country. The Government
emphsizes each citizen's right to detemin   fmily size and to have accoe
to family plaming srvices both for child spacing and for reducing
childhood and aternal mortality and morbidity. The Government is
particularly ccmitted to lowring currently high rates of childhood and
mteaal mortality which it identifies a  a major obstacle to its efforts to
encourage WidespreAN  ume of modern tchniques of birth reglation.  The
Government also supports public, private and MMO program to raise the
econmic and social wellbeing of women, which would promote safe motherhood
and improved family wellbeing.
F. IPA   Wole
2.38     As a part of its structural adstmet intervention, IDA
emphaizes the elaboration of a viable public investmnt progrm which
place priority on the rehabilitation and renovation of existing
infrastructure, and impRovmns  in public sector managemet and
peroce. oD strA         y in the helth sector aim  at iwproving the
quality, availability and efficieny of basic health and family planning
sevices through Improved management capabilities, upgrading of technical
skills and mobilization of additional resources for health. The proposed
project, which will be the first IDA-financed project in the health sector
in Guine,  will support this strategy as follows. First, it will help the
Goverint refine and implement a coherent sector strategy which emphasizes
improvements in the effectiveness and efficiency of health sector operations
and the upgrading of priority services and their eventual extension
countrywide. Second$ it will maiet the Government in mobilizing additional
resources for health through improved cost recovery at the hospital level
and the introduction of cost recovery at the health center level. Third,
project assistance aimed at the promotion and extension of family planning
services will initiate eassures to reduce population growth, which is
essential for improving overall economic development. Fourth, it will
encourage aid coordination and more rational investment planning in the
sector.
CHRAPTR III. THE PROJECT
A.  ProJect Ob3ectives
3.01     The project will support Government's efforts to (i) develop
planning and management capabilities within the MBAS and introduce policy
and administrative reform to improve the quality and efficiency of basic



- 14 -
elths orviess; (ii) improve basic health oae in the region of Niddi"
guinea; (iii) strengthen finacial and optiomal management in the ritgion
of Middle Guinea; and (iv) delop ed ealuate coat recovey activities.
I.   S,r   ProJt Dscintion
3.02     TMe project will sumort the follown:
1.  InstItutioMal Develomt of MA
a.  Strenthemin  of  M   uneort Futign
Stregthening the orgaixation of MU and MS planing and
umna-amant capabilities through the provision of technical,
asintance, trainisg, equipment, vebicles and  aterials, and
finaning of incrnental operating costs.
b.  Strengthening of MUS Teical b4     qZtio
Strengthening of central units in MM responsible for priority
helth progr   end sevices, including in-service training,
MG/FP, nutrition and helth education,, through the provision of
techical mistance, training, equipumt, vebiclles sd material
and support of incruntal operating cost.
2.  Develogment of Ibelth Sector O   tli in  Middle i
a.  Stren tbenin of seionl NJam  Mmnm        t
Strengtheing of the financial and _magerial capabilities of
regial and prefectoral staff and the establishment of local
helth ca_ittee  through the provision of fellowships, training,
eupMeet, vehicles and funding of        ntal opeting costs.
b.  Stngthe=ni   of Basic Ebith Services
Improving the quality and efficiec  of esential basic health
services through the rehabilitation and reequipuent of local level
facilities, the provision of technical assistance, training,
equipment, vehicles, drugs and material, and the financing of
incr ental operating costs.
c.  UItradinf Skills of Hlealth Personnel
Implementation of technical and managerial training prograss for
regional and field staff of all levels through the provision of
fellowships, training of trainers, technical assistance and
vehicles and the funding of incremental operating costs.



- 15 -
d.   urovi  Financial ManateMent and Cost Recove-
Implentation, evaluation and refinment of cost recovery schms
to be undertakenAin prefectoral hospitals, and in urban and rural
health centers and improving the planning and managemnt of looal
*          ~         financial resources through the provision of equipment, training
and technical amsistance, and through the fiacing of studios and
increental operating costs.
C. Detailed ProJect DescriDtion
1.  Institutional Develoxent of Central MSAS
3.03      The proJect will strengthen, within the new organizational'
structure of the fMAS, divisions whose operations are crucial to the
effective delivery of basic health care. Staffing for each of these newly
reorganized units was 4dentified during project preparation and is presented
in b     1=1.  The MSAS has alreOady established and appointed the heads of
these newly integrated units. Details of project assistance for
institutional development of these units are described below. In order to
ensure timely start-up of project activities aimed at strengthening these
unit., vital staffing of all, of the newly reorganized units to be
strengthened under the project would be a conditiop-of project
effectiveness. Moreover, the Government agreed during negotiations to
consult with the Association before making organizational changes in MSAS.
3.04     tn order to improve coordination aong MSAS units as they begin to
develop their work programs and improve the quolity and efficiency of their
operations, the Government has set up a Technical Coordinating Comittee
(CTC) On program coordination. The CTC is chaired by the Director of
Cabinet and its members include the Inspector General for Health, the four
Directors of Health, Social Affairs, Administration and Finance, and
Planning, Studies and Training, Regional Inspectors of Health and Social
Affairs, as well as the heads of priority services. The CTC meets quarterly
to review current progrms and coordinate the implementation of MBAS
projects and develop strategies for future projects and programs.. During
negotiations the Government agreed that it would maintain the CTC at least
throughout the life of the project.
a.   Strenstthenint of MAS Sunport Functions (7% of total base costs)
Plannins -
3.05      Financial and Orsrational PlanninL  The weak financial and
operational planning in MBAS (pares. 2.26 and 2.27) is due in large part to
the lack of appropriate training and to the lack of a satisfactory
t   Management Information System (MIS). AfDB assistance, being provided in
1987, is aimed at establishing an MIS and improving operational planning.
The proposed project will assess the adequacy of improvements achieved



- 16 -
with AiDB assistance end complemt thus by streWtheing capsbilities in
investamt planning and aid coordination. The project will support,
particularly in its firat yea, the establishment of a system for the
eratin of a rational, affordabJi and justifiable three-year rolling
helth investmnt plan for the health sector.  This will reqire that
potential investents in the health sector be oeluated oan the bais of
their responsiveness to sctor priorities and on the basis of their
affordability.  This proces  will be imtrumental in achieving improved aid
coordination. To these ends, the project will provide seven monthe Of
technical assistance, two fellowships In bhelth plaming and mnagemt,
office equipmt and materiala and recurrent costs such as office supplies.
3.06      Staff DevelogMt Plami.  The project will strengthen the nuly
created Hvue Resources Service responible for the ongoing invetory and
evaluation of peromel.  It will support the analysi of the results of the
re tly completed personnel inventory, and, ubs tly, the elo6oration
and impl emntation of a program of staff redeplo yet within  MS in the
project's first year. Such a progrm will address staffing requirements of
the newly reorgnized structure of MMA8; it will also call for incresemd
deployment of staff to rural areas in an effort to rectify current
inequities in distribution of medical and paramedical personnel as well as
to satisfy staffing require_ents for implementing deemntralization
obJectives within the health sector. During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government that it will evaluate its progrm of edical and
paramedical staff deployment, including awonul staffing objectives and
progreas in achieving them, and prepare and submit to the Association for
its review and approval no later then Septeber 30 of each year, a revised
progra of staff deployment baod On the previous year's experience.  In
addition, the Human Resources Service in collaboration with the Planning,
Studies and Training Division, will, as an ongoing activity, project
staffing needs to determine future intake of medical and paramedical
schools.  In support of the  objectives, the project will provide 8 mnthe
of technical assistance, training of divisional staff in manpower planning,
furniture, equipment and materials and will finance incremental operating
costs.
3.07      To ensure that the improved quality of investment planning will be
maintained, agreement was reached with the Government during negotiations
that it will review with the Association by Septseber 30 of each year (i)
all investment expenditures ade in the health sector in the previous year
and those proposed for the coming three years, as part of the rolling public
investment program, with particular attention being given to recurrent cost
implications; (ii) the allocation of the recurrent budget; and (iii) the
appropriateness of drug policy and Government progress in its
implaientation. During negotiations, agreement was also reached that the
Government will organize by November 30 of each yer meetings of all aid
agencies participating in the financing of health sector activities in
Guinea to ensure that the Government, the Association and all other donors
coordinate their efforts around a comonly understood sectoral policy and
that the recurrent cost implications of health sector investments are
addressed.



- 17 -
lanagemet ad Administration
3.08      The project will anoint the Division of Administration and Finance
(DAY) to develop its capabilities in budgeting and in the anagement of
financial resources. It will support improvements in the system of budgeting
and work program preparation. It will also assist in the establishment of a
financial accounting system that will permit the management and control of
financial resources going into the health sector and that will facilitate
decentralization of financial management responsibilities. The project will
provide 8 montho of technical assistance, two fellowships in financial
management and administration and tinance, and training in financial
accounting and management, including the use of micro-computers. It will
also finance office equipment and materials and incremental operating costs
associated with the impleoentation of improved financial manageent. In
support of the Government's comitment to mobilize additional resoqrces for
health through improved and expanded cost recovery (parm. 2.32), the project
will provide 8 months of technical assistance to help the DAF to manage and
evaluate cost recovery experiences and eventually elaborate a cost recovery
policy to be applied nationwide. Under the project's regional component,
cost recovery will be tested in the region of Middle Guinea (paras. 3.30 -
3.34).
3.09      The project will also support improvement in the management and
in the coverage of aiAtenance services and will amist the MSAS in the
design and implementation of a preventive maintenance system. The project
will finance 18 months of technical assistance three fellowships in the
management of maintenance services and in the maintenance of specialized
technical equipment and training.  It will also finance minor renovation of
the central maintenance workshop and needed equipment, tools, materials,
vehicles and incremental operating costs. The project will strengthen
mintenance activities at the local level under its regional component
(para. 3.21).
b.   Strengthening of MSAS Technical Functions (7% of total base costs)
Training and Research Service
3.10      Technical Trainin .  The Government has established a draft
program for regular inservice training which aims at improving service
delivery skills, including MCH/FP, imiunization, oral rehydration therapy,
detection and treatment of malnutrition, control of infectious and parasitic
disease, prescription of essential drugs and outreach activities. The
project will assist the newly created training and research service to
institutionalize these programs and to prepare for their eventual extension
nationwide. The project will also support the development of teaching
materials, including training modules, reference manuals and evaluation
techniques. To these ends, the project will provide nine months of
technical assistance, training, furniture, equipment, vehicles, resource
materials, logistical support, incremental salaries and other incremental
operating costs necessary to carry out and evaluate its programs. The
content and approach of the training and supervision program will be
refined in light of implementation experience acquired in the region of



- 18 -
Middle Guinea (para. 3.29) and in light of needs identified in other
regions.
3.11      M_naemt Trainig.  The   ormet, with the assistance of the
AfDD, is undertaking the elaboration and implemntation of a am aa nt
training progrm which will include overeas, local and on-the-job training
in financial and operational managemento plming, accounting, statistics
and computer science for central-lel staff. Swaer, once ISMA  staff have
been fully redeployed to accindate the newly reorganized structure,
additional needs in management training are likely to emerge at all levels
of service. An aunt of US$300,000 equivalent ha beeo set aside under the
proJect to finance anagement training needs which will be identified during
the course of project impleometation and tv not covered by AiDS assistance
(parm. 3.06). During negotiations, agreement WaS reached that the
Government will evaluate annual technical and  anagment in-service training
activities undertaken during the previous year and furnish to the
Agsociation, by September 30 of each year, for its review and approval,
revised plans based on the evaluation for that training.
Maternal ad Chld Heath and Family ElMigg   ices (M_ /VP)
3.12      The MNC/FP service is responsible for ensuring proper execution of
MCI/FP policy, for planning and management of operations and for training
and supervision of MCI/VP staff, including village-level traditional birth
attendants. The proJect will strengthen the MC/VFP service to enable it to
anage and carry out its responsibilities more efficiently, particularly
those for family planning, which arm relatively new. The project will
improve management and evaluation capabilities within the MCI/FP service. In
particular, it will assist the MC/VFP service in supervising and evaluating
MCI/FP activities to be implemented under the project's regional component
(paras. 3.22-3.25) with a view to their refinement and eventual extension
nationwide. The project will provide equipment, vehicles, materials and
logistical support end finance other incremental operating costs which wre
necessary for it to manage and implement its work program. Five physicians
and five midwives are being trained overseas in family planning techniques
with external assistance. The project will complement those fellowships by
financing the short-ter training of 12 health center midwives in family
planning techniques. They will, in turn, train under the project other
MC/VFP staff, including hospital and health center nurses and traditional
birth attendants.
3.13      The Guinean Association for Family Wellbeing (AGDIF) undertakes
the promotion of family health, with particular emphasis on family planning
(para. 2.09). The project will, as a complement to USAID assistance,
support AGBEF's efforts to sensitize the population about the availability
and benefits of family planning services and to create a distribution
network for non-medical contraceptives. That network will be based on a
network of women's training centers (para. 3.25). The project will renovate
and equip an air-conditioned warehouse for AGVEF for stocking contraceptives
and other medical supplies. The assistance will be a Government grant to
AGDEF. Disbursement of funds for AGBEF activities are conditional upon the
Association's approval of an agreement between MBAS and AGB8F on the terms



- 19 -
ad conditions of the grant, which inter alia would ensure that AGF would
continue to use the goods acquired under the project exclsively for its
family health and wellbeing activities, including fmily planing, during
and after the project and which would reqire the anul adit of AGBIF
accounts (para. 5.14).
3.14 To support MCH/FP aime, the project will strengthen the newly
established division for women in development within 8BM to develop and
implement its program of activities. That division coordinates women's
development activities such s literacy program and support of women's
cooperatives. The project will provide two months of technical assistance,
training equipment and material and will finance incremental qperating costs
to assure the proper planning, manageeant, implementation and supervision of
activities in support of women's development. It will finance short term (3
aonths) training for one person each in social work and in financial.
management to strengthen capabilities in the development of women's
cooperatives.
Nutrition
3.15       The project will assist MSAS in carrying out its proposed
nutrition activities (para. 2.36) by strengthening the new nutrition service
and assisting it in the establishment of a nutrition surveillance system and
in improving the reporting and analysis of nutrition statistics. It will
finance office equipment, a vehicle, resource xaterials and the cost of two
surveys on food tecbnology and nutritional statu to help strengthen the
capacity to collect, process and analyze data as well as to supervise and
evaluate ongoing activities. The project will also finance two study trips
to Senegal and to Rwanda/Burundi, whose successful nutrition surveillance
and recuperation activities could be adapted to the Guinean context.
Nutrition will constitute an important element of the health education
program to be developed with project agsistance (para. 3.16).
Health Education
3.16      The project will strengthen the health education service to enable
it to implement a well structured health education program, which was elab-
orated during project preparation. With project assistance, important
primary health care thems as well as mssages On AIDS prevention, will be
commnicated to target groups through the radio, television and press
networks in Guinea, as well as through other comunity communications
channels within the health, education, agriculture, women's and rural
development sectors. Film, radio and television progra s and slide shows
will be produced, and posters and literature on health will be prepared and
disseminated widely. Field research, testing of mesosages, and systematic
feedback from field staff will help improve the focus of the health
education messages. The project will provide 19 months of technical
assistance, three fellowships, and inhouse training in management,
curriculum development, training, production and comunity health. It will
also sup- port the development of outreach activities through the training
of health workers, teachers and other social workers at the peripheral level
in inter-personal coumnmication skills.  The services of Radio-T616vision



- 20 -
Guindene (RN) will be sougt to mist In the production of radio and
adio-visual program  for the health education orwvice.  The helth
education srvice within MBAS will be provided with equipmt and mterials
to give it a limited cacity to produce origial mtorial end to analyze
social scienc  data. The project will also finae incrmntal recurrent
costs for supplies and logistical support.
2.  Develoment of Heltb Sctor ODeratios In Middle   ia
3.17      In   pport of the Govern mt's policy for developing prilry
health care and preventive medicine in rural areas, the project will improve
the efficiency, effectivenos and coverage of priority program and
services, in five prefecture. in the region of Middle Guinea. Project
amistance will focus on (i) strengthening of regional health management in
upport of decentralization; (ii) strengthening of basic bealth services,
particularly bErnFP, nutrition and the development of outreach program,
including health education and commuity activities; (iii) upgrading of the
skills of regional bealth personnel; and (iv) mobilization and management of
financial resources for health. This component will focus on five of ten
prefectures in the region of Middle Guinea, including the regional capital
of Lsb6 and the four contiguous prefecture of Dalaba, LJlot.a, Pita and
Tougud. Within each of these prefectures, 2-3 subprefectures will also
benefit fho proJect assistance.  Thes prefectures were chosen for project
assistance because they have an important concentration of population of
about 1 million people. Furthermore. their contiguity and relatively easy
accesoibility to Conakry will facilitate implemotation of a first
operation, the rationale being to extend the experience gained under a
successful first project to more difficult areas under subsequent projects.
a.   Strenbthening of Readonel Health Maaement (5 iercent of total
3.18      The MBAS will initiate and test health sector decentralization in
the Region of Middle Guinea. The project will support institutional
development of the Regional Inspectorate of Health and Social Affairs
(IR88s) to enable it to assue newly acquired management responsibilities
effectively. The regional inspector of health will be responsible for
inspection and control of health operations. The prefectoral directors of
health will assume greater responsibility for management of human, physical
and financial resources (although payment of salaries will remain the
responsibility of the Ministry of Economy and Finance); planning and
pragramaing; supervision; and monitoring and evaluation. Health Management
Comittees (CGs) made up of comunity representatives will be set up to
manage resources and participate in progrem development within each
facility. The CG will have primary responsibility for financial control and
monitoring and controlling financial resources collected through cost
recovery. In collaboration with the prefectoral director of health and
health center chief, it will review monthly financial reports, monitor
expenditures and define financing needs. Incremental staff needs for the
newly decentralized magement responsibilities have been filled.



- 21-
The project will provide training to the regional.inspector of helth, the
prefectoral directors of bhlth and hospital directors in the five
prefecturs  to be assisted under the project and the cbiefs of the 17 helth
centers to be renovated under the project. Training will focus on the
devlopmnt of skills in angem ent, planning, accoutintg, stock inventory,
drug supply managemet, training and upervision of steff, monitoring and
evaluation.  Training in the mt of finanial resources will be
extended as wall to the heads of OG0. Four felloships in bhalth services
uansgemDt will be provided to regional smnagers. CI. for the 17 health
centers to be rehabilitated under the project will be established in August
1987 when national staff will meet in Lobe with regional authorities to
elaborate organizational arra ngemets for implementation of the regional
cc ponent. The project wIll also finane the renovation and extension of
[IBAS offices in Labe and provide office, technical equipment, a vehicle and
fuel to enable it to carry out its awly assigned functions.
b.  StnreMatin  of Baic telto  Srvices (64 REM&agt of al
3.19     The focus of this compoent is on local level health facilities,
prefectoral hospitals and health center which sbould provide bastc bealth
care services including outreach activities.  These facilities represent ths
most cost effective vehicle for providing e ssetial services to the gratest
nuober of boneficiaries in urban and rural area. The project will
reovate these facilities, as docribed imediately below, and will
strengthen priority services to be delivered by these facilities, including
MOIVVP, nutrition, health education and outreach (pare. 3.22 - 3.28).
3.20     The project will upgrade 6 prefectoral bospitals, 6 urban health
centero and 12 rural bealth centers. Buildings for each of these facilities
will be renovated or rwonstructed; in the case of the-rural health centwer,
the population will contribute about 30 percent to the cost of civil works
in money, labor and in local materials.        ,  drugs, materials and
financing of incremntal operating costs for supplies, fuel and other
logistical support will be provided. To strengthen outreach and supervision
activities, the project will provide vehicles for hospitals, otorcycles for
health centers and 2-way radio equipment to facilitate coomunication between
the hospital and health centers.
3.21     In an effort to maintain the upgraded quality of renovated
facilities and to complement proposed 1w rovement to the central mainte-
nance service (para. 3.09), the project win support the strendgthoWng of
the M maintenance service in the regional capital city of Lobel In
conjunction with efforts at the central level, it will finance 24 month of
technical assistance and training in the setting up and anagement of a
preventive mintenance syste" at the local level and on the maintenmance of
technical equipment. It will also provide equipment, vehicles, materials,'
and incremental operating costs in support of iuplentation and  a      t
of an outreach program of preventive and curative maintenance.



- 22-
3.22      Materl -nd ¢bild §Helth -R(MCO  Seic. Materal ad child
health care In guina  Includes the following services: suveillanc  of
pregnant and lactating wom  (prticularly high risk pregnacies),
deliveries, pre- and post-natal cre, well baby clinics, vaccinations and
oral rehydratio.  In adtion to masures being taken at the central leel,
the project will support the ttheg of tbhse servies through the
provision to prefeoctoral hospitals and health coters of necessary equipont
and materials, including gyneological and other technical equipment, growth
charts and baby scales. The project will also support outreach activities
t      the provision of motor scooters for helth center midwives who will
undertake training and suprvision of village birth attendants, who,
themselves, will be provided with simple midwifory kits. The project will
finance incremental recurrent costs, including equipment maintenancp,
replenishenet of supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance and other
logistical support.
3.23     Fbmily Plsminst (VP). The project will support the introduction
and integration of VP services beyond Consky to hompital and bealth
enters, in the project area. Thse services iaclude family bealth education,
the promotion of birth spacing practices and the prevention of high risk
pregn aies. Under the proJect, ten bealth staff (2 per prefecture) will be
trained in family plannig techniques in Tunisia, wbose national program bha
enjoyed Nch success. Bach bealth facility to be refurbished under the
project will be prowided with gynecological equipment and materials; and
health staff will be given inmervice training in family planing service
delivery. Family planing education will be provided for under the
project$s health education component.
3.24     The project will also support the extenion of AMF's activities
to the regio of Middle Gunea (pra. 3.13). They will be undertaken in
ws!sn's training centers located in prefectoral capitals and run by the
Division for Women in Development within SAS. The project will provide the
AGUF regional office in Labe with furniture and equipment needed to execute
its responsibilities (promotion and provision of FP services) and will
finance a vehicle and operating costs for the supervision of regional
activities. The project will provide training end materials to permit the
use of health and family planning documents in literacy program and will
finance activities to sensitize target groups about the benefits of family
planning services.  Ncmedical contraceptives will also be provided to the
prefectoral level women's training centers to satisfy the demand for family
planning, which is expected to be stimulated by promotional activities. As
noted earlier, disbursaement of funds for AGIEI activities will be
conditional upon the Association's approval of an agreemnt between MBAS and
AGIEF On the terms and conditions of the grant (parm. 3.13).
3.25     The project will also finance minor refurbishment and equipment of
the 6 prefectural women's training centers (para. 3.24) in the project
region which are responsible for carrying out women's development
activities, including functional literacy training and other activities
which would promote the social and economic wellbeing of women. These



23 -
training  eters will be instrumental in protX gmternal an  child
health. Inervice training will be provided to one social worker per
women a center who will be resposible for managing women's activities at
the prefectoral level; tbey will alo be provided with motor scooters ad
opeating costs in upport of outreach activities.
3.26     IhVtrition. Project support will focus on developing local and
regionl capabilities to car  out nutrition surveillace, recupertion and
education, with particular emphasis on maternal and child nutrition. It
will support the incorporation of nutrition training into refresher course
dedigned for hospital and healtb center personnel and will provide then with
the mean to carry out nutrition activities including equipment, materials
and logistical support. These activities will be reinforced by the, bealth
education program to be imple'ented under the project.
3.27      ealth Education end Coumitv Deve10ent.  Information,
education and comunication (1C) program developed by the Health ducation
Service in MSAS would be tested under the regional component of the project
for eventual we countrywide. Thse mss          wmould covr M IP, the
prevention of AIDS ad sexully transmtted diseases, nutrition,
Iimmunization, family hygieeo, community bhelth and other preventive heath
seanure and would be introduced through hospitals, health centers and
villag  outreach programs  wall as through youth, woman's and other
co munity groups. To enable the staff to carry out these activities, INC
subjects will be introduced in refresher and inmervice training prograes;
particular epbais will be given to developing interpesoanal communication
skills of health and social personel.- The project will provide materials,
equipment and transport and fuel costs to eanure the successful
implementation of this progrm.
3.28     In order to give cou wities the opportunity to put Into practice
acquired hehlth and nutrition information. US$100,000 equivalent bh been
allocated under the project to financ small, health-related projects in an
area of about 70 comunities. Such projects wil support activities which
would improve the health and wellbeint of coaUnities. As part of outreach
work, health center staff would asist comunities in identifying and
preparing project proposals. These would be forwarded by health center
staff through the Regional Inspector of Health and Social Affairs to the
Project Munagemeut Unit (tUP) for approval. Another US$100,000 equivalent
of project fundb would be used to finane  implementation of ocial and
economic activities to be undertaken by existing womens cooperatives in the
project region. This am will allow women the opportunity to put acquired
training into practice, raise their incoese and improve the health and
wllbeing of themelves and ot their children. Bringing women together in
sueb grous will also provide a effective venn for creating increased
urareness of health, bygien  and ntrition practice  and of the benefits of
fmily plaming. Proposals for "projects In support of these activities
will be forwarded through the Regional Ispector of Health and Social
Affairs to the central Division for Women in Development for its appraisal,
and, submsquetly, to the VW0? for approval. Disbursement of funds for



-24 -
for me's ad community activities will be conditiol upo the
Aociation's approval of - anul plam of action for such activities,
which wuld be submitted to the Association by 8ept_eb  30 of each year.
1acb propoal would include investment and recurrent cot etimte  and a
Proposed laplemetation scoeduloe  d would be approved by the PU oan the
basis of its technicl, economic and financial tfaibility, its
sustainability, its replicability, and its expected socieconomic benefits
to the cimuity. Once a subproject Is included in the above-mntioed
annual pla  of action and approved by IDA, the PCU will finnceo 96 percet
of needed equipment, materials and training with funds from the local
project  aunt. The villages and   oman's cooprative will fionan   8
percet of nvestmets and will be financially responsible for    int
and otbhr oporating cots own  Initiatives are i operation.
c.  Upgdading Skills of Raion  Halth Psnnel (I Dercent of tota
3.29     The Training and Research Srvice of 16* will train staff
traines. These will cary out a progr  of refreshr training for existing
staf in the five prectur  which would focu on the dolivery of priority
serice  to be stregthe    unde the project (ai  32). Training will
massa  all paramedical  d social servios staff in prefectoral
hospital, health center ad womoe's training cnter to be renovated umdr
the project ad will be extended a well to traditioal birth attendats in
72 villoges. Training will focu en 8wro glw helth and ocial sevico
delivery, tocusint particularly on co,uity helth, pre- ad post-natal
cear, deliveries, family planiw techiques, health edcation, cmity
outrech ad social deelpmat.  Th project will finance 4  onths of
techical assistance to orgaize trainin  activities and equipmet,
mterial, trasportation ad operating costa of Implementing the training
proVI..
d.     ovim          al Mnaemnt and Cost Recver (7 percent of
total base costs)
3.30     During proJect preparation. a study of the financial managemnt of
the soctor ws undertake within whch ccot recovery scebes wer dveloped
frw the health centers and existing schme revied for the prifectoral
hospitals. The project will support in the project region the introduction
of cost recovery activities at the health center level and the strengthening
of cost reovry activities at the hospital leel. Under the proposed
schee, a flat fee will be charged for each treatment which will cover the
comultation ad required drugs. Tbhes fee vary with the type of dise
and are set on the bais of the cost of the treatment (includin  the cost of
drug) and its affordability to the population. A schedle of fee  to be
chrged at the health center, which bhA been agreed with the Qovement, is
prsnted n Aex  3-3. Fe  will be charged for curative ervies only;
preventive swviceo, such as iuniztion, fmily plaming and nutrition
education, will cotinue to be provided free of cbhge. The target for cost
recovy  activities, when fully impleented, will be to covwer about 80



-25-
percent of all non-salary operating costs of health centers, including 100
percent of-the cost of drugs and about 50 percent of the balance of non-
*         salary operating costs (including operation and maintenance, logistical
support, supplies, vaccines and amortization of investments). This target
is reasonable and will be monitored annually and extended to other areas.
3.31      Before this target is attained, the project will ensure an
adequate supply of drugs for health-fatt$ties, allowing them sufficient
time to assume gradually over the life of the project, the financial
responsibility for replenishing drug stocks and covering a portion of other
operating costs, through a financing scheme for drugs developed under the
proposed project. Under this scheme, IDA would finance, in FY87, the first
year of the project, 100 percent of an initial stock of drugs for each of
the health facilities to be renovated under the project, and, subsequently,
the cost of replenishing these drugs on a declining basis: 80 percent in
the second year, 50 percent in the third year, 30 percent in the fourth
year, 20 percent in the fifth year and zero thereafter. The financing
scheme for the gradual assumption of drug costs by the beneficiaries and the
consequent declining financing of rDA is presented in Annex 3-4. The
project will provide 2 months of technical assistance to assist in the
initial implementation of cost recovery activities and will also finance
equipment, materials and other necessary operating costs.
3.32      Drugs will be procured centrally once a year, initially by the PCU
and eventually by Pharmaguinee once it has been sufficiently strengthened
with AfDI msistance (para. 2.34). Drugs will be stored at the IRSAS
facilities in Lab6. Bach health facility will receive an initial 3-month
stock of drugs which they will be responsible for replenishing quarterly,
based on the preparation of a report documenting the actual consumption of
drugs for the prious three months and the projected needs for the coming
three months. During negotiations, the Government undertook to open and
maintain an account in a co ercial bank for deposit of cost recovery
proceeds which shall be used for the purchase of drugs to replenish the
stocks of facilities practicing cost recovery in Middle Guinea.
Disbursement of funds for drugs will be conditional upon the opening of this
account. During negotiations, the Government also undertook to begin
implementation of the agreed schedule of fees in the 5 hospitals and 17
health centers to be rehabilitated under the project immediately upon
reception by those facilities of their respective initial stocks of drugs
(expected during the first quarter of 19B8). It provided assurances that
(i) it will submit to IDA for its review by June 30, 1988 an action plan for
the extension of cost recovery to other facilities in the region of Middle
Guinea, and will agree with IDA on a timetable for its implementation; and
(ii) it will prepare and submit to the Association no later than September
30 of each year an evaluation of cost recovery activities being implemented
in the Region of Middle Guinea and proposals for their refinement in light
of experience gained.  Annual evaluation of cost recovery activities and
proposals for their extension will be undertaken by the Regional Inspector
and the Prefectoral Directors of Health and Social Affairs with the
assistance of the DAF (para. 3.08).



- 26 -
3.33     Financial manaemnt and cotrol of collected resourcs will be
crried out as follow:  hospital and health cnter staff will be trained to
maintain acounts and to operto  iple finacial  nagment and cntrol             *
sytm; IECs will udertake monthly reviews of financial stateents and
moitor the collection and documentation of financial resources and their
ue and will be responible for asssing the ability of beeficiaries to
pay for services; ed prefectoral directors of halth and social ffairs
will supervise the _manamt and implmetation of all aspects of cost
recovery activities. The project will finaee the costs of training in
accnting and finanial mnget for helth center staff and for helth
comittee mabor  to enable thm to Iplem     t, moitor and manage cot
recovery activitie. As a condition of effectivenes, the Goverment will
develop and put into place simple f*inial maemet and control systm
for the hopitals end bealth center to be renovated under the project to
pomit the prpr maagent of finacial resuces. During ngotiatieon
the Govern_mt and the Aociation agreed on the genea principles for the
developmt of the system, which will be developed with PlY asistance.
Accouts for the revenues collected through cost recvry in the heglth
facilities to be renovated under the project will be establised in
conjunction with the developmet of simple finacial maagment and coutrol
syst.  Becas_e of the somll sise of individual accounts (ranging from
3*2, 000 to US$1B,000 equivalent), they will be selectively audited
according to terms of referenco satisfactory to the Asociation (para.
5.14).
3.34     While, at present, most hospitals are required to remit collected
fees to the Treoaury (pwra. 2.21), health center which do practice cost
recovery retain revenues. In order to ensure the retention and proper
managemnt of tnoancial resources, the Government will submit to the'
Association as a condition of project effectiveness a Ministerial arr*td
signed by the Minister of- altb and Social Affairs and the Minister of
Econowy and Finance autborizing the retention and management by hbelth
facilities included in the project of revenue collected through cost
recovery activities.
IV. P9OJECT COST AND FINUNCING PUN
4.01     The total cost of the project is estimated at US*22.5 million
equivalent, net of taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange comPonent of
US$11.8 million equivalent, or 52 percent of total project cost. Details of
the project costa are given i Annexes 4-I through 4-3 and are summarized in
Table 1 below. The bases for estimating costs are given in Annex 4-4.



- 27 -
Table I
CU1P M1LL1on)         (USS Mi llion)               I Tota
>--   1     FOrt    Tof    uLcal Fov.in Tot   Exbo    Cost
A. 1101112ONU L EUELWt
"AMB As1Jl_                               56*8  45.2  586.0   0.1    1.1  1.2             8         7
2.
F P30M3    amlS                          14.2  331.8   M.o    0.3    0.6  1.2             70        7
hb4tot4 IWWII~ mawumnl
UFU                                         17.0  763.   m.o    4.5    1.9  2.4               0       14
Sao= IN No" NM
to I  DUN=                                                               o
0:T CWALUTIB IN
NW1F IECl tIZIIO                         118*5  262.4  310.9   0.3    0.6  0.9            6        5
2. S      _RISHEN  W
NImCWIN s6M.    =  IIS.9                          227h67 4,255.4    4.8   5.4  10.4       53      61
3, UOIWD SML
f NEALTN I   U                            t 13.9   39.4   564   0.0    0.1  0.1           6         1
4. TEIN 
COST RC     -11  ;:
IMIMIFMEIIIWNEIIRT                        17.2   14.7   31.8   0*0    060  01             46       0
M-rotl DEELnPNEIT V NINM SECTOR
nPEATIN IDL one                      29133,4 2493.2 4726.6   5.2    6.3  11.5           55      68
C. PRIJECT  _MEIT
AI An IiSlaTI                               246.3   077   654.0   0.46    1.   2.1           71      12
go WATISUFFF                                   65m1   305.0  370.1   0.2    0.7  0.9           82        5
- -z- - --n-
Total  seLIE COSTS                            26421.8 4203.9 69930.*7   64   10.5  16.9          62      100
Phuical Ciutdmflhi-                          239.3  372.5  U116   0.6    09   1.5            61        9
Price Continiancios                         1.528,4  153.4 1,*666.    3.7    0*4  4.1          9       24
Total PROJECT COsts                           4.409.h 4,619.8 9,229*4  10.8   11.8 22.5          52      133
umi                    n.   m ma-                       .



- 28 -
4.02      An IDA Credit of Us$19.7 milion equiva.ent would fInanc  87
percnt of the total project cost, net of tae.  Tbe credit would finance
100 percent of the foreign costs and 73 percent of local cost. The balsan
of project costs would be financed by the Governent (US$2.0 million
equivalent or 9 percent of total project cost) end the benficiaries (US$0.8
million equivalent or 4 percent of total project cost). A financing plan
for the project is give in Table 2 below.
Table 2 - Ficing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Cattorv                r    t  of       a   lmeficiaries   DA    Iot
Civil Works                                       0.2        9.5     9.7
Furniture,-                                        -         1.8     1.8
Equipment,
vehicles,
Material
Drugs                            -                0.6        0.7     1.3
Technical Assistance,            -                 -         3.4     3.4
Contractual Services
and Fellowships
Studies and Technical            -                 -         0.7     0.7
Training
_anagement Training                                -         0.3     0.3
Funds for Implementing,          -                 -s        0.2     0.2
Women's and Counity
Development Sub-Project
at the Village Level
Funds for Strengthening AGBEF   -                  -         0.1     0.1
ProJect Preparation Advance      -                 -         0.9     0.9
Incremental Salaries            0.2                -          -      0.2
Operating Costs                 1.8                -         0.5     2.3
Unallocated                      -                 -         1.6     1.6
Total                         2.0               0.8       19.7    22.5
*   US$4,000.
4.03      The project will finance incrmental recurrent oswts on a declin-
ning basis (para. 5.11). When fully developed, the project will generate
annual incremental recurrent costs On the order of GNF 208 million (US$0.5
million equivalent) in constant 1987 prices, of which Off 73 million for
increental drug costs and GNF 135 million for otber incremental operating
cost. of health service delivery and administration. A detailed breakdown
of these incremental recurrent costs is presented in Annex 4-. Revenues
generated through cost recovery should effectively cover by the end of the
project all drugs needs in the 5 prefectoral hospitals, and in the 5 urban



- 29 -
and 12 rural center  and about 50 percent of oter health facility opeating
costs, which had not bees effectively covred by the health budget. The
tovernbent will so        the tiacing of the balane of amual ineremntal
operating cost  amounting to GKW 135 million (US$0.3 million) or 6 perent
of the total health and social affairs budget for 1986. It sould be noted
that the helth and social affairs budget is vey low - lese than one half
of that for Niger, with a population a large as that of guinea.
V. PUOJBCT DAISNPION
5.01      Project Prearation.  Under a first Project Preparation Facility
(PP?) advance of US$300,000 equivalent, approved in Februar 1986, the MAS
sot up a natioal project prepartion tem, which undetook preparation
activities with the technical assistance of specialists in civil works,
planning, coordintion, public health, INC. management and organizatisn,
health financing and cost recovery. With the active participation of the
helth authorities and of the beneficiaries of the region of Middle Guinea,
the preparation team undertook the design and preparation of the regional
component. It developed an integrated primary health care program for
Middle Guinea emphasizing MIVIFP, preventive services and basic curative
care and identified essential requirements for its implementation, including
a training program, supervision, outreach, supplies, maintenance, logistical
support and other incremental operating support. It also prepared a rehab-
ilitation program for health facilities to be asolted under the project,
including an implementation schedule. For the national component, it
studied and elaborated reco endations for improving management of MMAS
within its Mne oregaizational structure, developed an appropriate and
comprehensive health education program and elaborated a cost recovery fee
system, including proposals for its management and iapleentation. The
Government proJect preparation docunent was submitted to the Association in
October 1986. During proJect preparation the tBAS undertook an inventory of
all its health personnel. The recruitment of local staff needed to fill
vital positions within tEAS is underway. With AfDB assistance, the
elaboration of a management training program is currently underway and
should be completed by September 1987. An essential drugs list and a drug
formulary have been prepared by the Government.
5.02      A second tranche PPF was approved by the Bank in April 1987 in the
amount of US$660,000 equivalent to ensure sufficient advancement of project
start-up activities by the time of credit effectiveness. The four maJor
activities to be supported under this second advance are: start-up
activities for the civil works component, including design, survey work and
site development; overseas mnagement training of staff appointed to key
positions in priority units within MBAS and in the project management unit;
the setting up of simple financial management and accounting system for
cost recovery, and a project lar1ch workshop to be held in Lab6.



- 30 -
5.03      Project _aEgMt.  The MU will be responsible for mnagemnt
and implemetation of project activities, wich will be integrated into its
existing sevices.  Particular attention wns pd during the course of
project development to minimize the ned for incremental staff. Central
ministry units in chagse of progrm  to be streftheand   dr the project
will have primry responsibility for proJect Implementation. A project
management unit (UGP), reporting to the NS8 staff director (Directeur du
Cabinet), is in place. It will be resposiblo for overall coordination of
project activities, preparation of annual work progra and budgets,
monitoring and evaluation of activities, procumo nt of goods, processing of
credit withdrawal applications and consolidation of project progress
reports. The VOP persennel, drawn froa existing MMa staff, consists of a
national coordinator, an architect, a procurement officer, a forwarding
agent, an accountant and support staff; it will be assisted by about four
staff-years of technical assistance in procur- A t, auditing, plamning and
prograMing of activities and project evaluation.  Asurances were obtained
from the Government during negotiations that the DOP will remain fully
staffed during the life of the project. The project organization scheme is
presented in ADBmL-1.
5.04      To ensure frequent coordination and full involvement of concerned
staff and units within the M[AS in project implementation, the CTC in [SAS
(Par. 3.04) will during its quarterly meetings carry out a thorough review
of progress in project implementation. The Rbgional Inwpector of Health in
Lab6 and the five Prefectoral Directors of Health will be responsible for
overall managemt and coordination of project activities at the regional
level.
5.05      Technical Assittance and Fellowdhia.  The project will provide a
total of 181 months of technical assistance at an average cost of US$12,000
equivalent per month. These experts will be recruited by the UGP in accord-
ance with IDA guidelines. Logistical support for technical assistance will
be the responsibility of the technical units receiving assistance. Technical
assistance is sumarized in Arr 5-2. A total of 174 montha of fellowships,
itemized in Amex 5-3, will be financed under the project at an average
monthly cost of US$1,000, for Africa, US$1,380 for Burope and US$1,740 for
North America. Following a procedure that is already working satisfactorily
within MSAS, the PCU will manage the fellowship program in consultation with
the Training and Research Service and with the appropriate technical
divisions. During negotiations, the Government agreed that for all
fellowships to be financed under the project it will (a) submit to the
Association for its approval (i) the functions and qualifications of the
candidates and (ii) the curriculum or program for the propose training; and
(b) take all necessary measures to ensure that all individuals receiving
such training rmain assignsed to posts for which they were trained for a
period of at least three years after completion of training.
5.06      Civil works. Under a first PPF tranche, requirements for renov-
ation and for reconstruction, as well as preliminary cost estimates, were
prepared for 5 hospitals, 17 health centers and the Regional Inspectorato of
health in Lab4. These were reviewed and considered appropriate by the
appraisal mission. All project construction sites are owned by MMAS and are



-31 -
available for construction. The UP ha locally recrited an achtoct an a
full-tim  basis to overse the contruction progm a noted below.
6.07       ospitabl. The UGP will hire architectual/egisering
consltants under the second trn    of the WI' to prepar detailed
construction plan  and draft bid docmentation and, subsequently, to
upevise cosmtruction. Did doc_ents will be reviewed by the Ur and the
Association to ensure that the agreed standwds have been adhed to. Bids
will be publicly opened and _evauated by the Tnde Comittee of MSAS,
which ha a  its _mbw  re presntatives of the Minstries of Plan, Finoane
and Public Works. lid  Ineam  atiom will be revied by the Association
prior to ward. It Is expected that draft bidding docm_ent will be
avalable by the end of October 1987. Th WP director and architect, the
Regioal Inspector of Helth and Social Affairs, the hospital directors and
the Regional Public Works Office will verity conotructio  prore.s.
5.08     !1th cmtem. Architectural conmultants will be selected and
recruited by the IQP under the second tranche of the PPF to prepare
construction plo, draft bid docmetatio and provide technical
supervis ion duriog construction. The W P architect will prepare draft bid
documents prior to review by the Dnk. As discused with reprsentatives of
the tEAS and Public Works, the OIP will advertis locally for bids for: (a)
supplies of construction materiale; (b) labor for conotruction in accordance
with local procedwres acceptable to the lBak. As local coomunities will be
contributing towards the cbst of renovation of the 12 rural health centers
in labor., fund and/or material., the UIP will prepare local protocol '
agreemn ts with counity representatives which will elaborate the content
and costs of the local contribution, the implementation schedule and
arrangements for the supervision and monitoring of works. Contracts for the
rnovation of each center will be drawn up so as to exclude local
contribution and construction materials. IDA would finance 100 percent of
such contract costs. Day-to-day supervision of renovation works for health
conters will be unkdrtaken by a works supervisor, who will be recruited
locally by the UoP and who will report regularly to the UIP architect and to
the Regional Inspector of Health and Social Affairs in Lab6.
5.09     Procm e-nt. All goods and ervtces financed under the project
would be procured in accordance with the Asociation's guidelines. Contracts
for renovation of $ hospitals, whose individual costs range from US$1.4
million to US$2.1 million equivalent, will be awarded o. the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICD) in accordance with the Association's
guidelines for procurement. A preference of 15 percent will be granted to
local firm participating in ICB for civil works. Civil works contracts for
renovation of health centers estimated, not to exceed US$0.4 million
equivalent per contract, will be awarded following local compotitive bidding
(LCB) acceptable to IDA. Contracts for furniture, equipment, vehicles,
materials and drugs will be awarded according to tCB procedures acceptable
to the Association. Exceptions to ICB would be for (i) contracts with a
value of less than US$78,000 equivalent, each of which would bo awarded
after LWB according to procedures acceptable to the Asociation; and (ii)
small value items costing loss than US$10,000 equivalent per contract that
would follow prudent local shopping procedures acceptable to the



- 32 -
Assoiation. The agpggate mountx of tbhe  two eoceptiom is  not expected
to exceed the equivalent of USO.4 million and UB*0.l million, respectively.
Working arrangements for the prodction of radio and television helth
eduction pro_         will be made with    on a cas by cae bais. Wher
feaible, purchaes of dru  and mdical equipmt would be ade through
UNICBF, which use  International pr       t  p          that are acceptable
to the Association. Procurement arr        t  are auwrized below.
(us$ million equivalent)
Proaurent Method
Total
Project Elemnt             IC8     LC      Other   N/Aa'       Cost
- Civil Works                8.8     2.0    (-)                  10.5
(8.5)   (1.8)    (-)                (10.3)
- furniture and Materials    0.7     0.2     0.1                  1.0
(0.7)   (0.2)   (0.1)                (1.0)
- Medical/Technical          2.1             (-)                  2.1
Equip_mt and Drug         (1.6)            (-)                 (1.6)
- Vehicles                   0.4     0.2                          0.6
(0.4)   (0.2)                        (0.6)
- Techical Assistance,                       3.0b/                3.0
Fellowships and Studies                   (3.0)                (3.0)
- contractual services                       0.4                  0.4
(0.4)                (0.4)
- Technical Training                         0.8                  0.8
(0.8)                (0.8)
- Mmnageet Training                          0.3                  0.3
(0.3)                (0.3)
- Project Preparation                                   0.9       0.9
Facility                                             (0.9)     (0.9)
- Funds for Implnting                                   0.2       0.2
Sub-Projects at the                                  (0.2)     (0.2)
Village level
- Operating Costs                                       2.7       2.7
(0.7)     (0.7)
TOTAL                     11.7     2.4     4.6        3.8      22.5
(11.1)   (2.2)   (4.6)      (1.8)    (19.7)
a/ Not applicable.
b/  Imploymet of technical assistance would be in accordance with IDA
guidelines.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.



33 
5.10      Itm  would be grouped to the extent practicable to encourage
competitive bidding and to permit bulk procurement. Review of tnder
*      _    dicmnts by the Asociation prior to  ard will be required for civil works
contracts for renovation of hospitals; it will also be required for helth
center renovation contracts valued at or above WS60,000 equivalent. This
is expcted to cover about 60 percet of contracts. Reiew of tender
documents by the Asociation will alo be required for contracts for
fturiture, equipmnt, vehicles, materials and drugs costing more then
U*60,000 equivalent each. This Is expected to result in covemrge of about
70 percent of goods contracts.
6.11     D      i ln n *a.  The project is expected to be implemented over a
period of 5 years as laid out in the implemetation schedules presnted in
nes 5.  The credit of M$19.7 million equivalent will be disbursed over
six and one half years agpaint the following items, net of taxes:
(a) civil works (3S*9,500,000)* 100 percent of the total cost of
renovation works for Lab6, Dalaba, Pita, Llomms end Tougud
hospitals and for urban health centers and 100 percent of approved
ontracts for rural health centers;
(b) furniture, equipment, vehicles, materials (US 1,800,000): 100
percet of foreign costs; 85 percent of local costs;
(c) drugp (U3*0,000): 100 perent in FY87 and 88; 80 perCent in
Fm; 60 percent in FY90; 30 percent in MF; 20 percent in FY92
end 0 thereafter;
(d) technical assistance, contractual services, fellowhps, studies
end training (13$4,400,000): 100 percent of total cost;
(e) funds for implementing women'. and comunity development
subprojects at the village level (USS200,000): 95 percent of total
cost;
(f) funds for strengthening AGDUF (U3$100,000): 100 percent of total
cost;
(g) in2remnetal operating costs (U*600,000): 60 percent in FY87 and
88; 40 percent in FY89; 20 percent in FY90; 10 percent in M 1;
and 0 thereafter;
(h) refunding of the project preparation advance (US$960,000); and
(i) unallocated (USS1,5C0,000).
A disbursement plan and an estimated schedule of disbursements, the latter
based on a Guinea disbursement profile of 16 projects, dated September 1985,
are at Annexes 5-5 and 5-6, respectively.



- 34 -
5.12     Deiburseet aPplications to IDA will be grotped into packas of
at lent US60,000 equvalent and will be fully documted, except for
expene related to project edministratio   ed imiscellan       oporating
costs, inovative activities of ¢amnities and w=mn' groups traiing and
contracts of les  thl U$10,000 equivalent. These expens  would be
rebburs  agaist certified statemets of  pena turs, for which
docUntation would be retained for revie by MA supervision missions and
the project auditors.
5.13     Scial Aemt., To facilitate the finaning of foreign exchange
expenditure by the Government, an amot of U0.4 million will be advanced
from the IDA credit and deposited ip a Special Account held in a local
ce_mrcial bank under the control of the Project Director. The Special
Account would cover foreig  expnitures estimated to be incurred locally
over a six xmth period and would be replenishod by IDA in accordance with
the disbursment pla  In nAJIX 5- an receipt and approval of applications
for roisburement. In order to ensure that financing of project
expenditures in local currency is promptly available, the Governmeent will
establish a sqparate replenishable Project Accout in local currecy, and
will deposit, in local currency, an initial amount of ODF 86 million
(US$210,aoo equivalent), representing the approximate amount of operating
expenditures for the first 4 months of proJect activities. The account
would be replenished by the Government and IDA am it is dram douw, and at
the beginning of each quarter the Goenmnnont would deposit sufficient
additional funds to met estimated xpenss in the up-coming three months.
IDA would replenish the account in acconce with the disbursement schedule
in      §& on receipt and approw vl of applications for reisbursemt
covering paymets ae from the account for eligible works, goods and
service  required for the project. Opening of this accout and depositing
the initial am t of 0KV 86 million is a condition of credit effectiveness.
6.14       coutins. Auditinst ad  eorti . The PCU and the IRSAS in Labe
will establish and maintain accounto in accordance with accepted accounting
practices for all project expenditures. During negotiations assurances were
obtained from the Government that it will furnish to IDA annally, within 6
months of the close of the fiscal year, separate audits of: the IDA Special
Account, the Local Project Account, selected accounts in the 17 health
facilities for revenues collected tbrough cost recovery, AGB8F accounts,
statements of expesses, including those for eomunity and women's
development subprojects, and other project accounts, which will be conducted
by independent auditors to be appointed on term and conditions acceptable
to the Association. Certified copies of the accounts and the auditors
report will be forwarded to the Association for review within six months
after the end of each fiscal year. Quaterly reports on the progress of
implementation will be submitted to IDA by the UGP. A project coWpletion
report will be submitted within six month of the closing date.



-36 -
VI. MM  337f mm RUN
A.
6.01     Tho project is expected to Improve the efficiny nd
effctivenes  ot health sector opeation  md to iWroe the qulity and
coverae of basic health sevice  la the Region of Nlddle Guinea.
Stregthaning M    Ustitutionl capabilities will led to better planin
and    g    t for the health sector and a more efficient utilization of
bhm, physical ad financial resoures in acieving helth sector
objectives.  n addition,      mt ad decision mki  responsibilities
will be sufficiently dcetralixed to allow loal officials ad helth
cittes the automy to plan ad progrm resorce ad activitie  in a
aner mor responsive to local relities.
6.02     Strenathing ceotral units Ia corge of priority hoalthl p
will also incre  the effectivene with which MM addree health and
social problems. The establishmet of regular progrems of techicl
inserice training and supevision of medicl ad peicl personnel will
upgrade their skills, particudarly with regard to  rority programs and
ervices, an, consquetly, iprove the ovall oulity of sevice.
6.03      The impl tation of the reidoal cosoent will improve the
qality and accessibility of health  weandA social welfare, ece
avilable to aut 1.3 sillton peole by, 1993."  he prmotia  d eCsioUS
of fmily planning to         tos and rural ars wll also improve the
health of otha and- chidre. The ined utilization of improved
services will lead to a reduction in il1nee and preastur. deth free
preveale  and eaily treatable diseses.
6.04     Th project will also allow th   ove    t to test and evluate
health and social policy initiatives such as the decetralization of
mommag,met responsibilities within the sector, the mobilization of
additionl resources for helth through indrensd cost recvery and the
extenion of family planning sevices beyond Cnakry to secondary tns and
rural areas. Experiece gained in the Reion of Middle Guinea will provide
useful guidnce for the eventual exeiaon of such activitiaes nationwide.
Risks
6.05     The project will be the first IDA-finaed opweration in the halth
sector in Guinea end the NSAS has no experiae  in implementing a project of
this size and scope. Thee is, therefore a risk of delays in
implemntation. However, the Governmt's comitomt and the copete  of
MAS staff to implement this project ha already beei offectively
dmntrated by the successful and timely copletion of project prepration.
Loal staff responsible for project managemt and administration is of high
quality; and the 16AS will complete the aswignmt of qualified staff to key
positions within NM8 by the time of effectivenes. They will also be
supported by appropriate technical mistanoC and training. Moreover, mAch
ha already been done with PPF assistance to ensure expeditious project
start-up. To leand further support, a project implemntation workshop is



- 36 -
planned prior to effectiveness.  Th. risk of unsatisfactory luplemetation
will be further mitigated by the decentralization of sector management
reponmibilities in the Rksion of Middle ouinea which will elicit the direct
involvement of local authorities and beneficiaries in project management and
implemntation.
6.06      Another risk is that the cost recovery progm, desied to
generate additional resources for non salaried opating costs, will not
succeed. To minimize this risk, reasonable trgets for cost recovery have
bee  set and these would be mitored anually. The magment of resources
is being dectralized to develop local cmotrol and improve mnagemnt at
each facility.  These meaures should provide ealy warning system  to
enable   gent comittees and health authorities to take timly and
apropriate s_aures to vorrect any elem ts of cost recovery that are not
working effectively.
VII.  AmR_II   AMAD QMNA
7.01      During negotiations, The Government of the Bepublic of guinea
provided assurances that:
(a) it will submit to the Association for its review and agreement by
Murch 31, 1988 a national drug policy and a plan of action for its
implemeotation (para. 2.34);
(b) organizational changes in NBAS will be carried out in consultation
with IDA (pam. 3.03);
(c) it will evaluate its program of medical and paramedical staff
deployment, including annual staffing objectives and progress in
achieving them, and prepare and submit to the Association for its
review and approval no later then September 30 of each year a
revised program of staff deployment based on the previous year's
experience (pare. 3.06);
(d) it will review with the Association by September 30 of each year
(i) all investment expenditures made in the health sector in the
previous year and those proposd for the coming three years, as
pert of the rolling public investment program, with particular
attention being given to recurrent cost implications; (ii) the
allocation of the recurrent budget across existing programs and
services; and (iii) the appropriateness of drug policy and
Government progess in its implementation; and that it will
organize by November 30 of each year meetings of all aid agencies
participating in the financing of health sector activities in
Guinea (parm. 3.07);
(e) it will evaluate annual technical in-service and management
training activities undertaken during the previous year and



-37 -
furnish to the Ascmiation for its review sd approval by
Septoer 30 of each yew revised plum, based on that evaluation,
for in-service technical and _magerial training (para. 3.11);
(f)  it will open and maintain an accomut in a com_ercial bank for
deposit of cost recovery proceeds which shall be used for the
purchase of drugs to replenish the stocks of facilities practicing
cost recovery in Middle Guinea (parm. 3.32);
(g) it will begin implementation of the agreed schedule of fees in the
5 hospitals and 17 health centers to be rehabilitated under the
project irnediately upon reception by those facilities of their
respective initial stocks of drugs (para. 3.32);
(h) it will submit to IDA for its review by June 30, 1988 an action
plan for the extension of cost recovery to other facilities in the
region of Middle Guinea, not being renovated under the project,
and will agree with IDA on a timetable for Its implementation
(para. 3.32);
(i) it will prepare and submit to the Ausociation no later than
September 30 of each year an evaluation of cost recovery
activities being imple mented in the region of Middle Guinea and
.proposals for their refinrmt in light of experience gained
(para. 3.32);
(j) the lISP will remain fully staffed during the life of the project
(para. 5.03);
(k) for all fellowships to be financed under the project, it will (i)
submit to the Association for its appraisal the functions and
qualifications of the candidates and the curriculum or program for
the proposed training and (ii) take all necessary measures to
ensure that all individuals receiving such training remain
assigned to posts for which they were trained for a period of at
least three years after completion of training (para. 5.05); and
(1) it will have the IDA Special Account, Local Project Account, the
accounts for the revenues collected through cost recovery in the
17 health facilities, statement of expenses and all project
accounts, and AGREF's accounts, for each fiscal year audited by
independent auditors, and that it will furnish to the Association
audit reports within six months after the end of each fiscal year
(para. 5.14).
Conditions of Effectiveness
7.02      As conditions of effectiveness, the Government would:
(a) submit to IDA satisfactory evidence that all newly reorganized



- 38 -
units within bMB  to be  tnwed under the project hbe the
key staff idetified in Am_31=1 (per1 3.03);
(b) deelop and put Into plaeo siple finmce1 l   _mnagaet and control
systems for the hopitals and helth cente  to be renovated under
the project to pedit the proper        tof financial resoure.
_d *umit to the Association the wr$td signed by the Minister of
eonomy end flumes and the Minister of  elth end Social Affai
authorising the retentin end  a_et    by  ealth facilities to
be renoted uder the project in Middle Guina of rources
collected through cost recovry actties (pas. 3.33 end 3.34);
(c) set up an apropriat, project accoutin  motes (par. 5.03); ed
(d) ope the Project Account and depoit en initial bunt of (IWF 86
million (paru. 5.13).
Coitionm of Disbumnt
7.03     The conditions of disburment are    follow:
(a) disburs_ et of fumd for inovative activities will be
conitional upon the Assoclation's approval of en anl plan of
wtion for such activities which would be sumitted to the
Asociation by S.ptoer 30 of each yea (pare. 3.28);
(b) diebsant of fands for AO    activities will be conditional
the Asociation's approval of e sgrem t betwn HEM and
£01 o the twr  end conditions of the grt (pare. 3.13); and
(c) ds         t of funds for drugs will be oanditional upon the
pening of e account in a co myeial bak for depoit of cost
recovery proceed which hll be used for the purchas of drug  to
replenish stocks of facilities practicing cost recovery in Middle
Guinea (pa. 3.32).
7.04     On these conition, the project would be suitable for an IDA
credit of W*19.7 million equivalent.



- 39-
IWLT SICBS BLVM              Elmo
BABIC DATA
Total Area                                                     246,000 kmh
Total Population (1985)                                        6.1 million
Denity per kin                                                 24
Rate of Nitural Incre  in population (1986),
Total Fertility Rate (average live births per van
at end of reproductive lif. (1980)       6.1
Crude Birth Rate (1985) (live birtbh  per 1000 population]     47
Crude Death Rate (198) [deaths pr 1000 populationl             20
Child Death  att (deaths 14 per 100 children
in age group) [1984.                         44  '
Urban population as X of total poplation (1984)                27
Adult Literacy rate (198- estimate)                       ,    30.2 -
Prijary School enrollmet (1984 estimate)                       23.8
Age Structure (1985)
0 - 14                                                    44X
15 - 64                                                   53X
65 and over                                               3*
Population per physician (1986)                                9,893
% of physicians in urban areas (1986)                          923
Population per nurse (1986)                                    3000
Daily per capita calorie supply (as pecentage of
requiremet 1983)               84
Per capita Gross National Product (1986)                       US$ 330
Sources: - 1986 World Development Report
- Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, Plan d'Action Sanitaire
de la Guino. pour Ia period. 1987-1989. Conakry, November 1986
- PI Sector Report No. 6229-GUI, May 16, 1986.
r-



l -
Organiastiomel Q1gkt of tbg Minstry of HeIlth ad Soid Atffars
o°f mm    se F--
.  for   lth                                                     o  Dlduf      Insc _ Servies
aegltlnd S4ut f
Labomt*W  meacim                  SCabin                                                         Ttv&c@tt a  Suwlia.s
&MVIces: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ I    imaea  Amr
.inalstrial N"ImCentral                natl fr
-9041th B&CatiDir ndTorateGnerl             elt 
blic   altb    |ie tlw                   . Boni cionl                           oB     l    c         ?a               st     e      i
Iaoratoq             M edice               Care        1     Mdicine  -Service                    -   Cuter               & Meinaumm
Se Jrvices                         .                                                            .    e
Jlitite                     1){diyna for      .                                                   _at
trial Helth                PIeig, Stce              . in
tb Bducati                 adTan
cable  iea_e              Se*-e:
Prcessing' 



-41-
.-                                              .    e.
*13  2-2
Org.tstts  Om2. at d. S.astadat of ftate
______b_ v___ _
M~in No  inau _ud  SwAS* ft             £
~- tSW                  og'st
- ..
EE1        mfvS   ub
ta8"  l8n  ~              t
KV"d"I fo.uimpdVSt
9 ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ .          .
alvim      mo*        amo  foetml
tott;im  Ca*, 



s ma
Health r   t_e t umtt I97
7CGNF million)
......... .......................... ... ...... ...... .. ... ..... ... ... .............. ........................ .. . _._ ..... .. . .. ._ . .......... .......... ... ................ .. . _. .. ... ... _._. ..... .. .......... .. ...__. ...... .. .. ........ .
ISI                                                            I              I                 Smm d
11I                     1         910          I                130           It, ltstemul foe"
_---               -   . - _   ..-._.--.. _._. I----..-..-- ...                 . .. -.--------...- I-....- _.  t-_--.-_-.__
tre,t                   at.  _m_l   talm             bbl NMt.  _wtmt   alami low   t1.    _wlmt Odmnl  law.  Me.  1au               u     stlmi Nate   I
taw          k                t                foe"           I   SA          few            I    1t          rSow
-,,---------,---,---,---._ ....................................................................-------------------I----------------------------I----------I --. -.------
lntitt bdicim  Iradiltril                            o.*          -       .0 1                   n2.     12.0 I          -      12.8     2. I          0.0    14.0   £. IS    _    t
SlU btal ttmisg Fuilid                               4.0                  4.)           S.O.       -      S.01          3.0        -     3.0          I 1.        -     2.6 1
Dpi M, AU-Ulmiug fSiliut                            14.3        51.0     44.31         1S.3      t.      23.3 1        S.3     0.0    23.31           .1     4.0    3.91 It
bailiWim  Iwid lwac                                  5.4       .S        3. I            -   -             - s           -        -       -            5.4 s0.6    36.01   F 
Saobe 1u: 9issi           kS                         6.0       12        32.2             -        -       - I           -                - -          6.0    3.*   1.-    if  (MI 
Luttl  cmtleI'mchwcu                                45.0       310.0    35.0 I         20.0    310.0   302.01          11.0   31.6  3W. I              1.0    W.0   in. I   M
P1tictieMCm ,l e1II                                 12.0          -      12.0s           -         -       -t            -                -l          n.          -    n.0 )    I
ttem tbie "I. tram. (at10)                          n.s         23.1     9.2 1          3.s        -    u3.5              -       -        -         £ Ie.0    2.    i1.1 s 
i_wattire d'wim ladise1                             13.2          -      U3. 1                     -       - S           -        -        - I        U.2              U.2 1
ute t swsychiatric h                               13.            -    1.0.0 I           -         -       - I           -        -       -  1.                   -   1.0j
liai,ut  w  Switain to"t  UI.                       1.0          1-.08                 15.4        -    U.41             -            - 1             33.4        -      A.4 1
Cuutiti  1o cUe l       Sute Pt".  is               64.0       64.      1.6 1          91.6  I     .)  1201.9 1           -       -       -          J 154    £13.3  86.1 I   F
hit dwu _" 5                   uw                    4.S      210.1     5    I.2       Its0.0   2m.   V4.   2I.0   22S4  23                     I     0.5   n8.2  3110.1£    DA
hueti. mwiprn ote           e  fall U/pe*f.         all           -       3. I         5.U    sI.0   435.01           3.0   1M.0  130. 1             53.0  13.6  113.01 J        M  "I
Iew tl Iuibtiiuim.        tlS  S11at                3.0       I".0   10.01               -        -       - C            -       -       - I          3.0   184.0  )iO  I   W
letilate bitim   fast                                23        43.5    422.S)            -         -       -I            -        -       -            2.3    4.5   423.1   5(m
9l)9 temzbie, bus* h                                18.4        52.0      .41           0.0        -      .0 I--I.4                                            5       13.4n1 Sw. 
Eqtpisml Liweleir   dn SU1                           5.4        24.0     3.28           S.       25.5    3s.5            -        -       - I         £6.4     3.3     0.71   NW
uels di Sdi-auls                                    17.5          -      17.58            -        -       - I           -        -        -U It.S                -     t.S I
t     uim  is ca ela de Sute *tabi                  4.3        27M.    325. I          6.3    1.0 11      .3.4. I      4.3    30.0   42.31 SUS.0                 . .  81.01    in
OIitilatim 6pitl tws                                 L.S       243.0    24.31           1.5    146.2    41.              - I- I                        Lo    3.0   3. I   El am
pau Statrs dei  ccietisUm, 51                       14.0       11.3    4.0.3 1        183.0    616.6    M. I          11.0     W.        S.0         311.0    1.3  2336.3 t5. ON ,
tLut Cme uleie d $wil                                             -         -t            -     120.3   £3.01             -    121      21.01            -    241.1   201.01 J   N _ I
Cults  timi Grkl osif                              1£.6           -       0.010        13.8      43.5    5. 1           7.      3t.0    51.0          30.0    03.5   1.3 I   am yt
luslute 3lhuIo ie                                      -          -        - I           -      25.0   251.0 1                    -       - I            -     W.W   251. I:     m  y
tL a.t)iu  lte flw                                     -        54.0     54.01            -        -       -- I                                          -     54.0   54.61   km "t
1lola                                              10.1       4211.4   6L.            50.4    GIA.4    3. I           55.   51.6  511.2 I           8311.1  1M-.4   0.5
.................................... . ... . ........       ............. ..           ........ .................. . .. .... - -----.. .................. . ...... - - - ----- - ------ - - - .............



43 -
Pae    of 2
TIAIR SUVICBS DRYTWAIMI         PFART
StlIAL for Central MAN Unit to 1b  Str        ed
Uder the Project (Xinimu  r.ouirentu
(Key Staff Necesary for Btfectiveess Mmrked with Asterisk)
A.  Division of Prevention and Pr*m    Health Care.
1. Maternal nd C!dld _1ath ad Fmily Piami   Serice.
I Chief - ND*
1 Administrative Officer
2 Nts with spcialization in NOR and m*
1 Finance Clork*
I Sscretry/typist*
2. - lth Education -vice
1 Chief - ND or Social Scientist with trainig in Mass
CMnications*
1 Assistant Chief, Social Scientist with IBC training
1 IBC Applied BAN cher*
1 Speialist in IBC trinin  and curricul  developmnt*
1 tmsag  (I3C) Conceptualizer
1 Radio Technician
1 Video Technician
1 Photogaher
1 Designer/artist
1 Doc,mtalist
3. Nutrition Service
1 Chief - ND with training in Nutrition*
1 Nutrition Specialist*
1 Administrative Assistant
1 Clerk/typist
5. Division for Women in Develoiemnt
1 Director of Division - Social Scientist with training in women'a
program*
1. Women's Develotmet Servica
1 Chief - Social Scientist/Social Worker*
1 Administrative Assistant*
1 Clerk/typist*



- 44 -
Pae 2 of 2
2. Coonera        Outt * Proram      Service
1 Chief - Social Worker with trainig skills*
I Administrative Assistant
1 Specialist in Nume's Cooperatives*
1 Clerk/typist*
C.  Division f-rIBfr Xtn:trl lid            q
I Director - Architect or Helth Raginer*
1.   Medical R@uiumnt Mainteance Svice
1 Chief - Medical equipmnt umintesm   techniciam*
1 Techuician*
D. Division of Adaintration amd Fi_a
1 Director - dministrator/Accountent*
1 Accountant/Finance Officer*
1 Administrative Assistant*
1 Administrative Clerk*
1 Secretary*
1.     ma Reso       Service
1 Director - M with Personnel Mmnmg.nt training or
Secialist in amnesoure Mlt*
I Health PeWrsonne Officer*
1 Social Affairs Personmel Officer*
i Administrative Personnel Officer*
1 Secretary/Typist*
I. Divisoa of PlanDins. Training end Studie
1 Director*
1 Senior Health Planner*
1 Health Rconomist*
1 Medical Statistician*
1 Doameatalist*
1 Progracmr*
1 Secretary/typist*
1.    raning ad Rsarch Servie
1 Director - Kpidemiologist*
1 Training Specialist*
1 Research Officer
1 Clerk/typist*



- 45 -
2-
Page 1 of 2
Tmhaicml 'p'~minMik Pa   sd P.rica  Pr.c l  Middlg
Traiin  Curse title a   loction                        Pticition                tilo  and Dratioo    Funn
I                                  I                      I
1. Traning cose    Public Oealt, techncal  1          40I  S NApril l87 - tw  Wbsi   U
and Namt, Coa".                                 I                                                         I
2.   egonal traininginn  eltb Sevice                I SONedsof                         la,lw 19J- a Oebs    I   a10
Hanage_nt, Lae.                                 I facilities                                              I
3. Regional MMNCFPItrtitin course Lab.              I   40                             IJ=n  1907 - -  w.k  I UNPA
I                                  I                      1
4. Projet Lawd  Workshop, Lab.                      1  0 Halth facility He.            ISepter 10w            I  PmF
atiol Project TM    Cosultat +                  I Nationa  ad  egiol                     5 ds             I
ha  Staff.                                      I ProJect tas sod  mmt             I
Icomitte rwretatives.           I                      I
I                        ~~~~I                   I
S. AlgotW  trainin,  alab.                          I  0  oital ad Hu lth              ISepter 1W             I Project
Staff: atioml project TM                        I Costar wrs el                    1    4 das             I
Is
6. Hetritla  Suvey training, Said.           i         25 SNIl, NC perso l             ISepteber lw           I
Staff: Natioal Projet TM                        ,                                           ays           I
I                     J
7. Training for ld valn ses Iln  ulth               1 12 pers el respoible for    lktoWr 1                    1 Project
Caters, Lab. (Teo).                             I   Ip  wrvices in helth           1   5 days
Staff: J midlves froo project ae.               I caters in project oe.                                   I
8. Progra  () to be followd by practical            1 12 traies                        lOctoW  1987-          1 Project
course in groups of 4 for o    th               I                                  IJaay 1088 
ceutively. Stff: 2  ositl dsivs.                1                                  1 3 mths
I                                  I                     |
9. Ann   refrsar training for                       1 20 physicians                    INove_r 18W, 88, 89,1 Project
physicians : Conar. (Pedlatrics, Surgery, P.N. 1                                   190, 91;  5 das 
lterl Nedicie, Obstetrics end g ology)                          I                                        It
Staff: I Ezternl Consltat * local consuiot an
(To  e undertaken aully throughout *ratio    I                                     I
of project).                                    I
10. training for Traditionl Birth Attednts at       1 6 persos                         flecear 1087           1 Project
eh of 12 rural heath ceoter in project Ione.:  12 centers                          1   2 days
Staff: 2 midivIs. 
11.  ept training l0, evy six mths.                 1 6   rsons                        'Froa Deteber 1907      Project
12 centers                      1    2 days
I~~~~~ S 



WI    -         '*     pm        4  dw 
V.,, ~~~~~~~~~~~.a
~~~~4 ~ ~~I-    ---                     4----   
liii  III '4  jI~~~~q~!II QI '40
-   -   -P -   -i -   -   -   -    --
8q    r' I a                              a  
ii* __    __5' _            __ _ _ _       _
V                                I
U,       U{ S       .     1    t t Z({ {,,,,{  i
Ic W 



47-                AM    3-3
*          3~~~,d 1. or   m  o  slam gt dint.' Uw    ignto    Imtad gif  the ProJoint
T   miMrN  1Prix rev. i4uent1t# I  tx do I Trx d*
*                                   I do ce  Ids 1'UnttdIakesatrs rovient I vents
eeti6   lawcamont pr trat-ldu traito-I propos4
___ ___ __ ____*           I   Glll   I  temn t    sent  
Pslu : siple         1 30      1  2,25   1   4          9    1 4
-~~~Pl  u: gmv.                  30    1   25    1   3  -   I5     240
Proahrlaxt* orftatalol  750   1  4.25   1  90          202   1Go
aMldio do votes
-resptratotres                 I          I         
Cml         1       I  200   I   a1 J     .18          0 1 4      1.700
I   I          I~~~~adugtos  II
I         I         I .6 weI   18 s       600
Ca 2                   . 00      5 6,75   20 ocoam.   135   I  400
I   |          | ~~~10/onf.     67      200
AndMis              
_F" S   .nceine        250   I  0,35   1.60   |22.               100
-wants                 3001  0.35   1 20  a           34     I   100
-Grave'                 30oo     0."   11 camp.    27 9          5
-maodsre     o      I 1.800  I   17   12 sachets |  34    1   100
-Grave       _         180   F  143   1   2    1  287 1          820
-Ankylostome          3.7W01    7           10        70          20
8ilharuioos          I         I         I         r
I         ,         I         I              . 
I   I          | ~ ~          ~ ~ I  Ilooe*
-IntostunA1o        1  100   j   2,  -    40    I1.050   1  =000 oaf.
I   I         ~~~12.000 adul
Soo  215     so       ~~~15030
axO".         ~     ~I   I          I         I         I
11.500  1 20         I1       l20    I   50
-Graves                150   I          I         I              100
Infections de la Paul  2.000  I   10    I   1        10 l         20
L&ro                T   75   f  0,6   1300 comp.  150           1.000
Myose                  1.510  10    I                1        1   5-
Accouchmont          I         I         I         I
-44orml                                               1 70    I15 l   -    I  150   I  400
-Compliqu6         I   ?5    |          1                   175  2.000
tnfection ceilAr1   1                   I I
-Conjonctivtto      I  750   I 31 tubes   I 1         31        100
-Tracw m               300 1   31        _  3         93   .   300
Couleurs divorses      5.000        0,66     9    I   6    1   20
infections voles     I         I         I         I          I
urinaire     '            I         1         1               1 
'enceintos   1   75    1  6,3    1  20    1  126   1  400
-Autres                300   1  6,3   1   20    1  126   I   400
Gonococcie           f  300  1    6.3        20    f  126   I  400
Otice                          I                              I
-L6giroe              4.000  I          I         I          I   20
-S4v6re            J  400   j  6,3   1   10    1   63    j   200



IstimAted Ba.o"  Aimsmotion by~ e~Imiu of ona~th Center  ruCot
And Conaeuumt PrssdIDA,                            -.adz~ of Drugs
a            P~~~~roject Years             I  Post-Project             Total     I
,,~~~ 1T  1 E Gl 2m 1 3                          1 4      1 S       1 6       1 7       1 Tas-
 ---- - - ------- - 
t   1    |   2    1   3    5  ~~4  5         6    1 7           Vowens 1-S 
Population Broeth Assumtion               3.1   1 3.01   1 3.01     1 3.01   1 3.11    1 3.0A    1 3.01   1                  1           u
1        1    ,    I                            I ,                         I   
Target Coverage of ealtb Centers      1  251   1  402   1  501   .   0    1  751   :  75S           751   1      -
|   g         1~~~~         ~ ~~.,  S :                                                      I   
Total lase Cost of Drugs for emlth    I         I         a                            t         I        I                  |
Centers (assuuing 15 Cf per           14746.3 1 24160.7 1 31106.J 1 384.6 145 3.  1 47002.7 1 8412.9 1 15496.0             t
population covered)                  I        I         I         I        I                   I 5       1
Rate of Cost Recovered                 1  30    .60t  I  o51I lOO               1101   I12          130t   :.
Participation of Beneficiaries         1   80    1 1474.31 2416#.7 t 31106.71 38448.6 1 45633.71 47602.7 1                   l
1        1 t 301JO    1t1 6     1  51      t0 111011: ta1                             a I
A:ouat                         I         1 4423.9 '144%.4 5 2640.7 1 348.6 I 50197.1 1 56403.2 1 309.6  (541)  1
as percent of total base cost    I       I t  182   1  4t   1  691   1  8U   I l0n l1 117  .                         1
I        I   "               I        1         1         1           1               1
Proposed IDA Financins Scheme 
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                        ~ ~~~~~~~~ a    a    g    S  I  I  :    
I        I      I  I         I        a,J                           I'.
:as percent of total base cost       100I       80  11  5021   301 1211  1    0    1   0    1
: Asount                          114746.3 1 19328.6 115553.3 :111534.6   9126.7            t         : 70209.S  (41   I
I --            . .          t      '                      ,  l.:.
*  O _ __ _ * *1                     1       .1      . .____  _
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1                                                      1 *



*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4, -
"UmN 4-1
L  cm ~     ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        m
main m        -  m"
C. ralim  - a n~~~im m aurs 
a                                           -w -\ 
"0                        _mm w                  a _ U   at mi
__ u-               as _mai    __- ur D_   _
am_m              100041m  isumo              now"   no   _As  memat u                                  - w    bb   i 
loom                            am         dit"?m   m   umm        ai         ms  mmmi iumu                              ISMIAe *1 5si
- - wr - - "   -                                                                     mh.in
omu ranu"                                 114          imam          I" *A          111i a.swz.a                  wo136.                      I" 414141433.43
C. m .                                       __ _.                                                                            _
HIMS fLm  me a* 2UN NO
m. .m
1_smisu.g                                         ~     ua.          31.13         43.35    3.06       5. 014   -.5              -  13.43, LU  14474
imamP4343  t I43                                                    too"          4t34  240.1              *    SOMA.t           *  3t44 LU 
INKI                    t*WVdM                                                                                     U41t,       g      t stA *b-tA 7o
Faun"13.                                                 O5.46.       )bU3.        3.934M   I-*                   a 4k112.9          214 .4 LU 214
WMIS                                        63.        32.                -       133.443  11*40           * X      631              t54w47 I"  3 .w3
i. 14W - -
. M            isM                       24 7 U                                      a          -             *      -               45.4141 144 41. 2 114
1to 11. .  3 .S .5                                                            .^tA 
_W M                                           - I4                        -       13           *          *                          04"W .-      -.31.2
n~~ -                                                       -4  -W -4  -  -                                        -          -  Uh-At
w. w au  mute                            t u.m.t             *             -            -       -          -                      -  13.t.4    0      04
&ummim gumHAM                                             4                         9.5           .                      *         *   11.5bwa04 .4 *4.
.  at oinswiv                               L
9131?_Z 15                                     *             -4t *               t      -   .                          *   319.4634  31.434Ut 
t, s  -  _-                                                                              -       -                           313.364   37134 -         Uee
mu                                        vote rant  _                                          - s o ".144   13. a 114 U                             U
#°~~~~-                                                                          -                       -  - - e 
"Wtu ham teE                                 UPlA          MONZA        maw   _ .9113.  11.43            Solna      15.    3-13 -                S.7 _.6IA3
FSU 5015d     5                             4..            *4 031124              201331204A 2A57.2         - -   1441.4           - 40.3114 2  4  21.
F  at M   Ulm                                             4     _t13.3                    -                  *.32A * 4                    3 -  U O  b7
ma_ U US     I?>                             13.          4.14     - .31           12.5       8.            -       143.          -   92.43)L   1M4t4
313115                                      2.463         7.334        3.4          243.   243J.4            -     3.5.            -   4943.  LUe  4.969
413t11       ^ te633                          3.         25.4t?     -3.74 t. A1    .  -                      -      3.U4           *   3.7414 u3 e. 4.
bt.   tim  3                                   14           13.314   t145             8347.  #e95               *     141413          -*w 71 4 Pt4714
OK. ~IthIn3                                  3 4          1191.          334       1.1.69   145          5314   U1.27               - Id 314.  Uh54.1.1
btaut mu i                                    11.t. 4541.                  35.       5.54 1445.            43.5.    1.6.91.    13.46  9.39.13.34  1 5.32
~~                        -         m        .   ,,e             . m         -       m                                       
*z          2WU   U 



*50 -
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h
(UP
1      2       3     4    5      SF Ntlip~)
- ~ ~   ~     ~ ~ u           m      u         uu. ua
A. DNSTITUTONA  IYE'JEIPE
OF NW
1. STRENIHEII UF
RAMUIIS NO6 IWIAUCI                     225.0832.,7  02.1 43.6 d8.    506.0          1.2
2. SIUESIININ  U
OF, MPRMT  WITS                         130.5  143.9   65.5 59.6 73.4   472.0        1.2
t-                     -i    -               -
wTota INRl DTfUT__ I   I (UW
UNsA                                       36*4  225.7  147.4 100.2 142.2 S    3S0      2,4
D.oEUELWN     U 1 16A _ W W3SC TI
OPERTIWS IN NIBBLE OmIE
1.             OF
INAMIS  CWABIITIS Ia
SIifOR   OF ECJMtRAUIATION              032  158.3   684  33.5 32.7   38009          0.9
2. U
2. SIIEIfIIM W
BSIC H            S                   1-,03 1.    3 2.3  827. Z5 * 2 .4 24 .0        1.225.4    10,4
3.   SB   KI;LS
U NEALI PERSIII                          13.    25.2   16.6  4.3  3.8   53.4         0.1
4. IESTN UF
COST                                                       -    --    -    3.        0 
IJUVII FDINANCIAL WREIS                  31.8      -1s
Si- Totul IE~DI       U                    -XN MT
OPERTIONS Di NIBBLE WuE                  1,160.9 1,710.3 1,312.3 264.1 270.4 4,726.6    11'5
C. PRO       NANSEIIT
AND  SIIIAM                                394.2  160.7  150.9 70.4 61.6   854.0        2.1
B. RA,TIENT  1 11F ,01                                   -      -    -          370.1      0.9
TOWa BSELIN cOST                             2,281.5 2,105.2 1,410.8 450.9 482.3 6,9307    16.9
Piwical CmotiMswigs                          102.4  197.3  143.6 41.2 42.3   611.0        1.5
MMic  CmntirdWcif                            229.7  520.9  593.0 154.0 197.3 1#686*B      4,1
Total PROJECT COSTS                           2,404. 2,0234 2WS3. 646.1 7219 9P229.4    22.5
Fomig       O E IlEClf 1O643.4 1,414.3 1.056,2 336.2 34.53 4,819.8    11.8
Fgbrwrv 26. 1997 11:55



..I 1cU .1.1 ..! lar.1 .. I                          1 ,,   ,
hI1r;.t       flI.I..  ..2 i~t.t       22 1212C    I!       11i  
dO
.. ~~~01 .I.12  ... Iit                       ..      I ,,,IfF| .
I21e£tET F1  . I ..U    11212!              I  1tf.  i      OR
!XIE4x; .X !~1 . I.. IE.} ... I t! |F I
. .~!         1 .1.1  ... 1!.. 1 . . Ii 222        1



- 52 -
A7X F44
for unforese  pbysical contingecies 10% has been added to the
base cost of civil works, furniture, equipamet, vehicles, materials, drup,
technical mistance, training and operting costs. Allowane. for annual
price esaltiom  frm the bas cost date (Decmber 1986) are based on the
following estimated inflation rates:
17       1998      1989      m0       1991-8
- Foreign          3.0*      1.0*      1.0*     1.0*       3.58
- Local           25.0*    25.0*      15.0*    16.0*      15.0*
The foreig  annual rates of inflation are In accordae with
ept"ar 1986 GUN guidelines on expectod price incr_ea. Tre local annual
rate  have bean revied by ank staff and have beun found satisfactory.
Cost estimte  for rehabilitation works are basd on recent
quotatios by local uliers. Cost estimtes for other expenditures are
bed on recant experieces in neighboring Vst Africa  coutries and an
quotation  fm  supplier.   e avergee cast per onth of iternatially
recrued  pcialist services is estimted at US$12,000 oquivalent, which is
in line with prices for comprable sevices in Vet Africa. Rational staff
salary etimates are basd on public service pay scales in Guinea.
Se foreign ohase cow_mp t h  been calculated an follow:
(a) civil works - 48*; (b) furniture, material and studies - 60*; (c)
techical equipmet and drug - 90*;  (d) vehicles - 70*;  (e) technical
mistance and followhips - 100*;  (f) inservice training - 10*; and  (g)
operating costs - 35*.
.



- 53 -
Page 1 of 4
GUINEA
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Details of IncreMental Recurrent Costs for Year Six of the ProJect
A. Central Level
1. Central MCWH/FP Service
Field Visits (? trips x 7 days x 2P)          112.0
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance           1,428.6
Maintenance of Equipment (4X/yr)              104.0
Office Supplies                               333.3
Printing of Documents                         555.6
Subscriptions                                 277.8
2,811.2     US$6,857
2. Central Health Bducation Service
Salaries                                    3,360.0
Ideunities & Per Diems for Field Work         574.0
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance           6,986.6
Maintenance of Zquipment (4%/yr)              444.4
Office Supplies                               555.6
Printing of Documents                       4,666.7
Subscriptions                                 194.4
15,781.6   US$38,492
3. Central Nutrition Service
Per Diem. for Field Work                       90.0
Subscriptions                                 388.9
Maintenance of Equipment (4%/yr)              318.9
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance           1.428.6
2,226.3     US$6,430
4. Central Maintenance Service
Per Diems                                     408.0
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance           3,673.5
Maintenance of Equipment (4%/yr)               23.1
Building Maintenance (0.1%/yr)                 13.5
Supplies                                      400.0
4,518.1     US$11,019
*              5. Central Division for Women's Development
Per Diems                                     224.0
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance           1,768.7
Maintenance of Equipment (4w/yr)               45.1
2,037.9    US$4,970



-54-
ANNEX 4-5
Pap 2 of 4
6. Central In-Service Training and Rwearch
Division
Per Diem                                   330.0
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance        2,108.9
Maintenanc of Equipmt (a%/yr)               111.9
Subscriptions                              M.
2,828.6    US$6,899
7. Central Plming Division
Mainttenan  of Equipmnt (4%/yr)            424.5
Other Operating Costs                      1I6
6m0.1    US$1,342
8. Ihw Rbuoures Division
Maintenance of Equipmet (4%/yr)            424.5
other Operatin Costs                       Z1.1
675.6    US$1,649
9. tinace and Administration Division (DAF)
Maintenance of Equipmet (U/yr)             424.5
Other Operating Costs                       I1.1
675.6    US$1,648
B. AZNhQ3Lievel
1. In-Service Training
Vehicle Operation and Mintane              714.3
Maintenance of Equipt (4*/yr)              145.9
Office Supplies                            666.7
Training of Medical and Paremdical
Personel                              8.2_00.0
9,726.9    US$23,724
2. Hospitals
Drug x 2/3                              42,450.5
Vehicle Operation and Maintena           4,591.9
generator Operation and Maintenance      1,310.2
Maintenance of gquipmet (4k/yr)            419.8
Per Diem                                   378.0
Office Supplies                            651.0
Building Maintenance                    25.269.0
75,070.4  US$183,099



- 55 -
AM 4-6
Page 3-of 4
3. Urban Health Centers
Drugs x 2/3                                10,654.6
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance          3,781.3
Refrigerator Operation and MainteDance         97.3
Hbalth Information Form                       333.3
Maintenance of Equipment (4%/yr)              172.3
Office Supplies                             19000.0
Building Maintenance                        19753.4
Per Dim s                                     -_ _
17,792.1    US$43,394
4. Rural Health Centers
Drugs x 2/3                                19,767.9
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance          9S075.0
Refrigerator Operation and Maintence        1,156.3
Health Information Forms                      664.5
Mainteanace of Equipment (4%/yr)              410.8
Office Supplies                             2,400.0
Building Maintenance                        2,337.0
Per Diem                                    1.140.0
36,951.5     US$90,126
5. Health Education Activities
Per Diems                                     988.0
Maintenance of Equipment (4%/yr)              154.2
1,142.2    US$2,786
6. Women's Development Activities
Per Diems                                   1,056.0
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance          7,607.8
Maintenance of Equipment (4%/yr)               13.5
Supplies                                     800.0
Rent                                          133.3
Building Maintenance                         280.6
9,891.2     US$24,125
7. Maintenance Activities
Salaries                                   2,400.0
Per Diems                                    470.0
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance          2,619.1
Generator Operation and Maintenance          270.0
Supplies                                      133.0
Maintenance of Equipment (4S/yr)              117.9
Building Maintenance                         404.1
6,414.1     US$15,644



- 56                                     .
AMU
Page 4 of 4
8.  gegional and Prefectoral Mangemt
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance       11,275.8
Geuerator Opertion and Maintema           873.3
Maintenance of Rquipuet (4%/yr)           708.3
Subscriptions                             66
Utilities and Other Miacellanoo  Costs    1,216.7
Per Diem                                1,397.0
Building Maintenace                     3.M.2
19, 116.9 US$46,682
T0tM8         -          208^210^3   iO7-830~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



lI~~~~ ji   j         iCl0i
JI;I      I           ,t i  
*X I                  ii3II S   &i



AM= 5-2
AI.h   Serces k      mt_  Project
Snry of lekia *usl
1. Strrgtbemite of P    a aid lubemuit kerpntluo mIa ps  .t of UrIc                           12       6'.
_wstu flomiw                                          3       1       1       1       1       7
__Umkuuneshw"grt                                      4 I  I  t I                            .a  6
bptl g af         le _       t                        4   I       I       I        I          0
Eva"ltil ofobst e:tl yttl                             6       *           4   0       4       S
2. Stromgliegieg of  riorilty ISIS kiti  keith      o       1cgvaf  t
_tlz                                ~~~~~~~.2    *                             6,.
biricoiro    _r t   d tulu    d tratnr                     4                                4
fnaualo                                                    2               1                3
Ira3iogbde i  u_  _ nt                               3                                       3 
h,lout of edoc l Medal for Irle                               2                .2 
Ewebtim  f Treeg                                                      1 I3                    4                                0
_l t of Litea  Pre dit  ith i             1b   u     t2                                      12 a
I.euosmeot of kei1th Sector fpeatIONS (
UNiX. b e
1. strngthmi  of d   tme        Cuulltiuls kofIopbt o .im           m      e                   6 U               4d
in Suwort of 1Semtrutiot                                                                                                            )
2. Strntulbr  of aul sith Sbrvie    bdm_   1 _u's t_u al SutiIt                     .                          2                        2
,                         ,                  ,  , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,               {~~~~~~~~2)
3.  igra    SUills of adtd hresl         oretiu   of ledilwl t rlrdde Aktlvtu                          2       2   '           -
4. testle  of lost kewry Sehmes ad       hfs tisg iAetiS eUPlo       t   of nost               2                                        2
lo di., !l.w  jl Rhaaguunt           reorI ad W ud accoumta            . ,
C. Project oagemt aid 4t  istratigj          IHii    of Project bc ts                              2.      2       2       2       2       10
Prewemnt SeeliJst                          K          2      12                              24
PlnesgdPrgrbig                                        6    6        .6                       26
Project Evatetls                                                      t               1       2
(66)
TOTAL16
* sA"    '0 dW  il W"A
o Sutotls ar she  is ptereies                   ................. 
,u': g   .~~~~~~~
'9,\. 



- 59 -
man 8eCA none - T n¢T
O                         Project Tars
Description                  0        1        2         3        4        5       TOTAL
Helth Planning                          12                                                      12
Health  WOament                         12       12                                             24
Finn Ig"ut                               9                                                       9
Ad.ihistration ad Finace                 9                                                       9
11_gmt and Orguizatlo of                          9                                              9
aint_ce Seices
aIntanace of  aiologIcl                           9-
Eqwipemt
fltiemnce of Electronic Eqgipsmt                            9                                    9
Health Service Nhbam t for              12                                   12        24       48
four Regioul Nbn
Curriculuom Delopment for Health        12                                                      12
Education
4nageuent of Hnith Eduation             12        9                                             21
Mao ad teleision for Health                                 6                                    6
Edutation
Social Cumnication for Health                     6                                              6
Education                                                                                        --.
174
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANN  5-4 ()
nm                          Lilmrai
XMInlMtdattioa Udamuha gmr Glyn Works
ACTIVITIES                                       tears    1W      19S      199     1990    1991
Owms  1,213,4  1/2/3/4  1/213/4  1/2/314  1/23
1.  leoatio and Iestructioa  lerk for 5 Prefectoral Hospitals
Appointant of Architect                                                                  1x
Sketch-plans for each Ibsplbital, Oak by ex
Marking Drawines                                                                           XI 
lid Awrd                                                                                       *xx:8
Costuctim snalxtt
laspectios ad Receptumo ox
2. ImOvatio  ad hcustrucat     Mart for 17  eialth Canters
Aoisbet of Architect                                                                    Nm
Sktch-pls for   h Center, ank  eview                                                        ma
Dot fiiti   of aildisg ftteril bets                                                       XXXX
Maorkiog Dranns                                                                              sx
lid Awads                                                                                     txri
Ihlinn of kilding  aterials at Ea  Pefecture                                                      sxil
Cotructis                                                                                         XXlXtXx
3. Ranoatios ad eutestioo of Raimal Directorate of Health sd
Social Affairs in Labe.
AppOiitmt of Archit-ct
Sktc-plan, ank bview -                                                                     X
oking Draigss
id Awrd                                                                                        x
constructio                                                                                       x
S~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0



61-
ANNEX 5-4 (b)
Page I of 2
4~                                                     -
.e rs   198      lw      193      1969    19       1I1    1992
hwts         3/4  1/2314 1/2/3/4  1/23/4  1/213/4  1/2/3/4  1/2/3/4
IWService traisin for ketors nd krs
- Mblc HNalth Tockuical mm Nnsgot cu.
(Counr), 40 dotors.
- -giol treinia  in UNItI Senice N        t.
Ube; Se ld  of facilities 
-  isoal eorse oN/F and Itritim  in Labe.
4  rticats                                         s        
- Algorthe traing is kldab, for 40 prticipats.          7
- Hetritio    Sm  training, Peloba.
25 prticipats.                     - 
-  C/F  rainin  (or N lu/re  Ter)
in L*. 12 prtidpat.                                                        .                       x
- N/F? trainig for Nihivu irs (Practicl),
Lbe; 3 grous of 46e b.                                                        -       -        -       -
-.  Al  refrresb traioki  for 20 doctors in mkry.                          a        a       I 
- Tratini  for tradtiol birth attedats
Itl2r nwl Halth Citers inproJect  on.                                     a   t  X   X  *   a  X   X  I
* wps   Ptr center.
- Training in oral rOydration theray in Dalba.
35 doctors andurses. m m .
- Food snd Sgtriti  training for 3S prticipts
inabl.                                                                      a        a       I
- Faily Plnnin  traini  in Pita for 35 elith
*         canter staff.                                                                  x       a      r- -
- Faily Planing training for traditionl birth
attkendnts; 10 participats pwr cater.                                         *        a       a          a
- Ana refresher training for aidoies and
nurses, Lb.                                                                       a        a       a        x



- 62 -
2  ()
Page 2 of 2
Years   lI8M      1987      19"8     1989     1990      199      im
Onarters      314  1/2/314  1/2/3/4  1/2/3/4  1/2/3/4  1/2/3/4  1/2/3/4
Refresher training for Social Affairs Staff
- Annual refresher trainilog for 20. Social Affairs
aides (witrices), Conakry.                                                          I        K         I        I
- Annual refresher training for 10 social affairs
aides (monitrices), Labe                                                            I                           I K  K
Refresber training for Laboraonry technicians
- nnual refresher curse for 25 laboratory
technicians, Dalaba.                                                                J        1 -                K 
Nanaement Training
- Project launch uorkshop in Labe, for 60 participants           -
- Refresher training in Hospital Admistration
for 5 Hospital Administrators.                                                      I        I         I
- Financial Wanagement training for 25 participants,
Labe.                                                                            K        I        I
- Financial and prograe   nagemnt training for
25  ageent comittee meebers.                                                                 I                  x I



- 63 -
ANNEX S-5
6 UINEA
HEKATH SERVICES DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Disburneaent Plan
*   ..  ..  .. ..................................... ............................ * ............................................. ............................. ...
Category                          Amount of Credit                        t of Exponditure
Allocated                           to be Financed
(US$ '000 quivalent)
........  .... ........ .................. ........................ ...................................................... .. 7.. .........
1. Civil aorks
a) 5 hospitals and 5 urban                                 9,000                     100%
health centers
b) 12 rural health centers                                   500                     100%
2.  furniture, Equipment, Vehicles, Naterials                   1,800                     100l   of foreign expenditures
and 85% of local expenditures
S.  Drugs                                                          700                    100% in FY87 ad FY88;
80% in FY89;
50% in FY90;
30t in FYMI;
20% in FY92;
and 0 thereafter
4.  Technical Assistance, Contractual Services,                 4,400                     100%
Fellouships, Studies and Techndcal Training
S. Funds for loplementing Sub-projects at the
Villap  Level
a) Homen's Development                                       100                    95%
b) Comnity Oevelopment                                       100                    95%
6.  Funds for Strengthening AOBEF                                  100                    100I
7.  Operating Costs                                               500                     60% in FY87 and FY88;
40% in FY89;
20% i FY90;
10% in FY91;
and 0 thereafter
8.  Reftunding of Project Preparation Advance                      950                    Amount due as specified in
V                                                                                                         Section 2.02(c) of the Credit
Agreement.
9. Unallocated                                                   1,5SO
19,700
...............................................................................................................



*S61 'II i.ldns pIn6p
'spaoi  91 j§J *i  ojd   vnqS uo psq ot,;°ojd htmfs P;o
*1 '1f je.0    :lt   BU;soJ l6x3
0661 '@0 .ur  :uo:u"I     laJd 10 ltO13 PrP*3
L861 'Of Mt :90;sOd :swua1a:osf3 silo pvawx3
1861 'lot Mt  :mto pno p6)d3   :SON
M aP    d 304; "mSJq P IR13"  /I
^1 110J; 14N6  lot mtt
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
-       6           9661 '0f wnrt
00            001 LOOt  l661 'If JO19390
f6 AJ
10           806        f'61         9'0                     0661 '0  Itt
O't           S6        8t1          't                  Z661 '10 Js
a.....
06 1
Z68      S'Lt          Z't                     1661 '0  9WI
I'L       LB        rIT          II                  1661 "it A6)W33
16A4
t6            I          '91 to                              0661 'lot   M
PL9          #9         9o1          f                   o6~1 IfJSqua
16 1U
3.6           it                                             OKO It t66t 'I0n  U
so1        A       9     Zt          9Z                  6861 'It J0BP
.....
rti           LI        01           11 6.-061t '0£ 030
|tT        ~OrAm 6-            9im Z                 687 't 4
4..  ............
*t1  ~      IO        IN   13I £'SV .                     86  0
9 'LI         tt        0'                                    361 'Of N
531I       Jt 9         Z'1          Z't                 N6t 't£   _IUSO
. .
ismv imau 311~ umu1
-an.
.39.~~~~~~



- 65-
§dgtd  I btut ad Data Availeble in tMe Proect ile
A.       Reports and Studis related to the sector.
1.  Pus, Guine,  iLX   ltl   ad IhiRD 8 rIi
World Bak, Yellow Cover Report No. 02    It, Mhy 15, 198B.
2.  UIVA, Guna Deot of Mision on Ned haet for
EIAt1iou .minteam. Deport No. 30.
3.     lyme Laur1n, Health Situation In the  1e,lic of
WAID, 1984.
4.  Patrick Kelly, M.D., 1uie Sector Miion Inlrt, March 1985.
5.  D. Fiahault, M.D., Report on the Devlopmet of Helth Personel.
6.  M. Asofor, The Dampohic Situation in Gueaand Muturern
and Policies. Conultsnt reort for PIll, October 1S4.
T.  J.M. Fleury, Diosactic du System Phazuaetiaue ea Remublican
de    M,  SOUL=, 1984.
S.  S. BDetoud, P. Brudo-Jakbic d Don, Pr r    tioal de
Fiin1.Jg  mtilI, 01, Juillet 1986.
9.  Minister. de la Coopeation Iaternationale, Politises at
frofr  Alnentaires et Nutritioe11. en lulio  Podulaire.
1m.iutioneire do 
10. 158, Pl  d'Action Sanitaire de la Guinea   M  a Pfriod.
197-1, Conakry, Novbre 1986.
11. Dr. 3.8. Adjou3 _umouni, Seine do Sante Primaire. Formation des
A.T.S. dn Las  .1.8.., bRpport Mission ONS, MASS,1982.
12. MGMO,  Ragubiqe do Quin-.. Peruoectivee et Contraint- du
Deelgent de l'Education. 3lV132 Rapport No. 42, 1985.
13. Dr. Moeri Pat, Rmuide Bilen NItritio_mel at Alimentaire do la
jauigg, WHD, IP/CRU/02-84, 1984.



- 66_
S.       -d                        e                      Project.
1.  Jacque Aim   r. Prrati  d'ua nroed   1. Sct>r
.RaPp     Arhitscturbs  JUia 196 S_M6e  196
2.  Jacque Aim   abtor, vaulatoN du  Proet dam 1 S8
Emit. aport Misio  IDA 1-15 D car 1e66.
3.  Toula Mm*,  Resort of Pro3Jct Ittificastiol  i O is  u,
Conltant Reort, PoN, Septi_ 1964.',
4.  F. Orivel  d J. Parrot,  tW&   4Aa hmitnA Jg Dlo_tMI du
Srlc  dO SAte en Denubliou de MM: RIWO   de tabo
Jul31, 1966.
5.  Dm  .  Dr_  IMu* Codo# ed Guy pietet   Se.8ice d          1e
Prin&=r et Serica do Pevntion 1ntMr. Coamday. Julia 196.
6.  fatbi Zad Dotros,   Jet  do ago Rugl OnMe.             at
iJa.hmaku Juillet--l --7)
7.  MM, P2 do P          Ia    du Prof t apt an Milianu R1l,
rappor dii prnior o.lier do coortation, Lab, du 30 Avril eu
3 MM  16.
8.  Glues Ddlom, PrAlet  8agt 1   M    Rura X l VAlet: C _amosau
Nat toal. Reogeniat tent Iseantnal"LMsin   68CEL   aaa
18 Octobre 1916.
9.  Nh/MUC3, Plan Natil pM re ProIr   lr 8 do VaiaiJ
intewe w-  Soim do Sante PridMre. e vis d'&tt iAdre
Vacination Univrselle dg. emfan, 1966-1j1, Ibv. 1, Cmonkry
Lvril 1966.
10. Dotalled Cost Estimt.



t ~~S E N9 E G A L
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TA Lrx .r,>I^tW,
| 8  * S A U                                                    _>                          
b~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SENEGAL             IERRA    LEONE
-_~~~~^__,, ' >~~~~~~~~~ ~~ Pfettreisohtetsmm....,    
w_ ,__            _4  *           =~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ptsonty netwbork upavedto mads              h                    f 
RWas~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
- -: - -I - ~~~~~~~~+ Intenwtbn" aiqtpt _,_'  -_
rA .UtNI                                                                                         1'Ahrtds
SINIGAt    rSt  Re*- hedw-trs   
nZo;_2~~~~~~~ i      J             -*--~~~~~~Region bounda,_  j                               Av 
_-~~~ -t ~~_ 4^ >_t g - - ~~~~~Prfeceture- bounda f At 
BUtWAU
Gu$U rGUINEA    f*    1FO"rGUINEA.                                                                   ,5          - 
c , t'.    3    9  iHEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENTPROJECT,                                       ,\   
,J    Je C6TE 03MOR11 1tftw?.4*    ~'  t)i
4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
! I,I B E R 1 A
n.e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



.7.. '     MAU
M-A °^L    U'   > -t2°             '          GUINEA                                     /2°
VJ s ~~~A, * of m4 _, 
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT    7                                                  .
IJ. a3P<          >Regional Component
,*S SrT s                                                                                     J
tsaw   r w :~..  C.
*.-a-  Lt'* &wJh,     X /                                                                                        : 
*f3 .t             ;                                                                          I:     
e'S*t~~~,S9 S000La'J'."
iOAS,   \_ 4NT 0 !\                                                                                        '
*     7 ~~~guitand5
~~~~0                                                    -~~~~~~~~~~    *  *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Region hospital
* Proff eti   hospitals
/                 *   Sub - prefecture heal  centers
Dittin                  rO-  ~"'\ <," X Paved road
GIUnpaved roadds
+    Airftied
* Region headquarters
*Prsefeture headquarters
i         ~~~DALASA @
Region boundaries
To Kindla ( :                    /                                                             -I2 3Prefecture boundaries
To K:ndia                                                            KILMETSIS                           rs-. -  :ivers  boundarie
..  s;.t>.      >'.t."^  2   Lsfou   To                                                     Inernational boundarie
'       J>N*  ./'                                :ll  XJ/  
'"-d.':- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    1                                                           if- S''m   I \^    .........  



