Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15766
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1837-GUI)
June 17, 1996
Population and Human Resources Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: Guinean Franc (GF)
(Period average. US $1 equivalent)
1988 = GF 474
1989 = GF 592
1990 = GF 660
1991 = GF 754
1992 = GF 902
1993 = GF 956
1994 = GF 977
1995 = GF 991
MEASURES
Im      =      1.09 vd
I m2     =      10.76 sq ft
lIkm2     =      038 sq mi
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB           African Development Bank
.iGBFF        .Association Guineenne pour le Bien etre fanmilial
BEPR           Bureau d 'Etudes de Planifi cation et de Recherche
DA.IF'         Direction des.lffiires .4Adinistratives et Financieres
DNES          lDirection Nationale des Etablissenments de Sante
DIFHtf         Direction de I 'nfrastructure, des Equipenients et de la Mtfaintenance
EPS           'Education pour la sante
GOG            Government of Guinea
IDA            International Development Association
IMF            International Monetarv Fund
KJTi'          Kreditanstalt fur JViederaujbau
MCH/FP         Mother & Child Health/Famil) Planning
ALS            -Iinistere de Ia Sante
,1LSP.4AS       Iinistere de la Sante Publique et de .Affaires Sociales
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
PEI'           Programme elargi de vaccinations
PF             Planning Janilial
PSN            Projet ,Sante et Nutrition
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SL4 C          Svst'Mie d injbrnmation a assise comnmunautaire
ls'.l7 ffSante maternelle et injantile
SX`1N         Svsterne national d 'informiation sanitaire
SSP            .oins de sante prinmaires
l.GP           Lnite, de gestion du projet
UNFPA          United Nations Fund for Population Activities
l '\'lCE-F     Fonds des Nations L'nies pour I 'enfance
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
WHO            World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1837-GUI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................................................            i-vi
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.      Project objectives                                                     1
B.      Achievement of project objectives                                      2
C.      Major factors affecting the project                                    5
D.  Project sustainability.                                                    6
E. Bank performance.                                                           6
F.  Borrower performanc.                                                       7
G.  Assessment of outcomes.                                                    8
H. Future oprations.                                                           8
1.  Key lessons leaned.                                                        8
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:  Summary of assessments .11
Table 2:  Related Bank loans/credits .12
Table 3:    Project timetable ..........................,.,.,,.              12
Table 4:    Credit disbursement                                               13
Table 5:    Key indicators for project implementation                         13
Table 6:    Key indicators for project operation ..............................  14
Table 7:  Studies included in the project .14
Table 8a: Project costs .15
Table 8b: Project financing .16
Table 9:  Economic costs and benefits .16
Table 10:   Status of legal covenants .................,.,.,.,.,., .         17
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual statements,,,,,,,,,,           19
Table 12:   Bank resources: staff inputs .....................,,,,.,,,,.,.,.....  19
Table 13: Bank resources: missions .20
APPENDICES
A       Mission's Aide-memoire
B       Borrower contribution to the ICR
C       List of programs
MAP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1837-GUI)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Health Services
Development Project in Guinea, for which Credit 1837-GUI in the amount of SDR15. 1
million (US$19.7 million equivalent) was approved in July 1987 and made effective on
March 11, 1988.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1995 after a one and a half year extension
beyond the planned closing date of December 31, 1993. The Credit SAR disbursement
rate was 99.6%, with the last disbursement taking place on April 17, 1996.
The ICR was prepared by Jacques Waechter, Concetto Guttuso, Christian Collard,
and Alice Lee, consultants to the Population and Human Resources Division, Western
Africa Department, Africa Region. Sergiu Luculescu, Task Manager for this project,
coordinated the work. The Report was reviewed by Ok Pannenborg (AF5PH), Division
Chief, Population and Human Resources Division and Emmerich Schebeck, Operations
Advisor, Western Africa Department (AF5DR).
Preparation of the ICR began during the Bank's project completion mission,
which took place in November 1995. It is also based on information from the project
files and on data provided by the Ministry of Health. Additional information came from
field visits and discussions held with Ministry of Health officials and donors. The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by: providing views reflected in the
mission's Aide-Memoire; preparing its own evaluation; and commenting on the draft
ICR. The Government's comments and final report are included as appendixes to the
ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1837-GUI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Credit Number:                 Cr. 1837-GUI
Credit Amount:                 SDR15.1 million (US$19.7 million equivalent)
Beneficiaries:                 Ministry of Health
Date effective:                March 11, 1988
Date closed:                   June 30, 1995
Cofinancing:
Government of Guinea     US$2.0 million equivalent
Communities              US$0.8 million equivalent
A.   Introduction
1.    Since 1986, the Government of Guinea has embarked on economic and financial
reforms aiming at: (i) promoting private sector development (health sector included); (ii)
phasing out State commercial enterprises; (iii) improving the administration with a
reduction in size of the civil service; and (iv) developing human resources. The first
phase of the reform program (1986-1988) was supported by the First Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAL I). This was, in turn, followed by SAL II which was initiated in
1988. Progress in the first phase of the program was encouraging, with increases in non-
mining revenues, privatization, liquidation of many public enterprises, and the reform of
public administration. However, a number of politically sensitive reforms were not
implemented as anticipated. After doubling basic wages in 1991, the Government faced
a severe liquidity crisis intensified by a sharp drop in mining revenues and a shortfall in
non-mining revenues. In 1991 and 1992, this issue exacerbated the problems with
project counterpart financing. The SAL II second tranche was released in November
1992 and a Country Strategy prepared in 1993. In view of the projected fiscal
stringency, a Country Portfolio Performance Review was effected in 1994.
2.    Prior to the project under review, the Bank had not been involved in any other
project in the health sector of this country. Currently, a Health and Nutrition Project
(PSN), approved in 1994, is being implemented, while a Population and Reproductive
Health Project is being identified.



i.
B.   Project objectives
3.    The overall objective of the project was to improve the health status of the
population and, in particular, of vulnerable groups by expanding coverage of low cost
health services in Middle-Guinea and improving sector performance. The three main
specific objectives of the project were to: (a) develop planning and management capacity
of the Ministry of Health and strengthen priority technical programs (MCH/FP, IEC and
Nutrition); (b) strengthen financial and operational management, and develop basic
health care services in Middle Guinea; and (c) develop and evaluate cost-recovery
activities in Middle Guinea.
4.    Project objectives were relevant to the Government's new policy and the situation
in the sector. They were clearly identified and defined in the SAR and no major changes
were necessary or effected during implementation. Although with a certain delay, all
major project objectives were achieved.
C.   Project covenants
5.    Project covenants of significant importance for the achievement of project
objectives were to: (i) annually discuss and agree on the recurrent non-salary budget for
the sector; (ii) maintain an effective project management unit; (iii) implement a policy
and plan of action for the supply of drugs; (iv) prepare a plan for cost-recovery; (v)
provide audits; and (vi) plan and implement community-based activities to support
women. All these covenants were met.
D.   Implementation experience and results
6.    The project became effective one month behind schedule and the credit closing
date was extended by 18 months to June 30, 1995. Financing included an IDA Credit of
SDR1 5.1 million with a Government and beneficiary contribution estimated at SDRO. 7
million and SDRO. 1 million, respectively. The expected contribution from Government
and beneficiaries, estimated at 12.4% of the total project's cost at the time of appraisal,
eventually reached 10.2% by the end of the project.
7.    The project reached its objectives related to the development of the Ministry's of
Health planning and management capacity, and to the strengthening of selective priority
technical programs. It helped change the administrative structure of the Ministry of
Health to better reflect the new sector policy and its emphasis on the development of
primary health care; produce and implement a staff re-deployment plan, a computerized
human resource data base, and the national maintenance policy; and improve the
performance in planning and budgeting.
8.    The project also reached its objectives related to the support of priority technical
programs: Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning (MCH/FP); Information,



iii
Education and Communication (IEC); and Nutrition. It contributed to the strengthening
of staff skills, helped in the implementation of important activities, such as the
development of national strategies for each of the three programs; of guiding materials
for regional and prefectoral staff; the achievement of a survey on nutrition status of
children; and the dissemination of information by means of audio-visual materials, and
use of radio messages.
9.    The objective related to decentralization and support to regional and prefectoral
management was also substantially achieved with clear results in the quality of
supervision work and staff skills. In respect to the strengthening of basic health care
services, the project achieved its investment objective by supporting 17 health centers
and 5 prefectoral hospitals with substantial civil works (which represented 54% of
project costs); training of staff (including birth attendants, midwives and community
nurses); equipment; drugs; vehicles; etc. However, from the perspective of the expected
impact on the utilization of health facilities and, more importantly, of the improvement
of health outcomes, this project objective was not fully achieved. In the former case, the
utilization rates of in-patient and out-patient facilities had clearly been improved but had
not attained optimal levels. In the latter case, either the benefits on health status are not
yet conclusive, or are difficult to demonstrate due to lack of relevant information.
10.   Family planning activities in Middle-Guinea, implemented with assistance from
an important national NGO (the Association Guineenne pour le Bien-etre Familial)
started with a KAP survey and continued successfully with the setting up of a specialized
Family Planning clinic, and many activities to sensitize the population on the benefits of
birth-spacing. However, the impact on the contraceptive prevalence rate was
insignificant due to weak political support and the inadequacy, at that time, of primary
health care services (which were not able to deliver contraceptives, carry out health
education activities, etc.).
11.   Cost recovery, to the management of which beneficiaries contributed, had also
attained its objective. At the end of the project, cost recovery for both drugs and services
was operating successfully in health centers and hospitals. However, further scrutiny is
needed regarding the pricing of services and the assessment of its impact on the poor.
12.   The project also included activities to improve the status of women. These were
successfully carried out, although affected by the slow start of their central component
which dealt with consensus-building and policy development. Nonetheless, community-
based activities were very well received by beneficiaries and implemented without delays
E.    Factors affecting project implementation
13.   Difficult geographical conditions, long distances, and poor roads were among the
factors that affected project implementation. They accounted for difficult working
conditions, less than optimal coverage with services in remote areas, and low health
facility attendance. In addition, declining trade earnings and balance of payment deficits



iv
affected the country's macroeconomic situation, and resulted in substantial delays in
availability of counterpart funds. Eventually, counterpart funds sufficed to reach the
most important project goals, while others, such as personnel redeployment and the
establishment of an effective planning and budgeting system within the MS, were only
partially achieved.
F.    Bank and Borrower performance
14.   Bank performance during project preparation was highly satisfactory, although
the design of the project was rather complex. Due to its complexity, the project was
demanding with regard to supervision, which was, however, carried out in a satisfactory
manner. Similarly, the Borrower's overall performance during project preparation and
implementation was also satisfactory, albeit not from the beginning. Notwithstanding the
general sense of success, the project was affected by delays in availability of counterpart
funds (which were more acute during the third and fourth year of the project life).
Difficulties were also experienced with the civil work contracts as well as with the
maintenance of buildings and equipment.
G.    Project outcomes
15.   By project closing, Middle Guinea was benefiting from improved primary health
care and referral services, norms and standards for running health care activities, a
functioning cost recovery scheme, and, at the community level, a mechanism to involve
beneficiaries in the management of health facilities. Moreover, the performance of the
MS and of the technical programs supported by the project was substantially improved.
Overall, the project outcome was satisfactory.
H.    Findings, future operations, and key lessons learned
16.   Findings. Project outcomes were satisfactory in respect to strengthening of
central, regional and prefectoral management capacity. The performance of the three
priority technical programs (MCHIFP, IEC and Nutrition) supported by the project was
also substantially improved. In terms of improving coverage with basic health services,
the project outcome was positive and important. However, the impact on health status
was not obvious and the utilization of health facilities needs further work to attain
optimal levels.
17.   The following factors positively affected the project: (i) Government
commitment to the sector policy, (ii) the interest of regional staff and beneficiaries in
practically all sector components, and (iii) the success of cost-recovery, which generated
funds and helped maintain momentum. Factors that had a negative effect on project
implementation were: project complexity and limited technical expertise, weaknesses in
procurement and financial management, and delays in the release of counterpart funds.



v
18.   Future operations. Prior to the credit closing, a new credit to the sector became
effective. This new project (Health and Nutrition Project; Credit 2574-GUI; December
1994) supports activities in Middle-Guinea and Maritime-Guinea in a similar manner
with the former project. Also under preparation is a project on Population and
Reproductive Health, which specifically aims addresses the issues of family planning,
sexually-transmitted diseases, and AIDS-topics insufficiently addressed by the other
two projects.
19.   Lessons learned. The project provides the following lessons for the health
sector:
The project's rather complex design, compounded by the sector's poor
administrative performance and structural flaws, led to delays in implementation.
It seems, therefore, more appropriate, in situations such as the one in Guinea in
the 1980s, to begin by addressing the sector in its entirety by means of
adjustment or sector-wide investment operations (with strong capacity-building
components).
*   While the overall outcome of cost recovery is favorable, the question of whether
cost recovery affects the accessibility of the poor to health services ought to be
further addressed. This matter ought to receive proper attention in all Bank-
funded projects in low-income countries.
T Low utilization rates are still common features in most in-patient and out-patient
health facilities. This indicates that specific quality control measures and
surveys should be carried out regularly to further improve utilization rates and
health services outcomes.
*   The weak family planning outcomes show that strong, high-level political
support and a convincing effort to sensitize the target are needed from the start
of the project, together with proper primary health services, to boost the demand
for modem contraception.
*   The project's gender activities were started first at the central level, where
countless delays were encountered, while community-based activities were
quickly and was well accepted by beneficiaries. This supports the idea of
developing-in parallel and from the very beginning-community-based
activities, together with more general policy consensus processes.
L.    Project sustainability
20.   No specific measures were taken for the continuation of project activities after the
closing date because the project became, since its inception, part and parcel of the regular
health services activities in Middle Guinea, and was included in the MS's budgets and
plans. Limited financial support for a few selective activities which had been started



vi
under the project (such as vaccines and iodine capsules) was included in a new IDA-
financed project. However, the availability of financial resources should remain a matter
of concern should the project's operations be maintained at the same level in the future.
This will ultimately depend on the country's overall macroeconomic performance, the
sector's budget allocation, and the capacity to generate funds through cost recovery.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1837-GUI)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Project objectives
1.    The overall objective of the project was to improve the health status of the
population and, in particular, of vulnerable groups by expanding coverage of low cost
health services in Middle-Guinea and improving sector performance. The three main
specific objectives of the project were to: (a) develop planning and management capacity
of the Ministry of Health and strengthen priority technical programs (MCH/FP, IEC and
Nutrition); (b) strengthen financial and operational management, and develop basic
health care services in Middle Guinea; and (c) develop and evaluate cost-recovery
activities in Middle Guinea.
2.    The project was implemented by the MS through the provision of technical
assistance; fellowships; training of trainers; local training; civil works for the
rehabilitation of health facilities, equipment, vehicles, drugs and consumables; as well as
the financing of operating costs on a declining basis, as applicable. The project gave
support to:
(a)   Institutional development of the MS where: (i) management and support
functions were to be strengthened, with emphasis on planning and resource
management, and particularly on financial management; and (ii) selective
technical programs, such as Mother and Child Health/Family Planning
(MCH/FP), and Health Education (EPS) and Nutrition were to be supported by
upgrading staff skills, and equipping and providing financing for selective
priority activities.
(b)   Development of health sector operations in Middle Guinea where: (i)
financial and management capacities of regional and prefectoral staff were to be
strengthened, and mechanisms to involve beneficiaries in the management of
health services (such as local health committees) were to be set up, and (ii) basic
health services were to be strengthened.
(c)   Upgrading the skills of health personnel through health care and
management training programs for staff of all levels.



2
(d)   Improving financing and financial management, and introducing cost
recovery.
3.    The objectives of the project were clearly formulated and were in line with the
policy adopted by the Government at the first National Health Conference in 1984, which
identified the development of primary health services as the main priority for the sector.
The cost-recovery component was in line with the Bamako Declaration, signed by all
African countries in 1987.
4.    The project, being the first IDA-financed operation in the health sector in Guinea,
presented a number of potential risks. The risks-and the respective actions to remedy
them-were clearly identified. However, the relatively weak capacity in the health
administration and irregular release of counterpart funds eventually led to
implementation delays. The monitoring system, developed during the course of the
operation, allowed the identification of problems as soon as they were experienced and
adjustments to project activities were made, when necessary. A certain degree of
complexity in the project design, which: (i) involved many program areas; (ii) supported
activities at all levels of the health delivery system; and (iii) implied the participation of
several international agencies (AfDB, FAO, UNICEF, USAID, WHO) and of one major
NGO (AGBEF), was responsible for the demanding supervision work and some
difficulties with project management experienced by both the Borrower and the Bank.
B.    Achievement of project objectives
5.    Project objectives were relevant to the Government's new policy and the situation
in the sector. They were clearly identified and defined in the SAR and no major changes
were necessary or effected during implementation. Although with a certain delay, all
major project objectives were achieved.
6.    During the project implementation, activities were developed along the lines of
the MS's fourteen programs (a list of the programs is presented in Appendix C 1). This
offered the advantage of project activities being executed, supervised and reprogrammed
by the national staff concerned, under the coordination of the MS' s Secretary General
and with support from the Project Unit (UGP) (rather than separate operations run by the
Project Unit, itself). Likewise, the programs involved personnel at all levels of
responsibility, from policy makers at the MS and regional levels to those carrying out
field activities, who participated in the implementation, assessment, review and
adjustment of activities as required. The project did not include quantified outcome
objectives.
7.    The project achieved its objectives and contributed substantially to the
strengthening of the financial and management capacity of the Ministry of Health. As a
result, the Ministry of Health's administrative structure was changed to better reflect the



3
sector policy and its emphasis on primary health care; a plan to redeploy the health
personnel was approved; a computerized human resource data-base was set up; a policy
concerning the training and development of human resources was developed; and a
policy for building and equipment maintenance was designed and endorsed. The sector
also developed a Three-year Rolling Plan and introduced in the analysis of health
expenditures new dimensions, such as the breakdown per level of services (primary,
secondary, tertiary, and administration); and improved the monitoring of recurrent non-
salary expenditures, with emphasis on drugs and maintenance.
8.    The technical programs encompassed by the project (MCH/FM, IEC and
Nutrition) were supported-inter-alia-by training, equipping, and consultant services.
All project objectives of this component were achieved.
(a)   As a result, the Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning
Program was able to develop its strategy for the sector, including guiding
documents for regional and prefectoral staff on antenatal and postnatal care, on
family planning activities ,and on MCH/FP program management.
(b)   The Information, Education and Communication Program (Health
Education) developed, with support from the project, a KAP survey on the
sector's priority problems; elaborated an IEC national policy; and disseminated
information through audio-visual materials and the rural radio network on
nutrition, family planning, hygiene, immunizations, and disease prevention for
the most prevalent conditions.
(c)   The Nutrition Program received support to carry out a nutrition survey
on the 0-5 year-old children in Middle Guinea; to develop a community-based
intervention strategy; to introduce growth monitoring; and to develop and
implement a nutrition education program which helped disseminate to rural
communities basic nutrition principles, advocate local production of healthy food
and proper preparation of weaning foods, and explained oral rehydration
techniques.
9.    At regional and prefectoral level, the project supported the development of
management skills through local training and fellowships on public health, health
services administration and disease management; provided vehicles and equipment,
including computers and computer training; rehabilitated the building of the Regional
Health Directorate (Kindia); and provided support to Prefectoral Health Directorates,
such as funds for supervision missions.
10.   The health services in Middle Guinea benefited from a substantial support: 17
health centers and 5 prefectoral hospitals were built or rehabilitated (about 54% of total
project costs), equipped, furnished, and provided with medicines; and their respective
personnel were trained and received proper supervision. There were, however, two
aspects in which the project achieved less than initially foreseen: (a) the community



4
participation, estimated at 30% of the cost of civil works at the time of the appraisal, was
below this expectation and was limited to health centers (this was due to the fact that (i)
proper mechanisms to involve communities in hospital-related matters were not in place
and proved difficult to set up, (ii) communities started also to contribute to cost-recovery,
which, again, started first in health centers, and, (iii) more generally, because of
economic problems); and (b) the project included in the contracts equipment maintenance
and spare parts, but failed to establish from the beginning preventive maintenance for
buildings, equipment, and vehicles. This issue started to be addressed towards the end of
the project, and the national maintenance plan, which is now available, will receive
support from a second IDA credit to the sector.
11.   Family planning activities, conducted in Middle Guinea with the assistance from
an NGO, i.e., the Association Guin&enne pour le Bien-etre familial (AGBEF), consisted
of the construction and equipping of a specialized family planning clinic at Labe, and of
numerous activities to sensitize the population (including religious, political and
administrative leaders) which led to a sharp increase in knowledge on modem
contraceptive means in the population (from a few percentage points at the base line to
nearly 70% at the end of the project). However, results in contraceptive prevalence rates
were insignificant due to the late and unsyncronized development of primary health
services in the area, and to delays in the development of a country-wide, IEC campaign.
12.   The training component of the project was carried out successfully. Fourteen
fellowships (for a total of 77 person-months) were granted to the personnel of the
Ministry of Health for training in public health management and health administration;
37 staff from regional and prefectoral facilities were trained abroad (for a duration of 19
person-months), and 135 health workers received local training.
13.   There is proof that the project contributed to the provision of better health care
services to the people in Middle Guinea, e.g., the immunization coverage of children
during the first year of age rose from 5% to 55%; the ante-natal consultations from 3% to
40%; the consultations at health centers were increased by about 29%; and the hospital
bed utilization raised from 11% to about 40%. However, the utilization of services is not
yet commensurate to the investment. There are also insufficient data to substantiate an
improvement in health status indicators. Moreover, a few indicators in Middle Guinea
are still comparing poorly with national averages. This is a matter of concern and should
be properly addressed with the opportunity of other operations. The situation can be
explained, in part, by the fact that more time is needed to markedly improve health
outcome indicators, the region was selected due to its poor base line situation, and the
project covered only about 20% of the region's population (while the indicators are
estimates for the entire region). Due to this situation, this objective is considered not
totally achieved.
14.   The cost-recovery program achieved its objectives. The system is in place for
both drugs and services, and in health centers and hospitals. It needs, however, further
analysis and adjustment. The question of pricing for drugs and services, the latter



5
especially at hospitals, and its impact on the poor (which, in the situation of a society
with little savings, is always important) needs to receive proper attention in the future.
Also showing a promising start was the participation of beneficiaries in project activities
and health facility management, although at the date of this report, the legislation
necessary to institutionalize this process is still pending approval.
15.   The Project Unit (UGP), after an initial period of weakness, improved its
performance and its ability to coordinate various project components; make use of the
support from other partners; organize operational studies; and provide supervision and
support, as required. It gradually became a coordinator of activities developed, managed,
and implemented by various MS directorates, and regional and district staff.
16.   The achievement of objectives aiming to improve health status (due to the
project's emphasis on rural areas and primary health care) and of the project component
dealing with the promotion of women (which included income-generating activities for
underserved population groups) were also a contribution to poverty alleviation. The
decentralization of management responsibilities to the regional, prefectoral and village
levels, together with the strengthening of primary health care services and the set up of
cost recovery, should be considered among the project's accomplishments in critical
and-at that time-sensitive areas.
C.    Major factors affecting the project
17.   During its implementation, the project was affected by a number of factors which
may be grouped as follows:
(a)   Factors not generally subject to government or sector control. The
country's macroeconomic situation had suffered from declining trade earnings
and balance of payment deficits linked to the world economic recession. This
resulted in a lack of local counterpart funds affecting, in several instances, the
smooth running of the project. Difficult working conditions-due to the
geographical situation of the rural area covered by the project, poor roads and
communication means, and, generally-speaking, weak infrastructure
development-contributed to problems with staff redeployment and logistics, and
were also responsible for the heavy wear and tear on equipment. Long distances
and poor roads, difficult for health workers and patients alike, also account for
incomplete coverage at the outreach, and for low health facility utilization rates.
(b)   Factors generally subject to government control. Inadequate
disbursements of counterpart funds were often responsible for delays of various
activities, such as training and supervision. This occurred sometimes due to lack
of liquidity on the Government's side, but lengthy procedures requiring the
participation of three ministries for the release of funds also played a negative
role. However, the Government honored its obligations in the very last phase of
the project life and, eventually, the counterpart funds permitted the achievement



6
of all important project activities, although with some delay. Other elements
affecting some of the project objectives included the partial achievement of the
strongly recommended health personnel redeployment plan. This is related to
more general questions of public sector human resources policy, poor economic
development in some rural areas, and insufficient incentives to health providers to
work in remote areas. The inability on the part of MS, from the beginning, to
establish an effective system for planning, budgeting, and procurement was
another reason for delays in the achievement of some activities.
D.    Project sustainability
18.   All project activities have become part and parcel of the regular govemmental
operations, and are already included in the MS's plans and budgets. There is also
evidence of good will, shared by those having policy and technical responsibilities, not
only for the project results to be maintained but also to extend them. However, in order
for the project's achievements to survive and to be consolidated after the closing of the
project, many factors ought to be considered. One such factor is the availability of
financial resources in the future. This is difficult to forecast, as it depends on
developments in other sectors, the country's overall macroeconomic situation, and
GOG's willingness to allocate a relevant budget to the sector. However, if cost recovery
continues to contribute to the sector ( see Appendix C2), it could, in part, ensure financial
sustainability. Secondly, Government action regarding the regular supply of drugs and
other consumables at acceptable prices will be important for the success of cost recovery
in the future. Both cost recovery and the question of the sector budget allocation are
being addressed under a new IDA (PSN) credit to the sector, with the support of the
European Union and the French Ministry of Cooperation.
19.   Regarding the Mother and Child Health/Family Planning (MCH/FP) program,
apart from its successful implementation within the project, it continues to be among the
sector priorities and will also receive external support in the future from all major
donors. Activities performed under the Health Education (EPS) and Nutrition programs
are well established and accepted by the beneficiaries, and are included in the new IDA
credit (PSN) with a view to extending them countrywide. The assignment of some key
personnel of this program to other responsibilities is a matter of concern which should be
monitored and discussed with the Government, with the opportunity of the new project.
The strengthening of this unit is currently being addressed by MS. Some programs
launched by the project in Middle Guinea-in view of the multifaceted activities and
their far-reaching goals-will also benefit from further support, in the context of a new
credit. More generally, the career paths of the staff trained by the project, and the results
of the re-deployment plan should also be monitored and evaluated regularly.
E.    Bank performance
20.   IDA missions visited Guinea starting in March 1985 to support the Government
of Guinea, and to prepare the project which was presented to Board in July 1987 and



7
became effective on March 11, 1988. The assistance during project preparation provided
by the Bank was highly satisfactory. This was, however, a considerable effort, which
included 134 staff-weeks delivered before effectiveness and consultant support for about
US$340,000, necessary because of the complexity of the project and the Borrower's
inexperience with such operations.
21.   The Bank's performance during project implementation was satisfactory. The
project was demanding with regard to supervision activities to be carried out by the task
manager, with the support of other Bank staff or ad hoc consultants. The follow-up of
supervision was adequate and, in some instances, a firm attitude and a more formal
approach was used, as required, to obtain conditionality observance by the Borrower.
These occasions, however, did not affect the good working relations between the
Borrower and IDA.
22.   Last but not least, IDA's second investment credit (PSN)-designed on the basis
of the first project, and aiming at expanding coverage and improving the quality of health
and nutrition services-is an expression of IDA's and Borrower's mutual satisfaction,
and of their perception of good performance during project implementation.
F.    Borrower performance
23.   The work initiated in 1986 by a national project preparation team appointed by
MS was satisfactory. This work benefited from the active participation of beneficiaries
and local authorities. Borrower's commitment to the project during project preparation
and implementation, and its ability to take corrective measures, should be noted.
Workshops, organized by UGP and attended by MS directors of programs and field
workers, proved to be a most appropriate instrument for assessing the project's
performance, and for planning actions for the coming year, taking into account the
realities of the field and the results thus far achieved.
24.   During the course of the project, problems with availability of counterpart funds,
especially in the third and fourth year, accounted for delays in implementing local
training programs and some other activities. Civil works were substantially delayed due
to difficulties in writing acceptable tender documents and in following IDA procurement
procedures. Moreover, inadequate technical staff at UGP and the Directorate for
Infrastructure, Equipment and Maintenance (DIEM) led to unsatisfactory performance by
contractors (and, in one instance, resulted in a court case). Regarding in-service training,
this subject did not always receive, on the part of the MS, the attention it deserved.
25.   The Borrower's performance in the technical programs supported by the project
was illustrated by the ability to coordinate rather complex operations, with support from
several other agencies (AfDB, FAO, UNICEF, USAID, WHO), and by the reasonable
achievement of the technical program objectives. Further support and attention is,
however, needed to consolidate these achievements and strengthen these programs.



8
26.   Efficient coordination by the Project Managemcnt Ujn t (IJGP), especially during
the project's second phase, allowed the project to run smoothly and to finally disburse
the entire credit, and contributed to the achievement of project objectives in a satisfactory
manner. Thus, Borrower's performance during project implementation was uneven, but
satisfactory overall.
G.   Assessment of outcomes
27.   The project achieved all of its major objectives, in spite of its complex design,
and difficult working conditions of a traditional society being confronted with economic
stringency and political change. The key project results were: (a) primary health care,
supported by referral services, was made available to the population; (b) sector
management was improved; (c) important progress was made in decentralizing decision-
making to regions and districts; and (d) a cost recovery system and the participation of
beneficiaries in decision-making were in place at the project closing. Therefore, on
balance, it can be concluded that the project's overall outcome was satisfactory. The
shortcomings experienced by some of the programs, such as, delays in implementation,
problems with drug supply, or poor outcome of the family planning component are being
corrected and addressed by means of a current IDA project, and by a forthcoming
population and reproductive health project.
H.   Future operations
28.   Project activities have become an integral part of the public sector operations in
Middle Guinea. A current project (Health and Nutrition) continues to support activities
in other districts in Middle Guinea and also develops similar activities in Maritime
Guinea. Based on the lessons learned from the project, the nutrition, EEC and basic
health services are among the main thrusts of the current project, together with matters,
such as cost recovery, improvement of utilization rates of health facilities, and the
implementation of the maintenance policy.
29.   The low achievement of the Family Planning Program's outcomes and the more
recent concern with AIDS and sexually-transmitted disease epidemics will be addressed
by a new IDA-funded project on Population and Reproductive Health, currently under
preparation.
L.    Key lessons learned
30.   As expected, the seven and a half years of project implementation occasioned a
number of lessons for future operations in low-income countries:
General lessons
(a)   Contrary to the situation in the education sector (where broad structural
problems were first addressed by a sector adjustment operation, and weaknesses



9
in sector capacity by smaller-scale investment projects with important capacity-
building components), in health, the Bank started its assistance by means of an
investment operation, which was somewhat ambitious for the developmental
stage of the sector. As a result, the project's rather complex design, compounded
by the sector's poor administrative performance and structural flaws, led to delays
in implementation and postponement of the closing date. It seems, therefore,
more appropriate, in situations such as the one in Guinea in the 1 980s, to begin by
addressing the sector in its entirety by means of adjustment or sector-wide
investment operations (with strong capacity-building components).
(b)   The health sector proved to be a motivated partner, capable of markedly
improving its performance towards the end of the project life. However, while at
the beginning, project implementation was affected by the mismatch between
sector capacity and project requirements, during the last years it became clearer
that developments which were not subject to sector control were increasingly
slowing down the implementation of the project. This was the case, for instance,
with problems encountered with decentralization of authority to districts,
counterpart-funding, and staff re-deployment. It is fair to mention that most of
these matters were identified from the beginning, and some of them were
addressed by means of project conditionalities and legal covenants. Nonetheless,
the experience gained with this project demonstrates that the importance of the
overall political, economic and social context should not be underestimated.
Lessons related to project components
(c)   Cost recovery. At the time of the project preparation, cost recovery was
a new concept, with a questionable feasibility in the political and social
environment in Guinea, and with which the Borrower had no practical
experience. While the overall outcome of this component is favorable, the
question of whether cost recovery affects the accessibility of the poor to health
services ought to be further addressed. This matter is of an outstanding
importance in low-income countries, and ought to be included in beneficiary
surveys and monitored regularly during project implementation.
(d)   Hospital bed occupancy and use of out-patient facilities. In spite of
improvements in services and in availability of drugs, low utilization rates are
still common features applying to most in-patient and out-patient health facilities.
The relatively high prices of services and drugs, and-at times-irregular drug
supply may be at the origin of this situation, as is the (still low) quality of care.
However, this is an unexpected finding (it was assumed that the measures taken to
improve quality and coverage with services would suffice to substantially
increase the utilization rates), which indicates that specific quality control
measures and surveys to gauge the quality of services dispensed by health centers
and hospitals should be carried out regularly to further improve utilization rates
and health services outcomes.



10
(e)   Mother and Child Health and Family Planning (MCH/FP). The weak
part of this program relates to family planning outcomes, which were not
commensurate to the investments made by the project. The lesson was that
strong, high-level political support and a convincing IEC effort to sensitize the
target population on matters related to the benefits of birth spacing and
reproductive health, preferably prior to project effectiveness, are needed to boost
the demand for modem contraception. Not less important is to also, in a timely
manner, develop proper primary health services, able to discharge good quality
family planning services and to meet consumers' demands in a satisfactory
manner.
(f)    Gender issues. Activities concerning the improvement of the status of
women started at central level and their achievement took a much longer time
than expected, due to political sensitivities and social implications for which the
Government was not ready. Towards the end of the project, they continued at
community level where, somewhat unexpectedly, they were from the beginning
very well accepted (a fact which helped reduce the delays in implementation).
This happened because of the income-generating component, but also due to the
interest generated by sensitization activities on topics such as hygiene, disease
prevention, and family planning. This lesson supports the idea of better studying
and assessing the complexity of cultural and social issues at the project
preparation stage and of developing, in parallel and from the very start of a
project, community-based activities, together with more general policy and
concensus development processes with decision makers and politicians.
Lessons related to project management
(g)   The Project Management Unit played a key role in the success of the
project. While the UGP was needed-as this project was the first IDA operation
in the sector-it appears necessary for further operations to more fully use the
MS directorates, and regional and district capacities, and to limit UGP's functions
to mainly three elements: coordination, monitoring and reporting.



PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES






11
Table 1: Summary of assessments
A. Achievement of                  Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
obiectives                         (1)             ($)              (1)              (,)
Macro policies                      O       0                       0                 0
Sector policies                    0               0                0                 0
Financial objectives                0              0                0                 0
Institutional development           0                               0                 0l
Physical objectives                 0               0                0                0
Poverty reduction                   0       0                        0                0
Gender issues                       0              E0               0                 0
Other social objectives             0               0               0                 0
Environmental objectives            0               0               0                 0M
Public sector management            0               0D               0                0
Private sector development          0               0               0D                0
Other (specify)                     0              0                0                 03
B. Proiect sustainabilitv             Likely                  Unlikely                 Uncertain
(/)                      (1/)                      (1/)
C. Bank performance                    satisfactory         Satisfactory               Deficient
(,)                     (/)                       (/)
Identification                     0                        0                         0
Preparation assistance             0                        0                         0
Appraisal                          0                        0                         0
Supervision                        0                        0                         0
Hiihlv
D. Borrower merformance                      satisfactory    Satisfactorv    Deficient
(/)           (V)              (1)
Preparation                                  0               0              0
Implementation                               0               0              0
Covenant compliance                          0               0              0
Operation (if applicable)                    0               0              0
Highlv                                           Highlv
E. Assessment of outcome              satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactorv   unsatisfactory
0                0                0                 0
N.A. This project did not foresee quantified outcome indicators.



12
Table 2: Related Bank loans/credits
Loan/credit title         Purpose            Year of approval             Status
Preceding operations           n.a. a)
Following operations
1. Health and         Improvement of                  1994           On-going.
Nutrition Project   quality and coverage                          Closing is scheduled
Cr.- 2574-GUI      of health services,                            for year 2002.
and nutrition.
Strengthening sector
management.
2. Population and      Strengthening of                              Under identification.
Reproductive       family planning and
Health             MCH services.
Improvement of
reproductive health
outcomes.
) This Health Development Project was the first project in the sector.
Table 3: Project timetable
Steps in Project Cycle    |     Date                 Date        |            Date
planned              revised           Actual/Latest estimate
Identification (Executive                                                     March 1985
Project Summary)
Preparation                                                              February-October 1986
Pre-appraisal                                                                August 1986
Appraisal                                                                   December 1986
Negotiations                                                                Mav 18-19, 1987
Board presentation                                                            Julv 7, 1987
Signing                                                                   November 16, 1987
Effectiveness               Februarv 16, 1988    March 11, 1988             March 11, 1988
Midterm review (if                                                            April 1991
applicable)
Project completion          June 30, 1993        June 30, 1995               June 30, 1995
Credit closing              December 31, 1993    June 30, 1995               April 17, 1996



13
Table 4: Loan/Credit disbursements: cumulative estimated and actual (millions)
FY88        FY89        FY90         FY91         FY92         FY93          FY94        FY95      FY96
Appraisal
estimates
US$        2.2          5.3         10.3        14.6         17.5          19.3         19.7
SDR         1.7         4.1         7.9         11.2          13.4         14.8         15.1
Actual a)
US$        1.6          3.2         4.4          8.9         13.1          15.9         19.4        20.3      20.6
SDR         1.1         2.3         3.2          6.5          9.5          11.5         14.1        14.7       15.0
Actual as % of
estimate
US$        65%         57%         41%          58%          71%           78%          93%        103%       105%
SDR        50%         43%        31%/045%      54%          60%           72%          97%         99%
Date of final
disbursement b)
a) as of December 14, 1995
b) expected early   .. azy 1996
Table F; Key indicators for Project implementation
Key implementation indicators in
SAR/ President's Report                        Unit                           Estimated                          Actual
Physical facilities
Regional hospital                       hospital                             1                                 1
Prefectoral hospital                    hospital                                                               4
Health Center (urbaii)                    H.C.                               5                                 5
Health Center (rural)                     H.C.                               12                               12
External training                             weeks                              174                              324
Local training                            number of staff                        752                              707



14
Table 6: Key indicators for Project operation
No specific indicators were foreseen in the SAR
Table 7: Studies included in Project
Study            Purpose as defined at Appraisal/redefined          Status                       Impact of study
1.      Organization of integrated primary health care (PHC) services    Completed   Used for development of health infrastructure
2.      Development of Health Education Program                   Completed   Used for development of IEC
3.      Cost-recovery system for the PDSS project                 Completed   Used for developing cost-recovery in the PDSS districts
4.      Study on hospital renovation/extension works needs in Mid-  Completed   Used for identifying PDSS funding for hospitals
Guinea
5.      Study on works needed at Health Centers, Regional Directorate    Completed   Used for identifying PDSS funding for health centers,
and Maintenance Service                                               regional directorate and maintenance services.
6.      Textbook for training of instructors of Centres de Formation  Completed   Integration of nutrition and family planning in CFF
feminine (CFF)                                                         activities
7.      Study on "functional alphabetization" at CFF              Completed   Used for developing literacy activities
8.      Food and nutrition survey in Mid-Guinea                   Completed   Set up a nutrition surveillance system in CS and communes
9.      Survey on family planning practices and perceptions       Completed   Assisted the integration of FP services in the PHC services.
10.     Study to support women groups in Mid-Guinea villages      Completed   Assistance to 668 woman groups
I.     Beneficiary assessment                                    Completed  Involvement of users of health services in management.
Better knowledge of community needs.



15
Table 8A: Project costs
Appraisal Estimate (GNF millions)         A Actual/Latest Estimate(SDR nmllions) a)
Physical and    Physical and    Actual      Physical and    Physical and    Actual
Components                                      price           price          costs         price          price         costs
contingencies   contingencies               contingencies   contingencies
excluded       excluded                    excluded a)     excluded a)
1.   INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT OF
MSAS
(a)   Strengthening of planning and management        508.0           676.5         892.2           1.0             1.3          1.0
(b)   Strengthening of management and                 472.0          628.5         1,036.0          0.9             1.2          1.2
administration of priority units
SUBTOTAL                                        980.0          1.3051.1       1,928.2         1.8             2.4          2.2
2.  DEVELOPMENT OF HEALTH SECTOR
OPERATIONS IN MIDDLE GUINEA
(a)   Strengthening of maniagement capabilities in    380.9           507.2         640.5           0.7            1.(           0.7
support of decentralization
(b)  Strengthening of basic health services          4,255.4         5,666.7       8.319.7          8.0            10.6          9.7
(c)  Upgrading skills of health personnel              58.4           77.8          376.1          0.1             0.1           0.4
(d)  Testingofcostrecoveryschemesand                   31.8           42.3          221.6           0.1            0.1           0.3
improving financial management
SUBTOTAL                                       4,726.6         6,294.2       9,558.0          8.9            11.8          11.1
3.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND                           854.0          1,137.2       1,850.0          1.6            2.1           2.2
ADMINISTRATION
4.   REPAYMENT OF PPF                                 370.1           492.8         375.3           0.7            0.9           0.4
TOTAL BASE COST                                 6,930.7        9,229.4       13,711.6         13.0           17.3          16.0
Physical contingencies                          611.8                                         1.1
Price contingencies                             1,686.8                                       3.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST                              9,229.4                      13,711.6         17.3                         16.0
On the basis of SDR1.00 for US$1.30 at the time of Appraisal



16
Table SB: Project Financing
GNF (millions)                    SDR (millions)                     USD (millions)
Source          Appraisal         Actual          Appraisal          Actual          Appraisal         Actual a)
estimates                         estimates                          estimates
IDA                  8,080.5          12,310.8           15.1              15.1             19.7
Government            820.4            1,224.1            1.5              0.7               2.0
Beneficiaries         328.1             176.7             0.6              0.1               0.8
TOTAL                9,229.0          13,711.6            17.2             16.0             22.5
a) Figure in USD is not available (accounting system was established only for GNF and SDR)
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No attempt was made at appraisal to estimate net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return (ERR). Therefore, there is
no baseline against which to compare current estimates. Furthermore, no parameters were given at appraisal to cost effectiveness.



17
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Description of covenant                                              Comments                                             Comments
Borrower shall open and matntam a specIal
account in dollars in a conimercial bank.
Closing date shall be 12-31-93.                                           Closing date extended to June 30,1995.              Closing date extended to June 30, 1995.
Borrower shall provide ronuterpasi funding.
Borrower to maintain a revolving account                                  Irregular replenishment of revolvmng account.       Irregular replenishment of revolving account.
Difficulties occur in 89, 90, 93 and 94.            Difficulties occur in 89, 90, 93 and 94.
Bofrower shall maintain a Project Management Unmt                         PMtT m place. Progressive transfer of tasks to      PMU in place. Progressive transfer of tasks to
and ensure its staffing.                                                  program directors and regions.                      program directors and regions.
The Borrower shall marntaui a Techuncal Coordination                      TCC chaired by the Secretary General.               TCC chaired by the Secretary General.
t'ommittee chaired by the Cabinet Director.                               Meetings held irregularly.                          Meetings held uiregularly.
Borrower to Issue and implement a pohcy                                   Drug for health centers are being purchased with funds   Drug for health centers are beLng purchased with funds
and plan of action for drug supply.                                       generated by cost recovery.                         generated by cost recovery.
Submit to IDA expenditures for health sector of                          Provided irregularly before 93. Agreement to present  Provided irregularly before 93. Agreement to present
previous years and proposed investment and                                budget and expenditures in the form of three-year   budget and expetnhtures in the form of three-year
recurrent budgets for next year by September 30                          rohllg plan                                          rolling plan
of each year.
Submit to IDA a staff redeployment program.                              Provided iregularly. Agreement to present a complete   Provided iregularly. Agreement to present a complete
yearly by September 30.                                                   plan for 1995. Also a condition for Health and       plan for 1995. Also a condition for Health and
Nutition Project.                                   Nutrtinon Project.
Submit to IDA a report on implemeiitatmon of drug                        Essential drug policy available and implemented.     Essential drug pohcy avaLlable and implemented.
policy, annually by September 30.                                        Reporting to tDA missing                             Reporting to IDA missing
Submit to TDA plan for womiei aid commumity based                        Activities rescheduled to allow completion by        Activities rescheduled to allow completion by
actvities for following year, annually by September 30.                   Closing Date.                                        Closnmg Date.
Submit to [DA traliiuig progrant for next year and
evaluation annually by September 30.
liold donor coordination meeting.                                         MeetLngs held inregularly.                          Meetings held irregularly.
Recover cost ot drugs and services. Open account                          Cost recovery operations in all Guinea starting 88 for    Cost recovery operations in al Guinea starting 88 for
to deposit proceeds.                                                     the CS and 92 tor hospitals.                        the CS and 92 tor hospitals.
Submit to IDA plait for cost recovery.                                   Plan submitted.                                      Plan submitted.



18
Orligial             Revised
t'ese.int         Present         1aini-lnet          fulritlttienl                     Description of c-v.nani                                            (romnents
Section                           type            'slams            d.te                 dtel
3O8 ta)(ivi                       2, 5         C                                                       Sbillto DlA evaluatbon ocostc coAvory                      Theaniiul- repeil olPDSS provide a updat ol cost
c'very dclvltie
3.31 O   h                         2           (                                                         oounds geaesatl.d tieit cost vecovely to bo .,.l 1,rr     tiptlemuenited
h,gs and ioit-salaSy ie,urent erxpeo dituies ad
to be depotsilc in aCeoutut.
3 o9                               13          C                                                       IDA to approve cwuididates tlo ttaikttg dalaildd
tIlh.owes to eresuic 1lst Irained AMai s Cittin
aassgad to teats.
4 0t                                t          s t                                                     Adeipote iecoid said dCCeuoiilt                            Fiidticiat sisanageniesit wa poOI
4 ol (b)  ii .,,il it               I          1                                                        to aIdit ach co-unl wid provide 1t)A with opoit &
Ililbrlolibno
4 01 t t                                                                                               A unnat records o     -t audit of e-penidiltiies trout
Ciedil Acooln.
4 02                               5           c                                                       Facilitie  lo bh tissasseed fros like Credit to be protiesy   M iilntenace prebtnnis ac isiscreasing.
silUaagid astd siusasitdasisd
4 03                               9                                                                   It)A to be elie to eoitiiommsnt on proposdals to ic-rgasize
Ms.
'    'omptied wilh
t'D    Compliance aler delay
NP'   Nol CiSmisptsed "wil
iP r    uspl..iod witli Patiatly
Covena-t (lss,
I   Acouit i audilt
2    Fisiasiciad pcilotoutisce Igenciaete ievnue (rots beitictimaies
I   Flow and utilhzatiost ot piojecl lwde
4   i ounterpat1 lmidsg
5    Maslageusiil aspects ol tin tkojeri  ol its ex.c..tiiig g.leicy
6    Ilsvsiosuaetiall  covesillasit
7    Involuvtiity iesettlleiesl
x    titdigoiioos peoplc
9    Mioulonng, e v,Cw  -d repolitig
10    issptemeistatto
1I    Sector-a or erossecoral budgeldry or otler resosirne aoiosid
12    Sectot-aj or cro- -setoial regultaoi) / ststioiiali acItiit
13   1 )the,



19
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Borrower complied with all operational manual statementsl
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of               Planned               Revised              Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks       USs       Weeks       USS      Weeks    US$
Through Appraisal        a)          a)         a)         a)     122.8    283.4
Appraisal-Board          a)          a)         a)         a)       11.7     28.5
Board-Effectiveness       a)         a)         a)         a)       a)        a)
Supervision               a)         a)         a)         a)     175.5    488.9
Completion              21.0        34.2       19.8      43.5       10.6     33.5
TOTAL                                                             320.6    834.3
a)    Data not available



20
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions
number                       specialized          l'eiiforniance Raliiig by IType of l'lobleni
month/          of         days in         stalf skills
Supervision               year         persons     the field        represented           ()    D      L     M      F      )    'r  TIA       S      F     FP
start up                  05/1987        1             5        D
start up                   10/1987       2            9         1) (OA                    I      1           2      1
supervision               01/1988        2            28        D, A                      I      1           2      1
follow up                 04/1988         I           9         A
supervision               06/1988        1            3         AO                        I      1           2      2
lilow up                 08/1988         1           7         A
Ibllow up                  10/1988        1           11        A
supervision                12/1988       2            16        D), PIIS                  I      1            2     2
sLpervisioll              04/1989         1           10        I'IIS                     I      1           2      2
supervision                12/1989        1           11        I'IIS                     2     2      3     2      2      2     2      2     2      1     3
supervisio)n              04/1990        2            24        PI'IS, A                  2     2      3     2      2      2     2      2     2      1     3
supervision                11/1990       1            7         PIIS                      2     2      2     2      2     3      2      2     2      1     3
supervision               05/1991        2            28        PI IS, A                  2     2      2     2      2     2      2      2     2      1     2
supervisioln               11/1991       2            14        I'IS, A                   2     2      2     2      3     2      2      2     2    na      2
supervision               02/1992        2            28        PI IS, A                  3     3      3     3      4     2      3      2     2    na      2
supervision               07/1992        2            32        1'IIS, A
supervision               02/1993         1           13        I;S                       2     2      3     2      2      2     3      2     2     na     2
supervision               02/1994        2            14        I'IIS, FS                 2     2      2     2      2      2     3      2     2    na      2
supervision               08/1994        3            30        PIIS, A, FS               S     S      2     2      2      2     2      1     2    na      2
supervision               02/1995        4            52        I'IIS, A, FS, I'IIS       S     S      2     2      2      2     2      1     2    na      2
completion                 11/1995       4            38        IIIIS, IIIS, NS, A
Specializalion:
A=Archilectl lDDemographler; FS= Financial Specialist; NS= Nutrition Specialist; PH1S-Public lhealth Specialist; )A=-Operation Assistant;
Type ol problem lor lPerfifrnance
O-Overall Slalus; D-Developmenl Impact/objectives; 1.=Compliance witli Legal Covenianlts; M-Managemenl; F-Availability of Funds; '=1'rocurement Plrogress;
T=Training Progress; TA=Technical Assistance Progress; S-Sludics Progress; EI-I.nvirorinniental Aspects; ll) +inancial Performance.
I'erobmiance Ratiig
I -Problein ftroe or minor probleims; 2-moderale probleims; 3-major problemis witi solulion underway; 4 major probloms without solution underway; S - salislaclory



Appendix A
Page 1 of 16
GUINEE
Projet de Developpement des Services de Sante
(Credit 1837-GUI)
AIDE-NMEMOIRE
MISSION FINALE ET PREPARATION DU RAPPORT DE FIN D'EXECUTION
DU 26 NOVEMBRE AU 8 DECEMBRE 1995
1.    Une mission de l'IDA composee de M. Jacques Waechter, consultant, architecte, chef de
mission, Mle Alice Lee consultant. specialiste en sante publique et de Ms. Christian Collard et
Concetto Guttuso. consultants. medecins specialistes en sante publique, a sejoume en Guinee du
26 novembre au 8 decembre 1995. La mission a re,u l'appui de la Representation Residente de
la Banque Mondiale a Conakrv et notamment de M. Locatelli, chef de la Mission residente et de
Mme Ann Condy, Chargee des operations. La mission a tenu des seances de travail avec son
Excellence le Dr Kandjoura Drame, Ministre de la Sante, le Dr Ousmane Bangoura, Secretaire
Gn&ral du Minist&e ainsi qu'avec les principaux responsables du Ministere de la Sante et les
representations de l'OMS, de l'Unicef et des ONG avant requ un appui du PDSS. La mission
s'est rendue du ler au 4 Decembre en movenne Guinee oul elle a pu visiter un certain nombre de
formations sanitaires et de services avant ete soutenus par le projet et avoir des entretiens avec les
utilisateurs et beneficiaires de ces realisations.
2.     L 'objectif de la mission etait:
* de passer en revue avec les services concemes les realisations prevues dans le cadre
du Projet de Developpement des Services de Sante (PDSS) et
* -d'evaluer avec les autorites guineennes les resultats acquis dans le cadre des
differentes composantes du projet en vue de la preparation du Rapport de fin
d'execution (RFE) du PDSS.
Objectifs et Composantes du Projet
4.     Le projet avait pour but d'aider le Gouvemement a atteindre les objectifs suivants: (i)
renforcer les movens de planification et de gestion du MS et introduire des mesures destinees a
arneliorer la qualite et 1'efficacite des services de sante de base; (ii) ameliorer les soins de sante
de base en Movenne Guinee; (iii) renforcer la gestion financiere et operationnelle en Movenne
Guin6ee et (iv) tester et evaluer des svstemes de recouvrement des couits.



Appendix A
Page 2 of 16
5.     Le projet comportait deux principaux volets:
I.     Renforcement institutionnel du MS avec les elments:
(a)    Renforcement des services administratifs du MS (planification et gestion);
(b)    Renforcement des services techniques du MS (Services centraux charges des
programmes et services prioritaires. notamment formation sur le tas, activites
PMIIPF, education en matiere de nutrition et de sante);
1I.    Developpement des activites du secteur de la sante en Movenne Guinee avec les
elements:
(a)    Renforcement de la gestion des services regionaux de sante (services financiers
et de gestion au niveau de la Region et de la Prefecture, mise en place de cormites
de sante locaux)
(b)    Renforcement des services de sante de base (remise en etat et reequipement des
installations locales)
(c)    Amelioration des qualifications du personnel de sante (mise en oeuvre de
programmes de formation a l'attention du personnel regional et de terrain a tous
les niveaux);
(d)    Amelioration de la gestion financiere et du recouvrement des coiits (mise en
place, evaluation et amelioration des systemes de recouvrement des couats dans
les h6pitaux de prefecture ainsi que dans les centres de sante urbains et ruraux,
amelioration de la planification et de la gestion des ressources financieres
locales).
Realisation des objectifs et des activites du Projet
6.     La realisation des objectifs et des activites du projet s'est faite au travers de la mise en
oeuvre de Programmes d'action elabores par les services interesses du MS au niveau central,
regional et prefectoral sous la coordination d'un Comite conjoint de coordination (CCC)
specialement etabli a cet effet par le Gouvemement. La mise en oeuvre du projet etait sous la
responsabilite -des services centrau.x du ministere pour ce qui conceme les programmes
nationaux. La coordination et la gestion de l'ensemble des activites du projet ont ete assures par
I'Unite de gestion du projet (UGP). La gestion et la coordination des activites du projet au niveau
regional etaient de la responsabilite de l'inspection regionale de la sante de Labe et des cinq
directions prefectorales de la sante. Une supervision trimestrielle et approfondie de l'etat
d'avancement du projet etait assuree par le CCC.
7.     Le projet, initialement presente et chiffre sous la forme de deux volets regroupant 6
composantes principales ainsi que la mise en place de l'UGP a finalement ete redecoupe (a partir
des 29 tables du Costab descriptives des elements constitutifs du projet) en 14 differents
prograrnmes a mettre en oeuvre. Une actualisation reguliere de ces programmes a ete realisee au
fur et a mesure de l'avancement du projet a l'occasion d'ateliers de programmation annuels
regroupant [ ensemble des intervenants et beneficiaires et d'une evaluation a mi parcours
effectuee en avril 1991. L'absence d'une mise a jour des documents de reference du projet
(composantes presentees dans le rapport d'evaluation et tableaux detailles du Costab) a rendu



Appendix A
Page 3 of 16
laborieuse voir impossible toute analvse comparative detaill&e des movens mis en oeuvre et de
couits rencontres par rapport aux estimations initiales.
La realisation des programmes.
Programme 1: Renforcement des services charge de la Sante MAfaternelle et Infantile (S?fI) et de la
Plan fication Familiale (PF)
8.     Comme on le sait le PDSS a soutenu un grand programme de formation qui a ete realise tant
a l'etranger que localement le domaine le plus specifiquement appuyv par les activites de fornation
avant ete a juste titre la SMI/PF. De fait, ces formations ont tres nettement contribue d'une part au
developpement au niveau central d'une solide capacite institutionnelle en ces matieres et d'autre part en
Movenne Guinee a la formation des personnels de sante et donc a la mise en place du programme
national PEV/SSP/ME dans la region.
9.     Le projet a en outre appuye la definition de strategies et de normes en matiere de SMI. 11 a
ainsi soutenu les efforts (etudes, enquetes et ateliers) qui ont essentiellement pernis de definir le
contenu et d'elaborer les diverses fiches de suivi en matiere de surveillance pr6natale, d'accouchement
et de suivi de la croissance du jeune enfant. La mission a tout particulierement apprecie la qualite de la
nouvelle fiche prniale et du partogramme que le Projet Sante Nutrition (PSN) envisage d'ailleurs de
reproduire.
10.    Le programme SMI/PF finance par le PDSS peut donc etre considere comme un succes. 11 a
contribue au developpement d'une solide base institutionnelle, essentiellement en matiere de sante
matemelle (suivi prenatal, accouchement et planification familiale) et il a permis la mise en place du
programme PEV/SSP/ME en Movenne Guinee par la formation du personnel de sante regional. Ces
acquis constituent en fait une garantie de succes pour le second programme SNff/PF finance par le
PSN.
Programme 2: Renforcement des services charge de l'Education potr Ia Sante
II.    L'attribution pr&vue de 11% de l'assistance technique et de 25% de la formation exteneure au
secteur de l'Education pour la Sante (EPS) montre a quel point le projet lui avait accorde une
importance primordiale. Cinq personnes de la section chargee de ILEPS ont ainsi ete formees a
l'&tranger. Elles sont a ce jour pour la plupart fonctionnelles au sein de la Division Promotion de la
Sante dont elles dependent. Avant ainsi acquis des competences en la matiere (gestion des programmes
EEC. techniques de communications, production de materiels audio-visuels). la section EPS a eu
l'occasion de realiser quelques activites avec l'appui du PDSS.
12.    On peut ainsi citer l'organisation a Conakrv et a Labe de deux ateliers de formation en
techniques de production de materiels audio-visuels pour les joumalistes et les agents de
developpement communautaire, la formation d'agents du PEV et d'agents de la Radio Rurale de Labe
en techniques de communication, la realisation de deux etudes Connaissance-Attitude-Pratique
(problemes sanitaires prioritaires et allaitement matemel) et l'elaboration avec la Division Alimentation
et Nutrition d'une boite a images sur la nutrition de la mere et de l'enfant.
13.    Quelques problemes ont &te rencontres au cours de l'execution du projet. Tout d'abord il faut
signaler que I'assistance technique n'a probablement pas produit les effets artendus. en partie du fait de



Appendix A
Page 4 of 16
I'absence du chef de la section EPS alors en formation a 1'etranger. Par ailleurs. le PDSS avait
envisage d'equiper la section EPS d'un atelier de production de materiels educatifs. II a finalement, et
probablement tres judicieusement. ete decide de ne pas le realiser. Les ressources financieres prevues a
cet effet ont ainsi ete aff-ectees a un contrat avec Radio Guinee et la Direction de la Radio Rurale, pour
la preparation et la diffusion de messages educatifs sur la sante. La mission a ete informee du fait que
le travail effectue par la radio rurale de Labe a et tres apprecie par les populations de la region.
Programme 3: Renforcement des services charges de la nutrition
14.    Le PDSS a clairement contribue au renforcement institutionnel du service central charge de la
nutrition. n l'a essentiellement fait en participant efficacement a la formation de ses cadres. Trois
personnes ont ainsi obtenu une maitrise en nutrition et deux autres ont participe a un cours sur
l'organisation des enquetes de terrain. L'expertise nationale ainsi developpee par le projet a clairement
permiis la realisation d'un ensemble d'actions menees en matiere de nutrition avec l'appui de divers
financements (PDSS, UNICEF, FAO, USAID, etc).
15.    Parmi ces actions, on peit citer le developpement d'une politique nationale et d'um plan
d'action en matiere de nutrition, la priparation d'un "Manuel pour la formation en Alimentation /
Nutrition des agents de terrain en Guinee", l'laboration avec la section Education pour la Sante (EPS)
d'une boite a image sur la "nutrition de la mere et de l'enfant" et la definition d'un programme national
de lutte contre les troubles dius a la carence en iode. Tout ceci montre bien que l'appui du PDSS a la
Division Alimentation et Nutrition a &te utile. mrnme si l'optirisme de la mission est tempere par le fait
que la plupart des cadres formes par le PDSS viennent d'etre en fait affectes a d'autres postes.
16.    Le PDSS a fnance la realisation d'une enquete nutritionnelle en Movenne Guinee
(ENAMOG). Cette etude a contribue, avec d'autres enqu&es nutritionnelles menees dans le pays, a
developper une bonne connaissance de l'etat nutritionnel de la population guineenne qui sert
maintenant de base a la definition de la politique et des actions a mener en matiere de nutrition.
17.    Finalement. il faut signaler que le PDSS a pennis de tester dans 15 villages des prefectures de
Dalaba et de Labe un nouveau programme qui vise a developper a terme une meilleure prise en charge
par la communaute de sa propre sante. Le programme intitulk "Svsteme dInforrnation A Assise
Communautaire" (SIAC) est lance avec comme sujet le suivi du poids et de la taille des enfants. n1
pourra &re ulterieurement etendu a d'autres problemes de sante.
Programme 4: Renforcemenr des acttvites ONG et Condition feminines (CFFP, AGBEF)
18.    -CFFP- Le developpement du renforcement des activites pour la Promotion Feminine a
ete retarde par plusieurs facteurs dont les plus importants etaient: a) un vide institutionnel initial
au niveau central, et b) le fait que les travaux de rehabilitation des cinq centres de formation, au
niveau provincial. deja demarres avec retard en 1993, ont et brusquement arrit6s car ils n'etaient
pas executes selon les regles de l'art. Cependant, grace a l'institution du "Centre d' appui a l'auto-
formation feminine" (CAAF) des activites de promotion se sont developpds a Labe et dans
d'autres provinces. notamment N'z&rekore. Kindia et Conakry.
19.    L'impact de ce programme dans les domaines de la production et de la commercialisation
est important grace a l'animation conduite par du personnel forme au niveau des CAAF. L'impact
sur les aspects de sante notamment sur la nutrition. M'hygiene et la planification familiale



Appendix A
Page 5 of 16
necessite une evaluation qui est prevue pour Octobre 1996. A cette fin, un guide illustre. finance
par le projet a et elabore par l Institut Pedagogique National.
20.    Lors de sa visite sur le terrain la mission a eu  'occasion de visiter les centres feminins de
Dalaba Lelouma et Labe. Les deux premiers centres sont en voie de rehabilitation et par
consequent n'ont, pas encore, d'activites institutionnelles tandis qu'ils conduisent avec succes des
activites au sein des groupements feminins au niveau des villages.  Les centres ont recu
l'quipement prevu (machines a coudre, brodeuses -avec lesquelles on a des problemes de
fonctionnement- et generateurs) ainsi que les fonds de roulement que les groupements feminins
rembourseront sans taux d'interet sur 12 mois. Les travaux de rehabilitation du CAAF de Labe
seront acheves sous peu et les activites portant sur la formation des jeunes filles aux techniques
de couture, broderie, teinture et saponification v sont conduites avec une participation
nombreuse.
21.    La mission a eu aussi loccasion de visiter deux groupements feminins. (villages de
Madina Goro et Taran), qui s'interessent a l'Flevage de volaille, aux cultures maraicheres, a la
saponification et a la commercialisation de leurs produits.  II convient de noter que les
groupements feminins recoivent aussi des notions de sante, hvgiene, alimentation. nutrition et de
planification familiale. GCrce a la formation reque par les animatrices et a leur enthousiasme, a
l'interet des directrices et a l'intense participation des beneficiaires ce programme a contribue
efficacement a la mise en oeuvre de ces activites complementaires au PDSS. En depit des retards
a I'appui donne par le PDSS aux centres de promotion feminine. la mission a eu l'impression que
les resultats jusqu'a present obtenu sont satisfaisants.
22.    Le principal probleme qui demeure est celui du financement des services des animatrices
qu'il conviendrait de maintenir en place pendant la periode de demarrage de certains groupements
et de premiere reutilisation des fonds de roulement dont le remboursement doit s'operer a partir
de 1996.
23.    -AGBEF- L'Agbef considere comme conclue la premiere etape de ses activit6s menees
en Movenne Guinee depuis 1989, qui ont, au sein du PDSS. touche successivement les leaders
communautaires, les jeunes, les femmes, les corps de securite et les enseignants. Ces activites
etaient, par la sensibilisation des populations, un prelude a lFintgration du planning familial dans
les Soins de Sante Primaires. La deuxieme etape sera developpee par l'AGBEF dans le cadre du
PSN. Une enquete conduite en 1992 par l'AGBEF dans la zone du PDSS, arrive a la conclusion
que "Les donnees recoltees dans les sous-prefectures ont permis d'afficher le paradoxe d'une
sensibilisation non suivie immediatement de prestation de services de planification familiale".
24.    Pendant les visites aux centres de sante et aux h6pitaux. la mission s'est rendue compte
que les movens autorisant les prestations de planification familiale etaient sur place et que dans la
majorite des cas les etablissements etaient aussi bien pourvus. D'un autre cote, I'analyse des
tableaux de monitorage mis a disposition de la mission montrait clairement que tandis que la
disponibilite et l'accessibilite des prestations etait bonnes, la couverture effective etait
negligeable. Le Centre AGBEF de Labe qui a requ l'appui du PDSS de 1989 a 1993, et oil une
coordinatrice est assistee par une sage-femnme et un medecin vacataire, a et tres actif. Depuis
1993 les activites du centre sont beaucoup reduites a cause d'un manque d'appui financiere
regulier.



Appendix A
Page 6 of 16
25.    Une clinique. rattachee au centre. offre des services aux femmes interessees a la
planification familiale. Le Centre a aussi elabore un guide de la pratique contraceptive presente a
la lumiere des principes islamiques et. avec l'aide Canadienne. des guides et manuels tels que le
manuel de sensibilisation a l'usage des leaders communautaires. La mission a eu l'impression
que la creation de "Clubs des Jeunes" par I'AGBEF de Labe ou les jeunes memes deviennent
linstrument le plus important pour la transmission de messages sur la planification familiale aux
autres jeunes pourra surmonter les difficultes rencontrees dans certains milieux oii la
contraception familiale est consideree comme conflictuelle avec les principes de moralite. On
doit admettre avec la coordinatrice de I'AGBEF de Labe que. bien que la sensibilisation ait ete
faite. il reste un grand ecart entre "la connaissance et la pratique".
Programme 5: Renforcement des capacites deformanon continue.
26.    Les divers appuis prevus dans le PDSS pour renforcer la capacite fonctionnelle de la section
chargee de la Formation Continue n'ont pas encore permis d'atteindre a ce jour les objectifs
initialement fixes. Ainsi. aucun dispositif n'est veritablement fonctionnel en mati&e de formation
continuee. Panni les raisons de cette situation, il faut regretter que le PDSS n'ait finalement pas forme,
commne prevu. un expert en pedagogie des sciences de la sante.
27.    On peut toutefois penser que le projet a en fait induit une demarche en ce sens. L'ensemble
des responsables du Ministere de la Sante sont en effet tres concemes par la necessite de developper un
ssteme de fonnation continue. Le projet a largement contribue a cela en aidant le Ministere de la
Sante a elaborer un document de politique en la matiere. II a foumi pour cela une assistance technique
qui fut appreciee et il a egalement permis l'organisation d'enqu&tes sur le tenrain et d'ateliers regionaux
et national sur le sujet. Le document de politique en matiere de formation continue est donc
finalement bien representatif de la problematique et de sa comprehension par les differents acteurs du
secteur de la sante.
28.    L'integration prochaine, au sein d'une meme structure, des aspects relatifs a la formation des
personnels de sante a ceux de la gestion de ces personnels (section formation et gestion des ressources
humaines) devrait permettre de developper les actions de formation continue, non seulement en
fonction des problemes de sante prioritaires ou du niveau de competences des agents de sante, mais
aussi par rapport a une meilleure gestion et a la promotion du personnel. n1 est donc recommande de
suivre avec attention le developpement de ce syst&me de formation continue et d'envisager, si
necessaire. de rechercher un appui exterieur pour I'appuver.
29.    Le recvclage et la formation du personnel recoivent une attention prioritaire specialement
pour les cadres movens et pour ceux qui ont des responsabilites de gestionnaires et de specialiste.
Le type de formation a donner est decide par des ateliers interministeriels et actuellement
l'Assistance Francaise donne une aide substantielle pour la preparation des programmes de
formation.
Programme 6:          Renforcement des capacites de Planification et de Budgerisation
30.    A partir de 1987. le plan triennal a horizon glissant (PTHG) du MS tient compte des
besoins de la planification et de la formation du personnel. nl est interessant de noter que les
multiples activites initiees dans le cadre du PDSS. grice au processus continu de la planification,
ont ete contenues aux 14 programmes actuels. La recolte des statistiques demographiques et de



Appendix A
Page 7 of 16
morbidite au niveau "Centre de Sante", qui sont maintenant elaborees et analvs6es au niveau
local et prefectoral, contribue aussi a la correcte et immediate interpretation des besoins des
beneficiaires. Le personnel qui participe a cette activite recoit une formation specifique a cet
effet.
31.    Un r6le tres important dans la planification des activites est joue par la "carte sanitaire"
qui couvre 1'ensemble du pavs. Sur la base des donnees qui v sont contenues, on pourra
effectivement planifier les besoins en matiere de Centre de Sante, poste de sante et autres
activites en connaissant le nombre des beneficiaires, en localisant les groupements de population,
les itineraires a parcourir, les distances et le relief du territoire.  La mission soutien les
suggestions qui ont et6 faites pour que la carte sanitaire soit completee par des donnees
economiques indiquant le taux de recouvrement des couts qui qualifie la participation financiere
des beneficiaires par localite. Sur la base de la carte sanitaire et aussi de son contenu de nature
epidemiologique on pourra, a terme, atteindre la couvermre totale de la population par les
services de sante. II est estime que les besoins en Centres de sante. a ce jour, sont de 346
rapportes au nombre des sous-prefectures et de 376 lorsque rapportes a la population a couvnr.
Actuellement 308 sous-prefectures disposent de centres de sante. Pour ce qui conceme la
Movenne Guinee. 20% des sous prefecture ont ete touchees par I appui du PDSS en
infiuctures.
32.    En avril 1994 I'assistance technique a contribue a la planification des services de sante
avec une etude (Politique Nationale de Formation Continue et de Developpement des Ressources
Humaines et Plan des Actions Prioritaires, 1994 - 1997). Les aspects tres importants de la
planification des activites relatives au contr6le des maladies transmissibles, a l'assainissement du
milieu et a I'hvgiene seront repris et developpes par le Projet Sante et Nutrition (voir programme
5 de ce projet).
33.    Une etude sur la budgetisation du MS a ete realisee en 1991 mai, n'etant pas exhaustive,
n=a pu etre utilisee conmme outils de planification. Sa mise a jour n'a pas ete effectuee pour la
periode 95-97 pour cause de complexite du plan et de manque de cadres a la DAAF. E convient
de noter aussi que l'appui ponctuel pour la preparation des budgets 1990 et 1991 n'a pas laisse de
procedures de systeme d'elaboration du budget. Quant a la gestion de ressources hunaines on
doit ajouter que l'organisation des fichiers manuels a ete effectuee et que le fichier informatise du
personnel a ete-realise sur la base d'un recensement effectue en 1992. Les donnees de ce fichier,
bien que la mise a jour ne soit pas reguliere. sont suffisantes pour la gestion des effectifs et
permettent un suivi de l1'volution de la carriere au regard de la forrnation continue. Cependant il
n'integre pas les couits salariaux.
34.    L'exploitation du fichier informatique en vue du redeploiement des personnels et de la
determination des besoins est en cours. de meme que lintegration des elements salariaux. Cette
exploitation est freinee par l'absence d un cadre organique approuve concemant les regions.
L'exploitation complete ne pourra en outre etre atteinte. au niveau  de la DAAF, que par
l'engagement de personnel forme a l'informatique.
35.    La mission, en accord avec les recommandations regulieres des missions de supervision
de l'IDA. considere qu'il convient d'exploiter rapidement. au benefice des structures
institutionnelles et fonctionnelles du MS dans les r6gions. les etudes relatives au redeploiement
des personnels realisees dans le cadre du PDSS.



Appendix A
Page 8 of 16
Programmes - et 13:  Renforcement des services de maintenance (niveau national et regional)
36.    Le projet pr6vovait. au niveau national, le renforcement des services et l'elaboration et la
mise en oeuvre d'un svsteme d'entretien preventif pour les vehicules, les equipements et les
batiments du MS et, au niveau regional, le renforcement du service de Labe.
37.    Les objectifs n'ont ete que partiellement realises. L'elaboration d'une politique de
maintenance preventive nra ete engagee que tardivement (proposition finale disponible en mai
95) et le document de politique est a l'etude au sein du MS. Les propositions, quw suggerent la
mise en place de services intemes de maintenance au sein des h6pitaux et le recours aux services
offerts par le secteur prive lorsqu'ils existent, ne correspondent que tres partiellement aux options
qui etaient celles du projet; elles semblent cependant adaptees et exploitent au mieux la situation
actuelle au moment de l'achevement du projet.
38.    Les movens mis en oeuvre par le projet ne correspondent pas totalement a ceux prevus
initialement. Es se resument principalement a la formation de techniciens specialises en
equipement biomedical (4 personnes), a la rehabilitation et a l'equipement du service regional de
Labe (pour lequel les personnels prevus concernant la mecanique auto et le froid n'ont pas ete
recrutes) et a la realisation d'un magasin pour le sernice national a Conakr) 2. A I'heure actuelle,
ces services ne peuvent pas, compte tenu de la faiblesse de certains movens propres
(fonctionnement. logistique) et/ou de l'inadaptation d'autres (pieces detachees) repondre
correctement a l'ensemble des besoins generes par les hopitaux rehabilites. Ce decalage va
s accentuer en 1996 lorsque l'augmentation probable des taux de pannes liee a l'age des
equipements va se conjuguer avec la fin des contrats de maintenance relatifs aux equipements. I1
convient donc qu'une reponse rapide soit apportee a ces problemes.
39.    Les actions urgentes a engager par le MS devraient porter sur; (i) le recrutement d'un
responsable de la maintenance au sein de chaque h6pital, (ii) la budgetisation au sein de ces
h6pitaux des coCits relatifs a la maintenance des infrastructures, (iii) la dotation de ces hopitaux
en fonds destines a la maintenance des equipements biom6dicaux. (iv) la formation des
responsables de la maintenance des h6pitaux par le service national de maintenance et par DIEM,
(v) la dotation des services regionaux de maintenance en fonds destinds a leurs deplacements et,
(vi) la supervision effective des activites de maintenance au sein des h6pitaux par des personnels
qualifies (les techniciens des centres rdgionaux pour le cas ou ceux ci ne seraient pas affectes
directement a un h6pital).
Programme 8: Coordination du projet
40.    L'Unite de Gestion du Projet (UGP), pendant toute la periode de realisation du PDSS a
assure la coordination des activites aux differents niveaux et entre les diverses entites,
impliquees, bailleurs de fonds compris. Pour les activites qui devaient etre mises en place sur le
terrain. il avait ete installe une antenne a Labe (F'Inspection regionale de la sante). L'UGP a
activement participe a l'dlaboration du PTHG pour ce qui conceme les activites du PDSS. Elle a,
2   le senrice national de maintenance a beneficie d'un important support de la part de la Communaute
europeenne (AT. outillage, v6hicule) qui explique le soutien limite du projet.



Appendix A
Page 9 of 16
en outre, organise les ateliers annuels qui evaluaient les activites de l'annee pr&cedante et
preparaient les plans d'actions . Les ateliers annuels ont et une veritable plate-forme toumante
qui a permis la reorientation rapide des activites du PDSS vers des buts bien d6finis. en tenant
compte des besoins du projet et des contraintes apparues durant sa mise en oeuvre.
41.    L'UGP , dont le personnel etait principalement issu des services existants du MS et qui
gerait initialement un volume de travail tres important relativement a la mise en oeuvre et a la
coordination du projet, a reussi a operer en cours de projet un transfert important d'activites vers
les services centraux du MS. Ces transferts se sont realise a partir de 1992 en particulier
concemant: (i) la definition des specifications et la preparation des dossiers d'appel d'offres
relatifs aux operations d'equipement et de genie civil menees par le MS qui sont maintenant
confiees a la DIEM, (ii) la preparation du PTHG maintenant sous la responsabilite du BEPR et,
(iii) la comptabilite qui est effectuee au sein de l'UGP par des personnels qui relevent de la
DAAF, l'UGP se concentrant sur certaines activites techniques et en particulier la gestion
financiere, la tenue des comptes, la preparation des rapports de synth&se et 1'engagement regulier
des activites d'audit.
42.    Pour des raisons diverses (problemes de materiel. de logiciels et mouvement de
personnel). la mise en place d'un syst&me comptable adapte, autorisant le suivi des comptes du
projet par categories, programmes et composantes, en francs guineen et en DTS et faisant
apparaitre les engagements et les disponibilites de fonds n'a e  realisee que tardivement. La
reconstitution des comptes, operee en 1993. n'a pas ete conduite completement (de facon
retroactive et exhaustive), a l'exception des comptes par categories de depenses. Les tableaux
rdcapitulatifs des couits par composantes et par programme presentes a la mission ne refletent
donc pas exactement la realite mais presentent une valeur indicative du couit des operations.
43.    Concemant les acquis lies a la mise en oeuvre du projet. une partie des personnels
techniques d'UGP a rejoint les services techniques du MS mais il est a craindre que certains
acquis ne se perdent compte tenu des mouvements de personnel observes depuis. Cette situation
est relativement critique pour la DEEM, dont les personnels ont tous beneficie d'un seminaire de
formation relatifs a la passation des marches organise par l'IDA, mais vers laquelle le transfert de
l'architecte, initialement en poste a l'UGP et ayant participe a la mise en oeuvre de l'ensemble
des infrastructures du projet, n'a pas pu se concretiser. Cette situation relativement fragile se
retrouve au sein de l'UGP concernant les services comptables pour lesquels un renforcement est
cependant prevu dans le cadre du PSN.
44.    Parmi les effets positifs du projet on peut noter que certains des movens de suivis et de
contr6le mis en place a l'occasion du demarrage et de la mise en oeuvre de ce premier projet se
sont institutionnalise. C'est le cas pour le CCC devenu Comite technique de coordination (CTC),
auquel assistent les organisations specialisees dans le secteur et dont les activites ne se limitent
plus aux seuls projets beneficiant d'un financement de l'IDA. Ce syst6me a aussi trouve un
developpement au niveau decentralise dans les regions par la creation des Comites Techniques
Regionaux de Sante (CTRS) et des CTPS au niveau des prefectures. Un autre impact positif a
ete la preparation en fin de projet d'un manuel d'execution des procedures. Initialement prepare
en vue de la mise en oeuvre du PSN, le MS souhaite maintenant realiser un manuel equivalent
traitant de Y'ensemble des procedures administratives et de gestion intemes du Ministere. Par
ailleurs, les bailleurs de fonds ont fait regulierement reference aux plans d'activites du PDSS pour
identifier les secteurs auxquels ils pourraient apporter leur appui en tenant compte des



Appendix A
Page 10 of 16
interventions des autres partenaires. Enfin, II convient de constater que les problemes rencontres
et l'experience acquise par 1'UGP pendant la periode de 1'execution du PDSS ont et mises a
profit pour mieux maitriser les programmnes et les activites du futur projet lors de sa preparation
et faciliter ainsi sa conduite.
Programme 9: Renforcement des infrastructuires et des equipements regionazlx.
45.    La realisation  des objectifs phvsiques du  PDSS, a 1'exception  des travaux de
rehabilitations des Centres de formation feminine non acheves au moment de la mission, a ete
atteinte et parfois meme depassde3, mais le plus souvent avec de nombreux retards. Ces resultats
satisfaisants n'ont et rendus possibles que par le report de la date de cl6ture du credit de 18 mois
pour autoriser l achevement de certaines operations et le meilleur emploi des fonds du credit. Les
problemes qui, a des degres divers, ont et a l'origine des pertes de temps dans la mise en oeuvre
ont ete multiples: (i) retards a l'occasion de la finalisation des contrats avec les bureaux etudes,
(ii) retards dans la preparation et la finalisation des dossiers d'appels d'offre du fait de
meconnaissance ou de non respect des regles de I'TDA, (iii) delais importants a l'occasion de la
signature des marches, (iv) necessite d'operer la revision de certains marches avant le demarrage
des travaux du fait des retards pris a l'occasion de la signature des marches, (vi) etudes et travaux
supplementaires du fait de certaines inadequations entre les equipement et les batiments
d'accueil, (vii) selection insuffisamment rigoureuse d'entreprises qui se sont revelees
defaillantes, (viii) mauvaise connaissance ou appreciation de la situation financiere du projet
etlou estimation previsionnelle de couits erronee avant conduit a retarder le lancement de certaines
operations.
46.    L'impact de ces retards sur les prix exprimes en FG a ete important mais s'est trouve en
partie compense, particulierement en ce qui conceme le genie civil, par des variations de taux de
change favorables face a un budget disponible en DTS ce qui a autorise la mise en place des
principales realisations du projet. Au moment de la mission seul certains travaux concemant
l'achevement des rehabilitations de Centres de formation feminine restaient en cours. Le
financement de ces travaux est assure par le Gouvemement pour ce qui conceme les paiements
qui restent a effectuer apres la cl6ture du projet.
47.    La conception des infrastructures est en general satisfaisante pour ce qui conceme le
respect des programmes et l'accueil des activites. Les problemes notables rencontres concement,
pour les CSU/CSR, une conception architecturale inadaptee en forme de "U" qui va creer a terme
d'inevitables et inutiles problemes de maintenance, une absence de seuil entre les espaces
interieurs et exterieurs qui autorise la penetration des eaux de pluies par les acces dans la plupart
des locaux, des batiments et des baies insuffisamment proteges (pluie et soleil. vol pour les
pharmacies), I'absence d'un svsteme adapte de recueil et d'evacuation des eaux de pluie qui va
conduire a des degradations accelerees des batiments, la mise en oeuvre de materiaux de faible
le projet a realise des travaux de rehabilitation, non prevus initialement. dans les hopitaux de Pita et
de Labe. La destruction initialement prevue de ces batiments realises avec le concours des
populations s'est heurte a la reticence des autorites locales. Les resultats des travaux de
rehabilitation sont satisfaisants. Ces espaces additionnels, qui finalement se revelent opportuns suite
a de nouvelles dispositions concermant la politique d'hospitalisation (entrees. urgences.
consultations extemes). vont cependant engendrer des frais d entretien et de maintenance
supplementaires.



Appendix A
Page 11 of 16
qualite concemant les menuiseries, des choix parfois douteux concemant le standard et le niveaux
des travaux ou des equipements de second oeuvre (qualite des revetement de sol differents pour
les CSR et les CSU, installations electriques clairement surabondante dans les CSU). Certaines
de ces remarques ont ete identifiees durant la realisation des travaux et des actions correctives ont
et entreprises a l'initiative de UGP/DIEM lorsque cela etait possible. Ces remarques ont aussi
ete reiterees par UGP/DIEM aux architectes en charges des etudes relatives au PSN qui, bien
qu'impliques dans les realisations du PDSS, ne semblaient pas avoir tire toutes les lecons de
leurs premieres realisations.
48.    Pour les H6pitaux prefectorawix et l'hopital regional de Labe, les remarques sont
identiques concemant la faible auto protection des batiments et la qualite parfois insuffisante des
revetements. Des problemes complementaires importants sont a noter concemant l'organisation
d'ensemble des h6pitaux (I'absence de tout amenagement concemant les espaces exterieurs, les
acces et les cheminements donne l'impression de batiments irnplantes au hasard dans un terrain
vague). Concemant les batiments nouveaux il convient de relever une conception interessante
pour certains batiments qui disposent d'une double toiture bien concue et propre a garantir un
bon confort; l'emploi de toles de dimensions insuffisantes pour les couvertures cintrees va
cependant poser des problemes de maintenance a tenne. La conception des installations mises a
la disposition des accompagnants s'avere inadaptee (taille des foyers, protection des abris contre
le vent, absence de poubelles) et devra etre revue pour Ic futur. Certaines defaillances notable des
realisations initiales ont ici encore pu etre corrigees par l'intervention de DIEM/UGP grace a la
realisation de travaux complementaires (passage couvert entre les blocs techniques et les locaux
d'hospitalisation notamment). Certaines defaillances, non identifiees a temps restent a
entreprendre (absence de toute ventilation naturelle ou artificielle concemant le cabinet dentaire,
la radiologie, le laboratoire photographique de la radiologie et la salle septique, absence de
sanitaires accessibles pour l'hospitalisation pediaterie et medecine generale a Pita) pour rendre
ces locaux plus sains. confortables et viables.
49.    Pour les autres installations rehabilitees dans le cadre du projet les principaux problemes
sont relatifs aux CFF pour lesquels les retards rencontres dans la mise en oeuvre et la faible
qualit6 des realisations conduisent a recommander une selection plus rigoureuse des entreprises
compte tenu des contraintes existantes au niveau de la supervision.
50.    Concemnant les CS et HP, les utilisateurs sont en general satisfaits des conditions de
travail qui sont offertes ce qui s'explique assez bien lorsque l'on compare la situation actuelle
avec la situation originale des infiastructures. La prise en charge effective des infrastructures
(entretien,  amenagements  complementaires,  maintenance/reparation)   reste  cependant
problematique dans la plupart des cas. La sensibilisation des utilisateurs aux responsabilites qui
deviennent les leurs (gestion du patrimoine) a partir de l'instauration du svst&me de recouvrement
des coats (qui autorise la definition et la gestion d'un budget de fonctionnement) n'a pas ete
identifiee comme une priorite. Les debuts de degradations (fuites, accrochage de t6les. ajustage
des portes et fenetres) sont apparents sans qu'aucune action corrective ne soit initiee. Certains
risques potentiels (tennitieres, branches surplombant les toitures, encombrement des installations
de drainage lorsqu'elles existent. erosion le long des constructions), clairement visibles ne sont
pas corriges. Les amenagements simples des espaces exterieurs, propres a ameliorer sensiblement
l'aspect. la salubrite. le confort et la perennite des b&iments n'ont en general pas ete prevus au
moment des travaux initiaux. Ces amenagement, peu couiteux et donc a la portee des utilisateurs
ne sont que tres rarement entrepris faute d'une bonne sensibilisation. La mission recommande



Appendix A
Page 12 of 16
que dans le cadre des etudes engagees par le MS relativement a la maintenance preventive, le
Guide d'entretien des batiments et infrastructures des formations sanitaires de base soit exploite
le plus rapidement possible aussi bien concemant les CS que les autres formations sanitaires 4.
5 1.    Les utilisateurs, pour lesquels ont ete organises des stages de formation a la pratique de
leurs activitds et A l'utilisation des equipements expriment une satisfaction gdnerale relativement
aux equipements livres dans le cadre du projet. Les Visites effectuees sur le terrain revelent
cependant une faible voire une non utilisation des certains materiels qui trouve son origine dans:
(i) I'absence de certains rdactifs ou produits necessaires a l'utilisation, (ii) I'alimentation
electrique qui n'est pas assuree en permanence et (iii) des pannes identifiees mais non resolues.
Cette situation prdoccupante, 1iee a la faiblesses des moyens disponibles en budget de
fonctionnement va s aggraver des la fin des contrats de maintenance qui ont et passes avec les
foumisseurs pour les equipements biomedicaux et qui arriveront a echeance en 1996.
Programme 10: Renforcement des Services de Sante de Base
52.    Les activites couvertes par ce programme ont constitue le novau central de I'analyse
menee par la mission pendant les visites sur le terrain. Grace a la disponibilite du personnel sur
place et a la mise a leur disposition des elements necessaires. la mission a pu se rendre compte de
la situation existante aux divers niveaux structurels et fonctionnels des services de sante de base.
L'impression de la mission est que, dans la quasi totalite des cas. les services de sante de base
assurent aux beneficiaires la satisfaction de leurs besoins en termes de soins de sante preventive
et curative.
53.    -SANTE PREVENTIVE- Le programme de vaccination, comme prevu par la politique
etablie par le Gouvemement. atteint la population cible soit par les centres de sante urbains ou
ruraux soit par les agents responsables qui se deplacent avec leurs motocvclettes dans un ravon
de dix kilometres autour de leur base. Globalement. la couverture effective est considerde
comme satisfaisante et dans la majorite de cas comme superieure a la demande de soins curatifs.
Cet ecart. s'il existe, meriterait d'etre analvss et etudie pour comprendre si le facteur decisif
correspond a une education sanitaire bien menee et bien recue ou a l'intdret d'un service delivre
gratuitement.
54.    Les stocks en vaccin etaient suffisants par rapport aux besoins soit au niveau regional
(stock de vaccins situe a l'Inspection regionale de la sante a Labe) soit au niveau des centres de
sante. Les exigences liees a la "Chaine du Froid" etaient suivies par les responsables et les
donnees relatives indiquees comme prevu.
55.    -SOINS CURATIFS-  Au niveau h6pital. I'attention de la mission etait attiree par le fait
que le taux d'occupation des lits etait plut6t bas alors meme que leur nombre avait et reduit pour
des raisons pratiques. La meme situation s'appliquait aux departements de Pediatrie tandis que le
nombre des accouchements au sein d'un h6pital ou d'un centre de sante etait toujours inferieurs a
l'interet de ce guide depasse clairement le seul secteur de la sante; son adaptation et son exploitation
par d'autres secteurs (Education nationale notamment) sont a envisager.



Appendix A
Page 13 of 16
celui des femmes enceintes qui recevaient les soins prenatauix. Ce decalage etant. de I'avis des
services de sante, a expliquer par des raisons geographiques et culturelles.
56.    La mission a attache beaucoup d'importance a connaitre la situation des stocks en
medicaments et en reactifs de laboratoire parce que ce sujet avait ete aborde plusieurs fois dans
les rapports de supervision au cours de 1'execution du projet. En realite, la mission s'est rendu
compte que des ruptures de stock existaient en mati&re de reactifs, medicaments et aussi de
"perfuseurs" alors meme que les produits de perfusion existaient en quantite. Ces ruptures se
retrouvent a tous les niveaux c'est-a-dire depuis I'antenne regionale de PCG a Labe jusqu'aux
Centres de Sante. Ces problemes sont a l'origine d'une diminution de la demande en soins
curatifs et en examens de laboratoire. concement aussi la diminution des prestations en services
dentaires et en radiologie et expliquent l'interruption totale des transfusions sanguines. La
mission a aussi l'impression que les ruptures de stock etaient dues au fait que les procedures
administratives pour I'acquisition des produits etaient mal comprises ou mal appliquees.
L utilisation des fonds obtenus par le recouvrement des couits a et le sujet de nombreuses
discussions entre les responsables des structures des soins et la mission dont les conclusions sont
que les fonds deposes doivent etre utilises, si necessaire. aussi pour eviter les ruptures de stocks
et ceci selon des procedures a etudier et a etablir.
57.    Au niveau des CS, les "ordinogrammes" qui permettent d'arriver a un diagnostique et a
un traitement, etaient bien interpretes et bien appliques ce qui demontre une bonne formation du
personnel et une supervision effective.
Programme 11: Renforcement des qualifications du personnel regional
58.    Le PDSS a renforce la qualification des personnels de sante de Movenne Guinee au travers
d'un ensemble d'activites de formation qui omt et realisees soit a l'etranger. soit localement. Les sujets
de fornation ont couvert un large eventail de sujets, tels que la connaissance et les techniques
medicales, la promotion de La sante, la mobilisation sociale et. bien evidemment, la gestion des
services de sante. La mission constate que le choix des sujets de formation a ete dans l'ensemble
approprie et en accord avec les besoins. Le renforcement de la competence de ce personnel de sante a
donc pennis la mise en oeuvre des programmes nationaux de developpement sanitaire en Movenne
Guinee et l'amelioration du fonctionnement des services de sante.
59.    Si l'execution des formations a l'etranger s'est deroulee sans grand probleme, la realisation des
formations locales a quant a elle ete plus problematique. La capacite nationale de formation etait et
reste d'ailleurs hmitee; une contrainte qui fut manifestement sous-estimee lors de la preparation du
PDSS. Tout en tenant compte de cet element, la mission estime que l'effort globalement foumi par le
PDSS en matiere de formation locale est appreciable et qu'il a contribue au renforcement de la
qualification des personnels de sante.
60.    11 est recommande d'etre attentif a cet aspect, plus specialement d'ailleurs dans le cadre de
1'execution du nouveau Projet Sante Nutrition. Un appui technique pourrait etre demande pour la
conception et la realisation des activites de formation locale qui sont prevues dans le PSN, tout en
s'assurant que cet appui soit aussi une occasion de former des formateurs. Par ailleurs, comrne cela est
deja recommande (cf programme 5), il est conseille de suivre et, si necessaire, d'obtenir un appui pour
le developpement progressif d'un syst&me de formation continue.



Appendix A
Page 14 of 16
Programme 12: Renforcement de la gestionfinanci&re (formations snitaires)
61.    Bien avant que l'initiative de Bamako, la politique nationale guineenne en matiere de
sante etait axde sur un "recouvrement des couts" qui aurait dui soulager financierement les
formations sanitaires qui assurent les soins curatifs a la population. Cette politique a et la "clef
de voute" des activites du PDSS en Moyenne Guinee et comme telle a ete suivie avec attention
par la mission durant ses visites sur le terrain. Les resultats obtenus aux differents niveaux ont
et examines et discutes avec les responsables des differents services. La mission a pu constater
qu'en general, le recouvrement du cotit des seuls medicaments fournis aux patients ne constitue
pas un obstacle. Le recouvrement des codts est obtenu normalement. facilement, et les fonds
deposes en banque sont geres selon les procedures bien etablies et suivies.
62.    Le recouvrement des cofits est destine, par ordre de priorite decroissante, a couvrir: le
cout des medicaments consommes et celui des outils de gestion, les depenses des combustibles
utilises pour la chaine du froid et la sterilisation, les depenses de carburant liees aux activites de
strategie avancee, les foumitures de bureau, I'achat du petit materiel et des consommables, et
les primes d'encouragement au personnel. La mission a note que il n'y a pas de correlation entre
les couits recouverts et la taille de la population desservie par les activites d'un CS. L'impression
de la mission est. au contraire, que la qualite des services rendus joue un role important sur la
demande de soins qui. a son tour, genere les recettes. En effet il a ete constate qu'un CS rural
soutenu par trois postes de sante generait plus de fonds que d'autres CS de type urbain.
63.    La mission a constate que pour les CS, dont certains disposent de bonnes recttes, il
existait une tendance a l'accumulation des fonds plut6t qu' a une utilisation vers des domaines
prioritaires comme, par exemple, I'achat des medicaments en cas de rupture des stocks. La
mission note aussi qu une fois les medicaments essentiels subventionnes par des bailleurs de
fonds epuises, le rachat devra se faire directement a la Pharmacie Centrale Guineenne. Cette
6volution possible de la situation comporte certains risques, le recouvrement des couts pouvant
devenir insuffisant pour couvrir le rachat des medicaments et les autre frais incompressibles.
64.    Le recouvrement des couts au niveau de l'h6pital ne genere pas de fonds suffisants pour
envisager une autonomie financiere comme cela peut etre le cas pour les CS. A ce sujet, la
mission a eu l'impression que les tarifs pratiques au niveau h6pital sont relativement hauts, ce qui
pourrait expliquer la raison du faible tau-x d'occupation des lits. Une revision des tarifs, en
augmentation pour les CS, en diminution pour les h6pitaux. pourrait peut-etre assurer une
meilleure viabilite des CS et reduire les deficits structurels des h6pitaux. La mission considere
qu'il convient de poursuivre un processus permanent d'evaluation du systeme pour identifier
regulierement les evolutions souhaitables eventuelles.
Programme 14: Renforcement de la gestion regionale du secteur sanitaire
65.    Pendant la premiere partie de son sejour a Conakry et pendant les visites sur le terrain, la
mission a beneficie de la presence de l'Inspecteur regionai de la sante pour la Region de Lab. La
mission a donc entierement pris conscience de l'appui donne par le PDSS concemant les
responsabilites fonctionnelles et a la mise en place des instruments necessaires pour la conduite
effective des inspections regionales. La mission considere ce programme comme entierement
acheve. Les bourses d'etudes pour la formation a letranger des personnels ont ete octroyees. le
siege de l'inspection regionale a ete rehabilit& et a requ l'equipement du bureau et les moyens de



Appendix A
Page 15 of 16
radiocommunication ainsi qu'un appui a la supervision regionale sous la forme de carburant. de
l'entretien du materiel technique et d'indemnites de motivation pour les personnels.
66.    L'inspection regionale de sante5 porte des activites au niveau des h6pitaux provinciaux et
de centres de sante a l'interieur de la region. L'inspection dispose des courbes de monitorages
des activites des Centres de Sante etablies sur une base semestrielles qui foumissent un outil tres
sensible et objectif de monitorage. Une analyse attentive de chaque courbe pourra faire ressortir
dans queUe activite specifique et pour quelle raison on a obtenu un succes ou une faillite. Le fait
que, le cas echeant, la supervision s'accompagne de conseils imm6diats pour corriger et
amnliorer certaines situations est apparu comme particulierement positif. Le principal probleme
qui demeure conceme l'absence d'un comptable pour le suivi et le controle des recettes et
depenses des formations sanitaires. Cette situation devrait cependant etre limitee dans le temps,
des negociations etant en cours avec le Ministere des finances pour la mise a disposition du MS
de personnels qualifi6s aupres des services decentralises du MS.
Operations futures et perennite des programmes
67.    Comme indique au.x paragraphes 7 et 30, le projet a ete mis en oeuvTe au travers de 14
programmes. Ce svsteme a &te clairement decrit dans le "Rapport d'Evaluation a mi-parcours"
(1991) et suivi regulierement a l'occasion des ateliers annuels de programmation. Pendant la
durde du PDSS et au fur et a mesure qu'ils se developpaient gr-ace a son appui. les programmes
du PDSS sont devenus une contribution essentielle aux services de sante foumis en Movenne
Guin6e et comme tels se retrouvent dans le PTHG. Etant donne que les activites du PDSS sont
considdrees comme achevees depuis le 30 juin 1995 (date de cl6ture du projet), la gestion des
activites futures des 14 programmes du PDSS sera de la responsabilite du MS. comme indique
dans le PTHG. A cette fin, le PTHG assurera:
*   I'allocation de ressources necessaires pour garantir le fonctionnement correct des
operations et l'entretien des installations;
*   l'actualisation reguliere des plans d'actions en fonction de l'evolution a besoin des
populations.
*   la-continuation des activites relatives au contr6le des codts et a l'amelioration de
l'efficacite des services de sante;
*   la poursuite du developpement, de la mise en place et de l'elargissement de la
couverture geographique des services jusqu'a present fournis dans le cadre du PDSS
avec l'objectif d'une complete decentralisation.
Rapport d'evaluation du projet par le Gouvernement
5      depuis de 1995, suite a la nouvelle distribution geo-administrative du pays, l'inspecteur
regional de sante est maintenant responsable de la supervision des centres de sante et des
h6pitaux de cinq prefectures seulement au lieu des dix auparavant.



Appendix A
Page 16 of 16
68.   La contribution du Gouvemement au Rapport de fin d'execution etait en cours de
preparation au moment de la mission. n1 a e rappele que la contribution du Gouvemement etait
une partie essentielle du Rapport de fin d'execution. I1 est convenu que le rapport du
gouvemement, dont les termes et la structure ont e  rappeles et dont le format devrait se limiter
a une dizaine de pages (hors annexes), devra parvenir a l'IDA au plus tard le 15 decembre 1995.
Confirmation de I'Aide-memoire
69.   Les conclusions et suggestions de cet aide-memoire feront l'objet d une confirmation
officielle des le retour de la mission au siege de l'IDA.
Conakrv, le 8 decembre 1995



Appendix B
Page 1 of 2
RAP DSSIM D/C
MIINISTERE DE LA SAINTE                  REPUBLIQUIE DE GULNEE
PROIET SANTE ET NUTRITIONN
B P -C53    Tel     41 3463
Fax  224 41 34 63       Conaknr>. le             1 4
-71S.SG/PS-N
LE COORDONNA TEUR NA TIONAL
A MONSIEUR SERGIU LUCULESCU
Obiet                                SPECIALISTE PRINCIPAL EN SANTE
PUBLIQUE, DIVISION POPULATION
ET RESSOURCES HUMAINES,
Rapport d'achevement du              DEPARTEMENT DE L'AFRIQUE DE
Projet de D&veloppement              L'OUEST BANQUE MONDIALE
des Services de Sante                - WASINGTON DC -
(PDSS - Credit 1837-GUI)-WSHNTND-
Monsieur le Chef de Projet
J'ai I'honneur de me referer au rapport d'achevement du PDSS (Credit 1837-GUI) qui
nous a ete transmis au mois de Mars 1996, pour vous communiquer les
commentaires et observations du Ministere de la Sante.
1.    D'une maniere generale, le Ministere approuve et partage le contenu du
rapport. car il-traduit ses propres vues sur I'execution du PDSS. Les bases de ia
politique sanitaire ont ete renforcees et le niveau de la qualite des prestations de
soins a ete eleve au niveau des structures sanitaires de la Moyenne-Guinee.
Ce premier projet a permis en outre, une qualification des ressources humaines du
Ministere. qui se sont egaiement familiaris6es avec les procedures de la Banque
Mondiale. Ce qui facilite aujourd'hui 1'execution du second projet, surtout dans sa
composante "Passation des marches" et deveioppement des infrastructures.
Certes. certaines composantes du projet telles la mobilisation sociale, la planification
familiale, la nutntion, la maintenance preventive des infrastructures et equipements.
la budg6tjsation et surtout ia gestion des ressources humaines. n'ont pas atteints les
resultats escomptes.



Appendix B
Page 2 of 2
Le second projet sante et nutrition permettra de renforcer ces composantes.
La sous-utilisation des forrmations sanitaires surtout hosoitali6res a ete une
pr6cccupation pendant les dernmires annees du Projet. Une recherche/ac'icn et une
table ronde sont prevues dans !es prochains mcis. afin de cerner les vraies causes et
definir des strat6gies operationnelles.
2.    Le POSS n'a pas atteint ses objectifs qui consisteraient a doter le Ministere de
la Sante de mecanismes de gestion et de planification de la formation continue. Le
plan directeur de la formation continue. 6labor6 en 1994 et adopte en 1995. sera mis
en oeuvre par le second projet et par les autres bailleurs de fonds du secteur.
Initiaiement. le plan de formation continue devrait etre 6!abor- au cours des
premieres annees du Projet. ce cui aurait permis une meilleure repartition des
formaticns et un cnoix judicieux des cibles a former.
La gestion financiere du  Projet a 6te onereuse cu fa!t de I'absence d'outils
;ncrrm,atiques- Le logiciel e ccrnctabiiit6 n'a jamais ete operationnei. Tout le travail a
zte accompii manueilement.
Au niveau du Minist=re. e mrnme crobleme se pose. I,, budg6tisation r ayart pas
correc.ement 4crcticnnr et la cualificaticn ces ressources l.umaines de !a DAAF n'a
pas ete reaiisee.
Le second projet se oropose ce relever toutes ces lacunes. La DAAF sera renforc-e
en ressources humaines et sera dotee d'outils infcrmatiques adequats. Ur, !oqic;ei de
ccm;ozabiite est deja ocerarionnei au niveau du proier et sera etendu a i'ensemble
des prcjets et programmes cu Minisz6re.
L.adcction  prcc.naine  ces  cadres  organiques  des  niveaux  !nterm6ciaires  et
pernoneriques. la tenue de l'ateiler de descriptrion des pcstes grace a I'abpul d'url
consultant internaticnal.  et enfin l'acoption de la carLe sanitaire c eercnt les
conditins obiectives de imise en oeuvre annuelle du plan de redeplciement du
perscnnel.
Le orojet de rapport, d'audit dc'valuation finale vient de vcus parvenir. Les grandes
;igres ce ce projet de rapport ont ete acceptees par le Ministere.
En attendani de recevoir la version finalisee. je vous envoie une copie avec nos
corementaires pour toutes fins utiles- J'estime que ce rapporT comolete celui
d'ac~,everment du prcjet.
Er vCus scuhaitant  cnne lecture de ces _cmmentaires. je vous prie d'agreer.
Morsieur le Chef ce Prcjet. ,'exoression de ma con     n cistirguee. I
.c Secretaire Cererai S MS
_ recteur SEZR
\ ,,\     //>>



Appendix C
LIST OF PROGRAMS
Prograrn 1:  Strengthening of mother and child health / family planning services
Program 2:  Strengthening of health education services and beneficiary participation
Program 3:  Strengthening of nutrition services
Program 4:  Condition of women and NGO activities
Program 5:  In-service training capability
Program 6:  Planning and budgeting capability
Program 7:  Strengthening of national maintenance service
Program 8:  Project Implementation Unit
Program 9:  Strengthening of infrastructure and regional equipment
Programr 10: Strengthening of basic health services
Program 11: Strengthening of regional staff qualifications
Program 12: Strengthening of financial management
Program 13: Strengthening of regional maintenance service
Program 14: Strengthening of regional health sector management






rSa t -  sl E li A LYE-kt,              -                                                                 I        G U I N E A                         B
,S. rE-AL>i3o                         r K zHEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
C-           -    v    .        ,                  To Ke   gou
To Xime  v        -----.                                                                                                                                                     K     ,
GI/INEA-                                                                         ~NoasI
*MaIil                                                                                 To Bama48n ko                               t 12
It2-   BISSAU                         I           >          tMOY  NNE>  ,i2                                      K                                                  y > i
t~,7s ii                                                               if t 2   <   g  S-31  q  \\Didi /
'54 ~  ~     ~     ~     - ''u\ihr% rF // t                                            / ;   ;)                                                                                                   I.'  0      Nn  r  g
, . r   >  fria  @~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,   .   .                  +t                +.        \     ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 'r
IOU   ,1                                                                                       S''ig) \i-/  -
Sangar6di              E       L                                EnOro_, t'                                                                              M    A ,L I Dnuraye '  j
Bo                   'b                                                             irime      s t OTEPAES , ), 
o  G0 1 1             0  I-               KOI,EkO  U                            Niondouou                                          MALI
KLMTRSk          /,I E                                                                                                                                      "iofetonCEI  D  E       ,yL   
K.msbr  -~                                       -MR                                                                    (       ,' _ ,f . dianaU
-100                                                                                                               1Fronah                                      N  JNSE                                             lo10
ATLANTIC  Du                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mori6oay
S <INERRATINLEARORTNE~,                                                 S.      
OCEAN    Conakry
PAVED ROADS
Fpr - _                          ROUTES PAVEES
ALL-WEATHER ROADS                                                         K
THE t | M A L I t3 ADMINIST~~~~RAIVE REGOAIAS 4,'Ki -sstdugo
20  40 60-^   tD 100  120            BentyP} ROUTES PRATICABLES PAR TOUS TEMPS
/B .               -        R-A---   RILROADS                                       isNA
GKILOMETERS                               T INFA Freetomn        CHELMIN DE PER                                         K s
140                                             FLEUVES                                  1 
+  INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT 
MAURITANIA                             ~~~~~~~~AEROPORT INTERNATIONAL                            IG       U1NE  E-
MAURITANIA  L                             AI~~    RFIELDS                                                                          0 *Beylo
SENEAL*   CAPITALE                                                                                   /                               i FRFiBR
T    EN EGE                  M ALI                             @      ADMINISTRATIVE REGION CAPITALS        |-eo
GAS  t7&-t  tICA PTALES DES MINISTERES RESIDENTS
__                    (                       0    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PREFECTURE CAPITALS                                      L'CA-
GUINEA-  _/\/                                     a                      PREFECTURES                                                                     /COTE                                                 8a
BISSAU -f BI?URSKIN~A                                           --       PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                    I,
GUINEA                   'ALIMITES DES PREFECTURESI
Conakry*    ~           t-QFSO                           -     ADMINISTRATIVE REGION BOUNDARIES                                          $6 6                  Ll
ConakrYP7              '1                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~LIMITES DES MINIS TERES RESIDENTS                                                                        D'$erV re  LaRoE
SIERRAtEONE7Th  ~~~   COTE               --- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                      I~IV lR
SIERRALEC)NEt  .            COTE       ft                          FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES                                              /  Yomou         5    N
>,    2     D'IVOIRE   f                                                                                                   ,*,)                    5
>    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information      LEI B E R I A            "'-                       '
r_    A T   tJ * ,            LiBERIA \,              \     shown on this map do not imply, on the port of The World Bonk Group,  L                                                     To Abidjon RA
o1 any judgment on the legol status of ony teooitosy or any endorsement                                                                                               co
DC      4                          ,L,              or occeptance of such boundories.                                             W- ,                                                                              S
c^                                 .....   . _____________   I_________________________________________________ I0  









IMAGING
Report No:         15766
Type: ICR



