Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1837 GUI
               (Health Services Development Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated November 16, 1987
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1837 GUI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  November  16,  1987,  between  REPUBLIC OF
GUINEA (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has  agreed,  on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Project Preparation Advance"  means  the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to exchanges of  letters  dated  February  22,  1986 and March 12,
1986, and  February  16,  1987  and  April  13,  1987  between the
Borrower and the Association;
     (c)  "Fiscal Year" and "FY"  mean the Borrower's fiscal year,
which coincides with the calendar year;
     (d)  "Guinean Franc"  and  "GNF"  mean  the  currency  of the
Borrower;
     (e)  "Project Prefectures"  means  the  prefectures  of Labe,
Dalaba, Lelouma, Pita and Tougue in the Region of Middle Guinea;
     (f)  "AGBEF" means the  Association  Guineenne  pour le Bien-
Etre  Familial,  a   private   non-profit  organization  operating
pursuant to the revised statutes dated April 1, 1987;
     (g)  "MSAS"  means  the   Ministere   de   la  Sante  et  des
Affaires Sociales of  the  Borrower,  operating pursuant to decree
No. 010/PRG/86 of March 25,  1986  and arrete No. 018/M SAS/CAB of
April 4, 1986; and
     (h)  "SEAS"  means  the   Secretariat   d'Etat  aux  Affaires
Sociales  of   the   Borrower,   operating   pursuant   to  decree
No. 011/PRG/86 dated March 25, 1986.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to fifteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 15,100,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of  goods  and  services  required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in a commercial
bank on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to this
Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
Page  3
unwithdrawn  balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1993,
or such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date  of  the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.O7. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on  each  June  15 and December 15
commencing December  15,  1997  and  ending  June  15,  2027. Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on June 15,
2007, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
Page  4
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
MSAS with due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial,  training  and health prac-
tices, and shall provide,  promptly  as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall maintain a revolving account in local
currency in a commercial bank  exclusively for the purposes of the
Project and shall, after the  initial deposit therein set forth in
Section 6.01 of this Agreement, replenish such account as and when
required to ensure that, on the first day of each calendar quarter
during each year the  Project  is executed, an amount satisfactory
to the Association shall be  available  to MSAS in such account to
finance the estimated cost  in  local  currency  of the Project in
such quarter.
     Section  3.O2.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section  3.03.  To  administer  and  coordinate  the Project,
the Borrower  shall  maintain  the  Project  Management Unit (PMU)
reporting to MSAS' Director of  Cabinet  and with staff in numbers
and  with  experience  and   qualifications  satisfactory  to  the
Association. The said staff  shall include a national coordinator,
an  architect,  a  procurement  officer,  a  forwarding  agent, an
accountant and support staff.
     Section 3.04.  The  Borrower  shall  maintain MSAS' Technical
Coordination Committee (TCC),  chaired  by MSAS' Cabinet Director.
The TCC shall meet at least  once every quarter in order to review
progress achieved in the execution  of the Project and the program
of activities to  be  carried  out  under  the  Project during the
following two quarters.   The  TCC  shall also review and evaluate
on-going programs and projects in  the  health sector and of MSAS,
coordinate  such  programs  and  projects  and  contribute  to the
development of strategies for the health sector.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  not later than March 31, 1988, submit to the Association
for its review and comments  a  policy  and plan of action for the
supply of drugs to the population; and
     (b)  promptly thereafter, implement  such  policy and plan as
shall have been satisfactory to the Association.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than September 30
of each year starting in  1988,  submit to the Association for its
review and comments:
     (a)  the expenditures  made  for  investments  in  the health
sector in the previous Fiscal Year;
     (b)  proposed  investments  in  the  health  sector  for  the
following three FYs, including estimates of annual recurrent costs
associated with each such investment;
     (c)  proposed  health   sector   recurrent   budget  for  the
following FY;
     (d)  a program  of  staff  deployment  for  the following FY,
based  on  a  detailed  assessment   of  the  achievement  of  the
geographic distribution and  allocation  targets for health sector
personnel for the on-going FY;
Page  5
     (e)  a report on  the  implementation  of the Borrower's drug
policy;
     (f)  a plan of action  for  the  activities to be carried out
during the following FY under  Parts  B.3  (g)  and B.3 (h) of the
Project; and
     (g)  the technical and  management  training programs for the
following FY, such  programs  to  take  into  account the detailed
evaluation of training programs undertaken during the previous FY.
     Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than November 30
of each year starting in  1988, hold aid coordination meetings for
the health sector, to which  all aid agencies participating in the
financing of health sector activities shall be invited.
     Section 3.08. (a) For the purpose of Part B.5 of the Project,
the Borrower shall:
         (i)   recover the cost (excluding  salaries) of drugs and
               services provided to the  public through its health
               facilities to  be  renovated  under  Part  B of the
               Project, according to a  fee schedule and timetable
               satisfactory to the Association; such cost recovery
               to  be  introduced  in  each  health  facility upon
               receipt of an initial stock of drugs;
         (ii)  open  and   thereafter   maintain,   in   a  manner
               satisfactory to the  Association,  an  account in a
               commercial bank, and  deposit  therein the proceeds
               of the sale of  drugs  financed out of the proceeds
               of the Credit or out  of any other deposits made in
               said account;
        (iii)  not  later  than  June  30,  1988,  submit  to  the
               Association for its review  and comments, an action
               plan and  timetable  for  the  introduction of cost
               recovery for  drugs  and  medical  services  in the
               remaining health facilities in the Region of Middle
               Guinea, and,  promptly  thereafter,  implement such
               action plan as shall  have been satisfactory to the
               Association; and
         (iv)  submit  to   the   Association,   not   later  than
               September  30  of  each  year,  for  its  review an
               evaluation of the  cost recovery activities carried
               out in the  Region  of  Middle Guinea together with
               proposals for improvement  and further extension of
               such activities.
     (b)  The Borrower  undertakes  that:  (i)  all  funds  in the
account referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section shall be
used exclusively for the  purchase  of  drugs  to be resold to the
public and, inasmuch as funds  are available, for the financing of
non-salary recurrent expenditures  of  such health facilities, and
(ii) the proceeds of  such  sales  shall  be deposited only in the
said account.
     Section  3.09.  The  Borrower   shall:   (a)  submit  to  the
Association  for  its  approval:   (i)  the  names,  function  and
qualifications  of  the   candidates   for   training  on  foreign
fellowships financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Credit; and
(ii) the program of  the  training  to  be undertaken by them; and
(b) take all necessary  measures  to  ensure that all staff having
received such training  remain  assigned  to  tasks for which they
were trained for  a  period  of  at  least  three  years after its
completion.
                            ARTICLE IV
                          Other Covenants
Page  6
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  AGBEF  and  of the
departments or agencies of  the  Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Account, for  each  fiscal year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall  cause each health or family
planning institution whose expenditures are financed in part or in
total out of the proceeds of the Credit:
     (a)  to carry out its  operations  and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical, health
and family planning practices  under  the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers; and
     (b)  at all times to  operate  and to maintain its buildings,
furniture, equipment and other  property,  and  from time to time,
promptly as needed,  to  make  all  necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all  in  accordance  with  sound  engineering, financial,
health and family planning practices.
Page  7
     Section 4.03. The  Borrower  shall  afford the Association an
opportunity  to  comment  on   any   proposals  to  reorganize  or
restructure MSAS in  a  manner  affecting  the  achievement of the
objectives  of  the  Project  before  committing  itself  to  such
reorganization or restructuring.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.0l. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a) the  arrete  referred  to  in  Section  6.01  (c) of this
Agreement shall have been  amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived without prior approval of the Association; and
     (b)  any of the instruments establishing the unit referred to
in Section 3.03 of this Agreement  or the Committee referred to in
Section 3.04 of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  without  prior  approval  of the
Association.
     Section 5.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.O1  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified: any event
specified in Section 5.O1 of  this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of  60  days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
     (a)  the MSAS  units  responsible  for  the  execution of the
Project have been fully staffed as set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  financial  management  and   control   systems  for  the
hospitals and health centers to be renovated under the Project are
effectively in place;
     (c)  a joint  arrete  has  been  signed  by  the Ministers in
charge of Finance and  Health  authorizing the retention by health
facilities in the Project  Prefectures  of funds collected through
cost recovery activities;
     (d)  a  Project   accounting   system   satisfactory  to  the
Association has been set up; and
     (e)  the Borrower  has  opened  the  account  referred  to in
Section 3.01 (b) of  this  Agreement  and has deposited therein an
initial amount of GNF 86 million.
     Section 6.O2. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.O4 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.03. The  obligations  of  the  Borrower under Arti-
cle IV of this  Agreement  and  the  provisions of Section 5.02 of
this Agreement shall cease and determine  on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement  shall  terminate  or  on the date 15
years after the date  of  this  Agreement,  whichever shall be the
earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
Page  8
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister  of  Health  and Social Affairs of
the Borrower is designated  as  representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere de la Sante et des Affaires Sociales
          B.P. 585
          Conakry
          Republique de Guinee
          Cable address:
                MINISANTE
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                          By /s/ Tolo Beavogui
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
Page  9
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Works
     (a)  for Part B.1 (a)       6,900,000       100%
     (b)  for Part B.1 (b)         380,000       100%
(2)  Furniture, equip-           1,380,000       100% of foreign
     ment, vehicles and                          expenditures and
     materials                                   85% of local
                                                 expenditures
(3)  Drugs                         540,000       100% in FY 1987
                                                 and FY 1988
                                                 80% in FY 1989
                                                 50% in FY 1990
                                                 30% in FY 1991
                                                 and finally
                                                 20% in FY 1992
(4)  Consultants'                3,370,000       100%
     services and
     training
(5)  Goods and services             80,000       100%
     for Parts A.2 (d)
     and B.3 (d)
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(6)  Goods and services
     (a)   for Part                 80,000       95%
           B.3 (g)
     (b)   for Part                 80,000       95%
           B.3 (h)
(7)  Operating costs               380,000       60% in FY 1987
                                                 and FY 1988
                                                 40% in FY 1989
                                                 20% in FY 1990
                                                 and finally
                                                 10% in FY 1991
(8)  Refunding of                  730,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(9)  Unallocated                 1,180,000
                                 _________
         TOTAL                  15,100,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  the  term  "works"  means  civil  works  carried  out by
contractors and excludes  goods  and  services  to  be provided by
Page  10
local communities for the construction or rehabilitation of health
facilities; and
     (d)  the term  "operating  costs"  means incremental Project-
related expenditures incurred by  MSAS for supplies, operation and
maintenance of vehicles  and  equipment, maintenance of buildings,
per diem and domestic travel of  MSAS staff in charge of executing
the Project, and  utilities  (water, power and telecommunications)
for the Project Management  Unit  referred  to  in Section 3.03 of
this Agreement.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  payments made for expenditures  to  be financed from the
proceeds of  the  Credit  allocated  to  Category  (3)  unless the
account referred to in Section 3.08 (a) (ii) of this Agreement has
been opened;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures  to  be financed from the
proceeds of the Credit allocated  to  Category (5) unless the Bor-
rower has entered into an  agreement  with AGBEF for the execution
of Parts  A.2  (d)  and  B.3  (d)  of  the  Project  on  terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association; and
     (d)  payments made for expenditures to  be financed in any FY
from the proceeds of the  Credit  allocated to Categories 6(a) and
6(b)  respectively  unless  the  Borrower  has  submitted  to  the
Association plans of action for the activities to be undertaken to
carry out Part  B.3  (g)  and  Part  B.3  (h)  respectively of the
Project during  such  FY,  which  shall  in  each  case  have been
satisfactory to the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are to improve the quality and
efficiency of basic health  services, through the strengthening of
the Borrower's institutions  and  policies  in  the health sector,
investments in the Middle  Guinea  Region  and development of cost
recovery schemes.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Institutional Development of MSAS
1.   Strengthening of MSAS support functions, including:
     (a)  financial and  operational  planning  through inter alia
the establishment of: (i)  a  system  for  the preparation and up-
dating  of  the  rolling  3-year  health  investment  program; and
(ii) improved external aid coordination mechanisms;
     (b)  manpower   planning,   through   inter   alia   periodic
assessments of  the  staffing  needs  of  all  MSAS  units and the
implementation of a program for the redeployment of MSAS staff;
     (c)  financial management, including strengthening of budget-
ing and accounting  functions  and  development  and evaluation of
cost recovery policy and schemes; and
     (d)  maintenance services through  inter  alia the renovation
of the national maintenance  workshop  of  MSAS and the design and
implementation  of  a  preventive   maintenance  system  for  MSAS
Page  11
vehicles, equipment and buildings.
2.   Strengthening of MSAS technical functions, including:
     (a)  technical in-service  training  including development of
teaching materials;
     (b)  management training for central level staff;
     (c)  strengthening of maternal  and  child  health and family
planning services;
     (d)  assistance  to   AGBEF   in   the   establishment  of  a
distribution  network  for  non-medical  contraceptives, including
renovation and equipment of a warehouse;
     (e)  implementation  of  activities  in  support  of  women's
development and strengthening  of  SEAS'  women's training centers
division;
     (f)  establishment of  a  nutrition  surveillance system, and
development of  reporting  and  analysis  of  health and nutrition
statistics;
     (g)  implementation of a  health education program, including
the development of outreach activities, and radio and audio-visual
programs.
Part B:   Development of Health Sector Operations in Middle Guinea
1.   Rehabilitation  and  reconstruction   of  health  facilities,
including:
     (a)  prefectoral hospitals of Lelouma, Pita, Labe, Dalaba and
Tougue and five urban health centers; and
     (b)  about twelve rural health centers.
2.   (a)  Strengthening  of  regional  health  management  in  the
Region of Middle Guinea at the levels of the regional inspector of
health and social affairs, and the prefectoral directors of health
and social affairs  of  Labe,  Dalaba,  Lelouma,  Pita and Tougue,
including staff training; and
     (b)  improvement  of  responsiveness  of  health  centers  to
community needs  through  the  establishment  of  about  17 Health
Committees.
3.   Strengthening of basic health services  at the local and pre-
fectoral levels including:
     (a)  strengthening of MSAS'  regional  maintenance service in
Labe,  including  establishment  and  management  of  a preventive
maintenance system at the regional level;
     (b)  strengthening of maternal and  child health services and
related outreach activities;
     (c)  introduction of family planning  services in the Project
Prefectures, and  renovation  of  5  prefectoral  women's training
centers;
     (d)  development of outreach  activities  to promote maternal
and child health and family planning in the Project Prefectures;
     (e)  development of local and  regional capabilities to carry
out nutrition surveillance and education;
     (f)  testing  of  information,  education  and communications
programs developed by MSAS;
     (g)  support to  small  self-help  health-related projects in
Page  12
about 72 communities; and
     (h)  support to social and  economic  activities to be under-
taken by women's cooperatives  through  provision of equipment and
materials.
4.   Upgrading  skills  of   regional  health  personnel,  through
training of  staff  trainers  to  train:  (a)  all paramedical and
social services staff in facilities  to  be renovated under Part B
of the Project; and (b)  traditional  birth attendants in about 72
villages.
5.   Improving   financial   management   in   facilities   to  be
rehabilitated under Part  B  of  the  Project, development of cost
recovery activities at the  health  center level and strengthening
of cost recovery at the hospital level.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for the works included in Part B.1 (a) of the Project
shall be  prequalified  as  described  in  paragraph  2.10  of the
Guidelines.
3.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods  shall be
grouped in  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$75,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  the  Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works estimated  to  cost  less  than the equivalent of
$400,000 per contract, and goods  estimated  to cost less than the
equivalent of $75,000 per contract  up  to an aggregate amount not
to exceed  the  equivalent  of  $400,000,  may  be  procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally,  in  accordance  with   procedures  satisfactory  to  the
Association.
2.   Goods estimated to cost  less  than the equivalent of $10,000
per contract, up to an aggregate  amount not to exceed the equiva-
lent of $100,000, may be  procured  under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price  quotations  solicited from a list of
at  least  three  suppliers  eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.   Contracts for the production  of  radio and television health
education  programs  may  be  procured  under  contracts  directly
Page  13
negotiated with a single supplier acceptable to the Association.
4.   Medical equipment  and  drugs  may  be  procured  through the
United Nations Children Fund  in  accordance  with said Fund's own
procedures.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof,  the  procedures  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  for  works included in
Part B.1 of the Project and to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more,  the  procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3, shall be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
3.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, provided that, in  the case of Categories (3), (5)
and (6), the Borrower has the  right to make withdrawals from such
Categories pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 1
Page  14
to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $400,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Catego-
ries, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting  the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such  payment  was  made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the eligible  Categories, minus the amount
               of any outstanding  special commitment entered into
               by the Association pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
               General Conditions  with  respect  to  the Project,
               shall be  equal  to  the  equivalent  of  twice the
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligi-
Page  15
ble Categories shall  follow  such  procedures  as the Association
shall specify by notice to  the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after  and  to  the extent that the Association
shall have  been  satisfied  that  all  such  amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as  of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not berequired to cover 
further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
                            SCHEDULE 5
           Minimum Staffing for Central MSAS Units to be
                  Strengthened Under the Project
A.   Division of Prevention and Primary Health Care
     1.  Maternal and Child Health (MCH) and Family Planning (FP)
         Service
          1  Chief - MD
          2  MDs with specialization in MCH and FP
          1  Accountant
          1  Secretary/typist
     2.   Health Education Service
          1  Chief - MD or Social Scientist with training in Mass
Communications
          1  Assistant, Social Scientist with IEC training
          1  IEC Applied Researcher
          1  Specialist in IEC training and curriculum development
     3.   Nutrition Service
          1  Chief - MD with training in Nutrition
          1  Nutrition Specialist
B.   Division for Women's Training Centers
          1  Director - Social Scientist with training
             in women's programs.
          1  Chief - Social Scientist/Social Worker
          1  Accountant
Page  16
          1  Clerk/typist
          1  Chief - Social Worker with training skills
          1  Specialist in Women's Cooperatives
          1  Clerk/typist
C.   Division for Infrastructure, Equipment and Maintenance
          1  Director - Architect or Health Engineer
          Medical Equipment Maintenance Service
          1  Chief - Medical equipment maintenance technician
          1  Technician
D.   Division of Administrative and Financial Affairs
          1  Director - Administrator/Accountant
          1  Accountant/Finance Officer
          1  Administrative Assistant
          1  Administrative Clerk
          1  Secretary
          Human Resources Service
          1  Chief, Specialist in Human Resource Management
          1  Health Personnel Officer
          1  Social Affairs Personnel Officer
          1  Administrative Personnel Officer
          1  Secretary/Typist
E.   Division of Studies, Planning, Training and Research
          1  Director
          1  Senior Health Planner
          1  Health Economist
          1  Medical Statistician
          1  Documentalist
          1  Programmer
          1  Secretary/typist
          Training and Research Service
          1  Chief - Epidemiologist
          1  Training Specialist
          1  Clerk/typist
Page  17
