                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 36179

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                                (TF-28324)

                                                  ON A

                     GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT

            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.2 MILLION (US$ 7.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA

                                                FOR THE

                      BIODIVERSITY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                              June 29, 2006




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective June 16, 2006)

                        Currency Unit = Colones
                      511.85 Colones = US$ 1.00
                                US$ 1 = 1

                               FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1     December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBD      Convention on Biological Diversity
GEF      Global Environment Facility
GBIF     Global Biodiversity Information Facility
IABIN    Inter-American Biodiversity Information Network
INBio    National Institute of Biodiversity (Instituto Nacional de Biodiversidad)
MINAE    Ministry of Environment and Energy (Ministerio del Ambiente y de Energía)
NGO      Nongovernmental Organization
NORAD    Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
SINAC    National System of Conservation Areas (Sistema Nacional de Áreas de
         Conservación)
UBI      Basic Unit of Information (Unidad Básica de Información)




                      Vice President:      Pamela Cox
                   Country Director        Jane Armitage
                      Sector Director      Laura Tuck
                 Task Team Leader:         Douglas J. Graham

                                        COSTA RICA
               BIODIVERSITY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8. Borrowers Summary Evaluation                                            30
Annex 9. Map                                                                     41

Project ID: P039876                                                  Project Name: BIODIVERSITY RESOURCE
                                                                     DEVELOPMENT (GEF)
Team Leader: Douglas J. Graham                                       TL Unit: LCSEN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: BIODIVERSITY RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT L/C/TF Number: TF-28324
                            (GEF)
   Country/Department: COSTA RICA                                                         Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (87%); Central government administration
                            (13%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Environmental policies and institutions (P); Rural non-farm income
                            generation (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/03/1995                                     Effective: 07/14/1998                07/14/1998
     Appraisal: 05/01/1997                                         MTR: 06/18/2001                  06/18/2001
      Approval: 03/03/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          INBIO/INBIO
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shaheed Javed Burki
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:                Laura Tuck                                     Marita Koch-Weser
Team Leader at ICR:             Douglas J. Graham                              Thomas B. Wiens
ICR Primary Author:             Gunars Platais; Douglas J.
                                Graham; Teresa M. Roncal


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The global environmental objective of the Biodiversity Resources Development Project was to demonstrate
that increased species knowledge benefits conservation and the sustainable use of globally important
biodiversity. Benefits would be achieved by enabling more sustainable use and by raising awareness of
biodiversity.

Costa Rica is at the forefront of biodiversity conservation and management. Recognizing that its biological
resources are an important national asset, Costa Rica has pursued a policy of conservation and protection,
and has encouraged innovation in environmental financing and administration. In 1992, with the signing of
the first National Biodiversity Institute (INBio) and National Conservation Area System (SINAC)
Cooperation Agreement, an official alliance was established between the Ministry of Environment and
Energy (MINAE) and INBio.1 SINAC is the regulatory agency that implements natural resource
management decisions in the country's conservation areas. SINAC receives technical input from INBio
(e.g., preparation of joint projects, consultancies, technical assistance, capacity building, and information
exchange) that culminated in the elaboration of the National Strategy on Conservation and Sustainable Use
of Biodiversity.

The GEF-financed project was designed to be a central part of the INBio-managed Integrated Development
of Biodiversity Resources Program (hereafter the "Integrated Program"). This program originated as a
result of the above-mentioned National Strategy and through the integration of three inventory initiatives
financed by the governments of Norway (through NORAD, the Norwegian Agency for Development
Cooperation), the Netherlands, and by the GEF. The government of Costa Rica was represented in the
program through SINAC. The Integrated Program develops and promotes mechanisms that integrate
conservation in development through enhancing knowledge of sustainable use of biodiversity. It contributes
to the fulfillment of the National Strategy by supporting the latter's main lines of action: (i) establish large
areas for conservation, (ii) improve knowledge about the biodiversity of those areas, and (iii) integrate
sustainable use of biodiversity into the intellectual and economic fabric of society.
________________________________
1
  The National Biodiversity Institute (INBio) of Costa Rica is a private research and biodiversity management
institution established in 1989 to support efforts to gather knowledge on the country's biological diversity and
promote its sustainable use. INBio collaborates closely with government institutions, universities, the private sector
and other public and private organizations inside and outside Costa Rica. The government of Costa Rica has
divided the entire country into "conservation areas", constituting a decentralized structure through which protected
areas are managed.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project financed the following four components:

3.3.1 Inventory Framework (US$0.7 million, 6.4% of total project cost). This component financed
consultants; transportation, travel-related expenditures and materials for consultations with scientists;
consultations with representatives of different user groups, communities, and other stakeholders; and the
work of the Commission on the Use of Indigenous Knowledge and Sharing of Benefits.

3.3.2 Biodiversity Inventory (US$8.0 million, 73.4% of total project cost). This component financed the
collection of specimens for priority subgroups of the then-estimated 144,000 species of Hymenoptera,


                                                        - 2 -

Coleoptera, Diptera, and Fungi in the Conservation Areas of Tempisque, Arenal-Tilaran, Osa, Amistad
Pacifico, and Amistad Caribe; cataloging of the specimens collected; and information management
activities such as specimen databases. The two subcomponents were:

         (i) Collection activities.This subcomponent financed incremental costs of salaries for new
parataxonomists and research coordinators in the three conservation areas that did not have research
coordinators; equipment; maintenance; supplies; transportation and training programs for local
parataxonomists and technicians; collection of specimens of Hymenoptera, Coleoptera, Diptera, and Fungi
in the five conservation areas; preliminary sorting of specimens in the field; recording of relevant specimen
natural history information; and transfer of the specimens to INBio for further processing.
         (ii) Cataloging activities.This subcomponent financed incremental salaries for technicians and
curators; international taxonomic consultants; equipment; training programs; recurrent costs on a declining
basis at INBio for activities and equipment related to cataloging and information management; and travel
and per diem for international and national taxonomists working in Costa Rica who volunteered their time.
The work of the taxonomists enabled the processing and storage of the millions of specimens that the
collection activities generated, identification and cataloging of each specimen, and recording relevant data
in a computerized information management system.

3.3.3 Sustainable Uses of Biodiversity (US$0.9 million, 8.3% of total project cost). This component
financed consultants, studies, equipment, materials, publications, seminars, and other expenses to develop
applications based on the inventory. Its intention was to demonstrate which knowledge-based applications
were the most feasible for generation or revenue or other benefits.

3.3.4 Institutional Strengthening (US$1.3 million, 11.9% of total project cost). This component financed
incremental costs of additional personnel, equipment, and recurrent costs on a declining basis for the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU). Given the special handling and storage needs of Fungi, this component
also financed the infrastructure, equipment, and maintenance costs of a Fungi laboratory.

Project design was consistent with ongoing activities of the implementing agency and other donors involved
in conservation in Costa Rica. The government of Norway funded activities through a US$0.4 million grant
in April 1995 and a follow-up grant of US$1.4 million in October 1997, which laid the foundation for the
project. This support enabled a series of participatory workshops with scientific Taxonomic Working
Groups and potential clients and users to determine the methodologies and protocols that should be used for
collection and cataloging. The Norwegian funding also permitted limited collecting and cataloging
activities, piloted the development of products, and developed INBio's institutional capacity. In 1996, the
government of Canada provided a US$3.4 million grant to strengthen management capacity at INBio,
finance infrastructure for the bio-prospecting laboratory, and finance meetings with indigenous
communities.

While these donor-funded activities were being undertaken, the government formed several working groups,
in which INBio and SINAC participated, to discuss the role of biodiversity in Costa Rica's sustainable
development. As a result of these discussions and the donor-funded project work, it became apparent that
the sustainability of the protected areas depends on the benefits they generate for society and the local
communities. As a result, SINAC focused on developing a decentralized system of conservation areas that
takes an ecosystem approach to conservation (see Map A9.1, Appendix 9) and involves local communities
in the development of strategies for sustainable development. INBio and SINAC agreed that inventory
activities should be based on community demand-driven criteria and should cover a range of ecosystems
and geographic locations.




                                                     - 3 -

Based on this approach, in December 1997 the government of the Netherlands approved a four-year grant
of US$8.2 million, to finance: (i) the collection and cataloging of five taxonomic groups including plants,
mollusks, nematodes, Lepidoptera, and vertebrates; (ii) ecosystem mapping of the Conservation Areas; (iii)
further development of the biodiversity information management system; (iv) projects based on sustainable
uses and applications of the inventory; and (v) infrastructure, training, and institutional strengthening of the
Conservation Areas and INBio. These Dutch-funded activities strongly complemented the GEF-financed
project, complementarities which were ensured by both falling under the Integrated Program. The latter was
further strengthened with a second Dutch donation of US$5.38 million which started in July 2002 and ran
until October 2005.

3.4 Revised Components:
Following a recommendation made by the donors, in November 2001 the Integrated Program was
redesigned to have four components based on the original components of the GEF-financed project,
incorporating the eight components of the Dutch-financed project and NORAD-financed activities.
Comparing the Integrated Program structure to the original structure of the GEF-financed project, only the
name of the first component changed from Inventory Framework to Planning and Participation.

There were no major formal revisions of any component. However, during the mid-term review, INBio
proposed that the Lepidoptera (moths and butterflies) be included in Component 2 of the GEF-financed
project. This revision was justified due to the end of direct Dutch financing for Lepidoptera and the
availability of Dutch financing to cover parataxonomist costs that the GEF-financed project would have
otherwise covered. The World Bank accepted this reassignation of project funds in November 2001.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The rating for this aspect is considered Satisfactory. Before approval, the project met accepted quality at
entry standards in applying World Bank procedures, policies, and safeguards. The project objectives were
consistent with the CAS, donor program, and government priorities.

Six project risks were appropriately identified:

1. The resource base could be depleted through over-sampling.
2. Knowledge gained during the project might not be disseminated or used globally.
3. INBio's absorptive capacity could be overwhelmed due to the projected 25 percent increase in the
    resources and activities that INBio would manage annually.
4. The project objectives might not be met due to financial and human resource constraints in the selected
    project areas.
5. Coordination between INBio and SINAC might be inadequate.
6. INBio might not be able to negotiate binding agreements with international taxonomists.

These risks were taken into account during project implementation. Depletion of the resource base through
over-sampling was determined not to be a concern given the minimal sampling effort and dispersed
geographic locations of sampling areas. The risk of inadequate dissemination of knowledge gained during
the project was not realized given the emphasis accorded to scientific and practical biodiversity use
publications. Regarding INBio's capacity to absorb the 25 percent increase in the amount of resources and
activities, the institution was able to adjust and accommodate this increased demand on staff time. In close
collaboration with SINAC, the project was able to address the potential and real financial and human
resource constraints in the five Conservation Areas. Finally, the risk that INBio would not be able to
negotiate binding agreements with taxonomists was unfounded as the number of participating international
taxonomists eventually exceeded all expectations.



                                                      - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's outcome is rated as Satisfactory. INBio hosts an extraordinary archive of biological
information for biodiversity conservation and sustainable use as one result of the project. The project
focused on five taxonomic groups (Hymenoptera, Coleoptera, Diptera, Lepidoptera, and Fungi) and
indirectly supported inventories of three other groups (plants, nematodes, and mollusks) as a part of
INBio's broader Integrated Program. The project promoted and improved biodiversity conservation and
sustainable use by: (i) contributing and generating information used for decision-making in the conservation
areas of the country (e.g., basic inventory information, specialized technical reports, and ecological
studies); (ii) supporting the organization and administration of biodiversity information and making it fully
accessible via the Internet; (iii) publicizing and transferring biodiversity information to the public at large
through electronic and printed materials and training; and (iv) supporting the negotiations of new projects
in sustainable biodiversity use through INBio's bioprospecting program.

The most salient project benefits of global significance are: (i) practical methodologies for biodiversity
inventories that have been recognized by global initiatives such as the Global Biodiversity Information
Facility (GBIF) and by regional efforts such as IABIN; (ii) contribution to scientific knowledge of five
taxonomic groups in the Neotropics, as indicated by the identification of on average one new species every
day for the last three years; (iii) public access to all inventory information accessible on an acclaimed
easy-to-use website (http://atta.inbio.ac.cr); (iv) legal, contractual, and financial models for the use of the
information from biodiversity inventories; (v) new successful working modalities between the public sector
and NGOs to promote the sustainable management of biodiversity; and (vi) facilitation of the contributions
of 350 taxonomists from research centers, museums, and universities worldwide.

No one project indicator unambigously links the biological inventories and research with improved
biodiversity conservation, a key objective of the project. However, the qualitative and quantitative
indicators taken together, high performance of the executing agency, its success in reaching and influencing
the public and policymakers, and qualitative feedback from officials of the National System of
Conservation Areas (SINAC), support the conclusion that this objective was satisfactorily achieved.
SINAC representatives were emphatic in defending the value of the project-generated information in having
influenced a variety of important national conservation decisions. Additonally, by more clearly establishing
these links, the project made an important contribution to addressing the "taxonomic impediment"­­the
widely recognized global lack of basic taxonomic expertise that limits many efforts to find applied uses for
biodiversity.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Inventory Framework
This component is rated Highly Satisfactory. The project was successful in establishing the methodologies
and protocols for taxonomic work and involving the international scientific community in these endeavors.
INBio has established itself as a worldwide leader in taxonomic inventories and far exceeded the original
goals in terms of the number of taxonomists trained in the use of the methodologies, participation in
workshops, visits to INBio, and requests for inventory information.




                                                      - 5 -

The mixed results of the consultative efforts with local communities and indigenous groups are attributable
to project design, which overestimated the degree to which local communities and stakeholders would be
interested in, and could define their biodiversity needs. Adapting to this reality, INBio supported a dialogue
with local communities that would stand to benefit from the information being generated. The project
supported the National Indigenous Conference (Mesa Nacional Indígena) in a participatory process with
indigenous groups and local communities on generating information and capacity building. The
consultations helped generate the ideas and general principles on the nature, scope, and requirements of
communal intellectual property rights that would comply with that stipulated in Costa Rica's Biodiversity
Law, the Convention on Biological Diversity, and the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for
Food and Agriculture.

Based on extensive local outreach and workshops, the project crafted a constructive approach to address
the needs of local and indigenous communities that focused on cooperation and consultation with the
National System of Conservation Areas (SINAC). This approach included strong community
representation and partnerships with the National Indigenous Conference that provided input on the specific
needs and rights of indigenous communities. Toward the end of the project, INBio also conducted a greater
number of ecological studies targeted at narrowly defined local issues. These studies were supplemental to
the original taxonomic focus of the project but were considered highly relevant and useful by local
communities and conservation area managers.

4.2.2 Biodiversity Inventory
This component is rated Highly Satisfactory. INBio's taxonomic collection is one of the best in the
Neotropics and is of such high quality and scientific interest that international scientists contributed more
than five times the anticipated amount of voluntary taxonomic work for analyzing and classifying
specimens. By the end of the project, more than 40,000 volunteer taxonomist-days had been contributed, an
astonishing global contribution. In collaboration with other donors and INBio programs, this information
has been made accessible through inclusion in the online biodiversity information database, Atta, as well as
through the growing number of in-depth species pages (UBIs).2 Atta receives an average of 20,000 hits a
day and has received four international prizes in the last three years.3 It has been a model for other systems
being installed in Central American herbaria and others across the world. The inventory work is critical to
support INBio's scientific research and bioprospecting efforts, institutional credibility and authority, and
educational and public outreach missions.

The initial targets for numbers of specimens identified and new species described were recognized early in
project implementation to be unrealistic. Although even revised targets were not fully achieved, by any
other objective measure the results of the component were exceptional, given the discovery of more than
2,000 new species for science, and the cataloging of approximately 3 million specimens (of which
approximately one third at the species level). An internationally recognized expert from the Museum of
Natural History in London, contracted during the mid-term review to evaluate the Inventory Component,
reported that: "the inventory process at INBio is efficient and effective. Specimens are collected in the
protected areas by highly trained parataxonomists, and are further sorted by technicians and curators at
INBio. Specimens are sent to international experts, not only those working directly with the project, but
increasingly to a wide variety of experts all over the world."4 INBio has been the first institution in the
world to fully implement a barcoding system in its collection. Barcoding has expedited data entry and
reduced errors, thus significantly reducing collecting costs. INBio also has developed and is implementing a
sustainability plan for continuing taxonomic activities and maintaining the inventory.

INBio is the largest provider of vouchered specimen data to the Global Biodiversity Information Facility



                                                     - 6 -

(GBIF) and is the official representative of GBIF in Costa Rica. INBio also was chosen by GBIF to lead
mentoring programs with Argentina, Nicaragua, and Peru. INBio is also a founding member of the
Smithsonian-led Encyclopedia of Life initiative, and INBio staff sit on the Steering Committee. At a
hemispheric level, INBio has recently been chosen to be the coordinating institution for the Species and
Specimens Thematic Network of the Inter-American Biodiversity Information Network (IABIN).

4.2.3 Sustainable Uses of Biodiversity
This component is rated Satisfactory based on the increased use of information from the project to support
conservation management plans and measures; the number of pilot agreements with companies, research
institutions, and NGOs to develop and implement applied uses for biodiversity; the prolific output of
publications and scientific articles using information from the project (see Section 10); and qualitative
assessments of the conservation value of project activities by officials of the Conservation Areas System.

From the beginning of the project, it was anticipated that most "real world" applications based on the
inventory likely would not be realized during the duration of the project. However, pilot agreements to
develop applied uses of biodiversity exceeded proposed targets. A sample of project-supported initiatives,
in some cases pursued in conjunction with other donor resources, include:

l Discovery of a new species of fungus that could fight pathogens in the vanilla plant
l Identification of 60 edible mushrooms with cultivation and marketing potential
l Improved management practices for butterfly breeders and diversification of commercially available
    species
l Ongoing research into vector control for dengue fever
l Inventory of pests affecting forest health
l Greater understanding of both the positive and negative roles of insects in coffee plantations.


In addition, responding to demand for activities from SINAC and communities, the project supported
investments, not strictly speaking related to the inventory, in management of other species such as the
White-winged Dove. Project activities supported INBio's role in public outreach and education, raising
conservation awareness, and influencing conservation policy. By raising awareness of the value of
biodiversity among decision-makers, tourists, educators, students, and the general public, changes were
introduced in their perceptions and behavior that will benefit biodiversity conservation.

Information gathered by the project has been disseminated through many scientific and educational
publications produced by their in-house publishing group, Editorial INBio; through their public educational
facility, INBioparque; and through the frequent presence of INBio on television, radio, and in print media.
                       8


The project made a special contribution through printing books and children's games, as well as teaching
materials (posters, compact disks, and a video) for children and adults (see Section 10 for a list of
project-sponsored material). In addition to its frequent presence in the media--including a weekly one-hour
program on Radio Nacional--INBio has become an authority for journalists on environmental issues,
which ensures significant newspaper, radio, and television coverage.

INBio is widely known and respected in public, political, and scientific circles. Politicians, environmental
specialists, media, educators, students, religious leaders, and NGOs were interviewed in a recent study
commissioned by INBio. Those interviewed concurred that INBio was influential in promoting and
implementing environmental conservation efforts. This influence was due to INBio's scientific and
technical strength, to which the project contributed substantially. The study also identified a perception that
INBio had not liaised sufficiently with local communities nor with the direct users of biodiversity resources.
INBio is addressing these concerns by readjusting and strengthening its outreach program.


                                                     - 7 -

Interviews in December 2005 and April 2006 with SINAC officials elicited a very favorable assessment of
the project's contribution to conservation measures and policy, both the inventory activities and targeted
ecological studies.

4.2.4 Institutional Strengthening
This component is rated as Highly Satisfactory. Facing challenges in financial sustainability and a need to
transition to a new management team, the institution took important strides in restructuring, instituted new
administrative and financial systems and procedures, and developed a serious strategy for institutional
sustainability. Only a few years ago, given that Dutch and World Bank financing constituted half of
INBio's revenue stream, the end of the project loomed ominously. However, INBio's well-articulated plan
to continue project activities, which are now fully integrated into INBio's institutional activities, is being
implemented. Because of very aggressive fundraising and diversification, at the end of the project, INBio's
post-project annual revenues are expected to decline only from $6.4 million to approximately $6.2 million.
INBio's staff, particularly its managers and procurement/financial personnel, explicitly recognize that
having to satisfy stringent World Bank policies and procedures considerably strengthened their capacity.
________________________________
2The UBI, or Basic Information Unit (Unidad Básica de Información), provides general data on a species such as
taxonomy, distribution, life history, conservation status, plus a picture or drawing.
3
 These awards include: (i) Tech Museum of Innovation Award in the Conservation category, 2003; (ii) Augusto
Gonazález de Linares environmental prize of the Universidad de Cantabria, Spain, 2004; and (iii) the best website
prize of Costa Rica, given by the Ministry of Science and Technology.
4  Knappp, Susan. June 2002. Detailed Comments on INBio Inventory Component, Document Associated with
World Bank Mid-Term Review Mission, 18-24 June 2002.
5Not directly financed by the project, INBioparque is a tourism- and education-oriented facility that introduces
visitors to a range of Costa Rican ecosystems and biodiversity. A key conclusion of a recent analysis of the facility
is that a greater depth and breadth of public interest could be generated by bringing more of INBio's scientific work
into INBioparque.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact is considered to be Substantial.

The project played a significant role in improving INBio's ability to make effective use of its human and
financial resources to manage natural resources and conserve biodiversity. Project-generated information
influenced a variety of important conservation decisions and was an important factor in INBio's
contribution to the fulfillment of the National Conservation Strategy. The NGO's partnership with SINAC
enabled the use of information to support park management.

Recognizing that its biological resources are an important national asset, Costa Rica has pursued a policy
of conservation and protection and has encouraged innovation in financing and administration. Through its
contribution to the Integrated Development of Biodiversity Resources Program, the project supported
INBio in assessing its sustainability as an institution. Funded by the Dutch government, INBio produced
two documents. The first, "The Essence of the Institution," was inward looking. It asked probing questions
about the institution and produced a vision statement. The second document, "Towards Sustainability:


                                                         - 8 -

Experiences of the Instituto Nacional de Biodiversidad", enabled INBio to define a strategic action
framework on how to implement its vision.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no major factors outside the control of the government and of INBio that negatively affected
achievement of the project outcome and objectives/outputs.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Key decisions taken over the last years by the government enhanced the positive impact of the project. The
1998 Biodiversity Law confirmed Costa Rica's commitment to the Convention on Biological Diversity
(CBD) and provided the legal framework for future work related to biodiversity in the country. The
delegation of the National Biodiversity Inventory to INBio was a positive contribution to the success of the
project and to the success of the broader Integrated Program.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
INBio arguably is one of the best run nongovernmental organizations in Central America, if not Latin
America. With its visionary leaders, efficient administration, and motivated staff, which experienced almost
no turnover during the lifetime of the project, INBio has produced lasting results for biodiversity
conservation in Costa Rica. Its contributions are felt across the region and the world. Over a decade, the
project, with those of other donors, contributed more than US$11 million to raise knowledge on biodiversity
and its uses. This project enabled the institution to test itself and to discover how far it could progress in
innovative areas.

A positive outcome in the development of the project was INBio's initiative to integrate three major donor
initiatives (of the Netherlands, Norway, and the GEF) under the umbrella Integrated Program. This
integration enabled synergies to be exploited more efficiently so that each partner was able to leverage mroe
impact per dollar invested.

5.4 Costs and financing:
There were no significant cost changes or in financing of the project. INBio has an efficient administration
that delivered on its procurement and fiduciary responsibilities with no changes to the costs.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project's overall sustainability is rated as Highly Likely.

The main project activities have been incorporated into INBio's institutional programming, which provides
for other future sources of financing. This additional funding will enable the continuation of knowledge
generation and processing and transferring information on biodiversity in the five taxonomic groups
(Diptera, Hymenoptera, Coleoptera, Lepidoptera, and Fungi) financed by the project. INBio will be able to
continue with the specialized collection of biological material; managing collections (nearly three million
specimens); working with international taxonomists; managing the database; preparing and disseminating
scientific publications; providing identification and technical assistance services; and identifying and
developing new data applications.

Half-way through completion of the 1997 Dutch-funded grant, a review suggested the importance of
focusing on the sustainability of INBio. This suggestion originated from the realization that external



                                                     - 9 -

funding was anticipated to decline and successors to INBIo's founding members and senior management
would soon need to be identified. This suggestion galvanized INBio to look inward and ask fundamental
questions: "Who are we? What do we do? Where do we come from? Where do we want to go?" This effort
resulted in two strategic documents. The first, entitled "The Essence of the Institution" was inward looking,
while the second, "Towards Sustainability: Experiences of the Instituto Nacional de Biodiversidad (Costa
Rica)" was forward looking. These efforts have laid the groundwork for an institutional plan that defines
targets by strategic objective, through which project objectives are integrated in institutional planning. This
strategic plan, with scientific and technical capacity generated in part through the GEF-financed project,
has served as the basis for the institution to seek new sources of financing and cooperation. This process
has been complemented by a significant increase in its own-generated funds from goods and services.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The strategic planning initiatives mentioned above have permitted INBio to transition to regular operations
without the major external donations that the institution received over the lifetime of the project. For
example, the Arthropod and Fungus units have the staffing to maintain the biological collections and handle
projects in different areas that respond to the institution's mission. The Arthropod team is composed of 20
people (6 technicians, 5 curators, 2 artists, and 7 parataxonomists) with a budget of over US$200,000. The
Fungus team will be composed of 6 people (3 technicians, 2 curators, and 1 parataxonomist) with a budget
of approximately US$50,000.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's overall performance in project identification, preparation, and appraisal is rated Satisfactory.
The project was consistent with the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The Bank team
included recognized specialists in key technical subject areas. The project followed applicable Bank
safeguard policies and met financial management and procurement requirements.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision is rated Satisfactory. The Bank carried out close supervision with an average of two
missions per year. The supervision mission teams were a mix of international and local professionals.
Although task management changed three times during the lifetime of the project, the Bank's supervision
was technically and administratively consistent through the lifetime of the project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is considered Satisfactory. The Bank complied satisfactorily with its role as
GEF implementing agency.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Preparation performance was Satisfactory with excellent participation of INBio staff from the outset.
Being a private research and biodiversity management organization with seven years' experience
implementing agreements with national and international organizations, INBio had sufficient administrative
flexibility to adjust to the Bank's requirements. While the grantee correctly analyzed the issues and
challenges for each component, some indicators were poorly or unclearly formulated, which could however
be just as easily attributable to the Bank project team.

The project was consistent with the National Strategy on Conservation and Sustainable Use of
Biodiversity. The INBio-SINAC Cooperation Agreement built on complementarities between the two



                                                      - 10 -

institutions. However, during project preparation, some differences needed to be resolved that were caused
by coordination and communication problems. It is worth noting that both institutions had recently gone
through restructuring. Although these differences eventually were resolved, they impeded SINAC playing a
more active role in project preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's implementation performance is considered Satisfactory. The government's early
decision to make INBio the technical and scientific arm of SINAC set the stage for a very successful
outcome. While SINAC was the regulatory agency, INBio provideed technical input to SINAC's natural
resources management decisions.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of INBio as the implementing agency is considered Satisfactory. INBio was able to
adjust to the Bank's procedures in a timely manner, and the Project Coordination Unit was well organized
and accountable. Annual implementation reports and operational plans were of high quality and submitted
on time. The suggestions from the supervision missions were taken into consideration, with the exception of
addressing problems with indicators, which were only addressed near the end of the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall rating for Borrower performance is considered Satisfactory. This rating reflects the flexibility
that INBio demonstrated in adjusting to multiple donor requirements. INBio also demonstrated a mature
commitment to finding long-term solutions to its financial future and investing in preparing a cadre of
future managers.

8. Lessons Learned


l Select a mature institution as the project executing agency. INBio had years of experience in
    biodiversity research and management, as well as in working with other international organizations and
    donors. Financially, it was sufficiently sound to have attracted a good depth of human resources.
l Socialize scientific information. The world-class collections held at INBio represent the results of 10
    years of hard work and have a high scientific value. It was important however to also translate this
    scientific information into practical information for the nonscientist and general public.
l Do not overestimate local communities' abilities to know their biodiversity needs. The project
    overestimated the degree to which local communities and stakeholders would be able to understand or
    define their needs for biodiversity information.
l Create an enabling environment for science to work with local and international communities.
    Breaking barriers for communities (national or international) to work with INBio opened important
    doors. Many times, breaking down simple logistical barriers (for example, paying for airfare) went a
    long way to generate a willing attitude to cooperate.
l Prioritize. Biodiversity information is so vast that no one institution can specialize in all groups or all
    areas. Prioritizing the areas of focus was fundamental for INBio to show important results not only to
    donors but also to the scientific community.
l Product-based thinking is important for the sustainability of knowledge-based institutions.
    Marketable biodiversity products (e.g., books, magazines, and educational materials) are important to
    generate revenue.
l Publicize benefits of conservation to local communities and society. The discussions and
    donor-funded work revealed that the sustainability of the conservation areas depends on the benefits
    generated for society and the local communities. These benefits must be communicated to the public.



                                                    - 11 -

l Involve staff. INBio staff are motivated and committed to the success of the institution. Their
     involvement through participatory discussions is an important element in the future success of the
     institution.
l Foster parataxonomists. Training local individuals, such as park rangers and hunters, to become
     parataxonomists empowered them to become one of the most successful elements of the biodiversity
     development program.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The President of INBio conveyed to the World Bank the Institute's comments on the ICR in a letter dated
June 2, 2006 to the ESSD Sector Leader of the Central America Country Management Unit for Central
America. The following is a summary of the translated version of the section of the comments pertaining to
their review of the evaluation.

"We have received the Implementation Completion Report (ICR No. 36179) of the Biodiversity Resources
Development Project financed through a GEF grant of US$ 7 million to the National Biodiversity Institute
(INBio). The World Bank was the executing agency for the GEF.

Having reviewed the evaluation, INBio as the organization responsible for executing the project, expressed
its total agreement with the results of the evaluation of the project's performance."




                                                     - 12 -

- 13 -

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                             - 14 -

10. Additional Information

Books published by INBio produced through the Biodiversity Resources Development Project



Title                                           Source          State

Abejas de orquídeas de la América tropical     INBio ­ BM/GEF   For Sale
Orchid Bees of Tropical America
Dípteros de Costa Rica 2da edición             INBio ­ BM/GEF  For Sale
Dípteros of Costa Rica. 2nd Edition
Escarabajos de Costa Rica, 2da edición         INBio ­ BM/GEF  For Sale
Beetles of Costa Rica 2nd Edition
Escarabajos fruteros de Costa Rica             INBio ­ BM/GEF  For Sale
Fruit Beetles of Costa Rica
Libélulas de Mesoamérica y el Caribe           INBio ­ BM/GEF  For Sale
Mesoamericna and Caribbean Dragonflies
Líquenes de Costa Rica                         INBio ­ BM/GEF  For Sale
Costa Rican Lichens
Macrohongos de Costa Rica, Vol. I, 2da edición INBio ­ BM/GEF  For Sale
Mushrooms of Costa Rica, Vol I, 2nd Ed.
Macrohongos de Costa Rica, Vol. II              INBio ­ BM/GEF  For Sale
Mushrooms of Costa Rica, Vol II, 2nd Ed.
Mariposas diurnas y nocturnas de Costa Rica    INBio ­ BM/GEF  For Sale
Moths and Butterflies of Costa Rica
Membrácidos de la América tropical              INBio ­ BM/GEF For Sale
Membracids of Tropical America




                                               - 15 -

Educational Material Published by INBio Editorial through the Biodiversity Resources Development
Project



                             Title                                      Source              State

 Afiche Insectos de Costa Rica / Avispas, abejas y             INBio ­ BM-GEF           For Sale
 hormigas (Poster Wasps, bees and ants)
Afiche Insectos de Costa Rica / Ciclos de vida de las         INBio ­ BM-GEF           For Sale
mariposas diurnas y nocturas (Poster Butterfly and moth life
cycles)
Afiche Insectos de Costa Rica / Mariposas diurnas y nocturnas INBio ­ BM-GEF           For Sale
(Poster Butterflies and moths)
Afiche Insectos de Costa Rica / Moscas, mosquitos, tábanos y  INBio ­ BM-GEF           For Sale
afines
(Poster Flies, mosquitoes, deer flies and allies)
 CDR Bosque tropical seco (español)                            INBio ­ BM/GEF ­         For Sale
 CDR Dry Tropical Forest (Spanish)                             España/AECI
CDR Bosque tropical húmedo de Centroamérica (español inglés) INBio ­ BM/GEF ­ Holanda -
­ Tropical Humid Forest of Central América (Spanish-English) NORAD
Coloreando la naturaleza                                      INBio ­ BM/GEF           For Sale
Nature Coloring Book
Juego Trivia                                                  INBio ­ BM/GEF           For Sale
Trivia Game (biodiversity theme)
 Serie de guías didácticas Rostros de la Naturaleza (1 Guía)   INBio ­ BM/GEF           For Sale
 Series of Educational guides ­ Nature's Face




                                                       - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of management measures applied to 30                                           78
biodiversity conservation inside official
protected areas that use information
generated by the project

Number of new legal, contractual, and            47                                   57
financing models created to support the
generation of knowledge about and
sustainable use of biodiversity




Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of international scientists familiar      80                                   329
with the methodologies and protocols
developed by the project, and who are
capable of adapting and applying them to
other national or local biodiversity inventories


Number of specimens in the target taxa           Original target 1,191,270            Total  700,000
identified at the species level and entered into Revised target    614,000            Hymenoptera      60,769
the Biodiversity Information Management          Hymenoptera        55,000            Coleoptera      250,858
System                                           Coleoptera        215,000            Diptera          50,883
                                                 Diptera            290,000           Lepidoptera     327,095
                                                 Lepidoptera        45,000            Fungi            10,018
                                                 Fungi                9,000


Number of parataxonomists, technicians, and 55                                        50
curators trained


Number of agreements with companies,             47                                   57
research centers, small and medium
enterprises, NGOs, and grassroots
organizations that incorporate or use
information (generated by the project) in
activities aimed at sustainable use of
biodiversity


Number of new applications of the                15                                   16
biodiversity database generated by the
project that are available on the web (new
indicator)


Copies of information products (field guides, 100,000                                 142,109
educational material) sold or donated that
were created using information from the
project (new indicator)


Number of media pieces or citations using        1200                                 1,581
information generated by the project (new
indicator)


Number of hits on web sites featuring            16000/day                            15,946/day
information generated by the project (new
indicator)




                                                                    - 17 -

Amount of budget provided from INBio's own $3.6 million            $3.3 million
resources rather than from donors (new
indicator)


Marginal cost of processing specimens (new $4.25/specimen          $3.67/specimen
indicator)


1End of project




                                                         - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
1. Inventory Framework                                       0.70             0.40              52
2. Biodiversity Inventory
   a) Collection Activities                                  1.40             1.40             100
   b) Cataloging Activities                                  6.70           21.00              314
3. Sustainable Use of Biodiversity                           0.90             1.00             113
4. Institutional Strengthening                               1.30             1.80             140

Total Baseline Cost                                         11.00           25.60
                           Total Project Costs              11.00           25.60
                    Total Financing Required                11.00           25.60


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                             0.00           0.00         0.06          0.00         0.06
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.05)          (0.00)       (0.05)
2. Goods                             0.35           0.17         0.81          0.00         1.33
                                    (0.31)         (0.15)      (0.70)          (0.00)       (1.16)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00         4.34          2.98         7.32
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (4.34)          (0.00)       (4.34)
4. Training                          0.00           0.00         0.96          0.00         0.96
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.96)          (0.00)       (0.96)
5. Incremental Recurrent             0.00           0.00         1.33          0.00         1.33
Costs                               (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.49)          (0.00)       (0.49)
    Total                            0.35           0.17         7.50          2.98         11.00
                                    (0.31)         (0.15)      (6.54)          (0.00)       (7.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                             0.00          0.00         0.10           0.00        0.10
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.10)         (0.00)       (0.10)
2. Goods                             0.20          0.10         1.30           0.00        1.60
                                    (0.20)        (0.10)       (1.10)         (0.00)       (1.40)
3. Services                          0.00          0.00         4.60          17.20        21.80
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (4.40)         (0.00)       (4.40)
4. Training                          0.00          0.00         0.50           0.00        0.50




                                                - 19 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.50)            (0.00)           (0.50)
    5. Incremental Recurrent                0.00               0.00              1.60             0.00              1.60
    Costs                                  (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.60)            (0.00)           (0.60)
        Total                               0.20               0.10              8.10             17.20            25.60
                                           (0.20)             (0.10)            (6.70)            (0.00)           (7.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Inventory Framework          0.74         0.00         0.00        0.40         0.00                  54.1      0.0       0.0
2. Biodiversity Inventory
 a) Collection Activities       1.20         0.16         0.00        1.30         0.10                  108.3     62.5      0.0
 b) Cataloging Activities       3.25         0.45         3.00        3.20         0.60      17.20       98.5     133.3    573.3
3. Sustainble Uses of           0.88         0.04         0.00        0.90         0.10                  102.3    250.0      0.0
Biodiversity
4. Institutional                0.93         0.35         0.00        1.20         0.60                  129.0    171.4      0.0
Strengthening
Total                           7.00         1.00        11.00        7.00         1.40      17.20       100.0    140.0    156.4




                                                           - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Incremental Costs and Global Environmental Benefits

The global environment objective of the project was to demonstrate the benefits of investing in a collection
of biological material in a small number of sites and to develop a cost-effective methodology to do this. The
project was limited to an inventory of at first four and then, with the inclusion of Lepidoptera, five major
taxonomic groups at various sites in five conservation areas. The project contributed to: (i) expanding the
inventory by establishing a widely applicable framework; (ii) increasing human capacity; (iii) developing
applications that illustrated the benefits derived from the enhanced knowledge base provided through
biodiversity inventories; and (iv) establishing the direct link of collection activities to observed demand for
educational, conservation, and commercial purposes. The project with GEF funding (which in the
definitions used in the GEF incremental costs analysis is defined as the "GEF Alternative") permitted
SINAC and INBio to undertake a ambitious program on an accelerated timetable that addressed these
global biodiversity objectives.

The scope and costs of carrying out the GEF Alternative over the seven-year lifetime of the project (table
A3.1) were: (i) park management costs for protection and biodiversity conservation in the 5 conservation
areas (US$21.0 million - same as Baseline); (ii) planning and participation, which established and
monitored a framework for collecting and cataloging species (US$0.9 million); (iii) biodiversity inventories
of five taxonomic groups (US$27.9 million); (iv) sustainable use applications: tested potential revenue and
non-revenue-generating applications of the emerging biodiversity knowledge (US$4.1 million); and (v)
institutional strengthening: increased institutional capacity to manage the scaling up of biodiversity
development (US$4.6 million). Over the seven years, these activities totaled US$58.5 million, an amount
significantly larger than the original US$43.8 million. This difference is accounted for in a contribution
from INBio of US$1.4 million and the US$14.2 million derived from the more than 40,000 volunteer
taxonomist-days­­a significant global contribution.

This increase in the final amount of the project shows the leverage that the GEF alternative had in
generating other donor interest and financial support. The INBio initiative of consolidating various donor
activities under the umbrella Integrated Program substantially benefited all involved. Synergies were
exploited resulting in better use of donor monies. The project was able to benefit from the complementary
financing of US$15 million from the Dutch and Norwegian governments. This funding was fundamental
because it enabled the project to start with basic infrastructure, equipment, and information systems in
place, thus complementing the project's activities.




                                                     - 21 -

Table A3.1 Incremental Cost Matrix
                                          Cost Category (US$millions)
                                           GEF                    Incremental
       Component              Base- Alternative                                                                Global Benefit
                               line     Ori- Actual Ori-                  Actual
                                       ginal             ginal GEF Other Total
Biodiversity                     21.0    21.0     21.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0Conservation of globally significant
Conservation at 5                                                                          biodiversity in the five conservation areas
Conservation Areas
Planning and                      0.5     1.2       0.9     0.7      0.4       0.0     0.4
Participation
(formerly Inventory
Framework)
Biodiversity                      5.5    13.5     27.9      8.0      4.5     17.9     22.4Practical methodologies for biodiversity
Inventory                                                                                  inventory have been recognized and are
                                                                                           being used in global initiatives
                                                                                           The inventory of the 5 taxonomic groups
                                                                                           has greatly contributed to scientific
                                                                                           knowledge of these groups in the
                                                                                           Neotropics.
                                                                                           One new species for science every day
                                                                                           (over the last three years)
                                                                                           Public access to all inventory information
                                                                                           accessible on an acclaimed easy-to-use
                                                                                           website
                                                                                           Legal, contractual and financial models for
                                                                                           the use of the biodiversity inventory
                                                                                           Facilitation of the contributions of 350
                                                                                           taxonomists from across the world
Sustainable Uses of               3.1     4.0       4.1     0.9      0.9       0.1     1.0New successful working modalities
Biodiversity                                                                               between the public sector and NGOs to
                                                                                           promote the sustainable management of
                                                                                           biodiversity
Institutional                     2.8     4.1       4.6     1.3      1.2       0.6     1.8
Strengthening
Total                            32.9    43.8     58.5     11.0      7.0     18.6     25.6

Notes:
a. Includes government and cofinanciers.
b. Differs from the original US$42.9 million in the Incremental Cost Analysis in the PAD document, reflecting INBio's contribution of US$0.9
million.
c. Reflects an actual contribution from INBio of US$1.4 million and US$14.2 million computed as international taxonomists' time.




                                                                      - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              1995-1996                 5    ECONOMIST (2);
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                             (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              1997                    10     ECONOMIST (3); AGR
                                             ECONOMIST (2); ENVT
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             ANALYST (1);


 Supervision

              11/24/1998                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                HS             HS
                                             BIOLOGIST (1)
              11/23/1999                4    TASK MANAGER (1);                HS             HS
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1)
              06/23/2000                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            HS             HS
                                             ASSISTANT (1);
                                             BIOSTATISTICIAN (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)
              11/21/2000                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            HS             HS
                                             ASSISTANT (2); ECONOMIST
                                             (1); INDIGENOUS
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              11/21/2001                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            HS             HS
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             INDIGENOUS SPECIALIST (1)
              05/24/2002                3    PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST           HS             HS
                                             (2); DISBURSEMENT
                                             SPECIALIS (1)
              06/25/2002                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S              HS
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
              11/17/2003                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                HS             HS
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)
              11/12/2004                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                HS              S
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                             (1)
              12/16/2005                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                HS              S



                                              - 23 -

                                            PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);

 ICR
               04/07/2006             1     ENV ECONOMIST (1)                HS    S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               42                          114
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    18                           51
  Supervision                              97                          303
  ICR                                       9                           37
  Total                                  167                           505




                                            - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Global Environment Facility. January 1998. Costa Rica, Biodiversity Resources Development Project
        (Report No. 17207-CR). Project Document. Washington, DC.
Government of Costa Rica. Estrategia Nacional de Conservación y Uso Sostenible de la Biodiversidad.
Hilje, Luko. 2005. Independent assessment. Independent Final Evaluation of the Biodiversity Resources
        Development Project. 1 August ­ 15 December, 2005. luko@ice.co.cr, lhilje@catie.ac.cr. Heredia,
        Costa Rica.
Knapp, Susan. 2002. Detailed Comments on INBio Inventory Component. Document Associated with
        World Bank Mid-Term Review Mission, 18­24 June 2002.
Ugalde, Jesús, Randall García. 2002. The Essence of the Institution. Santo Domingo de Heredia, CR.
        Instituto Nacional de Biodiversidad.
Unimer. Research Internacional. 2004. Conocimiento, uso de información e imagen. Estudio Cuantitativo y
        Cualitativo para el INBio.
van de Putte, Bert, and Randall García. 2002. "Towards Sustainability: Experiences of the Instituto
        Nacional de Biodiversidad (Costa Rica)." Santo Domingo de Heredia, CR. Instituto Nacional de
        Biodiversidad.
World Bank. 1993. Costa Rica - Third Structural Adjustment Loan. Document P-5912-CR.
_____. 1998. Staff Appraisal Report




                                                 - 27 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Summary Evaluation

  Final Assessment by Project Beneficiary (Translation of Document in Spanish received
                                             from INBio)

Project Background: The National Biodiversity Institute (INBio) requested and agreed to
execute the Biodiversity Resources Development Project, which was financed by the Global
Environment Facility (GEF) (Grant No. 28324) and administered by the World Bank (WB) which
acted as the GEF's implementation agency, in accordance with Grant Agreement TF028324
(dated March 6, 1998) between INBio and the WB.

Since its start, it was executed as part of the Integrated Biodiversity Resources Development
Program whose objective was to develop and promote mechanisms that integrate conservation
with development, utilizing knowledge for the sustainable use of biodiversity and thus
contributing to compliance with the National Conservation Strategy's three lines of action: a)
saving representative samples of forest biodiversity; b) improving knowledge of the rich
biodiversity that exists; and c) seeking sustainable, intelligent uses of this biodiversity.

This program's local partner was the National System of Conservation Areas (SINAC) in Costa
Rica. It also had the financial support of the Governments of Holland and Norway, and the
technical collaboration of numerous international experts in the areas of taxonomy and
systematics. It was concentrated in five of the ten existing Conservation Areas: Tempisque
(ACT), Arenal-Tilarán (ACAT), Amistad-Caribe (ACLAC), Amistad-Pacífico (ACLAP), and Osa
(ACOSA).

The project's general objective was to demonstrate that an increase in knowledge of species
produces a greater impact on the conservation and sustainable use of globally important
biodiversity (through the sustainable management of biodiversity resources and the promotion of
environmental values).

Thus, it was divided into four specific objectives: a) generation of knowledge in select taxonomic
groups (Coleoptera, Diptera, Hymenoptera, macro-fungi, micro-fungi, and lichens) to which
Lepidoptera was added in 2002; b) facilitation of biodiversity management through the use of
select taxonomic groups; c) encouragement to improve environmental values and awareness; and
d) institutional strengthening. In turn, these objectives, in operational terms, were structured in
the following four components: a) planning and participation; b) inventory of biodiversity; c)
sustainable uses of biodiversity; and d) institutional strengthening.

Outstanding achievements and findings
In summary, the project has made a great contribution to the country with regard to the
generation of knowledge about biodiversity, particularly in five taxonomic groups (Hymenoptera,
Coleoptera, Diptera, Lepidoptera, and fungi) and support to three other groups (plants,
nematodes, and mollusks) as part of the integrated biodiversity management program.

It has contributed to promoting and improving the conservation and sustainable use of



                                                 - 28 -

biodiversity through the contribution and generation of information to support conservation
measures in conservation areas (basic information stemming from the inventory, specialized
technical reports, and ecological studies). It aided in the organization and administration of
Web-accessible (Atta) information on biodiversity. It allowed the dissemination and transfer of
biodiversity knowledge to society, utilizing electronic and print media, training, and sharing of
experiences. It also contributed to the process of negotiating new projects aimed at seeking
sustainable uses of biodiversity through the Bioprospecting Program.

The globally important benefits that the project contributed include: development of practical
methodologies to carry out biodiversity inventories that have been learned in global initiatives
such as ALL and GBIF and at regional scale; and new species for science (an average of one
species every three days). Inventory results are available online (http://atta.inbio.ac.cr) for
consultation by the world scientific community and the general public. The inventory of the five
taxonomic groups includes species that are widely distributed in Central and South America;
opportunities for quick training in methodologies for parataxonomists, technicians, and curators;
contribution of legal, contractual, and financial models for biodiversity inventory uses, whether or
not they generate revenue; new modalities for joint work by the public sector and NGOs to
promote the sustainable management of biodiversity; and integration of nearly 350 taxonomists
from various research centers, museums, and universities around the world.

1. Contribution of increased taxonomic knowledge to the conservation and sustainable use
of biodiversity

The project addressed SINAC's direct management and decisionmaking needs related to the
conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity within conservation areas. This includes aspects
such as: scientific-technical criteria and methodologies for the creation or expansion of areas;
establishment of hunting seasons (vedas); determination of the ecological and genetic status of
populations; estimation of volumes of resources for use by neighboring communities; payment of
environmental services; definition of guidelines for ecotourism development in specific areas, etc.

Ecological studies ("monographs" on species, habitats, or ecosystems) constituted a substantial
achievement of the project. These studies were carried out through external consultancies,
capitalizing on the unique strengths of other institutions (UNA, UCR, ITCR, and CATIE), which
made it possible to strengthen INBio's linkages with national scientists and in turn favored its
image as a promoter of valuable environmental initiatives. The 42 ecological studies addressed
SINAC's specific demands, classified in the following categories:
   i.   Sustainable management of plant populations and assessments of their populations' risks
        or possible use (tree species, palm trees, moss, and lianas).
   ii. Population studies of endangered mammals or of species that indicate environmental
        status (tapir, squirrel monkey, howler, sloths, marine mammals, etc.).
   iii. Population studies of endangered birds (green and red macaws, aquatic birds, songbirds,
        etc.).
   iv. Use of habitats and resources (butterfly areas) and populational impact of hunting on bird
        and mammal populations.
v.      Management of aquatic habitats and species (green turtles, parrot turtles, and leatherback



                                                - 29 -

turtles, lobsters, crocodiles, green clams, and marine mammals).

In terms of inventory per se, the project focused on four orders of insects (Coleoptera, Diptera,
and Hymenoptera, plus Lepidoptera since 2002), as well as on three "types" of fungus
(macro-fungi, micro-fungi, and lichens). There is no doubt about the potential importance of the
insect groups inventoried, whether as pests, of ornamental value, as indicators of the health of
certain ecosystems (Coleoptera, Lepidoptera, and Diptera), or as biological control agents
(Hymenoptera, as well as several Diptera and Coleoptera).

From information collected from other latitudes, the possible use of fungi was clear from a
nutritional or pharmaceutical standpoint, as was the use of some lichens as bioindicators of the
health of various ecosystems, as well as the use of micro-fungi as biological control agents of
insects (entomopathogens) or other microorganisms (antagonists).

The project's contributions to the biodiversity inventory (1988­2005)
1,500 new species for science.
Insect Order Collection:
         22% increase in collection
         277% increase in identified species
         312% increase in accepted species
Fungus Collection:
         1,665% increase in collection
         1,375% increase in identified species
         367% increase in accepted species
Printed and electronic publications
         190 scientific publications
         10 educational publications
         5 field guides
         1,036 Basic Information Units
         30 technical reports to support decision making
Over US$17 million in free support from over 300 international taxonomists

However, beyond any strictly "utilitarian" vision, the great scientific value of the information
generated is undeniable. Thanks to the project, this knowledge was extended to other taxonomic
groups, not only insects. In this regard, INBio has been able to respond to resolving the problem
of "taxonomic impediment" (i.e., the lack of solid, reliable taxonomic knowledge in order to
properly utilize biodiversity) that was presented in The Darwin Declaration.

INBio's scientific effort has truly been immense. It collected over 3,100,000 specimens of insects
and other arthropods, mollusks, nematodes, fungi, and plants, corresponding to nearly 23,000
duly catalogued species, with some 2,300 new species for science.

Nevertheless, in addition to the use of this information in the production of original, innovative
educational materials (see items 2 and 3) and--already systemized and inputted--as a resource
for consultation by students and experts (especially through species pages or UBIs on the



                                                - 30 -

Internet), it has been a great support for ecotourism (currently the country's principal source of
foreign exchange). The latter is clear in light of the numerous field guides, but it also makes
"visible" to tourists various species of insects and micro-fungi, lichens, etc. that are not
"emblematic" or "charismatic" (such as certain birds or mammals). In turn, this "revelation" has
made park rangers and other SINAC personnel more aware of the value of the forests they
protect because, with this increased knowledge, they find their daily work of preserving the biota
contained in these forests even more meaningful.

But finally, as was expected, there are various examples of a more "applied" use of the
information generated by the project, in some cases made possible by other funds such as those of
the IDB (FOMIN), both in the conservation (in protected areas) and practical use of biodiversity
in agriculture and forestry, as well as in ecotourism. The following are some examples:
    i.   Change in category from Diriá Wildlife Refuge to National Park, due to the detailed
         documentation of the wealth and unique features of fungus, plant, insect, or vertebrate
         species.
    ii. Definition of priority zones for payment of environmental services in ACOSA, based on
         biotic, abiotic, and sociocultural criteria.
    iii. Contribution of biological information to justify biological corridors and payment of
         environmental services in ACT, ACLAP, and ACAT.
    iv. Hunting seasons [vedas] for Band-tailed and White-winged doves in ACLAP and ACT, as
         well as restrictions on the extraction of various forest species (bitter cedar [cedro amargo
         ], ceiba, rosewood [cocobolo], skeels [espavel], guanacaste blanco, guapinol, ron ron,
         and tempisque) in ACT.
    v. More detailed knowledge of species, habitats, and ecosystems used by local groups
        dedicated to ecotourism.
    vi. Discovery and promotion of a new species of the micro-fungus Trichoderma sp., which
         acts as an antagonist of various pathogens that affect vanilla; this gave rise to a project of
         practical value with the company La Gavilana S.A.
    vii. Registry in the country of over 60 species of fungi, edible in other countries, and with the
         potential to be artificially cultivated by small and medium producers' organizations.
    viii. Improvement of the management of butterfly sites per se--for which overseers of these
         sites have been trained--as well the expanded supply of pupae of a greater diversity of
         species with ornamental value, with a view toward a chain of production.
    ix. Proper knowledge of mosquitoes (Culicidae) that are vectors of dengue, as well as of
         entomopathogenic fungi, which has led the Pfizer Company to finance a project focused
         on the use of these agents for the biological control of such vectors.
    x. Improvement in the management of coffee leaf scorch [crespera] (caused by the Xylella
         fastidiosa bacteria), thanks to prior knowledge about leafhoppers [chicharritas]
         (Cicadellidae), which has made it possible to better pinpoint their role as vectors of this
         disease in Costa Rica.
    xi. Identification, thanks to the support of INBio taxonomists, of the large majority of insect
         species that are forest pests (Coleoptera and Lepidoptera) in Costa Rica (and perhaps in
         other Central American countries), registered in the "Catalogue of forest pests and
         diseases in Costa Rica," for use by forest producers and prepared by the
         Inter-Institutional Forest Protection Program (PIPROF).



                                                    - 31 -

    xii. Inventory, with the support of an international taxonomist collaborating with INBio, of ant
         species present in Costa Rica's coffee plantations and, through additional efforts by
         CATIE, determination of which of these species are predators of the coffee berry borer (
         Hypothenemus hampei), a serious pest.

2. Global dissemination and utilization of knowledge generated

In reality, since its inception, it was clear that the information generated by the project should be
made available in various modalities and formats so that it would be accessible to various types of
users with unique characteristics.

Thus, the rich wealth of specialized taxonomic information (description of numerous new species
as well as summary articles on the systematics of certain groups) has been disseminated to the
world's scientific community in more than 1,000 publications in specialized journals, which
represents an extraordinary achievement in the tropical arena.

Furthermore, it is important to indicate that--encouraged by the project--in the case of Diptera
the publication of a specialized work focused on the tropics has been proposed (it will be
completed in one year). It would be analogous to the Manual of Nearctic Diptera (the latter is in
two volumes), and would be a joint effort of some 60 collaborating taxonomists. In addition, there
is a commitment (for 2007) by about 10 specialists to produce a book on lichens in Costa Rica,
with a mixed focus (with codes, color photos, and information on natural history), for use by
specialists and by a broader public.

Moreover, it should be noted that formal scientific information is added to other types of
publications stemming from the project, aimed at various, less specialized users such as experts
and students of biological and environmental sciences, tourists, secondary teachers and students,
primary school teachers and students, and the general public.

Since it began, the project has financed the process of editing all published materials and has also
financed numerous publications and guidebooks. Moreover, it clearly enabled the initially modest
publishing activity that was initially in place (with fewer than 10 titles) to expand and consolidate,
giving rise to a formal and robust agency, Editorial INBio, which is economically self-sustaining.
This consolidation has generated enough trust that other entities have become involved in joint
editorial efforts with INBio; this in turn has strengthened editorial activity. Some 106 titles have
been published (including books, children's games, teaching materials, and compact disks).

Added to these efforts is electronic dissemination whose coverage and scope have been unusual.
The taxonomic data generated by the project, instead of being stored statically in internal
databases, have been "mobilized" through their transformation and structuring into very
affordable formats for various types of users, freely accessible and flexible enough to be updated
at any time.

As part of the Integrated Program, the project facilitated numerous innovations in the content and
design of a new biodiversity data management system. This process culminated in the



                                                  - 32 -

implementation of the Atta system.

Thus, making use of multimedia and Internet technologies, Atta represented a qualitative leap by
surpassing the initial scheme of keeping long lists of specimens (always duly georeferenced) and
placing them in a broader, more comprehensive biological and ecological context. Using the
"systemic" data generated by ecomaps, it was possible to achieve a more holistic view and
understanding by integrating in a single system three levels of complexity: specimens, species, and
ecosystems. Today Atta is one of the largest data providers for the international initiatives in
which INBio participates, such as the GBIF and the World Biodiversity Information Network
(REMIB).

However, it should also be noted that Atta does not limit its view and relevance to the scientific
community. Its aim is to meet the demands of other types of users through various modules. For
example, these include the 3,670 pages of plant, fungus, mammal, bird, reptile, amphibian, insect,
spider, mollusk, and nematode species (formerly called UBI or basic information units), each of
which refers to one species and contains photographs or sketches of each species and a map of its
distribution, as well as information on its biology and natural history, its uses, and its conservation
status.

Finally, although both INBio and the project had a mandate or national coverage--limited to
Costa Rica--the program enabled the development of numerous regionwide activities, especially
training and exchanges in Central America (and other Latin American countries), which included
workshops with technicians and specialists, training courses, and the distribution of thousands of
copies of educational materials. This not only projected INBio beyond the country's borders but
also generated a valuable network of relationships and collaborators that was very useful in
developing regional initiatives, some of which have already become a reality (such as support to
national herbariums) and others that are on the horizon.

3. Improvement in environmental values and awareness

The improvement of environmental values and awareness is such a broad and complex task that it
far exceeds INBio's scope, because numerous national and international entities participate in it.
However, since its mission is "to promote greater awareness of the value of biodiversity to
achieve its conservation and improve the quality of human life," in this area the project
contributed to help INBio carry out this mission.

Besides increasing taxonomic knowledge and its uses, arising from the inventory, and
disseminating and utilizing the knowledge generated (see items 1 and 2), the project made it
possible to significantly expand popularization or bio-literacy efforts. These efforts are aimed at
sharing information and knowledge so that by raising awareness of the value of biodiversity
(among decision makers, tourists, educators, students, and the general public), changes can be
introduced in their perceptions and behavior that will benefit the conservation of biodiversity.

In this regard, the project made a special contribution through the printing of various books and
children's games, as well as teaching materials (posters, compact disks, and a video) for children



                                                 - 33 -

and adults.

It should be noted that in addition to its constant presence in the media--it even has a weekly
one-hour program on Radio Nacional (SINART)--INBio has become an almost obligatory
authority for journalists on environmental issues, which assures significant newspaper, radio, and
television coverage. For example, the term "biodiversity" is now commonly used and is not
thought of by the general public as something that is esoteric. The description of new species is
often a relevant news item.

Finally,   beyond    the   existing   internal   perceptions--which      could    generate  risks  of
self-complacency--through the Knowledge, use of information and image survey assigned to
UNIMER, an effort was made to capture these perceptions from a broad group of information
users (politicians, biodiversity managers, resource users, the media, and educators, students,
religious leaders, and conservation NGOs).

In reality, the balance was highly positive in terms of influencing politicians, biodiversity
managers, and the general public to contribute to the promotion and implementation of
environmental conservation efforts, thanks to INBio's scientific and technical strength, to which
the project contributed substantially. However, the perception remains that INBio has not liaised
sufficiently with local communities--to respond to their environmental needs--or with the direct
users of biodiversity resources, whether or not they generate economic income.

4. Correlation of the project's objectives with those of the institutions involved

The project was a joint initiative by INBio and SINAC, and was presented as such to the Global
Environment Facility (GEF). Thus, from the start there was a correlation between the objectives
of both institutions.

In historical terms, it should be remembered that the embryo of what later became INBio arose
within the former MIRENEM (now MINAE). Although INBio would later acquire the legal
status of a private, nonprofit, public-interest association, its promoters visualized and conceived it
as the scientific-technical agency or "arm" of what is now SINAC. In other words, although
SINAC acts a regulatory agency, INBio complements it by contributing technical inputs for
SINAC's natural resource management activities.

This alliance was formed in 1992 through the signing of the first INBio­SINAC Cooperation
Agreement, and was expanded in 1997 with the establishment of the Conservation Program for
Development which initially received support from Holland. Thus, SINAC began to receive
technical inputs from INBio (joint project preparation, advisory services, technical assistance, staff
training, and information sharing) for its activities, culminating in the preparation of the National
Strategy for the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity.

However, the relevance and magnitude of this collaboration increased in an exceptional manner
since 1998 when, under the framework of this Strategy, it became possible to align and integrate
the three inventory initiatives (financed by Holland, Norway, and the GEF) in the integrated



                                                 - 34 -

Biodiversity Resources Development Program. A decision was made to expand its scope to five
of the conservation areas. Moreover, besides contributing a substantial amount of funds to enable
this, the program arose during a most timely period for SINAC because, besides constituting a
focal point as part of the Biodiversity Agreement initiative (for which it had to carry out
taxonomic research), in those years it was undergoing a process of institutional restructuring that
required strengthening.

In terms of the World Bank's objectives, as a financial entity it fulfilled its agreed role as the
implementing agency of the GEF, whose objective is to contribute to protecting the global
environment and to promote environmentally and economically sustainable development. More
specifically, consistent with the guidelines of the Third Conference of Parties (COP3), by
supporting the project the GEF contributed to increase taxonomic capacity (information, human
resources training, and institutional strengthening), prioritizing species important in pollinization
(Hymenoptera and Coleoptera) or in soil fertility (Coleoptera and fungi).

5. Recipient's (INBio) response capacity during project evolution and execution

Since its inception, and due to its organizational nature (nongovernmental, but of public interest),
its management intended for INBio to have enough administrative flexibility to sign agreements
with national, foreign, and international entities, which it did even in its first years.

Thus, the practice acquired in the first seven years of the institution's life made it possible to
confidently propose the project to the GEF and then to assimilate it in organizational terms. In
other words, the project did not require that drastic changes be made to the institution's
organization, although there certainly was a learning cost to be paid (see item 6). However, this
was adapted and properly absorbed as the project evolved, and it was complemented by the two
similar projects financed by the Governments of Holland and Norway (see item 7), thus achieving
a high level of synergy that resulted in considerable institutional strengthening.

In terms of relationships with donor agencies, it is acknowledged that there were some difficulties
at first with the World Bank due to procedural issues, but these were detected and corrected in a
timely manner (see items 6 and 7).

For its part, in its relationship with SINAC there is consensus on the full complementarity of both
institutions' activities, although at the beginning of the project some problems arose stemming
from a lack of timing and communications, partly because both were undergoing a major and
nearly simultaneous restructuring. But it is acknowledged that there was a lack of involvement
and participation by SINAC in the project's inception, resulting in large part from the dynamics of
both entities: INBio is an agency specializing in research, in attracting funds from international
donors, and with a streamlined management, while SINAC must respond to multiple, varied
demands on a daily basis and is less flexible in administrative and organizational terms.

However, following several "catharsis" workshops facilitated by a psychologist, which helped
identify bottlenecks, firm progress was made in joint planning as well as in a new collaboration
mechanism, based on more open, ongoing dialogue. Two concrete outcomes of this collaboration,



                                                 - 35 -

which are also evidence of mutual evolution in terms of scientific-technical and operational
concepts, are the numerous ecological studies carried out (see item 1) and the fact that
parataxonomists later had the same prerogatives as SINAC personnel (even wearing their
uniform), although they were paid with project funds.

In addition, with regard to INBio's attractiveness as a partner for international taxonomists, the
latter perceive it as an excellent ally (see item 7) and express their complete satisfaction with the
strong commitment of its staff and with the quality of its infrastructure (buildings, collections,
availability of modern technologies, etc.), logistics (collection permits, transportation,
organization of field trips, support by parataxonomists, etc.), and other services, all of which were
strengthened and expanded under the project.

6. Response capacity of the implementing agency (WB) during project evolution and
execution
There is gratitude toward the GEF for financing INBio in a manner that was both unusual--it
normally gave direct support to state entities--and generous; INBio was one of world's first
NGOs to receive this type of contribution. There no doubt as to the project's significance with
regard to the strengthening of institutional capacity, not only in terms of valuable infrastructure
but also in the construction and equipping of the fungus laboratory (which in turn has made it
possible to now undertake several of the activities listed in item 1) and as indicated in the above
pages.

Furthermore, in its role as implementing agency, the World Bank collaborated in numerous ways
to ensure that the project never deviated from its originally planned objectives and activities, while
understanding that a good amount of adaptability was required to adjust to changing situations
stemming from the dynamics of the project's evolution. It also cooperated with other donors in
the program's supervision; it accepted the inclusion of a taxon (Lepidoptera) that was not
originally considered; it allowed a reasonable redistribution among budget line items; it agreed to
extend the project completion period in order to meet INBio's various institutional and financial
needs; it facilitated the presence of specialists to help consolidate the project's technical basis; and
it promoted efforts to improve the project's administrative and financial management, institutional
sustainability, and indicators.

As previously indicated (see item 5), at the beginning INBio faced various difficulties in its
relationship with the WB due to procedures (procurement, disbursements, hiring, etc.) that
differed markedly from those it had worked with in the past. Moreover, due to the Bank's
complex structure, different departments are in charge of specific tasks (budgets, contracts,
technical aspects, etc.) which affect the flow of various processes and created some tensions
within INBio.

However, it should be noted that in negotiations there was always great respect and trust for
INBio. It is acknowledged that INBio kept careful disbursement records, followed procurement
procedures, updated its administrative and financial management systems to achieve greater
efficiency and response capacity, developed a plan for its institutional sustainability, was able to
integrate the reporting and supervision activities of the three project that composed the program



                                                  - 36 -

in order to achieve greater collaboration and efficiency, modified work processes and
responsibilities as circumstances warranted, and responded immediately and efficiently to World
Bank requests.

It may be concluded that the experience gained by INBio under this project helped to significantly
improve its capacity to negotiate and manage future projects.

7. Contribution of other donors (Governments of Holland and Norway) and technical
partners (international taxonomists) to compliance with project objectives

There is no doubt that in many aspects the projects financed by the Governments of Holland and
Norway created the foundation for the successful development of the new GEF/WB project,
Biodiversity Resources Development. These were Development of knowledge and sustainable use
of biodiversity (1997­2002) and Toward a Sustainable INBio (2002­2005), financed by Holland,
and Contribution to knowledge and sustainable use of biodiversity in Costa Rica (1998­2001)
and Biodiversity as an instrument for the development of Central America (2002­2004), financed
by Norway.

Furthermore, although the particular approaches of each donor were somewhat different, they
served to achieve complementarity and synergy, which led to the creation of a joint initiative,
represented by the Integrated Biodiversity Resources Development Program. Thus, from the start
activities were planned jointly and joint missions were held to evaluate the program, to the point
that since 2003 the program's operational plan became INBio's operational plan as a whole.

This had definite repercussions on INBio's institutional strengthening, not only in terms of its
managerial-administrative capacity and efficiency but also with regard to the quality of its
scientific-technical contributions. In fact, since the first half of 2002 an institutional reformulation
was carried out, as described in the document, Toward a Sustainable INBio, establishing targets
to achieve institutional sustainability by 2006 and currently being executed.

In turn, with regard to the contribution of international taxonomists, the inventory represented a
unique initiative. The project made it possible to capitalize on INBio's prior experience with its
many contacts to achieve a truly surprising taxonomic effort: over 350 experts from about 170
entities (museums, universities, etc.) contributed their specialized knowledge and broad
experience, and in many cases their resources. But this multi-institutional and multinational
effort--which will be remembered as a milestone in tropical biological research, together with the
monumental initiative Biologia Centrali-Americana from 1879 to 1915--was also carried out at a
relatively low cost because, thanks to the generosity of these specialists and/or institutions, INBio
saves several million dollars each year.

Furthermore, in addition to the amount of valuable and original knowledge generated, it was
possible to strengthen, in an unusual manner, the national capacity in terms of the taxonomy and
natural history of various groups of agencies. In reality, a joint, properly structured, and
well-linked effort was made by parataxonomists, technicians, curators, and taxonomists. It was
also characterized by the fluid, ongoing, and smooth interaction among all those involved in this



                                                 - 37 -

process. This led to a high level of self-confidence or empowerment among members of the first
links in this chain.

Finally, one highly relevant achievement was to successfully address the initial challenge of
developing practical methodologies to carry out large-scale biodiversity inventories whose
protocols and specific methods could be tested and adjusted continuously for seven years. Highly
valuable lessons were learned for future biodiversity inventories in other countries or
macroregions, as part of local or global initiatives.




                                                 - 38 -

Additional Annex 9. Maps

Map A9.1 - Costa Rican Ecosystems and Conservation Areas




                                             - 39 -

- 40 -

