Page  1
May 11, 2001
Doctor Rodrigo Gámez Lobo
Director General
Instituto Nacional de Biodiversidad –INBIO-
Apartado Postal 22-3100
Santo Domingo de Heredia
Costa Rica
RE: Amendment to the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Biodiversity Resources Development Project)- GEF Trust Fund Grant Number 
TF-028324-CR
Dear Doctor Gámez:
Please refer to the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
(Biodiversity Resources Development Project) between the Instituto Nacional de 
Biodiversidad -INBIO- (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank), dated March 6, 1998 and your letter of December 21, 2000, 
requesting that we amend  such Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
I am pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees with your request.
Therefore, the Bank hereby agrees to amend in its entirety Numeral 1 of Schedule 
1 to such Global Environment Facility Trust Fund to read as follows:
"1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the  
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:  
Category
Amount of the
    % of Expenditures
GEF Trust Fund Grant
to be Financed
Allocated (Expressed
In SDR Equivalent)
(1) Works
60,000
90%
(2) Goods
     820,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 80%
of local expenditures
(3) Consultants’
Services
100%
(a)
International    600,000 
Taxonomists
Under Parts A and
B of the Project
(b) Other Services   2,510,000
(4) Training
     740,000
100%
(5) Incremental
Recurrent Costs
     455,000
80% of payments
made during
the first two years after
the Effective Date; 40% of
payments made during the 
third 
and fourth years
after the Effective Date; 
Page  2
and 
15% of payments made 
thereafter
(6) Unallocated
15,000
TOTAL          5,200,000"
The Bank also agrees to amend in its entirety Numeral 4 of Schedule 1 to such 
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement to read as follows:
"The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods costing less 
than $150,000 equivalent per contract (excluding the first two contracts); (ii) works; 
(iii) consulting services with individual consultants costing less than $10,000 
equivalent per contract; (iv) consulting services with consulting firms costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (v) Training; and (vi) Incremental Recurrent 
Costs; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient."
The Bank also agrees to amend in its entirety Part C of Schedule 3 to such 
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement to read as follows:
"Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.- 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $170,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.-
International or National Shopping  
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.-
Procurement of Small Works  
Works under Part C of the Project shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully."
The Bank also agrees to amend in its entirety Part D of Schedule 3 to such 
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement to read as follows: 
"Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project  shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.  
2.
Prior Review
With respect to the first two contracts for goods procured under national 
competitive bidding procedures, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
Page  3
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply."
The Bank also agrees to amend in its entirety Numeral 1 (c) of Schedule 5 to 
such Global Environmental Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement to read as follows:
"(c) The term ‘Authorized Allocation’ means an amount equivalent to $500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule."
In all respects other than as set forth above, the provisions of the Global 
Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall continue to apply with full 
force and effect.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided above. Upon your confirmation, please return one 
executed original to us.
The provisions of this Amendment Letter will become effective as of the date the 
Bank notifies the Instituto Nacional de Biodiversidad -INBIO- in writing that the Bank 
has received one fully executed original of this Amendment Letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE BIODIVERSIDAD -INBIO-
By /s/ Rodrigo Gámez Lobo
Director General
Date: May 23, 2001
