Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 028324-CR
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Biodiversity Resources Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
and
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE BIODIVERSIDAD
Dated March 6, 1998
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 028324-CR
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 6, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment 
Facility (GEF) and INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE BIODIVERSIDAD (the Recipient) in respect of 
grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as 
participants of the GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are continued 
in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank establishing the GEF Trust Fund; 
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance 
from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, and the Bank 
has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of 
Resolution No. 94-2 referred to above; and
(D)
the Republic of Costa Rica, through the letter from its Minister of the 
Page  2
Environment to the Bank dated January 30, 1995, has agreed that the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant (as hereinafter defined) be made to the Recipient; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 
6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01 (excluding the first sentence) and 10.03;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01, 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Bank" shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account;
(vii)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: “Except 
as the Bank and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall
be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank 
Page  3
or 
for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment 
or import, 
to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a 
decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations.";
(viii)a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (j) in Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions, as follows: "An extraordinary situation 
shall have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF."; and
(ix)
 Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the Recipient to 
make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant for a continuous period of thirty 
days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Recipient, 
that an amount of the GEF Trust Fund will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund, or (c) at any time, 
the Bank determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the GEF Trust Fund, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or of a beneficiary of the GEF Trust Fund during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Recipient having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund, 
or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund is inconsistent with the procedures 
set forth or referred to in the GEF Trust Fund Agreement and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the GEF Trust Fund shall remain unwithdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Account, 
the Bank may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount 
of the GEF Trust Fund shall be cancelled."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Annual Operating Plan" means each of the annual operating plans 
satisfactory to the Bank pursuant to paragraph 1 (d) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Charter" means the Acta Constitutiva of the Recipient dated August 6, 
1989 and registered with the registro de asociaciones, registry of associations, of 
the Republic of Costa Rica under expediente 3306 of October 25, 1989;
(c)
"Collaboration Agreement" means the agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, 
to be entered into between the Republic of Costa Rica, through MINAE (as hereinafter 
defined), and the Recipient pursuant to Section 7.01 of this Agreement, such agreement 
to, inter alia, confirm the authority of the Recipient to carry out the Project and to 
provide for MINAE’s collaboration and assistance in the carrying out of the Project;
(d)
"Eligible Conservation Areas" means the conservation areas of Tempisque, 
Arenal-Tilarán, Osa, Amistad Pacífica and Amistad Caribe as such areas are established 
in Decree 25721 - MINAE, dated October 16, 1996 and published in the Official Gazette 
of the Republic of Costa Rica on January 23, 1997 or any other additional or 
substitute conservation area agreed between the Recipient and the Bank;
(e)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter from the Recipient to the Bank 
of even date herewith and which letter includes, inter alia: (i) the criteria for 
selection of Subgroups (as hereinafter defined); (ii) the criteria for selection of 
collection sites under the Project; (iii) the criteria for cessation of collection 
activities; (iv) the criteria for avoidance of overharvesting under the Project; (v) 
the Performance Indicators (as hereinafter defined); and (vi) the action plan referred 
to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(f)
"MINAE" means the Ministerio del Ambiente y Energía, Ministry of the 
Environment and Energy, of the Republic of Costa Rica;
Page  4
(g)
"Operational Manual" means the Recipient’s document entitled Manual 
Operativo dated January 16, 1998 setting forth, inter alia: (i) the Project 
implementation and monitoring arrangements; (ii) the composition and functions of the 
Taxonomic Working Groups; (iii) the description of the SINAC Protected Areas (as 
hereinafter defined); (iv) the Project procurement and disbursement rules and 
procedures; and (v) the guidelines for the collection and cataloguing under Part B of 
the Project; as such document may be amended from time to time in agreement between 
the Recipient and the Bank;
(h)
"Performance Indicators" means the indicators to measure the performance 
of the Project as such indicators are included in the Implementation Letter;
(i)
"Project Coordinating Unit" means the unit established by the Recipient  
for the coordination of the Project and with the structure, functions and staffing 
described in the Operational Manual;
(j)
"Selected Taxonomic Groups" means hymenoptera, coleoptera, diptera and 
fungi and any other additional or substitute group agreed between the Recipient and 
the Bank; and "Selected Taxonomic Group" means any of such groups;
(k) 
"SINAC Protected Areas" means those areas within the Eligible 
Conservation Areas which are described in the Operational Manual; 
(l)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(m)
"Subgroups" means the specific family, genus or species, within the 
Selected Taxonomic Groups, as identified and proposed by the Taxonomic Working Groups 
(as hereinafter defined) in accordance with the criteria set forth in the 
Implementation Letter, and approved by the Recipient and the Bank; and
(n)
"Taxonomic Working Group" means each of the four scientific groups, 
including the respective steering commitee and the national and international 
taxonomists participating in the respective Project activities, assigned to the 
respective Selected Taxonomic Group and with the composition and functions described 
in the Operational Manual. 
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million two hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR5,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for carrying out 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and appropriate administrative and 
financial practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
Page  5
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall:
(i)
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Operational 
Manual, the Implementation Letter and each Annual Operating Plan.
(ii)
duly perform its obligations under the Collaboration Agreement. 
Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, the Recipient shall not 
abrogate, waive, suspend, amend or fail to enforce the 
Collaboration Agreement, the Operational Manual or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition, including separate records and accounts reflecting the resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least two years after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
Page  6
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the Republic of Costa Rica shall have failed to comply with any of the 
provisions in the Collaboration Agreement;
(b)
any situation  shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Project can be carried out or that the objectives of the Project can be achieved or 
that the Recipient will be able to perform its obligations under this Agreement;
(c)
the Charter or any other law or regulations governing the existence or 
the operations of the Recipient shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived in a manner which, in the opinion of the Bank,  adversely affects 
the operations or financial condition of the Recipient or the ability of the Recipient 
to carry out the Project or perform any of its obligations under this Agreement;
(d)
the Republic of Costa Rica, or any other authority having jurisdiction, 
shall have taken: (i) any action, including the enactment or issuance of legislation 
or regulations, which, in the opinion of the Bank, may adversely affect the carrying 
out of the Project or the performance by the Recipient of any of its obligations under 
this Agreement; and (ii) any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the 
Recipient or for the suspension of its operations;
(e)
the Republic of Costa Rica: (i) shall have failed to provide at any time 
adequate protection, in the opinion of the Bank, for the SINAC Protected Areas; or 
(ii) shall have taken any action that would modify the legal status of the SINAC 
Protected Areas in a manner that, in the opinion of the Bank, would adversely affect 
the carrying out of the Project or the ability of the Recipient to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement;
(f)
The Republic of Costa Rica shall have failed to afford a reasonable 
opportunity for representatives of the Bank to visit any part of its territory for 
purposes related to the Project;
(g)
The Republic of Costa Rica shall have: (i) been suspended from membership 
in, or ceased to be a member of, the Bank; or (ii) ceased to be a member of the 
International Monetary Fund; and
(h)
any taxes shall have been levied in the territory of the Republic of 
Costa Rica in relation to the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
ARTICLE VI
Arbitration
Section 6.01. Any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement which is 
not settled by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled by arbitration in 
accordance with the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules in force on the date of this Agreement. 
The place of arbitration shall be Washington D.C.. In the event of a conflict between 
the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules and the terms of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall govern.
ARTICLE VII
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Page  7
Conditions, namely, that the Collaboration Agreement shall have been duly executed by 
the parties thereto.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Collaboration Agreement 
shall have been duly authorized or ratified by the respective parties thereto, and is 
legally binding upon said parties in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date of June 8, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Director General of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Instituto Nacional de Biodiversidad
Apartado Postal 22-3100
Santo Domingo de Heredia
Costa Rica
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
San José de Heredia, Costa Rica, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
  as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility
By /s/ James Wolfensohn, President
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE BIODIVERSIDAD
By /s/ Rodrigo Games Lobo, Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Page  8
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
   Amount of the
 GEF Trust Fund Grant
   % of
Allocated (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
40,000
90%
(2)
Goods
     820,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’
100 %
Services
(a)
International   
    600,000
Taxonomists
under Parts A
and B of the
Project
(b)
Other services
  2,510,000
(4)
Training
    740,000
100%
(5)
Incremental Recurrent
Costs
    370,000
80% of payments 
made during
the first two
years after the
Effective Date;
40% of payments
made during
the third and
fourth years
after the Effective
Date; and 15% of
payments made 
thereafter
(6)
Unallocated
     120,000
TOTAL
5,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Republic of Costa Rica for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Republic of Costa Rica; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Republic of Costa Rica or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Republic of Costa Rica;
(c)
the term "Training" means expenditures (other than for consultants’ 
services) incurred for: (i) training materials; (ii) transportation expenses of 
trainees; (iii) subsistence expenses for trainees; and (iv) study tours and 
internships locally or abroad; 
(d)
the term "Incremental Recurrent Costs" means expenditures incurred for: 
(i) salaries for staff in the Project Coordinating Unit and cataloguing personnel of 
the Recipient as such staff and personnel are identified in the Operational Manual;  
Page  9
the Recipient as such staff and personnel are identified in the Operational Manual;  
(ii) maintenance of equipment and vehicles procured under the Project; (iii) 
maintenance of the fungi laboratory to be constructed under Part D of the Project; 
(iv) travel expenses of the curators and research coordinators in connection with the 
Project; and (v) office supplies required by the Project Coordinating Unit for the 
implementation of the Project; and
(e)
the term "Consultants’ services" under Category 3 (a) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule means expenditures for fees and/or travel and/or per 
diem.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $200,000, may be made in respect of categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made 
for expenditures before that date but after January 16, 1998.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods costing 
less than $150,000 equivalent per contract (excluding vehicles, computer equipment and 
the first two contracts); (ii) works; (iii) consulting services with individual 
consultants costing less than $10,000 equivalent per contract; (iv) consulting 
services with consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (v) 
Training; and (vi) Incremental Recurrent Costs; all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank, for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is: (i) to enhance the knowledge of Costa Rica’s 
biodiversity; and (ii) to promote and improve the conservation and sustainable use of 
such biodiversity.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.
Part A:
Conceptual Framework
A program to develop, monitor and update the conceptual framework and protocols 
for the collection and cataloguing activities under Part B of the Project through 
workshops, consultation activities and other technical assistance with  the Taxonomic 
Working Groups, user groups, stakeholders and experts on the use of indigenous 
knowledge and sharing of benefits.
Part B:
Biodiversity Inventory
1.
(a) Carrying out of collection of specimens related to the Subgroups of the 
Selected Taxonomic Groups in the SINAC Protected Areas including preliminary sorting 
of the specimens in the field, recording of collection related information and 
transfer of the specimens to the Recipient’s headquarters; and (b) provision of 
training to parataxonomists and technicians, selected by the Recipient with the 
concurrence of the Bank, on specific collection methodologies and natural history.
2.
(a) Carrying out of: (i) the processing and storing of all specimens generated 
by the collection activities referred to in Part B. 1 of the Project; (ii) the 
identification and cataloguing of each of the above specimens; and (iii) the recording 
of all collection and cataloguing related information in the Recipient’s computerized 
information management system; 
(b) Provision of training to technicians and curators, selected by the Recipient 
with the concurrence of the Bank, to undertake the activities in paragraph (a) above. 
Part C:
Sustainable Uses of Biodiversity
Page  10
1.
Carrying out of activities to explore revenue and non-revenue generating uses of 
the biodiversity inventory consisting of technical assistance, studies and seminars to 
undertake research on market opportunities and seek out revenue-generating joint 
ventures.
2.
Strengthening the Recipient’s knowledge and capabilities, including the 
development of legal and financial instruments to ensure equitable sharing of 
benefits.
3.
Preparation and publication of scientific and educational materials based on the 
biodiversity inventory under Part B of the Project.
4.
Design and installation of exhibits in the Eligible Conservation Areas and in 
the Recipient’s headquarters.
5.
Carrying out of ecological studies related inter alia to threatened and 
endangered species, indicator species, migration patterns of species and impact of the 
collection activities under the Project.
6.
Carrying out of information dissemination activities for government entities and 
non-governmental organizations in Costa Rica and abroad.
7.
Carrying out of other activities, that may be agreed upon between the Recipient 
and the Bank, for exploring sustainable uses of the biodiversity inventory under Part 
B of the Project.
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening
Strengthening of the institutional capabilities of the Recipient through the 
operation of the Project Coordinating Unit, technical assistance for Project 
supervision, construction and equipping of a fungi laboratory, and studies, that may 
be agreed between the Recipient and the Bank, related to Project objectives.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Any references in the "Guidelines to "loans", "Loan Agreement" and "Borrower" 
shall be read as referring to the GEF Trust Fund Grant, this Agreement and the 
Recipient, respectively.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
Page  11
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of Costa Rica.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Vehicles and computer equipment shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $170,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works under Part C of the Project shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods procured under international 
bidding procedures; (ii) each contract for goods procured under limited international 
bidding procedures; and (iii) the first two contracts for goods procured under 
national competitive bidding procedures, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
Page  12
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for collection activities under Part B.1 
(a) of the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Without limitation or restriction to Sections 9.01 (a), 9.06 and 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
conduct during the last quarter of each year of Project execution, 
starting in 1998, reviews with the Bank on the progress achieved in the carrying out 
of the Project and focusing on the items described in the Operational Manual, 
including draft progress reports on the Project and proposed annual operating plans;
(c)
furnish to the Bank, during the month of January of each year of Project 
execution, starting in 1999, final progress reports, satisfactory to the Bank, on the 
Project focusing on the items described in the Operational Manual, including, inter 
alia: (i) progress achieved against the Performance Indicators and the Annual 
Page  13
alia: (i) progress achieved against the Performance Indicators and the Annual 
Operating Plan of the previous year; (ii) an assessment of the problems and issues 
derived from the implementation of the Project; and (iii) status of compliance with 
the covenants contained in this Agreement;
(d)
furnish to the Bank, during the month of January of each year of Project 
execution, a final annual operating plan, satisfactory to the Bank, providing for the 
activities, implementation schedule, procurement plan, disbursement schedule and 
proposed budget in respect of each Part of the Project in the then current year; and
(e)
if, as a result of any of the above reviews, or any other reviews 
pursuant to Section 9.01 (a) of the General Conditions, the Bank shall have reasonably 
determined that the progress in the execution of the Project or in the achievement of 
its objectives is not satisfactory, promptly take or cause to be taken, without 
limitation or restriction to any of the Bank's rights under this Agreement, all such 
action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary or appropriate for the 
efficient execution of the Project or for the attainment of its objectives.
2.
The Recipient shall maintain the Project Coordinating Unit with an 
organizational structure, functions and staffing satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
(a) The Recipient shall carry out the activities under Part B of the Project in 
accordance with criteria, methodologies and protocols satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) Without limitation to paragraph 3 (a) above, the Recipient shall: (i) select 
the collection sites and Subgroups in accordance with the criteria included in the 
Implementation Letter; (ii) comply with the criteria for cessation of collection 
activities and avoidance of overharvesting included in the Implementation Letter; and 
(iii) ensure that the methodologies and protocols, developed under Part A of the 
Project and satisfactory to the Bank, are included as part of the Operational Manual. 
4. 
The Recipient shall: (i) take all necessary action to ensure that each of the 
Taxonomic Working Groups are formed and operational at all times during the Project 
and in accordance with the Operational Manual;  (ii) ensure that each of the Taxonomic 
Working Groups carry out their functions under the Project in accordance with the 
Annual Operating Plans; and (iii) promptly inform the Bank in the event of any problem 
related to the formation or operation of any of the Taxonomic Working Groups.
5.
The Recipient shall carry out a plan, satisfactory to the Bank to: (a) upgrade 
the equipment, personnel and training in connection with its biodiversity information 
management system; and (b) provide adequate processing and storage facilities at its 
headquarters and in the Eligible Conservation Areas, as such plan is included in the 
Implementation Letter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time 
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $350,000 
to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
Page  14
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the  Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposit into the  Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories  
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the  Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
Page  15
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
