Report No. PID8895
Project Name                     Colombia-Sierra Nevada Sustainable (@)
Development
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Other Agriculture; Natural Resources
Management
Project ID                       COPE57326
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
Implementing Agency
Address NATIONAL PLANNING
DEPARTMENT-FUNDACION PRO SIERRA NEVADA
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                April 6, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         January 17, 2000
Projected Board Date             April 14, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Main Sector Issues: The Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, a UNESCO-declared
Biosphere Reserve, and the Sierra Nevada eco-region (including 15
municipalities located in 3 departments, 2 national parks, and 2 major
indigenous reserves) is a place of great importance from an ecological,
cultural and economic point of view, and a complex region which has
experienced social conflict of various types. The central feature of the
eco-region is the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, an isolated mountain that
is set apart from the Andes chain that runs through Colombia and is the
world's highest coastal peak. It encompasses an area of about 12,600
square kilometers (accounting for 60t of the eco-region's total area of
21,600 square kilometers). Because of its altitudinal variation as well as
its location at 11 degrees north latitude, the Sierra Nevada contains a
mosaic of biomes of global significance (nearly all the climatic zones
that can be found in tropical America). Since pre-hispanic times, the
indigenous peoples of the Sierra Nevada (now numbering 32,000) have
possessed a world view, social organizations and living patterns revolving
around the management and conservation of this unique environment. In
1991, the Fundacion Pro Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta (Foundation)
initiated a participatory process that produced a Sustainable Development
Plan for the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta (SDP), published in February
1997 and endorsed by key stakeholders including the municipal,
departmental and central governments, as well as communities and other
local actors. The long-term development objective of the SDP, to which the
Foundation's six year program is contributing, is to improve the quality
of life of the inhabitants of the Sierra Nevada, while maintaining and
restoring the regions' eco-systems and cultural heritage. Main Sector
Issues: Colombia is recognized to be one of the "megadiverse" nations in
the world. Despite the fact that it accounts for only 1 of the world's
land area, nearly all the world's ecosystems are represented in Colombia
with a correspondingly high diversity of species (10w of global
biodiversity). However, Colombia's strategic eco-regions are experiencing
rapid deterioration which is a major threat to their biodiversity. Where



national parks were established (719 of the legally protected areas and 9t
of Colombia's land area), an enforcement/policing approach combined with a
shortage of financial and human resources, the remote location and
difficult access to many of the areas, and the presence of armed groups in
and around some of the key parks have been major obstacles to effective
conservation and protection of biodiversity in the national parks system.
Outside the protected areas, the most important direct sources of loss of
biodiversity are colonization of new areas and inappropriate land use, in
particular the enormous increase in the area under pasture for extensive
livestock production. Precarious living standards of culturally diverse
rural populations inhabiting strategic eco-regions contrast sharply with
the rich biodiversity of these places.Despite a decline in the incidence
of poverty in the last decades, poverty in Colombia remains a critical
problem with strong rural and regional dimensions. Seventy percent of the
people with incomes below subsistence live in rural areas. The Caribbean
region (composed of 8 of Colombia's 32 departments, and 219 of the
population) is one of poorest in Colombia with the highest number of
inhabitants living in conditions of misery. The situation is dramatically
worse in rural areas:   79t of the rural population have incomes below the
poverty line, and 42t live in misery. Since the mid-1980s the level of
armed conflict in the region has been increasing; land distribution is
very unequal and conflicts over land have historically been acute.
Government Strategy: The Government's development strategy contained in
the National Development Plan (NDP) for 1998-2002, el Cambio para
construir la Paz is conceived to promote conditions to make a viable
peace and guarantee its long-term sustainability. A two track approach to
the peace process is being pursued: (i) at the political, national level
negotiations for peace with various armed groups; and (ii) at the local
and regional level, support for specific initiatives to build social
capital and address the root causes of violence which have long-standing
local dimensions. The NDP includes the outline of a special plan for
economic, social and environmental reconstruction of zones most affected
by violence. The active involvement of civil society organizations
(particularly grassroots community organizations) and alliances between
the public and private sectors, and international organizations is called
for. The expectation is that the plan will generate conditions for
achieving peace, by promoting a participatory model of management at the
regional level which brings together the interests of society and the
parties in conflict. The environmental policy contained in the NDP has the
broad objective of: "restoring and conserving priority areas in strategic
eco-regions, while fostering sustainable regional and sectoral development
in the context of constructing peace." The Development Plan's
biodiversity program is based on the National Policy on Biodiversity
adopted in March 1997 which seeks a more just and equitable distribution
of the costs and benefits derived from biodiversity and defines three
broad areas for action--knowledge, conservation, and sustainable use. The
approach to environmental policy in the NDP is integrated, the locus of
action is the region, citizen participation is emphasized, alliances
between various actors in the public and private sector are encouraged,
and the reconciliation of social and conservation objectives is sought
with special attention to the concerns and potential contributions of
indigenous and black communities. The decision to involve communities in
collaborative management of protected areas in the national parks system
is an important policy change signaled in the Plan and endorsed by the
National Environmental Council in August 1999. The new policy focuses on
-2 -



the social dimensions of conservation and seeks to improve the
effectiveness of conservation in protected areas by involving local
communities. The policy explicitly recognizes the conflicts created by
the restrictive nature of the laws, arguing for transitional mechanisms
which recognize that people are living in and depending on the parks and
surrounding areas and that this is not necessarily incompatible with
conservation of ecosystems. One of the important objectives of the policy
is to contribute to solving conflicts over the occupation and use of
protected areas and buffer zones, including those related to the
overlapping areas of parks and communally titled lands of indigenous and
black communities. The Government has designated the Sierra Nevada de
Santa Marta as one of the strategic eco-regions to be supported under the
Development Plan. The eco-region falls under the wing of several other
Government initiatives as well:    (i) the multi-sectoral program for
development of the Caribbean region, Plan Caribe Siglo XXI; (ii) the
initiatives, described in the Development Plan, for conflictive areas of
the country; and (iii) the recently developed Strategic Plan for Displaced
Persons (Plan Estrategico para el Manejo del Desplazamiento Interno
Forzado por el Conflicto Armado). The objectives and strategies in the
Sustainable Development Plan for the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta (SDP),
the Foundation's six-year program and this project are fully consistent
with the Government's strategies described above, though they do not
address all dimensions of these strategies.
2. Objectives
Program development objective: This project will contribute to the
development objective of the Foundation's six-year program: better
informed and organized stakeholders implementing jointly agreed actions to
conserve the biological and cultural diversity of the Sierra Nevada and to
use its natural resources in a sustainable manner. Project development
objective: The project's specific development objective is to develop and
test in at least three regions a participatory methodology and operational
mechanisms for promoting sustainable management of production and natural
systems which can then be used in other regions of the Sierra
Nevada.Learning and Development Issues to be addressed by the project:
The project will promote a continuous learning process in three core
areas:How to promote biodiversity conservation and natural resource
management in a conflictive environment in a way that brings stakeholders
together around common goals, thus addressing some of the historical roots
of conflict in the Sierra Nevada.How to make management of protected areas
more effective and consistent with social and economic
conditions.Identification and promotion of sustainable production systems
on existing farms and production areas in the Sierra Nevada.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Not required for a LIL.
4. Description
The project is contributing to the realization of the objectives of the
SDP and the Foundation's six-year program by developing and testing
approaches in at least three pilot regions which can then be used
elsewhere in the eco-region.
1. Knowledge Generation and Dissemination. The objective of this
component is to design and put in operation a program for generating and
disseminating knowledge about best practices. Key activities to be
- 3 -



supported include: design the methodologies and operational mechanisms
which will be tested, improved and adapted; design and implement a
communications strategy; study tours, farmer exchanges and workshops to
promote exchange of knowledge and experience; key studies and
action-research; and the project's monitoring, evaluation and learning
system.
2. Participation, Organizational Strengthening and Coordination. The
objective of this component is to put into place and operate effectively a
program for strengthening local and regional organizations supporting
sustainable development. The LIL will support three types of activities:
(i) those with a broad outreach and scope; (ii) those focused in the pilot
regions; and (iii) those related to strengthening the Foundation's
capacity to support the SDP and project management.
3. Collaborative Management and Subprojects. The LIL will support the
testing in at least three pilot regions (and in selected zones and areas
within these regions) of a participatory methodology for bringing together
key stakeholders to develop collaborative management plans, as well as a
participatory methodology for developing sustainable production systems at
the farm level. Support will also be available for the collaborative
management plan for the overlapping territories of the indigenous reserves
and Sierra Nevada park being developed by a committee composed of
indigenous organizations, park authorities and the representative of
indigenous affairs in the government. The LIL will also finance
sustainable development sub-projects in the pilot regions with US$1.0
million which will be managed by the Non-Governmental Fund being
established with support from the GEF.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
IBRD                     5.0
AGENCE FRANCAISE DE
DEVELOPPEMENT            0.28
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA   0.5
GOVERNMENT OF THE
NETHERLANDS              0.24
LOCAL CONTRIBUTION       0.22
Total Project Cost       6.25
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented over a period of five years (2000-2005).
The National Planning Department (DNP) has been designated by the
Government to be responsible for the project, and DNP has designated its
Plan Caribe Office to exercise project oversight responsibility. The
Fundaci6n Pro-Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, a private non-profit
organization with thirteen years experience working in the project area,
has been designated by the Government as the project implementing agency.
It will continue its long established practice of working in close
collaboration with local community organizations, NGOs, indigenous
authorities, municipal and departmental governments, and regional and
national institutions including universities, research institutes such as
Alexander von Humboldt, Regional Autonomous Corporations (the regional
environmental authorities), and the National Parks Unit. The project's
focus is outward to the communities and organizations in the eco-region,
- 4 -



therefore a high proportion of the funding is destined to benefit these
communities, organizations, regional entities and local governments both
through provision of technical support and training, as well as direct
funding (in particular through the NGF) of activities and projects
proposed and implemented by them. The project aims to promote partnerships
between community organizations, local governments and other
entities--both national and regional--present in the eco-region with the
Foundation playing the role of facilitator.
7. Sustainability
Not applicable for LIL.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Not applicable for LIL.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The Sustainable Development Plan for the Sierra
Nevada (SDP), published in February 1997, documents the eco-region's
environmental and social situation and proposes a strategy for addressing
key issues. This project is part of the Foundation's program which has the
objective of promoting conservation of the environment and biodiversity as
proposed in the SDP. As part of this program, an eco-regional
conservation strategy was defined in February 2000. The net environmental
impact of the project is positive, with no major adverse environmental
impacts expected as a result of project activities. Procedures for
environmental impact assessments of subprojects financed by the non
governmental fund (NGF) will be incorporated into the NGF's Operating
Manual which must be found satisfactory to the Bank prior to disbursements
for subprojects which is not expected until project year 2. The SDP and
project were prepared in a highly participatory manner. In the case of
the project, this included two workshops held in December 1998 and April
1999, and a consultation with key stakeholders in February 2000 prior to
negotiation of the loan with the Government.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Elsie B. Garfield
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-5007
Fax: 202-522-3540
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
- 5 -



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending September 15, 2000.
- 6 -



