Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 20388 CO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 25, 2000
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2000)
Currency Unit = Colombian Peso
1.0 Colombian peso= US$ 0.0005
US$ 1.00 = 1957 Colombian pesos
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Colombia: January I to December 31 World Bank: July I to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAR          Regional Autonomous Corporation
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CORPOICA   Colombian Agricultural Research Corporation
(Corporacion Colombiano de Investigacion Agropecuario)
DNP          National Planning Department (Departemento de Planeacion Nacional)
FPSN         Fundacion Pro Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta (Foundation)
GEF          Global Environmental Facility
ICA          Colombian Agricultural Institute (Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario)
INAT         National Institute for lIrigation and Drainage
(Instituto Nacional de Adecuacion de Tierras)
INCORA       Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform (Instituto Colombiano de Reforma Agraria)
LIL          Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
NDP          National Development Plan
NGF          Non Govemmental Fund (Fund)
NGO          Non Governmental Organization
PIP          Project Implementation Plan
PMR          Project Management Reports
PNR          National Rehabilitation Program (Programa Nacional de Rehabilitacion)
UBN          Unsatisfied Basic Needs
UNESCO       United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
SDP          Sustainable Development Plan for the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta
SENA         National Apprenticeship Service (Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje)
TNC          The Nature Conservancy
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Andres Solimano
Sector Manager/Director:   John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Elsie Garfield



COLOMBIA
SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
3. Learnng and development issues to be addressed by the project                        5
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                                 6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   8
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        9
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                              13
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            13
2. Financial                                                                           13
3. Technical                                                                           14
4. Institutional                                                                       14
5. Environment                                                                         14
6. Social                                                                              15
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  19
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     20
2. Critical risks                                                                      20
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      20
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            21
2. Other                                                                               21
1



H. Readiness for Inplementation                                                          21
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         22
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          23
Annex 2: Project Description                                                             29
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         31
Annex 4: Not applicable                                                                  32
Annex 5: Not applicable                                                                  33
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       34
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     40
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   41
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  42
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            44
Annex 11: Social Assessment                                                              46
Annex 12: Indigenous Peoples Strategy                                                    67
MAP(S)
Map 1: Topography and Principal Rivers of the Sierra Nevada Eco-Region
Map 2: Pilot Regions, Sierra Nevada Sustainable Development Region
Map 3: Cultural Landscapes of the Sierra Nevada Eco-Region
Map 4: Colonization of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta in the XXth Century
Map 5: National Parks and Indigenous Reserves of the Sierra Nevada
Map 6: Key Pre-Hispanic Population Centers in the Sierra Nevada
Map 7: "Black Line" and Indigenous Reserves



COLOMBIA
SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSER
Date: April 25, 2000                              Team Leader: Elsie B. Garfield
Country ManagerlDirector: Andres Solimano         Sector ManagerlDirector: John Redwood
Project ID: P057326                               Sector(s): AY - Other Agriculture, VM - Natural
Resources Management
Lending Instrument: Learning and lnnovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Environment; Rural Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
Z Loan         G] Credit       O Grant          El Guarantee    El Other (Specify)
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 5.0
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                                Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.85% during first 4                   Service charge: 0.00%
years; 0.75% p.a. thereafter
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
F:nancig PEa:      &    e                                      --t         Foregn         T-ta.w -        _. . .
GOVERNMENT                                                      0.50           0.00          0.50
IBRD                                                            5.00           0.00          5.00
IDA
AGENCE FRANCAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT                               0.28           0.00          0.28
GOVERNMENT OF THE NETHERLANDS                                   0.24           0.00          0.24
LOCAL CONTRIBUTION                                              0.22           0.00          0.22
Total:                                                          6.25           0.00          6.25
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
Responsible agency: NATIONAL PLANNING DEPARTMENT-FUNDACION PRO SIERRA NEVADA
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
Annual      0.1          0.8          1.2         1.2        1.1          0.5        0.1
Cumulative     0.1          0.9          2.1         3.3         4.4         4.9         5.0
Project implementation period: 2000-2005
Expected effectiveness date: 05/31/2000  Expected closing date:  12/15/2005
OXPADFonn -    MR. c  20J



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Program development objective: This project will contribute to the development objective of the
Foundation's six-year program: better informed and organized stakeholders implementing jointly agreed
actions to conserve the biological and cultural diversity of the Sierra Nevada and to use its natural
resources in a sustainable manner.
Project development objective: The project's specific development objective is to develop and test in at
least three regions a participatory methodology and operational mechanisms for promoting sustainable
management of production and natural systems which can then be used in other regions of the Sierra
Nevada.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The following is a preliminary list of key performance indicators which may be revised and the indicators
made more specific during the detailed design of the M&E system during the first four months of the
project. In addition, more specific measures of the project's goals, particularly the progress indicators, will
be incorporated into the Annual Operating Plans and the Project Management Reports.
Impact: # of sustainable development projects funded in pilot regions and % successfully completed by the
end of project; # of requests for participation/support and project proposals received by the Foundation
from organzations and communities outside the pilot regions; # and type of agreements reached between
key stakeholders in 3 pilot regions per year and % implemented; # farm plans including sustainable
production systems being implemented by farmers in each pilot region per year.
Progress: strategies and operational mechanisms designed and testing initiated in one region by end of
project year 1; M&E and leaning system operating and systematically documenting learning process and
best practice by end of project year 1; at least 12 community organizations in each pilot region trained in
negotiation techniques, leadership and project management through 3 workshops/year; # of sustainable
development projects in pilot regions submitted (identify % receiving technical support under project) and
% approved for NGF funding; # and type of agreements between critical stakeholders being prepared and
being negotiated in 3 pilot regions each year; at least 3 critical activities in collaborative management plan
for the indigenous reserves/Sierra Nevada park have been implemented during year 3.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17107 CO, R99-201                     Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/18/99
Both the Foundation's program and the project fit well with the overarching CAS objective: to attain
sustainable development with continuous reduction of poverty and improvement of social conditions in an
environment of peace. As indicated in the CAS Progress Report discussed by the Board, peace and
development are central to Colombia's development agenda, and have become a more growing area of Bank
assistance. Due to its multidimensional approach to development in a conflictive and environmentally
important eco-region, the project will contribute to several of the CAS's sectoral objectives. These include:
sustainable development (improve natural resource management and conservation of strategic eco-systems,
taking into account the needs of the inhabitants); peace and development (develop effective strategies for
addressing the socio-economic determinants of violence and conflict); and rural development (improve
capacity to generate, transfer and adopt technologies that increase the productivity and sustainability of
small farmer agriculture).
-2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues: Colombia is recognized to be one of the "megadiverse" nations in the world. Despite
the fact that it accounts for only 1% of the world's land area, nearly all the world's ecosystems are
represented in Colombia with a correspondingly high diversity of species (10% of global biodiversity).
However, Colombia's strategic eco-regions are experiencing rapid deterioration which is a major threat to
their biodiversity. Where national parks were established (71% of the legally protected areas and 9% of
Colombia's land area), they were created under a centralized regime, generally without regard for the social
and economic conditions that prevailed in and around the parks. An enforcement/policing approach
combined with a shortage of financial and human resources, the remote location and difficult access to
many of the areas, and the presence of armed groups in and around some of the key parks have been major
obstacles to effective conservation and protection of biodiversity in the national parks system. Outside the
protected areas, the most important direct sources of loss of biodiversity are colonization of new areas and
inappropriate land use, in particular the enormous increase in the area under pasture for extensive livestock
production. Many of the most important areas of the country from a biodiversity point of view are those
where the State presence is weak, and insecurity and armed conflict are serious problems. Precarious
living standards of culturally diverse rural populations inhabiting strategic eco-regions contrast sharply
with the rich biodiversity of these places.
Despite a decline in the incidence of poverty in the last decades, poverty in Colombia remains a critical
problem with strong rural and regional dimensions. Seventy percent of the people with incomes below
subsistence live in rural areas. The Caribbean region (composed of 8 of Colombia's 32 departments, and
21% of the population) is one of poorest in Colombia with the highest number of inhabitants living in
conditions of misery. Based on 1995 data collected prior to the erosion of some of the national gains in
poverty reduction in the later half of the 1990s, the Caribbean region also has poverty indicators above
national averages: 63% of the population vs. 55% at the national level have incomes below the poverty
line, and 29% vs. 20% nationally live in misery. The situation is dramatically worse in rural areas: 79% of
the rural population have incomes below the poverty line, and 42% live in misery. The Unsatisfied Basic
Needs (UBN) Indicator shows a similar picture: 52% of the population in the Caribbean region have UBN
vs. 37% nationally. Since the mid-1980s the level of armed conflict in the region has been increasing; land
distribution is very unequal and conflicts over land have historically been acute.
Government Strategy: The Government's development strategy contained in the National Development
Plan (NDP) for 1998-2002, el Cambio para construir la Paz is conceived to promote conditions to make
a viable peace and guarantee its long-term sustainability. A two track approach to the peace process is
being pursued: (i) at the political, national level negotiations for peace with various arned groups; and (ii)
at the local and regional level pursuing specific initiatives to build social capital and address the root causes
of violence which have long-standing local dimensions. The NDP recognizes that while violence and
conflict affect the entire country, certain areas of the country are affected particularly hard. It indicates that
one of the principle factors contributing to increased levels of violence is political exclusion, poverty and
inequality, and argues that peace needs to be constructed through an integrated economic and social policy.
In the presentation of the Plan's agriculture sector strategy, it is acknowledged that the agricultural sector
is the principal scenario where armed conflict is carried out, and indicated that in order to advance in a
decisive manner towards the achievement of peace the conflicts in this sector must be resolved.
The NDP includes the outline of a special plan for economic, social and environmental reconstruction of
zones most affected by violence. The active involvement of civil society organizations (particularly
grassroots community organizations) and alliances between the public and private sectors, and international
- 3 -



organizations is called for. The expectation is that this plan will generate conditions for achieving peace,
by promoting a participatory model of management at the regional level which brings together the interests
of society and the parties in conflict. According to the NDP, action in five thematic areas will be supported:
productive processes, promotion and protection of human capital and humanitarian action, institutional
development and strengthening social capital, construction of infrastructure for peace, and promotion of
environmental sustainability. The critical need for a flexible approach in carrying out programs in
conflictive areas is emphasized.
The environmental policy contained in the NDP has the broad objective of: "restoring and conserving
priority areas in strategic eco-regions, while fostering sustainable regional and sectoral development in the
context of constructing peace." The Plan's three main objectives and seven programs for the environment
include: (i) restore and conserve strategic eco-regions (water, biodiversity, forest programs); (ii) promote
sustainable regional and urban development (endogenous production systems, and quality of urban life
programs); and (iii) seek environmentally sustainable sector development (clean production, "green"
markets). Water is treated as an inter-sectoral theme to articulate actions, and improved management of
the principal watersheds is a key area for investment. The approach in the Plan is integrated, the locus of
action is the region, citizen participation is emphasized, alliances between various actors in the public and
private sector are encouraged, and the reconciliation of social and conservation objectives is sought with
special attention to the concerns and potential contributions of indigenous and black communities.
The decision to involve communities in collaborative management of protected areas in the national parks
system is an important policy change signaled in the Plan and endorsed by the National Environmental
Council in August 1999. The new policy entitled "Policy for Consolidating the National System of
Protected Areas on the Basis of Social Participation in Conservation" marks a significant change from the
traditional restrictive and exclusionary approach which is inherent in Colombian laws which predate the
1991 Constitution. The new policy focuses on the social dimensions of conservation and seeks to improve
the effectiveness of conservation in protected areas by involving local communities which implies a
diversity of methods including collaborative management. The policy explicitly recognizes the conflicts
created by the restrictive nature of the laws, arguing for transitional mechanisms which recognize that
people are living in and depending on the parks and surrounding areas and that this is not necessarily
incompatible with conservation of ecosystems. One of the important objectives of the policy is to
contribute to solving conflicts over the occupation and use of protected areas and buffer zones, including
those related to the overlapping areas of parks and communally titled lands of indigenous and black
communities.
The Development Plan's biodiversity program is based on the National Policy on Biodiversity adopted in
March 1997 and a Biodiversity Action Plan was published and presented to the Ministry of Enviromment in
late 1998 (Colombia biodiversidad siglo XX). Three broad areas for action defined:
*   Knowledge: characterization of the components of biodiversity; recuperation, protection and
dissemination of traditional knowledge.
*   Conservation: the conformation and consolidation of a national system of protected areas; reduction
in processes causing a deterioration in biodiversity; restore ecosystems and recuperation of species;
promotion of ex situ conservation.
*   Sustainable Use: promotion of systems for sustainable management of renewable natural resources;
sustainable development of the economic potential of biodiversity; develop systems for establishing the
economic value of biodiversity components.
The Government has designated the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta as one of the strategic eco-regions to
- 4 -



be supported under the Development Plan (see Map 1). The eco-region includes the Sierra Nevada de
Santa Marta, the world's highest coastal peak that is a UNESCO-declared Biosphere Reserve, and the 35
watersheds that originate there which serve a population of between 1.0 to 1.5 million; administratively it
includes 15 municipalities located in 3 departments, 2 national parks, as well as 2 major indigenous
reserves. The Sierra Nevada eco-region falls under the wing of other Government initiatives: (i) the
multi-sectoral program for development of the Caribbean region, Plan Caribe Siglo XXI, initiated by the
previous Govermnent to address the region's high level of poverty, low level of public services, and high
economic potential due to proximity to export markets; (ii) the initiatives, described in the Development
Plan, for conflictive areas of the country; and (iii) the recently developed Strategic Plan for Displaced
Persons (Plan Estrategico para el Manejo del Desplazamiento Interno Forzado por el Conflicto Armado)
which identifies the Sierra Nevada and the Cesar Department as one of four regions of the country most
affected by this problem. The objectives and strategies in the Sustainable Development Plan for the Sierra
Nevada de Santa Marta (SDP) published in 1997 and endorsed by key stakeholders, the Foundation's
six-year program and the LIL are fully consistent with the Government's strategies described above, though
they do not address all dimensions of these strategies.
3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The SDP and the work of the Foundation to date embody a pioneering approach which takes into account
the complex and multi-dimensional dynamics of eco-regional sustainability, in particular the interaction of
people with nature. The project addresses the key development issues cited above and promotes a
continuous leaming process in the core areas described below. In order to allow sufficient time for learning
in these areas which relate to longer-term processes of social and environmental change, a five-year LIL is
required. Based on the LIL experience, the collaborative management approach would be scaled up from
the 3 pilot regions to the rest of the eco-region in a follow-up project/program.
Core learning area 1: How to promote biodiversity conservation and natural resource management
in a conflictive environment in a way which brings stakeholders together around common goals, thus
addressing some of the historical roots of conflict in the Sierra Nevada. The process of developing the
SDP has been an educational one which has created an increased awareness of the environmental and
cultural importance of the Sierra Nevada. It has also contributed to a dialogue and maturing of
relationships among various regional actors, many of whom have had long-standing conflicts particularly
over land. Building on its experience in several parts of the Sierra Nevada and on some innovative
experiences elsewhere in Colombia, the LIL will support the Foundation's efforts to develop and test a
participatory methodology for bringing together key stakeholders in particular localities with diverse and at
times conflicting objectives and world views to agree on joint actions which address the main sources of
damage to ecosystems and of social conflict. Key lessons expected from the LIL are: (i) how to build
common ground that brings key stakeholders together; (ii) how to promote an intercultural dialogue and an
approach to sustainable development and biodiversity conservation which takes into account different
cultural perspectives on conservation and resource management; (iii) identification of win-win alternatives
to improve livelihoods and conservation in specific localities and at the regional and eco-regional levels;
and (iv) operational mechanisms which are sufficiently flexible to work effectively in an uncertain and
rapidly changing environment.
Core learning area 2 (a subsidiary of area 1 above): How to make management of protected areas
more effective and consistent with social and economic conditions. Much of the area of the eco-region is
under protected status: the two national parks established in 1964 account for 20% of the land area in the
eco-region and nearly 34% of the highlands. Much of the park area overlaps with indigenous reserves
which also have a special legal status; the combined area of parks and reserves accounts for 28% of the
- 5 -



area of the region and nearly half the area of the highlands. The Foundation's approach to biodiversity
conservation is based on building social consensus and agreemernt between key actors on conservation
actions, rather than creating new restricted areas or expanding e- sting ones without social support. In part
this is a recognition of the sociopolitical environment prevailing in the Sierra Nevada, but it also reflects a
new way of thinking about conservation and natural resource management. The change in protected areas
policy concerning communities living in and around the national parks, recently approved by the National
Environmental Council, is an important opportunity to resolve issues which have generated considerable
conflict in the Sierra Nevada. Thus, a key learning area is how to put these policies into practice. The
project will support the process initiated in May 1999 and consolidated in November 1999 between
indigenous organizations and the Parks Unit to develop and implement a collaborative management plan for
the Sierra Nevada park, as well as consultations and agreements with the farmers living within these
territories. A particularly difficult and sensitive issue where development of a new approach is badly
needed and where the LIL could make an important contribution is the voluntary resettlement of farmers
living within the protected areas (see Annex 1 1, Social Assessment).
Core Learning area 3: Identification and promotion of sustainable production systems on existing
farns and production areas in the Sierra Nevada. There is no simple defirution of what sustainable
systems are, nor how this can be measured. The project supports an approach that views sustainability in
relation to specific levels of the eco-region and locations (including specific farms). The reconciliation and
trade-offs between conservation and livelihood objectives is also an important area of learning. During
project preparation, a general analysis of existing production systems in the eco-region was caried out and
criteria for formulating alternative, sustainable production systems which will contribute to biodiversity
conservation were defined: (i) soil conservation; (ii) water use rationalization; (iii) biodiversity conservation
(reduce fragmentation of habitat, etc.); (iv) productivity (optimization of the material and energy cycles
within the productive unit, etc.); and (v) socio-economic factors (cost minimization, optimal use of family
labor, etc.). Under the LIL, a methodology for farm-level "environmental planning" which has been
developed based on the Foundation's work in several areas of the Sierra Nevada and on successful
experiences elsewhere in Colombia will be tested and refined in the pilot regions.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
21 Economic     Z Technical    1 Social           21 Participation
El Financial    El Institutional  1 Envirommental El Other
Using the typology of LILs developed based on a review of the Bank's first year of experience with this
new lending instrument, this project involves all three types of learning and innovation (depending on the
scale/level at which it is working):
- consensus building at the eco-regional and pilot region level: a core group (e.g. Foundation, key actors
in pilot regions) progressively draws more stakeholders into the process of establishing common beliefs,
positions and behaviors in order to create broad ownership and participation in a follow-on activity;
-mutual learning in the context of specific initiatives developed within the zones and areas in the pilot
regions and the overlapping area of the Sierra Nevada park/indigenous reserves: a relatively complete and
inclusive group of stakeholders, known to each other, establish a process of mutually supportive learning,
innovating and negotiation of differences to achieve a common purpose prior to initiating further action;
-prototype and capacity building which applies to the role of the project: core stakeholders progressively
build the capacity and know-how to move forward with a more ambitious program (in this case, the LIL
provides the basis for horizontal expansion to new areas within the eco-region similar to an Adaptable
-6 -



Program Loan).
The breadth of learning and innovation being addressed by the project is another reason that a five year
project is required.
Economic:
*  Develop and test methodologies for assessing the economic value of environmental services and design
of incentive mechanisms to promote sustainable use and management of natural resources (such as user
fees). Key issues are to establish an empirical basis and social mechanisms.
*  Identify promising products and markets for non-timber and organic/biodiversity friendly goods.
Technical:
*  Develop indicators and methods for measuring sustainability and trends over time at different levels of
the eco-systems and eco-region.
Social:
*  Conflict/peace: the feasibility and impact of addressing issues of ethnic conflict, social exclusion and
inequality through dealing with issues related to sustainable natural resource use.
* Identification of win-win solutions which promote conservation and improved livelihoods.
*  Conservation with people-one of first pilots of new protected areas policy.
*  Build on lessons of Eco-Sierra and concepts/operational mechanisms developed in context of the land
reform pilot projects in Colombia to develop pilot voluntary resettlement experience.
Environmental:
o Promote intercultural dialogue and understanding of different cultural perspectives on conservation,
resource management and sustainable development
*  Linking different levels of analysis and action, and understanding the interaction between them:
eco-region, regions, zones, areas, farms.
-  Identification of key urban environmental issues.
Participation:
*  Test participatory methodology of working in an integrated way (community development approach)
with actors in specific geographic areas
*  Build on Foundation's experience in several areas of the Sierra Nevada (but adopt a more systematic
approach) and other experiences in Colombia (CIPASLA in the Rio Cabuyal watershed in the Cauca
Department, a documented case of working with communities on watershed management in a complex
social environment), to promote collaborative management in pilot regions.
-7 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
$etr               ot       %of    frar, cigZ**
i. Knowledge Generation and                            1.06       17.0      0.77       15.4
Dissemination
2. Participation, Organizational                       2.55       40.8      2.10       42.0
Strengthening and Coordination
3. Collaborative Management and                        2.64       42.2      2.13       42.6
Subprojects
Total Project Costs                    6.25      100.0      5.00      100.0
Front-end fee                    0.00        0.0      0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                     6.25      100.0      5.00     100.0
The LIL is contributing to the Foundation's six year program (see Annex 2 for full description of the
program and LIL activities) by developing and testing approaches in at least three pilot regions which can
then be used elsewhere in the eco-region.
Project Component 1. Knowledge Generation and Dissemination. The objective of this component of
the LIL is to design and put into operation a program for generating and disseminating knowledge about
best practices. The LIL will support key activities which serve as the basis for implementation of the other
two components, including: (a) during the first year of the LIL, design the methodologies and operational
mechanisms (participation strategy including the approach to collaborative management, promotion of
sustainable production systems at the farm-level, and institutional strengthening) which will be tested,
improved and adapted under components 2 and 3 to varying socio-economic conditions in each pilot region
during the remainder of the project; (b) design and implement a communications strategy to enhance
awareness and generate support for conservation of biodiversity and sustainable development in the Sierra
Nevada, including dissemination of good practices and experiences; (c) study tours and visits, farmer
exchanges, and workshops to promote exchange of knowledge and experience between those in the
eco-region, with others elsewhere in Colombia, and, as appropriate, outside Colombia; (d) key studies and
action-research to develop new information (for example, rapid urban environmental assessment) and
methodologies/tools in innovative areas where knowledge and experience are limited (for example,
environmental services: assessment of potential, methods for economic valuation, and incentive
mechanisms); and (e) the project's monitoring, evaluation and learning system to ensure a permanent
mechanism for drawing lessons, analyzing progress and results, and documenting best practices.
Project Component 2. Participation, Organizational Strengthening and Coordination. The objective
of this component of the LIL is to: put into place and operate effectively a program for strengthening local
and regional organizations supporting sustainable development in the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta. The
LIL will support three types of activities: (i) those with a broad outreach and scope; (ii) those focused in
the pilot regions where collaborative management is being promoted under component 3; and (iii) those
- 8 -



related to the strengthening of the Foundation and project management. Under the first, a self-standing
program for capacity building will be implemented which includes activities such as: (i) training and legal
support to develop peasant-farmer and indigenous organizations in accord with their self-defined needs and
priorities; (ii) technical and operational support to the regional entities, the Regional Environmental Council
and Comite Directiva (indigenous organizations), responsible for coordinating the implementation of the
SDP; and (iii) outreach efforts to involve groups, such as business-oriented farmers and urban dwellers, in
the SDP. The second kind would be specific programs in each of the pilot regions which will provide
technical support and training to critical stakeholders such as business-oriented farmers, small farmers,
indigneous and local organizations, and municipalities to enable them to effectively participate in
collaborative management, reach and implement agreements, adopt sustainable production systems, and
create networks for sharing information and experience. The LIL will also finance technical support to
communities and local organizations to help them prepare sustainable development project proposals to
submit to the non-governmental fund for funding. Finally under the third type, the LIL will finance the
design and implementation of a strategic plan for the institutional development of the Foundation, as well as
the incremental costs of project management including the annual external financial audit.
Project Component 3. Collaborative Management and Subprojects. This is the core investment
component of the Foundation's program consisting of three interrelated sub-components: (i) development
and implementation of collaborative management plans (sub-component 3.1); (ii) promotion of a
stewardship approach to management of protected areas, and constitution of a network of conservation
areas (sub-component 3.2); and (iii) establishment and initial operation of a non-governmental fund (NGF)
managed by the Foundation which would provide competitive grants to communities and partner agencies
for a projects related to conservation and sustainable use of natural resources in the eco-region.
Under this component, the LIL will support the testing in at least three pilot regions (and in selected pilot
zones and areas within these regions) of the participatory methodology for bringing together key
stakeholders to develop collaborative management plans. Based on the experience of preparing the SDP, it
is likely that water will be a common concern of many stakeholders. The project will promote mutually
beneficial agreements between users in lowlands and urban centers, and rural populations in the Sierra,
applying economic incentives to watershed recuperation and protection initiatives. It will also test a
participatory methodology for developing sustainable production systems at the farm level which will be a
central focus of investment under the LIL. The project will also offer specific support for the
implementation of the collaborative management plan for the overlapping territories of the Sierra Nevada
park and indigenous reserves being developed by a committee composed of indigenous organizations, park
authorities and the representative of indigenous affairs in the government. This may include support for:
(i) completion of the management plan; (ii) consultations and agreements with farmers living within these
areas to support the plan; (iii) sustainable development alternatives for peasants and indigenous peoples
living in these territories; and (iv) a pilot voluntary resettlement project. The LIL will also finance
sustainable development sub-projects in the pilot regions with US$1.0 million which will be managed by
the NGF being established with support from the GEF.
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: The project will be implemented over a period of five years (2000-2005).
Selection of Pilot Regions: Recognizing the impossibility of initiating actions throughout the eco-region
and the need to focus efforts in key areas of the eco-region in order to test approaches and to generate
sufficient impact, a preliminary list of the regions where the Foundation's efforts would be focused was
developed by using a cluster of criteria. The criteria clusters include: (i) cultural value, (ii) socio-economic
-9-



dimensions (such as existence of conflict over land use rights, potential for improving revenues of the poor
through conservation), (iii) operational considerations (including the security situation and complementarity
with on-going activities), and (iv) ecological significance. Seven priority regions (large watersheds, or
combination of watersheds, areas of between 50,000-100,000 hectares) were identified. Based on the
refinement of the ecological criteria as part of the development of the eco-regional conservation strategy,
the multi-criteria process was applied and three pilot regions where LIL efforts will be focused under
component 3 were selected: (i) Northwestern Sierra-Santa Marta Axis in Magdalena Department; (ii)
Northeastern Sierra-Hato Nuevo and Fonseca Axis in La Guajira Department; and (iii) Southwestern
Sierra-El Copey Axis in Cesar Department. (see Map 2.) The next step in the process which will be part of
the participatory approach being tested will be to identify within each pilot region, an initial set of zones
(part of a watershed, roughly 2,000-10,000 hectares) and areas within zones (1,000 to 2,000 hectares). A
Portfolio of Potential LIL Interventions (potential projects and activities for project support specifying the
participants, activities, and location) will be developed for each pilot region. The Portfolio, built using a
participatory approach which takes into account technical and social conditions, provides for flexibility in
project implementation, required by the highly uncertain environment in which the project is being carried
out, by providing alternatives for project support without locking into a pre-determined, set plan.
Project oversight by the central Government and at the regional level: The National Planning
Department (DNP) has been designated by the Government to be responsible for the project, and DNP has
designated its Plan Caribe Office to exercise project oversight responsibility with support from the
technical units for Regional and Urban Planning, Rural Development, and Environmental Policy. The
Fundaci6n Pro-Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta (Foundation), a private non-profit organization with
thirteen years experience working in the project area, has been designated by the Govemnment as the project
implementing agency.
Key oversight and coordination mechanisms at the regional level which also include central government
participation are described below. The Foundation's 22 member Board of Directors, composed of
representatives of key central and regional government agencies, community organizations and prominent
individuals, will provide direct oversight and policy guidance for project activities. As stipulated in the
Foundation's statutes, it also has three regional boards (juntas regionales), one for each of the eco-region's
three departments (the political/administrative level between the local-municipal governments and the
national government), which are open to participation of all those interested in the Foundation's work. The
regional boards meet quarterly with the Executive Director of the Foundation and have proven to be an
effective means of consultation and coordination.
The Regional Environmental Council for the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, a broadly representative body
of key stakeholders which is chaired by the Minister of the Environment, will also provide oversight in its
capacity as the coordinating and consultative body for implementation of the SDP. Oversight and guidance
by indigenous authorities will be ensured through the Steering Committee (Comite Directiva) created at
their request in March 1998, which includes the Minister of Environment, Presidential Advisor for the
Atlantic Coast, the General Director for Indigenous Affairs in the Ministry of the Interior, and leaders of
the 4 indigenous organizations in the eco-region--Organizacion Gonawindua Tayrona, Confederacion
Indigena Tayrona, Organizacion Yugumauin Bunkuanarrwa Tairona, Organizacion Indigena Kankuama
. The Foundation serves as the Committee's technical secretary. In late 1999, the leaders of the four
indigenous organizations decided to form a Council of Cabildos (Consejo Territorial de Cabildos) as their
forum for developing and stating to the extemal world a unified position on matters including the
development projects in the Sierra; the Council's decisions will determine the specific activities to be
supported by the project which will be included in the project's annual plans.
- 10 -



To complement the existing oversight mechanisms, DNP has decided to create a small committee,
composed primarily of technical units in DNP and chaired by the Plan Caribe Office. The committee will
review the project's Annual Operating Plans, Audit Reports, Project Management Reports (when they are
introduced), Annual Reports of the Foundation and project, and Monitoring and Evaluation reports.
Communities and Partner Agencies: The Foundation will be the project implementing agency, but will
continue its long established practice of working in close collaboration with local community groups,
NGOs, indigenous authorities, municipal and departmental govemnments, and regional and national
institutions including universities, research institutes such as Alexander von Humboldt, Regional
Autonomous Corporations (the regional enviromnental authorities), and the National Parks Unit The
project's focus is outward to the communities and organizations in the eco-region, therefore a high
proportion of the funding is destined to benefit these communities, organizations, regional entities and local
governments both through provision of technical support and training, as well as direct funding, in
particular through the NGF, of activities and projects proposed and implemented by them. The project aims
to promote partnerships between community organizations, local govermments and other entities--both
national and regional--present in the eco-region with the Foundation playing the role of facilitator.
Project Implementation Plan (PIP), Annual Operating Plans and Project Management Reports: The
Foundation has prepared a LIL Project Implementation Plan (PIP) which includes a description of the
project's objectives, components, costs and financing plan, pilot regions, implementation arrangements
(new organizational structure of the Foundation, allocation of responsibilities for project management, plan
of action for financial management, procurement arrangements), and implementation mechanisms and
strategies (annual operating plans, participation strategy, indigenous peoples strategy, voluntary
resettlement, partnerships, M&E and learning system). In view of the learning nature of the project which
requires flexibility and adaptation as it proceeds, Annual Operating Plans, and eventually the Project
Management Reports (PMR), will serve as a reference point for agreeing on activities to be undertaken, the
budget, procurement plan, disbursement estimates and performance indicators. The plans will serve also as
a monitoring and evaluation tool, with a performance evaluation of the previous plan submitted with each
new plan. The PIP includes the project's Annual Operating Plan for project year 1 (2000). Subsequent
Annual Operating Plans will be presented by November 1 of each year, until such time as the Bank and
Govermnent agree that the PMR system is working effectively and can replace the Annual Plans which is
estimated to be by April 2001.
Non-Governmental Fund: The NGF is being established in the second semester of 2000, with support
from the GEF, as an independent account within the administrative and legal structure of the Foundation.
The NGF's Operating Regulations (Reglamento Operativo), the basic framework for its establishment and
operation, have been reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank and were approved by the Foundation's
Board of Directors in March 2000. The basic operating framework provides for a general coordinator of
the NGF to handle overall management and coordination functions under the Foundation's Executive
Director. A technical committee of seven independent experts and the Executive Director, Financial
director, and general coordinator of the fund (the later three without a vote) will provide strategic direction,
review the annual budget and decide which sub-projects should be financed. A more detailed Operating
Manual for the NGF is being prepared during project year I which includes provisions concerning
enviromental screening of sub-projects, procurement and fnancial management.
-11-



US$1.0 million of project funds is being provided under disbursement category 5 to finance sustainable
development subprojects located in the pilot regions and proposed by communities on a competitive basis.
The amount of individual subprojects will not exceed US$75,000. No loan funds will be disbursed for
subprojects until arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the operation of the Fund, and for financing of
LIL subprojects have been put in place, including establishment of the Fund, adoption of an Operating
Manual satisfactory to the Bank, and appointment of a qualified NGF coordinator and members of the
technical committee. These arrangements are expected to be in place by no later than the end of project year
1 (2000). Since the project has a relatively small budget allocation in 2000 due to the severe fiscal
adjustment process underway, no LIL funding for subprojects is foreseen until early 2001.
Financial Management: Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The financial
management assessment concluded that the financial management of the Foundation is adequate to proceed
with the project. The accounting and budgeting systems function well, supporting documentation is well
maintained, financial and budget reports are produced in a regular and timely fashion, internal controls are
sound and properly applied, and the staff of the financial unit are competent and function effectively.
However, the following aspects of this system need to be strengthened in order to deal with the increased
financial planning and reporting requirements under the project in particular the presentation of satisfactory
Project Management Reports: recruit a procurement specialist; develop and put in place the procurement
reporting system; recruit a financial analyst; put into operation the budget module of the integrated
management and administrative accounting system; and revise and update the organization and procedures
manual. Additional measures have been agreed which will further strengthen the Foundation's project
management capacity as it expands its scope of action under the new projects, and will enhance its
long-term financial viability: establish a cost accounting and cost allocation system to assure that all the
costs of carrying out projects are recovered from donor agencies; and extend the on-line accounting system
to the two regional offices to improve information flow and accounting. These measures which should all
be completed no later than December 31, 2000 are detailed in a Plan of Action agreed with the Foundation
and included in the PIP. The audit arrangements are acceptable and the independent auditor will be
appointed by effectiveness on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
The project funds will flow directly to the Foundation, under terms of its contract with DNP (Subsidiary
Agreement), as follows: (i) the Government (DNP and the Ministry of Finance) will authorize direct
disbursements by the Bank of proceeds of the loan to a project account in US dollars; and (ii) DNP will
authorize disbursements of the counterpart funds into the Foundation's local currency project account.
Procurement. The type of procurement to be carried out under the LIL is expected to be simple and
follow Bank Guidelines only (see Annex 6). An assessment of the Foundation's capacity to implement
procurement actions for the project has found it to be satisfactory, and overall project risk for procurement
is judged to be low (assessment was approved by Regional Procurement Advisor on December 20, 1999).
However, the Foundation's Manual de Politicas y Procedimientos needs to be revised to define more
formal procedures, organization and responsibilities for the procurement/contracting function, as well as
model contracts and standard internal forms. The Loan Agreement includes as a condition of loan
effectiveness the submission of the procurement chapter of the Manual which is satisfactory to the Bank.
The Operating Manual of the NGF will stipulate that procurement under subprojects would be done
through comparison of three price quotations to the extent possible; direct procurement and sole-source
contracting is expected due to the remoteness of most of the communities involved. The Foundation will be
responsible for seeing that the agreed procedures are being followed. During the first year of the project,
the Foundation will hire a procurement specialist and will develop a contract/procurement reporting system
which will enable it to provide the procurement information required for the Project Management Reports.
The Plan of Action referred to above includes both of these commitments.
- 12 -



3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
The detailed design of the Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning system for the project will be completed
during the first four months of project year 1, in parallel with the design of the participatory strategy and
operational mechanisms to be tested. It will be part of the overall system for the Foundation's six-year
program, and build on the Foundation's existing work and experience in this area which include: (i) an
established M&E unit with two experts, (ii) a conceptual framework for monitoring and evaluation of
sustainable development at the eco-regional level which has not yet been operationalized (Participatory and
Reflective Analytical Mapping for Sustainability, IUCN, 1997), and (iii) M&E of specific community
managed sustainable development projects which is underway in the context of a Dutch financed project.
The internal system for M&E will be woven into the Foundation's structure and the participatory process
itself, so that rather than being a separate function carried out by a isolated group, it is part of the
Foundation's regular operations and will support continuous learning. It will rely on a combination of
qualitative and quantitative methodologies, and utilize the excellent resources already in place (GIS
mapping and data base, documentation center, etc.). A baseline of quantitative and qualitative indicators
and maps will be developed for each pilot region as part of the process for initiating work there; for regions
where the Foundation has been working for some time, past efforts and achievements will be documented
and analysed.
The internal M&E system will be complemented by two external evaluations (at the end of the second year
and at the end of the fourth year) carried out by an independent group of experts. The scope and focus will
be broader than the on-going internal M&E, and will include an examination of issues such as: whether the
LIL is generating lessons, whether the activities and methodology used by the Foundation will have
sufficient long-term impact, and whether the monitoring and evaluation system is contributing to
continuous learning and adequate adjustments in the project as it unfolds.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rabonale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Anmex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicablel
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
While an economic analysis of the LIL itself has not been undertaken, the project will take into account
economic considerations in the following manner: (i) as appropriate, carry out the economic analysis of
sustainable development subprojects as specified in the Operating Manual of the NGF, (ii) include
economic factors such as cost minimization as criteria for formulating alternative, sustainable production
systems, and (iii) carry out studies and action research in order to establish a methodological and empirical
basis for the economic valuation of environmental services in the Sierra Nevada.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million, FRR= % (see Annex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
The LIL, a loan to the Colombian government, is helping leverage and will complement grant funding
-13 -



obtained by the Foundation, including funds for the establishment of the NGF which will serve as a
long-term, sustainable funding source for conservation and sustainable development of the Sierra Nevada.
Therefore, due to the small size of the loan and the mobilization of non-public funds, the fiscal impact is
expected to be minor.
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
Not Applicable
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The NGO, Fundacion Pro-Sierra Nevada des Santa Marta, with thirteen years experience working in the
project area and managing projects financed by international and national sources (including private
foundations) has been designated by the Govermnent as the project implementing agency. It has proven
technical and managerial capacity, and ability to work in the complex social conditions of the Sierra.
Subprojects financed by the NGF, being set up as an independent account within the administrative and
legal structure of the Foundation, will be implemented by third parties including comnmunity organizations
and NGOs in accord with norms established in the NGF's Operating Manual. The Foundation will be
responsible for ensuring that these norms are respected and has the capacity to do so.
4.2 Project management:
The Foundation has demonstrated the technical and managerial capacity, and characteristics of a learning
orgranization which are ndeded for managing this project. In view of the evolving role of the Foundation
during the project, the increased level of resources to be managed, and the increased level of formality
required, it has been agreed that under the LIL a strategic plan for institutional development of the
Foundation will be designed and implemented. In addition, specific measures for improving financial
management and procurement will be carried out within the first year of project implementation. The
Foundation's current capacity to ensure that environmental norms are respected is considered excellent.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Addressed in Section C.2 above.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Addressed in Section C.2 above.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The Sustainable Development Plan for the Sierra Nevada (SDP), published in February 1997, documents
the eco-region's environmental and social situation and proposes a strategy for addressing key issues. This
project is part of the Foundation's program which has the objective of promoting conservation of the
environment and biodiversity as proposed in the SDP; as part of this program, an eco-regional
conservation strategy was defined in February 2000.  The net envirommental impact is positive, with no
major adverse environmental impacts expected as a result of the project. Procedures for environmental
impact assessments of subprojects financed by the NGF will be incorporated into the NGFs Operating
Manual which must be found satisfactory to the Bank prior to disbursements under category 5; no
sub-projects will be financed until project year 2. The SDP and project were prepared in a highly
- 14 -



participatory manner as documented in the project file and Section 6 below.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
No separate EA undertaken.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable. Process of consultation concerning project described in Section 6 below.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
To be defined in detail in project year 1, as part of the project's M&E system, and of the companion GEF
project to be appraised later this year which will include monitoring of the implementation of the
eco-regional conservation strategy.
6. Social:
6.1 Sunmnarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A summary of the social assessment is provided in Annex 11. It shows the complex situation in the Sierra
Nevada, but also the positive impact that the process of preparing the SDP has had in bringing diverse
actors together to recognize the perspective of others and shape common goals. The Sierra Nevada is
characterized by cultural diversity. (See Map 3.) The population can be described as three broad groups:
indigenous peoples, small farmers who migrated to the Sierra from the Andean region at various times, and
the coastal peoples who are a very diverse group; in addition, there is a large urban population. The
underlying philosophy of this project and the work of the Foundation is to continue the process of bringing
together stakeholders and to move them towards agreements to carry out concrete actions considered
critical for biodiversity conservation and sustainable use of natural resources.
Deep seated social conflicts around land are part of the region's history and are being taken into account in
the project design. Particular problems are faced by peasant farmers who are living within the boundaries
of the national parks and indigenous reserves; a specific study by a prominent Colombian sociologist was
prepared on this issue. The study shows the historical roots of social conflicts over land, starting with the
arrival of the Spaniards in the 1500s which profoundly affected the indigenous peoples, to the colonization
by people from other areas of Colombia beginning in the 1900s of which the period of the marihuana boom
of the 1970s was particularly traumatic, resulting in a major influx of settlers and devastation of 70% of
the forested area. With a downturn in the demand for this crop in the 1980s, it virtually disappeared from
the Sierra, but the ecological and social damage remained. Attracted perhaps by the isolated location and
social conflicts in the Sierra Nevada, over the last fifteen years various armed groups, both guerrilla and
paramilitary, have established a presence in different areas of the Sierra Nevada. While violence is
episodic, the presence of these groups is an important risk factor which must be taken into account,
particularly as the national process of peace negotiations unfolds. So far, the Foundation has been able to
work effectively in the midst of this complex situation.
The social strategy of the project, described more fully in Annex 11, addresses the main social issues and
provides mechanisms for collaboration of all stakeholders. This approach will help to reduce tensions in the
-15-



region by giving all actors an opportunity to work together to carry out sustainable development activities,
building the basis for common understanding. The project incorporates this approach into its three
components and institutional arrangements, as well as the strategies for indigenous peoples and voluntary
resettlement
The Foundation's program and this project are consistent with Bank policies concerning Indigenous Peoples
and Cultural Heritage (see Annex 12 for a full discussion of Indigenous Peoples). The four indigenous
groups in the Sierra, though a minority in terms of population, are critical for the project's success because
of their positive attitude towards conservation, rooted in their traditions, and because their lands involve
areas of rich biodiversity. The project was designed in collaboration with indigenous peoples
organizations; it promotes the informed participation of the indigenous groups involved, incorporates their
knowledge and preferences, and respects their rights to natural and economic resources which were
recognized in the Colombian constitutional reforms of 1991. The project's Indigenous Peoples Strategy
responds to the main principles of the Foundation's program: (i) recognition of the cultural plurality of the
Sierra; (ii) promotion of inclusion and collaboration among stakeholders; and (iii) reduction of conflict and
development of an intercultural dialogue which will support the conservation and sustainable development
of the Sierra. The strategy includes four action lines: (i) acknowledgement of indigenous authorities; (ii)
recognition of indigenous priorities; (iii) compatible conservation and sustainable development which takes
into account indigenous knowledge; and (iv) active and continuous participation. Specific activities
identified as priorities by indigenous authorities are included under each of the projects three components,
such as support for: (i) dissemination of planes de vida, agreements and other papers contributing to
enhancing the cultural plurality of the Sierra; (ii) the development of the Cabildos Territorial Council; (iii)
the on-going process of developing with the Parks Unit a collaborative management plan for the
overlapping area of the Sierra Nevada Park and indigenous reserves; (iv) legal and fnancial support to gain
access to sacred sites outside the reserves according to a priority program defined by the indigenous
authorities; and (v) a pilot voluntary resettlement project to support the recovery of indigenous territory
while mitigating the impact on farmer families willing to resettle. (See Annex 12 for more details.)
The Foundation's experience working with indigenous organizations and peoples during the preparation and
consultations concerning the SDP has shown their resistance to conforming to a "western" timetable and
notions of a formal written "plan." Therefore, while the project includes a strategy based on priorities
determined by indigenous organizations and authorities, it will remain flexible and be developed in an
interative process according to the wishes and timetable of the indigenous organizations and authorities.
Thus, it has been agreed that the specific activities to be supported each year will be decided by the
Cabildos Territorial Council and incorporated into the project's annual operating plans allowing time for
the customary consultation with the traditional spiritual authorities and the community.
The Foundation's program, of which this project is a part, embodies a conservation strategy which
promotes better practices through broad participation and incentives, rather than restrictions. No new
restricted areas or expansion of existing ones are foreseen under the project. Nor does the project support
any kind of involuntary resettlement. However, the project does envision support, in cases where this would
have a positive conservation and social impact, for the recovery of indigenous territory by providing
assistance to farmers wishing to resettle outside the reserves. At this time, it is envisioned that this would be
restricted to a pilot project to assist a small number of farm families (possibly 7 in 2000) whose lands are
being bought by the Gonawindua Tayrona Organization with finding from The Nature Conservancy
(TNC).
A study undertaken during project preparation found that many families living inside the boundaries of the
Sierra Nevada park-reserves are seeking to relocate due to factors unrelated to the Foundation's program,
including: (i) the legal limitation on receiving land tides; (ii) the lack of road infrastructure that makes
-16 -



market access difficult; (iii) the lack of basic services that keeps living standards low; and (iv) the
increasing violence in the Sierra. Though many families are willing to relocate, they are expecting the land
reform agency (INCORA) to fulfill its role in providing the compensation and support foreseen under Law
160. In practice, this process stopped in 1998, because of INCORA's lack of resources. However,
indigenous peoples have been using their own resources to buy farmer lands within their territories. In both
cases, relocation has had several flaws affecting fanners and indigenous peoples alike. There is evidence
indicating that relocated farmers face difficulties recovering economically; on the other hand, the
re-occupation of indigenous territories by farmers whose land has been purchased is a phenomenon
hindering indigenous peoples' efforts to regain control of their territories and has been mentioned by the
cabildos as a concern for which they are seeking a solution.
Voluntary Resettlement Guidelines. Under these circumstances, the project aims to offer an alternative
satisfactory to farmers and indigenous peoples by testing a voluntary resettlement strategy based on the
following guidelines: (i) the families involved will recover or improve their living conditions; (ii) no
involuntary resettlement will be carried out; and (iii) the resettlement process will be implemented under a
participatory approach allowing the families involved to play an active role in decision-making.
(Approaches tested under the Bank-supported Pilot Land Reform initiative will be an important experience
to draw on in this regard.) The commitment of the Foundation to abide by these guidelines and follow
specific operational mechanisms described below is included in the Loan Agreement (Section 3.01 c (iii)),
as well as the Government's commitment to ensure that the Foundation does so. In addition, the Loan
Agreement contains a protective clause (Section 3.04) whereby the Foundation and Government agree that
they will not involuntary resettle any farmers living in the national parks and indigenous reserves during the
course of the project.
The Foundation, as the executing agency of LIL and manager of the TNC project, will be in charge of this
voluntary resettlement pilot. It will be responsible for carrying out the following activities: (i) identification
(based on the Indigenous Organization's priorities) and socioeconomic analysis of families willing to
relocate; (ii) promotion of community organization to facilitate the resettlement process; (iii) establishment
of consultation and participation mechanisms; (iii) providing technical and legal support to buy new land
and complementary resources; (iv) providing technical assistance and training to initiate sustainable
economic activities; (v) providing investrnent resources from the project to re-establish or improve living
conditions; and (vi) promoting agreements with public and private institutions that will contribute to the
success of the voluntary resettlement. The monitoring and evaluation system of the Foundation will
establish a specific monitoring system to assess compliance with agreements, goals and expected outcomes
of this pilot.
The following operational mechanisms will apply to the resettlement pilot: (i) each year of the project, the
Foundation will prepare a plan for the resettlement pilot comprising the work program and budget; (ii) the
Annual Operating Plan and/or the Project Management Reports will incorporate the resources the
Foundation needs to undertake the activities under the pilot; (iii) quarterly reports will be prepared to assess
progress; and (iv) an annual report will be prepared presenting the main results from the pilot, lessons
learned and recommendations for improving the process. (See Annex 11.)
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project is another step in a highly participatory approach followed by the Foundation throughout the
last decade to develop the Conservation Strategy and the Sustainable Development Plan both involving
extensive consultation and collaboration at the local, regional and national level. Once published in 1997,
the SDP was presented to and examined together with key stakeholders. Almost one year of discussions led
-17 -



to the Forum for the Sustainable Development in the Sierra in March 1998 which gathered more than 600
persons from indigenous and peasant communities, public and private sectors to further analyze and
prioritize actions in the Plan. Meanwhile, a project financed by the Netherlands supported 10 participatory
local pilot sub-projects to initiate the implementation phase of the SDP based on priorities established by
local communities.
A participatory approach pervades the entire preparation and design of the Foundation's six-year program
and this project including: (i) involving main stakeholders during preparation; (ii) reaching agreements
upon priority actions; (iii) developing a social strategy that promotes participation; and (iv) building a
partnership with the Foundation and the Colombian Government. During the project's preparation two
workshops were carried out to promote stakeholders' participation. In the first one, carried out in
December 1998, a draft logical framework for the project was developed based upon the inputs provided by
representatives of the main stakeholders. They indicated that they wanted the SDP, with project support, to
grow from its origins which emphasized a conservation strategy and the upper reaches of the Sierra Nevada
(the indigenous reserves and national park) to strengthen dimensions related to improving the well-being of
peoples living in the eco-region and sustainable use of its resources. The importance of an approach which
respected cultural diversity and promoted the active participation of community-based organizations was
also emphasized. In April 1999, the second workshop was held with a similar audience in order to: (i)
review the results of the previous workshop; and (ii) reach agreement upon the priority aspects to be
incorporated into the project's learning process. The workshop confinned the results of the first in terms of
main issues and problems to address and provided the necessary information to identify priorities in order
to define the project's components. A final round of consultations on the project was held with the key
stakeholders in February 2000 to discuss the project as described in the Project Document prior to
negotiation of the loan with the Government. The National Planning Department, Ministry of Environment,
Parks Unit as well as municipalities and other local institutions were also involved in project preparation.
The social strategy which resulted from the workshops and consultations aims at maintaining a
participatory approach throughout implementation by establishing different mechanisms, such as:
*  Knowledge and Learning. An information and communication system will be developed to promote
awareness and knowledge about the Sierra. This system will be instrumental to enhancing the
advantages of a multicultural society, disseminate successful experiences and support efforts to
peacefully address disagreements and help to modify certain negative behaviors.
*  Strengthening Community Organizations to reduce weaknesses that hamper their participation in
decision-making and give them an opportunity to participate under more equitable conditions.
* Collaborative Management: The project has been designed to bring all the actors to collaborate in
sustainable development programs in selected areas thus building consensus about common objectives.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
For projects expected to receive authorization to appraise/negotiate (in principle) prior to April 30, 2000,
this section may be left blank.
The project involves an innovative approach to develop partnerships with civil society by incorporating as
its implementation agent the Fundacion Pro Sierra Nevada which has more than iirteen years experience
working in the region. The project has been prepared in closed collaboration with the Foundation's staff
who have played a a critical role in providing ideas and acting as an efficient intermediary with the local
-18 -



actors. This project will heavily involve civil society organizations, particularly at the community level.
Only local social/community organizations (if they wish--in partnership with others such as municipalities,
NGOs etc.) are eligible for applying for financing of subprojects through the NGF. The consultation
process is described above in section 6.2 and in Annex 11.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
For projects expected to receive authorization to appraise/negotiate (in principle) prior to April 30, 2000,
this section may be left blank.
The Government's decision to delegate project management to the Foundation is consistent with the
realization of the social development outcomes given the complex social situation in the eco-region. See
Annex 11.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
For projects expected to receive authorization to appraise/negotiate (in principle) prior to April 30, 2000,
this section may be left blank.
This will be incorporated into the M&E and learning system for which the detailed design will be completed
during the first four months of project year 1.
7. Safeguard Policies
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies applv to the project?
=~~~~~PC   . <                        > =              .         ApI aifl,
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01 GP 4.01)              W Yes El No
El Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04 GP 4.04)                     Z Yes El No
El Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes El No
El Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       El Yes M No
El Cultural Property (OPN 11.03                                    3 Yes El No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    K] Yes LI No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              K] Yes O No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37                                E Yes O No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50 GP 7.50)     E Yes O No
El Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          E] Yes K] No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
These provisions are described in the relevant sections of this document.
-19-



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rat-g :4RiskMinimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Stakeholders are not disposed to share        M         The criteria for choosing the pilot regions, zones
information/experiences and to look for                 and areas where the project will focus its efforts
agreement.                                              takes into account this factor.
Armed actors actively discourage              S         The Government's decision to delegate project
participation and do not respect the                    implementation to the Foundation recognizes its
project's objectives                                    successful track-record in working in the
complex socio-economic context of the Sierra
Nevada. In order to minimize risks, this factor
is a criterion for selecting the areas to focus
project efforts. The Foundation maintains a
low-key but continuous dialogue with all
stakeholders, and regularly monitors the local
socio-political dynamics. It will adjust and
modulate its approach in accord with evolving
conditions; the Portfolio of LIL Interventions is
a mechanism for doing so.
From Components to Outputs
Fiscal crisis in public sector and            S         Design of the DNP-Foundation contract and
competing priorities for scarce investment              disbursement mechanism aims to reduce these
resources result in project funds not being             risks. The Foundation's continuous outreach
made available in sufficient quantity and               efforts to keep key stakeholders at the central,
when needed.                                            regional, and local level informed and involved
in the project should help maintain political
support for the project.
Overall Risk Rating                           S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The project is being carried out in a situation of on-going conflict which is very unpredictable. Supervision
of small community managed subprojects (including audit of procurement and financial management) must
be carried out primarily by the Foundation and consultants, as security considerations may prevent regular
field visits by the Bank.
The Sierra still suffers from the existence of illegal crops in some areas though it is a marginal producer
compared to other parts of Colombia. Farmers have expressed an interest in fmding alternative, legal
sources of income. The Foundation's program may contribute to avoiding the expansion of those zones by
promoting ecological productive systems that provide a viable alternative return to the rural communities,
though it does not contain a prominent and specific focus on this. It is unclear whether the United States
-20 -



government's intention to increase aid to Colombia to combat drugs will result in aerial spraying in the
project area which could have far-reaching negative consequences for the biodiversity there. However, this
is considered to be a low risk as there has been no spraying for ten years, the Government has an agreement
with the region to refrain from spraying in the parks and indigenous reserves, and the region is far from the
main production areas targeted by the U.S. aid program.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Signed contract between DNP and the Foundation delegating management of the project and specifying
flow of funds
Foundation's submission of procurement section of Manual de politicas y procedimientos which is found
satisfactory
2. Other [classifv according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Obligation to carry out Project in accord with the Indigenous Peoples Strategy and Voluntary Resettlement
Guidelines
No Project funding for subprojects until satisfactory arrangements for management of NGF and for
financing of LIL subprojects have been put in place
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[Z 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
1 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1Z 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Contract between DNP-Foundation (draft contract has been reviewed by the Bank and found to be
satisfactory)
Subprojects: Satisfactory arrangements for management of NGF and for financing of LIL sub-projects
need to be put in place (Operating Manual, appointment of NGF coordinator, and technical committee)
prior to disbursements under category 5 for subprojects which is planned for project year 2
-21 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
fA,     & ) 8-   A                A                                 ____ A,
Elsie B. Garfield              t  hnRedwood                         Jonathah Parker, Acting
Team Leader                       SectorManager/Director             Country ManagerlDirector
-22-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
COLOMBIA: SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A .. iW L:'= -tLE :W-.;vA
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:    Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
CAS Goal: Attain
sustainable development
with reduction of poverty
and improved social
conditions in an
enviromnent of peace.
Sector related CAS                                CAS progress reports
Goals: Sustainable
development-improve
natural resource
management and
conservation of strategic
eco-systems, taking into
account the needs and
concerns of the inhabitants
Peace and development-
develop effective strategies
for addressing the socio-
economic determinants of
violence and conflict
Rural development
-improve capacity to
generate, transfer and adopt
technologies that increase
the productivity and
sustainability of small
farmer agriculture
23



.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~O
Follow-on Development
Objective
Program Development                              Annual M&E reports       Security situation in
Objective: Better                                                         country substantially
informed and organized                                                    improves.
stakeholders implementing
jointly agreed actions to
conserve the biological and
cultural diversity of the
Sierra Nevada and to use
its natural resources in a
sustainable manner.
Project Development   Outcome I Impact           Project reports:         (from Objective to
Objective:               Indicators:                                      Goal)
Participatory methodology  # of sustainable      Annual M&E reports;      Security conditions permit
and operational         development projects in   external evaluation reports. replication of project
mechanisms for promoting  pilot regions funded and %                      actions to other regions of
sustainable management of successfully completed by                       the Sierra Nevada.
production and natural  end of project
systems tested in at least
three regions and ready to   # of requests for
be used in other regions of  participation/support and
the Sierra Nevada       project proposals received
by the Foundation from
organizations and
communities outside the
pilot regions
# and type of agreements
reached between key
stakeholders in 3 pilot
regions per year, and %
implemented (e.g. 60% of
the agreements reached in
year l and 30% of
agreements reached in year
2 have been implemented
by year 3)
# farm plans including
sustainable production
systems being
implemented by farmers in
each pilot region per year
24



1ndaltrs  --E vakiatin   -                  ____v_____
Output from each         Output Indicators:       Project reports:         (from Outputs to
component:                                                                 Objective)
1. Program for generating   1.1 Audience, media to be  Communications strategy   Stakeholders are disposed
and disseminating        used and desired impact of document, report on survey to share
knowledge about best     communications strategy   of users and register of    information/experiences
practices designed and  identified in the first 4  requests for information.   and look for agreement.
operating                months of project.
1.2 Strategies and      Foundation's annual report
operational mechanisms    and project progress
(participation, institutional reports.
strengthening, sustainable
production systems)
designed and testing
initiated in one region by
end of project year 1.
1.3 Technical documents   Register of reports
and progress reports for    prepared, and minutes of
decision-making of key    meetings including
entities involved in the  decisions taken.
SDP (Regional
Environmental Council,
Foundation's Board of
Directors, Juntas
Regionales) prepared and
distributed as agreed.
1.4 M&E and leaming     M&E reports, record of
system operating and    studies, field reports,
systematically           dissemination notes,
documenting learning     feedback of Foundation
process and best practice   staff.
by end of project year 1.
2. Program of            2.1 At least 12 community  Workshop evaluations,
strengthening local and  organizations in each pilot  survey of beneficiaries.
regional organizations   region trained in
supporting sustainable   negotiation techniques,
development in eco-region  leadership and project
is operating effectively  management through 3
workshops/year.
2.2 By year 2 and each  Acts of assemblies and
year thereafter, agreement  documentation of activities
with indigenous         including videos.
organizations to support 4
specific activities
(consistent with project
objective) that they have
defined as development
priorities.
25



-~~~~~~~~~~. .   ....  ...:
Output from each         Output Indicators:       Project reports:         (from Outputs to
component:                                                                 Objective)
2.3 # of sustainable     Reports of Foundation and
development projects in    NGF.
pilot regions submitted (%
receiving technical support
under project) and %
approved for NGF funding
2.4 Foundation's         Foundation's annual report.
institutional development   Acts of the Board of
plan defined and underway Directors.
by project year 2.
3. Testing of methodology   3.1 # and type of     Portfolio of Potential LIL   Armed actors do not
and operational          agreements between       Interventions. Official    actively discourage
mechanisms for           critical stakeholders being  letters and agreements.    participation and respect
collaboration management  prepared and number being                        the project's objectives.
in at least 3 pilot regions    negotiated in 3 pilot
(and within them in      regions each year.
selected pilot zones and
areas) and for developing    3.2 # of fann plans
sustainable production   including sustainable
systems at the farm level   production systems being
has been completed and   prepared by farmers in
found to be effective, ready  each pilot region per year.
to use in other parts of the
eco-region.              3.3 At least 3 critical
activities in Collaborative
Management Plan for the
Indigenous Reserves/Sierra
Nevada park have been
implemented during year
3.
26



:s_s________'''''''- indcaor                          Eva1              w,   .      , 
Output from each         Output Indicators:      Project reports:         (from Outputs to
component:                                                                Objective)
1. Knowledge Generation US$1.06                  Foundation's Annual      Timely availability of
and Dissemination                                Report and project reports. sufficient project funding,
1.1 Consultation with                                                     particularly counterpart
stakeholders to agree on                                                  funds.
pilot zones and areas.
Identify farmers interested
in participating.
1.2 Design methodologies
and operational
mechanisms to be tested,
adapted and improved
during the project:
participation, institutional
strengthening.
1.3 Design and implement
communications strategy.
1.4 Study tours and visits,
farmer exchanges, and
workshops.
1.5 Key studies and action
research.
1.6 Design and implement
project monitoring,
evaluation and learning
system.
2. Participation,        US$2.55 million         Foundation's annual report Timely availability of
Organizational                                   and project reports.     funds.
Strengthening and
Coordination
2.1 Capacity building
program for farmer,
indigenous and other
organizations in the eco-
region, and for promotion
of networking among
stakeholders.
2.2 Technical and
operational support to
regional entities which
coordinate SDP.
27



Output from each         Output Indicators:      Project reports:         (from Outputs to
component:                                                                Objective)
2.3 Technical support,
training program and
promotion of networks for
key stakeholders in the
pilot regions.
2.4 Technical support to
communities and local
organizations for preparing
project proposals for NGF.
2.5 Strategic plan for
institutional development
of the Foundation
2.6 Project management
3. Collaborative         US$2.64 million         Foundation's annual report Timely availability of
Management and                                   and project reports.     funds
Subprojects
3.1 Development of
collaborative management
plans and activities in at
least 3 regions (and in
selected zones and areas
within each)
3.2 Development and
implementation of farm
management plans which
promote sustainable
production systems
3.3 Support
implementation of
management plan of
indigenous reserves/Sierra
Nevada park, including a
possible voluntary
resettlement pilot project
3.4 Sustainable
development subprojects in
pilot regions
28



Annex 2: Project Description
COLOMBIA: SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The LIL is being carried out in the framework of the Foundation's six year program which is described
below for each component, followed by a description of the specific activities and contribution of the LIL.
(rhe project description in the main text only includes the description of the LIL.) The LIL will support
the development and testing of approaches in at least three pilot regions which can then be used elsewhere
in the eco-region.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$1.06 million
Knowledge Generation and Dissemnination. A critical activity under this program component is the
development of a comprehensive strategy of biodiversity conservation in the Sierra Nevada eco-region,
including the definition of conservation targets and a baseline for monitoring. The component will also
support: the design, putting in place and operation of a biodiversity monitoring system; key studies and
action-research related to urban enviromnental issues, sustainability of rural production systems, and
economic valuation of environmental goods and services; design and implementation of a strategy for the
generation, exchange (including an intercultural dialogue) and dissemination of knowledge which will be a
key underpinning for Component 3; and monitoring and evaluation of the Foundation's program and the
individual projects.
The LIL will support key activities which serve as the basis for implementation of the other two
components, including: (a) during the first year of the LIL, the design of methodologies and operational
mechanisms (participation strategy including the approach to collaborative management, farm-level
environmental planning, and institutional strengthening) which will be tested, improved and adapted under
components 2 and 3 to varying socio-economic conditions in each pilot region during the remainder of the
project; (b) design and implement a communications strategy to enhance awareness and generate support
for conservation of biodiversity and sustainable development in the Sierra Nevada, including dissemination
of good practices and experiences; (c) study tours and visits, farmer exchanges, and workshops to promote
exchange of knowledge and experience between those in the eco-region, with others elsewhere in Colombia,
and, as appropriate, outside Colombia; (d) key studies and action-research to develop new information (for
example, rapid urban environmental assessment) and methodologies/tools in innovative areas where
knowledge and experience are limited (for example, environmental services: assessment of potential,
methods for economic valuation, and incentive mechanisms); and (e) the project's monitoring, evaluation
and learning system to ensure a permanent mechanism for drawing lessons, analyzing progress and results,
and documenting best practices.
Project Component 2 - US$2.55 million
Participation, Organizational Strengthening and Coordination. This program component will support
the continuation of the Foundation's participatory approach to working with and strengthening community,
local and regional organizations, with special outreach efforts for indigenous organizations and peasant
farmers. Activities include: technical support to the entities responsible for coordinating implementation of
the SDP; promotion of a network of stakeholders (community, business, and institutional) who are
committed to conservation and collaborative management of the Sierra Nevada; support for the
consultation process between indigenous organizations, the parks unit and peasants living inside the
parks/reserves concerning collaborative management; and design and implementation of a strategic plan for
strengthening the Foundation as its assumes new responsibilities. The costs associated with project
management and administering the NGF will be financed under this component.
-29 -



The LIL will support three kinds of activities: (i) those with a broad outreach and scope; (ii) those focused
in the pilot regions where collaborative management is being promoted under component 3; and (iii) those
related to the strengthening of the Foundation and project management. Under the first, a self-standing
program for capacity building will be implemented which includes activities such as: (i) training and legal
support to develop peasant-farmer and indigenous organizations in accord with their self-defined needs and
priorities; (ii) technical and operational support to the regional entities, the Regional Environmental Council
and Comite Directiva (indigenous organizations), responsible for coordinating the implementation of the
SDP; and (iii) outreach efforts to involve groups, such as business-oriented farmers and urban dwellers, in
the SDP. The second kind would be specific programs in each of the pilot regions which will provide
technical support and training to critical stakeholders such as business-oriented farmers, small farmers,
indigenous and local organizations, and municipalities to enable them to effectively participate in
collaborative management, reach and implement agreements, adopt sustainable production systems, and
create networks for sharing information and experience. The LIL will also finance technical support to
communities and local organizations to help them prepare sustainable development project proposals to
submit to the non-governmental fund (NGF) for funding. Finally under the third type, the LIL will finance
the design and implementation of a strategic plan for the institutional development of the Foundation, as
well as the incremental costs of project management including the annual external financial audit.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.64 million
Collaborative Management and Subprojects. This is the core investment component of the program. It
consists of three sub-components which are interrelated: (i) development and implementation of
collaborative management plans (sub-component 3.1); (ii) promotion of a stewardship approach to
management of protected areas, and constitution of a network of conservation areas (sub-component 3.2);
and (iii) establishment and initial operation of a non-governmental fund (NGF) managed by the Foundation
which would provide competitive grants to communities and partner agencies for a projects related to
conservation and sustainable use of natural resources in the eco-region.
Under this component, the LIL will support the testing in at least three pilot regions (and in
selected pilot zones and areas within these regions) of the participatory methodology for
bringing together key stakeholders to develop collaborative management plans. Based on the
experience of preparing the SDP, it is likely that water will be a common concern of many
stakeholders. The project will promote mutually beneficial agreements between users in
lowlands and urban centers, and rural populations in the Sierra, applying economic incentives
to watershed recuperation and protection initiatives. It will also test a participatory
methodology for developing sustainable production systems at the farm level which will be a
central focus of investment under the LIL. The project will also offer specific support for the
implementation of the collaborative management plan for the overlapping territories of the
Sierra Nevada park and indigenous reserves being developed by a Committee composed of
indigenous organizations, park authorities and the representative of indigenous affairs in the
government. This may include support for: (i) completion of the management plan; (ii)
consultations and agreements with farmers living within these areas to support the plan; (iii)
sustainable development alternatives for peasants and indigenous peoples living in these
territories; and (iv) a pilot voluntary resettlement project. The LIL will also finance sustainable
development subprojects in the pilot regions with US$1.0 million which will be managed by the
NGF being established with support from the GEF.
- 30 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
COLOMBIA: SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fore-gn       Tota-'
=ct Co _                                 US $mition   US             S
1 Knowledge Generation and Dissemination                   1.06         0.00          1.06
2. Participation, Organizational Slrengthening and Coordination  2.55   0.00         2.55
3. Collaborative Management and Subprojects                2.64         0.00          2.64
Total Baseline Cost                                        6.25         0.00          6.25
Physical Contingencies                                    0.00         0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                       0.00         0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs              6.25          0.00         6.25
Front-end fee                    0.00         0.00
Total Financing Required               6.25         0.00          6.25
'Local'  Freign        Totat
1. Works                                                    0.23           0.00         0.23
2. Goods                                                    0.32           0.00         0.32
3. Consultant Services (including auditor's services) and   3.25           0.00         3.25
Training
4. Operational Costs                                        1.10           0.00         1.10
5. Subprojects                                              1.35           0.00         1.35
Total Project Costs     6.25           0.00         6.25
Front-end fee                   0.00          0.00
Total Financing Required      6.25          0.00          6.25
- 31 -



Annex 4
COLOMBIA: SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Not applicable.
- 32 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
COLOMBIA: SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Not applicable LIL.
- 33 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
COLOMBIA: SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement
A) Procurement Arrani-ements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995
(revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in
September 1997 and January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
1) Procurement methods: The methods described below and their estimated amounts, are
summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method are fixed in
Table B.
Procurement of Works
Contracts for civil works would be awarded through shopping procedures requiring comparison of
three price quotations. Individual amounts are would range between US$5,000 and US$20,000,
with an aggregate amount of US$230,000.
Procurement of Goods
Goods to be procured for the Foundation's project management activities include two vehicles, 15
computers and minor office equipment and furniture. Other goods would include items such as
seeds, tools and other small equipment needed in implementing specific community activities (kind
of subprojects) administered by the Foundation itself; items to be fnanced will be identified as
such activities are defined with communities during project implementation.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
of US$330,000, may be procured using shopping procedures based on a model request for
quotations satisfactory to the Bank.
Selection of Consultant Services and Trainin!
Consulting services include technical assistance and provision of training and workshops. Most of
these services are expected to be carried out by individual consultants, others by NGOs and only a
couple, if at all, by private firms. The technical assistance required is mainly directed to assist
communities with organization, institutional development, adoption of acceptable environmental
practices, preparation of subprojects, etc. Training would include the financing of rents, materials,
meals and travel expenses for participants.
Firms and NGOs
Contracts with NGOs and private finns would be procured using Selection on Base of
Qualifications procedures for contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or less. Due to the
- 34 -



community onentation of the project which requires specific knowledge and familiarity with local
conditions, it is expected that some of these contracts would be sole-sourced. The aggregate
amount for sole source is set at US$400,000.
Individuals
Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Suborojects: Non-Governmental Fund (NGF). The Project includes US$1 million
(disbursement category 5) which will be managed by the NGF to provide funding for subprojects
proposed by communities on a competitive basis. The amount of individual subprojects will not
exceed US$75,000. An operating manual for the NGF is being prepared and would be a condition
of disbursements for subprojects. Such a manual will stipulate, in addition to eligibility, selection
criteria and conditions applicable to the subprojects, the requirement that procurement would be
done through comparison of three price quotations to the extent possible. Direct procurement and
sole-source contracting is expected due to the remoteness of most of the communities involved.
The Foundation would be responsable for seeing that the agreed procedures are being followed.
Most of the subprojects funded by the NFG are expected to be community-executed. The
conunuiity will cofmance the subprojects in cash or kind.
Operational Costs: Operational costs include sundry items such as, office rental, utilities, office
supplies, fuel, communications, and transportation expenses incurred by the Foundation in carrying
out the project. These items would be procured according to the Foundation's Manual de Politicas
y Procedimientos which is being revised to require shopping procedures for supplies and other
services to the extent that is practical.
2) Prior review thresholds: The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the
procurement capacity assessment of the project implementing unit and are summarized in Table B.
In addition to this prior review of individual procurement actions, an Annual Operating Plan and
budget for the Project will be reviewed and approved by the Bank annually.
B) Assessment of the agencvy's capacity to implement procurement
Procurement activities will be carried out by the Foundation which will administer project funds.
The Foundation is adequately staffed to initiate procurement/contracting activities. The Financial
and Administrative Director who has procurement/contracting responsibilities in the Foundation is
well qualified and informed of Bank requirements; an administrative assistant and a systems expert
would be contracted to work with him. The Foundation's Manual de Politicas y Procedimientos
is not adequate to meet the increased work volume that the Project would bring. It is currently
being revised to include more formal procedures, organization and responsibilities pertaining to the
procurement/contracting function, as well as model contracts and standard internal forms.
An assessment of the capacity of the Foundation to implement procurement actions for the project
has been carried out and was approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor on December 20,
1999. The assessment reviewed the organizational structure of the Foundation and its intemal
processes.
- 35 -



Most of the issues concerning the Foundation are being addressed, and a plan of action has been
agreed. The risks identified in the assessment relate to the rapid expansion and responsibilities that
the Foundation is taking on and the need to institutionalize its procedures. Presentation to the Bank
of the Chapter on Procurement of the Foundation's revised Manual de Politicas y Procedimientos
would be a condition of Loan Effectiveness.
To ensure the Foundation's autonomy on procurement/contracting process, it is recommended that
the Loan Agreement states that Bank Guidelines only will be followed.
The overall project risk for procurement is Low.
Although the overall risk resulting from the Foundation's capacity assessment is low, a system for
monitoring and reporting procurement actions is not in place. Around the fourth month of project
implementation, a consultant would be contracted to develop such a system; it is expected to be
ready towards the end of year 2000. Consequently, the Foundation is not eligible for PMR-based
disbursements on procurement reporting grounds. However, this situation should be re-assessed
when the consultant's work is completed.
C) Procurement Plan
The Foundation has developed an indicative plan for the 5-year period of project implementation
which provides the basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per Table A).
As part of the Annual Operating Plan for 2000 included in the PIP, a Procurement Plan was
prepared for the first year of project implementation and has been found satisfactory. Subsequent
plans will be submitted yearly as part of the Annual Operating Plan.
D) Freouency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review, it is recommended that one full supervision mission visit the field to
carry out post review of procurement actions six months after Project initiation and yearly
thereafter. Such post-review field analysis should cover a sample of not less than 1 in 5 contracts
signed.
-36 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Ex   dtur Ca It ory                                                                   .-T    C
1. Works                            0.00           0.00          0.23           0.00           0.23
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.20)         (0.00)         (0.20)
2. Goods                            0.00           0.00           0.32          0.00           0.32
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.30)         (0.00)         (0.30)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00           3.25          0.00           3.25
Consultant and Training            (0.00)         (0.00)         (2.55)         (0.00)         (2.55)
4. Operational Costs                0.00           0.00           1.10          0.00           1.10
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.90)         (0.00)         (0.90)
5. Front-end fee                    0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Subprojects                      0.00           0.00           1.35          0.00           1.35
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.00)         (0.00)         (1.00)
Total                            0.00           0.00           6.25          0.00           6.25
(0.00)         (0.00)        (4.95)         (0.00)         (4.95)
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be faianced by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2 Category I Works, Category 2 Goods, and Category 5, Subprojects would utilize Shopping (national and
international). Category 3 for Consultant Services-Contracts awarded to firms or NGOs to utilize
Selection Based on Consultants' Qualification (CQ), and Sole Source (up to an aggregate amount of
$400,000). Individual consultants would be selected in accordance with paragraphs 5.1 and 5.3 of the
Consultants Guidelines.
- 37 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
X ~ ~ ~~~h~so4Powmn                                                   Prior R.i:
1. Works                        <100                   Shopping              First contract
($0.02)
2. Goods                        <50                    Shopping               First contract
($0.02)
3. Services
Firms                           > 100                   QCBS                      All
(None expected)
<100            Consultants Qualification  First two contracts
($0.20)
Individuals                      >50             Section V of Guidelines          All
(None expected)
>20 and <50         Section V of Guidelines    Key consultants
($0.30)
Others TOR only
<20           See Section V of Guidelines    None (Post Review)
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$0.54 m.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every at six months after project
initiation and thereafter every 12 months (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 38 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
.xpendittire C~ategQn-      Amount in U$m  lion           Financi  Pe=.tang
1. Civil Works                             0.20          1                85
2. Goods                                    0.30                          85
3. Consultant Services and Training         2.55                          90
4. Operational Costs                        0.70                          85
5. Subprojects                              1.00              100 of amounts disbursed under
Transfers
6. Unallocated                              0.25
Total Project Costs                         5.00
Front-end fee         0.00
Total                                       5.00
The project funds will flow directly to the Foundation, under terms of its contract with DNP.
The loan funds will be disbursed by the Bank into the Foundation's account opened in US
dollars. The Foundation's Account will be opened in a commercial bank, on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank. The counterpart funds will be disbursed into the
Foundation's project account opened in pesos.
Upon effectiveness, disbursement will be based on Statement of Expenditures (SOE) for
expenditures for: (a) contracts of individual consultants valued less than US$50,000; (b)
contracts for consulting firms valued less than US$100,000; and (c) all works, goods,
operating costs, training costs and grants. All other expenditures will be supported by
acceptable documentation. Supporting documentation will be held at the Foundation, for at
least one year after the end of the fiscal year in which the last disbursement would take place,
for review by the Bank and auditors.
By April 30, 2001, the Foundation should be able to produce in a timely fashion the Project
Management Report (PMR) that can be used as a basis for disbursement. The PMRs should
be received by the Bank within 45 days from the end of each quarter, starting the first quarter
of the year 2001.
- 39 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
COLOMBIA: SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       6                             13
First Bank mission (identification)              12/01/98                      12/01/98
Appraisal mission departure                      09/15/99                      01/17/2000
Negotiations                                     10/18/99                      03/27/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    05/31/2000
Prepared by:
Fundacion Pro Sierra and World Bank team, with support from the National Planning Department, and in
consultation with key stakeholders. This project was prepared in parallel with a proposed GEF financed
project, both to be implemented in the context of the Foundation's six-year program which was defined
during the preparation of the two projects.
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Elsie Garfield                     Team Leader, Rural Development
Maria Elena Castro                 Social Scientist
Juan Pablo Ruiz                    Natural Resource Management
Anders Rudqvist                    Sociologist, Monitoring and Evaluation (consultant)
Manish Bapna                       Economics, Management
Howard Jones                       Financial Management (consultant)
Carmen Palacio Nielsen             Procurement
Natalia Gomez                      Institutional Arrangements
German Andrade                     Biodiversity (consultant)
Jose Augusto Carvalho              Country lawyer
Patricia de la Fuente, Livio Pino  Financial Management
Issam Abousleiman                  Disbursements
Enrique Sanchez                    Sociologist (consultant)
Comelis de Haan                    Peer reviewer
Ethel Sennhauser                   Peer reviewer
Shelton Davis                      Peer reviewer
Karim Gigler                       Team Assistant
- 40 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
COLOMBIA: SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Proyecto de Aprendizaje e Innovacion Desarrollo Sostenible en la Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, Plan de
Implementacion del Proyecto (PIP) y Plan Operativo para el Primer Ano, March 29, 2000.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Maria Elena Castro, Social Assessment, March 2000.
Howard Jones, Financial Management Assessment, March 2, 2000.
Carmen Nielsen, Procurement Capacity Assessment: Summary of Findings and Actions, February 2000.
C. Other
Plan de Desarrollo Sostenible de la Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta: Estrategia de Conservacion de La
Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, Proyecto de Cooperacion Colombo-Aleman, FPSN, Febrero 1997.
Foro para el Desarrollo Sostenible de la Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta: Memorias, Santa Marta, 19 y
20 de Marzo de 1998, FPSN and Ministerio del Medio Ambiente, 1998.
Enrique Sanchez y Mirta Bosoni, Los Campesinos de la Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta Ocupantes de
Resguardos Indigenas y Parques Naturales, Informe final de consultoria, Junio 1999.
Politica de Consolidacion del Sistema Nacional de Areas Naturales Protegidas, con base en la
Participacion Social en la Conservacion, Ministerio del Medio Ambiente, Unidad Administrativa Especial
del Sistema de Parques Nacionales Naturales, Agosto de 1999.
Lineaonientos Interculturales para la Elaboracion del Plan de Manejo del Parque Sierra Nevada de
Santa Marta, Unidid Administrativa Especial del Sistema de Parques Nacionales Naturales, Parque
Nacional Natural Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, 1999 (novembre).
Bases tecnicaspara laformulacion de una estrategia de conservacion ecoregional, FPSN, 5 de Febrero
del 2000.
Ejercicio de seleccion de regiones pilot, FPSN, 17 de Febrero del 2000.
Fondo Medio Ambiental para la Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta (Fondo Masinsa), Reglamento Operativo,
FPSN, Febrero de 2000.
Informe Presentacion de los Avances del Programa de la Fundacion Pro-Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta,
Proyecto de Desarrollo Sostenible (PAI), Tobias Ramirez Rangel, Febrero 15, 2000.
*Including electronic files
-41 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
COLOMBIA: SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                               IBRD        IDA         Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Revd
P006880        1995 Colombia                     AGRICULTURE TECHNOLO                     51.00        0.00        0.00       34.16     25.46       8.86
P044140        2000 Colombia                     CARTAGENA WATER SUPPLY &                 85.00        0.00        0.00       84.15      4.62       0.00
P006891        1998 Colombia                     SEWERAGE ENViRO                          40.00       0.00         0.00       37.42      9.97       0.00
P006854        1993 Colombia                     COANTiOGUIA EDUcATION                    50.00        0.00        0.00        2.12      0.63      -0.38
P045112        1998 Colombia                     COMUNICIPALHEALTH SER                     7.20        0.00        0.00        5.16      2.01       0.00
P050578        2000 Colombia                     CO PASTO EDUCATION                       20.00        0.00        0.00       20.00      0.00       0.00
P006866        1994 Cobmbia                      CO RURAL EDUCATiON                       90.00        0.00        0.00        0.82     -4.13     -22.82
P050576        1999 Colombia                     CO SECONDARY EDUC                         5.00        0.00        0.00        3-79      1.29       0.00
P063643        2000 Colombia                     CO YOUTH DEVELOPMENT                    506.00        0.00        0.00      228.07      0.00       0.00
P065263        2000 Colombia                     CO-FSAL                                 225.00       0.00         0.00      225.00      0.00       0.00
P006893        1995 Colombia                     EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY                      11.00        0.00        0.00        2.94      2.94       0.00
P008884        1997 Colombia                     ENERGYTA                                 15.00        0.00        0.00       12.33      9.07       0.00
P046031        1998 Colombia                     RNANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT              5.00        0.00        0.00        2.22      0.84       0.00
P006852        1991 Colombia                     MAGDALENA MEDIO                          60.00        0.00        0.00        3.76      3.76       0.00
P006868        1994 Colombia                     MUNIC DEVT                               39.00        0.00        0.00       16.23     12.75      15.53
P053243        1998 Colombia                     NATURAL RESOURCE MAN                      5.00       0.00         0.00        4.09      0.79       0.00
P06887         1996 Colombia                     PEASANT ENTERPRISEZ                     249.30        0.00        0.00       30.87      0.97     -36.59
P006889        1994 Colombia                     POWER MARKEr DEVELOP                     30.00        0.00        0.00        2.01      2.01       0.00
P040102        1997 Colombia                     PUBLIC FINANCIAL MAN                     12.50        0.00        0.00        9.85      4.35       0.00
P006894        1996 Colombia                     REG.REFTA                               145.00        0.00        0.00       74.87     65.35       0.00
P039082        1999 Colombia                     SANTAFEI (WateriSupply)                 137.10        0.00        0.00      100.00     70.00       0.00
P039291        1996 Colombia                     TOLL ROAD CONCESSON                      20.00        0.00        0.00       10.94     10.94       0.00
P006861        1998 Colombia                     URBAN ENVIRONMENT TA                     75.00        0.00        0.00       62.82      3.82       0.00
P006872        1996 Colombia                     URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE                     65.00        0.00        0.00       29.36     22.36       9.86
URBAN TRNSPRT
Total:     1948.10       0.00        0.00     1002.98    249.80    -25.54
-42 -



COLOMBIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
I1FC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1969/85/88193/95   CF del Valle                    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1963/90            Coltejer                        6.32    0.00     0.00     0.00    6.32    0.00     0.00    0.00
1995/99            Corfinsura                     25.00    0.00    25.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    25.00    0.00
1999               Harken                         20.00    0.00     0.00   25.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1995/97            Icollantas                      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1981/85187/89191/92/9 Leasing Bolivar              3.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
4                   PRODESAL                       0.00    0.59     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.59      0.00    0.00
1987               Promigas                        8.13    0.00     0.00    18.75    8.13     0.00    0.00    18.75
1977/89/92/94/96   Promisan                        0.00    0.23     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.23       0.00    0.00
1994/95             Proyectos                      0.00     5.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    5.00     0.00     0.00
1996                Suleasing                     25.05    0.00     0.00     0.00    2.48    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997                Surenting                      0.00    5.10     0.00     0.00    0.00    2.50     0.00    0.00
1999
Total Portfolio:        87.50    10.92   25.00   43.75    19.93     8.32    25.00    18.75
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
1999               Harken                            0.00  10000.00       0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00  10000.00       0.00      0.00
-43 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
COLOMBIA: SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           America   middle-
Colombia   & Carib.  income        Development diamond'
199a
Ponulation mid-vear (millionsI                        40 8        502       908                  Life expectancy
GNP oer caoita (Atlas method. US$1                   2.600      3.940     1.710
GNP eAtlas method. USS biliions)                      1061      1 078     1 557
Averace annual arowth. 1992-98
PnnIatinon t%)                                         1 A       1 6        1 1
Laborforce f%)                                          2.7       2.3        1.5     GNP                              Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate Ilatest vear available. 1992-981                                capita                         -1nn-llment
Povertv f% of ooDulation below national oovertv line)   18 
Ilrhan nnnnuation f1 of total DoDulation)               74         75        sa
Life exoectancv at birth fvears)                        70         70        68
Infant mortalitv /eer 1 000 live births)                24         32        38
Crhid malnatritior 1% of children under 5)               a          8                          Arcess to safe water
Access to safe water (' of DoDulation)                  75         75        75
Illite.r.v (% of ooDulation aoe 15+1 S                             13        14
Gross orimarv enrollment (t' of school-aae oDoulation)  113       113       103               Colombia
MaIr                                                 113                  105              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               119                  10n
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GDP 1USS billions)                           19.5     36,4      108.6     102 9
Gross domestic investment/GDP                18.7      19.1      23.0      22.3
Exrorts of onods and services/GDP            16.9      17.0      139       13.9                     Trade
Gross domestic savinoslGDP                   22.3      231       15.0      16.6
Grnss nati.nal savin.s/GtrP                  91 1      21 2      176       16 5.
Current account balancelGDP                   1.9      -0.1      -5.4       -5.7     .oesi
Interest oavmentslGDP                         0.8       37        1.5        1 7     Domestic                   . Investment
Total debtlGDP                               26 0      46.8      31.2       351      Savings    +
Total debt service/eroorts                   10.7      39.1       467       47.3 
Present valuer nf debhtlrtfP                                     27 9
Present value of debtlexoorts                                   1984
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       1998   1999-03
(averaae annual arowth)
G n P                                3 4      40        31        0 6        3                 Colombia
C3NP ncr -Anita                      07       7 28      1 1       -1 3       1 7               Lower-middle-income mrou
ExDorts of coods and services        5.0      71        81        -4.8      8.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment (Y)
1M of GDP)                                                                           4s
rrinulltujrr                               2 5n      17 4       141       14 S
Industrv                                     30.3     34.8       29.0      27.1     30
Mana-Mturinn                                239      203        142       138      ns
Senwices                                     44.7      47.8      57.0      58.4       o
Private nn-nsamntion                         70 n      Ra 5      6R5       672       15 4g   93   94   9n   96   97   98
-eneral.n1ver me-nrnst- mntinn                77        87       182       16 3                      GDI    - *GDP
ImDorts of aoods and services                13.3      12.9      19.4       19.6
1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (')
faveraoe annual arowth)
,riou1t-urr                                  2 5      1 7        02        0n     sn
Industrv                                      41        2.3       13        -2 3    4          o
Msmfanutanrrino                              2 s      1 7         5        n0n     3t
Gervices                                      3 4       57       3i s         4 9   2
Private c-ns,motion                           2 9       4 0       3 7        1 9
.eneral nnvrrnment -nnr,mntinn                5 1       5 3       47        03
Gross domestic ihvestment                     2.3      14.0       35         ..  -i.   93   94   95   96   97   98
I-norts of noods and ervi,es                  25       1Rn        44         1 S                  Exports   --imports
Gross national oroduct                        2.9       3.9       3.1      -2.5
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comDared with its income-arout averaae If data are missina. the diamond will
he incnmnlete
-44 -



Colombia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997     1998     Inflation [%)
Domestic prices                                                                  30
(% change)
Consumer prces                              32.7    23.3       18.6     18.7    20
Implicit GDP deflator                      29.2    23.4        17.0     17 5
In
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                              0
Current revenue                                .    22.2       27.7     27.6            93   94   95   96   97   98
Current budget balance                         .     5.5        6.5      5.7           -GDP deflator    2CPi
Overall surplusaldeficit                       .     -2.3      -3.8     -3.7    --
TRADE
1977    1987       1997     1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                       2,660    5,254    11,680   11,331      160W
Coffee                                   1,498    1,633     2,259    1,915
Hydrocarbons                               105    1,342     2,707    2,387    12,0W -
Manufactures                             1,025    1,556     5,293    5,614        ._ 06
Total imports (ci)                         1,970    3,793    14,409   14,836
Food1724,
Fuel and energy                            136     148       240
Capital goods                              664    1,381     5,561    5,680 
92  93  94  95  96  97  se
ExDort once index 0995=100)                   6       26       126       112
ImoortDriceindex(1995=1001                    3       26       123      116              0Exports     tlmports
Terms of trade f1995=t00)                   178      103       102        96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1 977    1987     1997      1998     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(USS mni)lions)
Exports of goods and services             3,378    6,421    14,238   13,339      4
Imports of goods and services             2,736    5,751    18,399   17,468      2
Resource balance                            642      670    -4,161     4,1129
Net income                                 -313   -1,692    -2,371    -2,187        92
Netcurrenttransfers                          49    1,001       640      407    -2-
Current account balance                     378      -21    -5,892    -5,909    -4
Financing items (net)                     -1,280      43     5,982    4,454      6
Changes in net reserves                     902      -22       -90    1,455
Memo:
Reserves includino cold (USS millionsl    3 197    3.587     9.611    8 397
Conversion rate (DEC. localkUS )            36.8   2426    1142.6  1,426.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987      1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                   Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      5,053   17,023    33,865   36,084
IBRD                                      716    4,111      1,723    1,740    |A 1,740
IDA                                        22       17        10        9             G:6,403        B:9
Totaldebtservice                            379    2,830      7,131    6,853                                 D 5,451
IBRD                                       93      618       573      347
IDA                                         0        1         1         1              ~                     1,397
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            15       18        85
Official creditors                         65      232      -456       107
Private creditors                         121    -318      4,053      566
Foreign direct investment                  65      319     5,574    3,192
Portfolio equity                            0        0       593      -286                 F: 21,084
World Bank program                                                               A-IBRD                      E- Bilateral
Commitments                               281      180        28      227      B-IDA    D-Otlrermutilateal   F -FPvate
Disbursements                              85      395       152       184     C IMF                       G - Short-term
Prncipal repayments                        41      279       380      232
Netflows                                   45      116      -228       -48
Interest payments                          53      268       150       115
Net transfers                              -8    -152       -378      -163
Development Economics                                                                                             9/8/99
-45 -



Annex 11: Social Assessment
COLOMBIA: SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
I.        Background: The Sierra
The Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, a UNESCO-declared Biosphere Reserve, and the Sierra
Nevada eco-region (including 15 municipalities located in 3 departments, 2 national parks, and 2
major indigenous reserves) is a place of great importance from an ecological, cultural and
economic point of view, and a complex region which has experienced various forms of violence
and social conflict which have afflicted much of Colombia. The central feature of the eco-region
is the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, an isolated mountain that is set apart from the Andes chain
that runs through Colombia. Reaching an altitude of 5,684 meters above sea level just 46
kilometers from the Caribbean coast, the Sierra Nevada is the world's highest coastal peak, and
encompasses an area of about 12,600 square kilometers (accounting for 60% of the eco-region's
total area). Because of its altitudinal variation as well as its location at 11 degrees north latitude,
the Sierra Nevada contains a mosaic of biomes of global significance (nearly all the climatic
zones that can be found in tropical America).
Since pre-hispanic times, the indigenous peoples of the Sierra Nevada have possessed a world
view, social organization and living patterns revolving around the management and conservation
of this unique environment. The Sierra is the source of 35 watersheds, which makes it the "water
factory" that supplies the Cienaga Grande (a complex deltaic estuary and mangrove system
which is a unique habitat for birds, fish, reptiles, amphibians and invertebrates) and the 1.0 to 1.5
million inhabitants of the eco-region, underpinning economic activities on the surrounding
lowlands including commercial agriculture, cattle ranching, coal mining, tourism, fishing as well
as three cities with populations of more than 100,000 people. Altogether, these characteristics
make the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta unique in social, ecological and cultural terms. (See Map
1.)
In 1988, the Fundaci6n Pro Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta (Foundation) initiated a participatory
process that produced a Sustainable Development Plan for the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta
(SDP), published in February 1997 and endorsed by key stakeholders including the municipal,
departmental and central governments, as well as communities and other local actors. The long-
term development objective of the SDP is to improve the quality of life of the inhabitants of the
Sierra Nevada, while maintaining and restoring the region's eco-systems and cultural heritage.
The SDP consists of five programmatic areas (conservation of eco-systems, strengthening of
indigenous cultural identity, stabilization of the peasant population, strengthening of fundamental
rights, and modernization of institutions), an educational component which covers all the areas,
and a management component.
The process of developing the SDP has been an educational one which has created an increased
awareness of the environmental and cultural importance of the Sierra Nevada. It has also
contributed to a dialogue and maturing of relationships among various regional actors, many of
whom have had long-standing conflicts particularly over land. The project builds on these efforts
and aims to contribute to the implementation of the Plan and its objectives. During project
preparation, key stakeholders indicated that they want the SDP to grow from its origins which
emphasized a conservation strategy and the upper reaches of the Sierra Nevada (the indigenous
reserves and national park) to strengthen dimensions related to improving the well-being of the
people living in the eco-region (including the lowlands) and sustainable use of its natural
resources.
-46 -



II.        Social Analysis
The Sierra's most distinctive feature is its socioeconomic and cultural diversity resulting from the
mix of three different cultures and socioeconomic groups which can be broadly described as: (a)
indigenous peoples of pre-hispanic origin occupying the highest areas of the Sierra; (b) small
farmers who migrated to the Sierra from the Andean region at various times and colonists who
arrived in the mid-70s and 80s during the marihuana boom who occupy the middle slopes; and (c)
a diverse group of people including small farmers, traditional landholding families, and business-
oriented farmers occupying the flat coastal zone (Zona Plania). In addition, urban residents
constitute another distinct group which accounts for a majority of the eco-region's population.
(See Map 3.)
(a) Indigenous Peoples
An indigenous civilization, the Tairona, was well established and developed long before the
arrival of the Spaniards to Santa Marta's shores in 1502. They were semi-nomadic and practiced
an extensive, shifting agriculture moving between the ecosystems at different altitudes--from sea
level to the highlands-according to the seasons and a ritual calendar thus obtaining a variety of
products. The Conquest destroyed this civilization, and the majority of its population, forcing the
survivors to flee to the higher areas of the Sierra thus upsetting the balance of their productive
system. Indigenous people lived in relative isolation until the end of the nineteenth century which
helped them to maintain their traditions and social structure. During the twentieth century, several
migration waves, brought colonists into indigenous ancestral territories, progressively reducing
indigenous peoples' access to the warmer areas by the coast. This situation affected not only
living standards, but also the social and spiritual equilibrium of the indigenous society. The
indigenous population is comprised of four ethnic groups, Kogis, Wiwas, Arhuacos and
Kankuamos totaling 32,000 inhabitants, around 15 % of the rural population in the Sierra.
Table 1. Indigenous Groups in the Sierra Nevada of Santa Marta
Ethnic Group         Inhabitants    Percentage
Arhuacos                    13,383          56.16
Wiwas                        1,857          7.79
Kogis                       8,590           36.04
Other                       7,917           24.9
Total in the Sierra        23, 830          100.0
National Total             603, 280         3.95
Source: El Salto Social; Volume 1, 1994-95. This figure does not
include the Kankuamo who were not officially registered in 1994-95
as an ethnic group. If they are included, the total is 32,000, roughly
15% of the rural population.
Traditional indigenous groups maintain in general an efficient use of natural resources based on
their particular knowledge of soil quality, climate and ecosystems. They are semi-nomads who
move between different altitudes to cultivate crops according to the seasons. However, market
production has been increasing, mainly coffee growing and cattle-rearing thus changing the
traditional ritual approach towards land use. (See Annex 12 for a fuller description.)
- 47 -



(b) Farmers and Colonists in the Middle Slopes of tle Sierra
Migration to the Sierra has been common since coloi .al times, however the migratioi flows that
have had a major impact occurred in the last half of the twentieth century. In the 50s and 60s, a
massive in-flow of farmers from the Andean region arrived, fleeing violence affecting the Coffee
Belt at the time, resulting in a tripling of the rural population from 4,000 to 12,000 families by the
mid-i 960s. Their economy depends on coffee growing and cultivation of crops such as maize,
beans, banana, and pancoger (local food crops such as maize) for self-consumption. Though the
Sierra contributes only 1% of Colombia's coffee production, this crop is very important for the
regional economy. There are 26,198 hectares cultivated with coffee producing nearly 20 million
kilos per year. The coffee crisis of the 90's has contributed to a deteriorating situation for these
farmers, aggravated by lack of infrastructure, credit and technical assistance.
During the seventies, international demand for marihuana spurred a production boom that caused
a major negative social and environmental impact, resulting in the destruction of 70% of the
forested area. Marihuana sold between $100-300 per kilo compared to $12.50 per kilo of coffee.
The marijuana boom of 1975-1980 attracted another flow of colonists, larger than the total
number who had arrived in the previous fifty years combined. Though many left when the boom
was over in the mid-80s, some stayed engaging in legal cultivation or illegal crops such as coca.
In 1997, farmers and colonists occupying the middle slopes of the Sierra were estimated to be
168,339 persons or 80% of the rural population. They are one of the most important groups.
Table 2. Colonist and Farmer Population in the Sierra in 1997
Total       Rural     Colonists and   % of Total   % of Rural
Municipality   Population   Population    Farmers      Population    Population
(a)         (b)           (c)       (c/a x 100)   (c/a x 100)
Aracataca          39,353       22,086        21,586          54.9         97.7
Barrancas          21,619       10,596         3,013           13.9         8.4
Cienaga           125,746       58,195        57,615          45.8         99.0
El Copey           31,834       10,568
Fonseca            26,778        7,846         5,847          21.8         74.5
Fundacion          42,981       11,528        10,098          23.5         87.6
Riohacha          107,329       18,002        14,545           13.6        80.8
San Juan           21,013        5,346         4,536          21.6         84.8
Santa Marta       279,958       38,372        36,537           13.1        95.2
Valledupar        247,942       28,117        14,562           5.9         51.8
Total             944,553      210,656       168,339           17.8        79.9
Source: Plan de Desarrollo Sostenible de la Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, 1997.
(c) Coastal Groups
The inhabitants of the coastal zone (la zonaplana) are dominated by traditional landholding
families and business-oriented farmers of European and African descent. Strong family groups
are the basis of their social structure in order to maintain control upon a socially recognized
territory. The coastal zone comprises four main cultural groups: (i) La Guajira: occupying
formerly indigenous Wayuu territory comprising Riohacha with a strong African influence and
closely related to trade and smuggling activities, and mestizo population in southern Guajira with
important political ties; (ii) Vallenata: evolving around Valledupar that maintains its colonial
-48 -



tradition with elite families of European origin ruling over the majority of the mestizo population;
(iii) Cienagas: developed through several migrations flows mainly of farmers from other areas of
the country and structured around big banana or palm oil plantations owned by landlords from
Santa Marta and Valledupar; and (iii) Santa Marta that keeps its colonial structure comprising a
majority mestizo population dominated by an elite of landlords of hispanic descent, owners of
palm oil and banana plantations. Land distribution is highly unequal and some high potential land
is being underutilized mainly for extensive livestock production. Some small farmers live in the
lowlands, including some banana growers.
The main economic activity of the dominant groups in the lowlands is agriculture, highly
technical and labor intensive, oriented towards agro-industrial transformation and export. The
most important products are bananas and palm oil. Market fluctuations and diminishing water
supplies have been affecting these activities. However, in the last few years, the main problem
has been increasing insecurity provoked by the presence of various armed groups. Frequent
kidnappings and armed attacks have forced many landowners (big, medium and small) to leave
their lands in the hands of hired managers or simply to abandon them.
Table 3. Use of Land per Type of Crop Production in the Sierra
Crop             Hectares
African Palm Oil            29,695.0          13.95
Banana                      17, 600.0          8.27
Coffee                     26, 319.5          12.36
Sugar Cane                   1, 527.9          0.72
Cocoa beans                    772.4           0.37
Other products                 801.4           0.38
Seasonal                     4,882.1           2.29
Associated crops             1,360.9           0.63
Grass                       44,482.7          26.89
Untilled land               79,343.0          47.27
Forestry                     4,953.1           2.32
Other use                    1,110.1           0.52
Total                     212, 848.0         100.00
Source: National Coffee Federation; National Survey, Phase 1, 1993.
Survey covered the following municipalities in the Sierra: Valledupar
in Cesar; Riohacha, Barrancas, Fonseca, S. Juan del Cesar in La Guajira;
Santa Marta, Aracataca, Cienaga and Fundacion in Magdalena.
Other important activities in the lowlands are coal mining and tourism. Coal mining mainly has
developed in La Guajira department where there are important projects to exploit coal, natural gas
and salt. The development of infrastructure for coal production and export has had a negative
environmental impact. Tourism comprises a formal sector of large hotels around Santa Marta and
the Tayrona National Park, and an informal sector providing services to visitors to the Lost City
(Ciudad Perdida or Teyuna) and excursions to Bolivar and Colon mountains, the tallest peaks in
the Sierra. Logging has also been relatively important for: production of implements for
transporting bananas (pallets and boxes) and export to Venezuela. Manufacturing is just
beginning, mainly related to agricultural products such as palm oil, coffee mills, and dairy and
food production. Valledupar has a relatively important textile production.
- 49 -



Table 4. Economic Activities in the Sierra
Establishments            Employees
Activity
Number       _     _ Number          %
Trade              12 740      57.08       27 559        67.05
Industry             1275        5.78       5 532        13.46
Services             7459      33.85        7,459        18.14
Other                 555       2.53          555         1.35
Total              22 029        100       27 559         100
Source: Plan de Desarrollo Sostenible de la Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, 1997.
(d) Urban Population
The urban population is concentrated in the three most important cities in the region which are the
departmental capitals: Santa Marta (Magdalena Department), Riohacha (La Guajira Department)
and Valledupar (Cesar Department). Each has a population of more than 100,000 inhabitants and
a distinctive cultural and economic background. Political decision-making affecting the region
takes place in these cities where the regional government, central government agencies such as
INCORA, Red de Solidaridad Social, and all major national organizations are represented such as
the National Federation of Coffee Growers, Rice Growers Association and the Textile Industry
Association, among others. There is also an important population living in smaller cities and
small urban centers such as municipal capitals which are growing in size in particular because of
increasing numbers of displaced persons fleeing rural areas.
Table 5. Sierra Nevada Region Urban Structure
Category           Cities Included                             Range of Population
Regional Cities    Santa Marta; Valledupar; Riohacha           100,000-300,000
Main Cities        Cienaga, Fundacion, San Juan del Cesar and  50,000- 100,000
Maicao
Secondary Cities    Aracataca, Fonseca and Barrancas           30,000 -50,000
Small Cities       Copey, Bosconia and El Pasco                20,000 - 30,000
Urban Centers      Minca, Guachaca, Don Diego, Palomino,       Less than 20,000
Mingueo, San Pedro de la Sierra, Palmor, Maria
Angola, Pueblo Bello, Sabana Crespo,
Atanquez, Tomarrazon, Las Juntas and Cotoprix
Source: Plan de Desarrollo Sostenible de la Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, 1997.
III.      Main Social Issues
Violence played a central role in the colonization of the Sierra. The struggle for access to land
and water, involving traditional landholding families, big business-oriented farmers, small
farmers, poor peasants, colonists, indigenous peoples, and urban dwellers is perhaps the major
social issue in the region. Several well-intentioned laws and decrees intended to protect the
Sierra's natural resources have aggravated the situation, marginalizing peasant farmers who can
not get their lands titled. Attracted perhaps by the isolated location and social conflicts in the
Sierra, over the last fifteen years various armed groups, both guerrilla and paramilitary, have
established a presence. Certain areas of the eco-region are dominated by certain armed groups
and periodic disputes between these groups for control of territory results in episodic violence
which has worsened recently with the initiation of peace talks by the national government.
- 50 -



(a) Social Conflicts: Struggle for land
Land Occupation Patterns
During the twentieth century, several migration waves brought colonists into indigenous ancestral
territories, progressively reducing indigenous peoples' access to the warmer areas by the coast.
(See Map 4 below.) This situation affected not only living standards, but also the social and
spiritual equilibrium of the indigenous society. The importance of market production has been
increasing among some indigenous groups and has been changing the traditional ritual approach
towards agriculture and has modified land tenure from communal to private property; in some
cases, land has been progressively concentrating in the hands of a few prosperous families.
Likewise, colonization affected landholding elites with periods of land invasion in the 1960-80s,
and subsequently, the abandonment of properties and prevalence of absentee landlords due to
insecurity and violence in the region.
The first wave of migration in the twentieth century, from 1900 to 1940, was fairly dispersed. In
the 50s and 60s, a massive in-flow of farmers fleeing violence in other areas of the country,
mainly coffee growers coming from the Andean region, occupied the areas of the Sierra which
are suitable for coffee production resulting in a tripling of the rural population, from 4,000 to
12,000 families, by the mid-I 960s. Many settlers established their homes on top of archaeological
sites (stone terraces), and the practice of guaqueria (stealing artifacts in particular offerings from
indigenous sacred sites) began during this period. In an effort to reduce this in-flow and control
its negative effects, Law 2 of 1959 established a Forest Reserve in a large area of the Sierra, thus
limited the possibility for many of these farmers to obtain land titles. Coffee farmers have faced
instability through contradictory regulations that facilitate coffee cultivation but limit their
possibilities to obtain land titles.
The third wave of colonization between 1960-80, was the most destructive and affected the whole
Sierra. The construction of the main highway along the coast between Santa Marta and Riohacha,
between 1960-80 generated instability through land invasions particularly between 1971 and
1975. Road workers, farmers and land speculators occupied large extensions of land along the
road in order to develop cattle rearing or just to benefit from increasing land values. This process
continued until 1987 when the last invasion took place. The indigenous peoples lost their access
to the sea as a result. Many of these farmers and colonists occupied indigenous peoples' lands
and found an excellent source of income in stealing offerings from indigenous sacred sites
(guaqueria) which became so important that a "Guaquero Union" including more than 1000
members was created in the mid-70s, and gained official recognition by the Ministry of Labor of
the time.
The most destructive part of the third wave of migration was the marihuana boom of the seventies
with an influx of more people than in the previous fifty years combined, causing a major negative
impact on indigenous peoples, food production and labor markets. Between 1975-80, at the peak
of the boom, 70% of the Sierra's forest, around 150,000 hectares, were destroyed to cultivate
marihuana. Violence and corruption increased, further deteriorating the weak economy of
indigenous peoples and small farmers. Many of the colonists had a "get rich quick" mentality and
no respect for indigenous culture. Indigenous peoples also became the target of marihuana
dealers, because they refused to collaborate in its cultivation. The end of the boom in the early
1980s caused a major economic crisis that affected the cities and the communities in the Sierra.
Violent gangs of ex-producers, called combos, terrorized the whole population in the Sierra and
led to the presence of the guerrilla movement FARC in the region in 1987. Many of the colonists
left, but the social and environmental scars remained.
- 51 -



Map 4. Colonization of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta in the XXth Century
MAR CARIBE                    Z>
^   %   ONIP/{                       f  Cabecera munidpal~5e
|   8;t      g                        *~~~~~~~~~~~ Asenta,niento
\sX   |                      ~~~~~~~~~Via pavimentada
.   9      J                       _ _ __~~~~~~~ -  Via no pavimenhada
t   |  |  se se \ )~~~~~~~~~~*4+~   Ferrocarril
Source: Fundacion Pro-Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta 1995, based on Margarita Serje, 1990.
The result of the colonization process was a substantial increase in the numbers of farmers and
colonists living in the Sierra and occupying indigenous territories, the introduction of cultivation
patterns that have contributed to the deterioration of the eco-region, and deep scars due to the
disrespect of indigenous culture and sacred sites. During the marihuana boom, violence and
corruption increased and control over land was imposed through terror, spurring land conflicts
among the various groups. The entry of guerrilla forces led to an increasing presence of other
armned groups in the region.
- 52 -



Overlapping Territories: National Parks-Indigenous Reserves-Farmers
Protected areas in the Sierra Nevada were established as early as 1959 under Law 2 which
declared a large area of the Sierra a Forest Reserve. In 1964, two national parks were created
presently accounting for 20% of the land area of the eco-region and 34% of the area of the
highlands. The Sierra Nevada National Park presently comprises 383,000 hectares (including area
added in 1977) that extend from sea level to the peaks of Colon and Bolivar, more than 15,000
feet high. The Tayrona National Park has 15,000 hectares including a coast line of 55 kilometers.
The Regional Office of the Special Administrative Unit of the National Parks System (Parks
Unit) within the Ministry of the Environment is in charge of managing both parks. According to
the agreements that created both parks, no economic activity is permitted within their boundaries
(Decree-Law 2811 of 1974); land titling within the parks and a buffer zone of 5 kilometers
around is also forbidden under Article 67 of Law 160 of 1994. However, this restriction does not
apply to indigenous people whose way of living is considered compatible with national parks
(Article 7 of Regulatory Decree 622 of 1977).
In December 1974, after a long struggle for recognition of their rights over their ancestral
territory, INCORA (Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform) established the Arhuaco
Indigenous Reserve comprising 185,000 hectares. In 1983, this resguardo incorporated an
additional 10,900 hectares for a total of 195,900. In October 1980, INCORA created the Kogi-
Wiwa Indigenous Reserve comprising 364,840 hectares. In 1994, this reserve was expanded an
additional 19,200 hectares including a strip between the Palomino and Don Diego rivers which
allowed this group to regain their traditional access to the sea. This was an important achievement
as it signaled a process of reclaiming territory in the lowlands of the Sierra. In spite of this
progress, indigenous peoples continue to claim their rights over their so-called ancestral territory,
delineated by the "Black Line" demarcated by various sacred sites which comprises most of the
Sierra Nevada eco-region including the city of Santa Marta. An official resolution issued by the
Ministry of the Interior in 1995 recognized indigenous rights over their ancestral territories
(Resolution 837 of August 28, 1995 modifying Resolution 004 of August 4, 1973) without
conveying any legal property rights. Through this process, the three major indigenous groups,
Kogui, Arhauco and Wiwa have obtained legal recognition of their rights over lands which are
now officially their territory. In the case of the Kankuamo group, which is the less traditional one,
the struggle to recover its identify and establish its own indigenous reserve continues. All four
indigenous organizations as well as their spiritual leaders have indicated repeatedly that their
critical concern is to regain access to sacred sites, a condition for re-establishing the equilibrium
of their communities.
Table 6. Indigenous Peoples Reserves
Reserve                   Hectares     % of the
Sierra
Arhuaco                                     195,900          9.2
Arhuaco de Busichama                            128          0.0
Kogui-Wiwa-Arhuaco (Kogui-Malayo)           384,040         18.1
Total Actual Reserves (a)                   580,068         27.4
Proposed Kankuamo Reserve (b)                32,956          1.6
Total (a) + (b)                             613,024         28.9
Total Sierra Nevada Eco-region            2,115,800        100.0
Source: Enrique Sanchez, 1999 based on DNP: Ethnographic Base List of Colombia,
1997 and Fundaci6n Pro-Sierra.
- 53 -



The main indigenous reserves overlap almost completely with the national Parks. (See Map 5
below.) However, this has not been a big source of conflict because legall  itional pa s and
indigenous peoples' reserves are compatible and in practice indigenous peoples in the Sierra have
been managing these lands because of the limited resources of the Parks Unit and their
recognition that indigenous management could contribute to conservation. However, there have
been on-going tensions about who has the ultimate authority and about how best to manage these
extensive territories. In May 1999, the national Parks Unit and the Gonawindua Tayrona
Indigenous organization agreed to initiate a process of preparing a collaborative management plan
for the Sierra Nevada Park and reserves. This process culminated in November 1999 with the
presentation of a paper summarizing the agreements reached by the Parks Unit and Gonawindua
Tayrona Indigenous organization concerning the principles which would guide the preparation of
the management plan, of which respect for indigenous knowledge and culture was fundamental.
Later in November in a meeting in Valledupar, the three other indigenous organizations in the
Sierra endorsed these principles and agreed to join the process of preparing the collaborative
management plan for the overlapping territories.
However, the problem remains of the several hundred small farmers who live within the area of
the parks and indigenous reserves. According to some estimates, there were 446 farm families
living inside the area of the reserves when they were established. According to Colombian law,
such families should be relocated outside the reserves through a process led by INCORA which
entails covering the value of land improvements (mejoras). However, when the two main
reserves were established, it was the middle of the marihuana boom when a large in-flow of
migrants came to the Sierra. There was virtually no control over settlement of colonists inside the
reserves and parks. As a result, it is nearly impossible to establish with certainty the families who
have particular rights to compensation because they had possession of the land prior to the
establishment of the parks and reserves.
In 1991, a recount carried out by the Foundation estimated that around 750 families were living
or had property inside the reserves: 290 in the Arhuaco Reserve and 462 in the Kogui-Wiwa
Reserve (Enrique Sanchez, 1999). During the fifteen years from 1984-98, INCORA had bought
421 farmer plots (mejoras) accounting for 45,000 hectares, but because of lack of resources has
bought no farms since then. Since indigenous authorities have also been directly buying land
since 1994 using fiscal transfers from the central government, and since there has been no
monitoring of families whose lands were purchased to ensure that they moved permanently
outside the reserve-park area, there is no definite count of the families still living in reserve-parks
areas. In addition, many farm families have also left under the pressure of increasing violence,
inability to receive land titles and poor living conditions. The current rough estimate of the
number of farm families inside the reserves and parks is 450. Though the majority of these
families are willing to relocate, they seek better conditions and support to do so. (For more
information see Enrique Sanchez, 1999 and Annex 12.)
- 54 -



Map 5. National Parks and Indigenous Reserves of the Sierra Nevada
RoarhuacdoBsnhm
MAR CARIBEX
Santa _.< 
(b) Social Exclusion ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Va
notably in the lwlands, as reflected inhighGinicoefficientsforthemunicipaliti Arhuact de la Sierra
(   >  /       5                    \    _  ~~~~~~~~~~~Arhuaco de Businchama
Source: Fundacion Pro Sierra Nevada, Plan de Desarrollo Sostenible, 1997.
(b) Social Exclusion
Indigenous peoples, and farmers/colonists living in the middle and upper slopes of the Sierra
suffer from social exclusion. Economic and political power are concentrated in the urban areas in
the lowlands of the Sierra where key decisions are made. Lanid is concentrated in few hands
notably in the lowlands, as reflected in high Gini coefficients for the municipalities in the Sierra
(ranging between 0.60 and 0.87, with 4 out of 11 municipalities above 0.80; Fundacion Pro-
Sierra, 1996). New palm oil plantations, tourism and coal infrastructure have consolidated the
economy of the coastal zone, while in rural areas unemployment is widespread as a result of
lower banana and coffee prices. Illegal crops contribute to insecurity and violence. The recent
economic crisis and violence have affected all groups, but have been particularly hard on small
farmers.
- 55 -



The establishment of indigenous reserves and the official recognition of their rights and culture in
the 1991 Constitution have been changing their situation. Presently, indigenous organizations are
stronger than ever and in a process of unifying to pursue common goals. While indigenous
peoples have been gaining recognition, particularly among small farmers who share similar
poverty conditions, they are still undervalued and neglected. Inter-ethnic tensions and conflicts
are ever-present with new social patterns and lack of respect for indigenous sacred sites and
traditions contributing to their mistrust and resentment towards farmers and colonists.
The most vulnerable group in the Sierra is small farmers and colonists (particularly those living
inside the reserves and parks). They are perceived as alien to the local coastal culture and as a
source of conflict. Many are affected by the stigma of the "colonists" of the marihuana boom and
have had difficulties integrating into society. They do not enjoy the legal protections and support
available to indigenous peoples, and those living inside the reserves and parks are particularly
vulnerable since they can not get land titles. Few resources are allocated by municipalities to
benefit people living in the middle and upper slopes of the Sierra, most public investment and
provision of services are focused on the municipal capitals and lowlands. Occupation of the
SierTa by armed groups has led to high levels of social fragmentation and weak cam?1pesino
organizations which are presently in crisis.
(c) Violence
Although violence is not a new phenomenon in the Sierra, in the last decade it has been
increasing constantly, due to the following factors: (i) disputes over land and control of other
resources; (ii) illegal crop production; (iii) corruption and mismanagement in public affairs; (iv)
inefficiency in the justice system and impunity that promote retaliation and self-justice; and (v)
efforts of armed groups to position themselves militarily and politically as the government
attempts, starting in mid-1998, to initiate peace talks. The region is divided up into territories
controlled or under the influence of various armed groups, including 3 guerrilla movements and
several paramilitary groups, with massacres and major violent events occurring periodically when
one group tries to invade or take over the territory of another, or to punish the "supporters" of an
opposing group. Unfortunlately, the civilian population is the main victim of this difficult
situation.
Guerrilla groups first arrived in the Sierra in the late 1980s to fight thl c ombos, gangs related to
the marihuana trade. The deterioration in small farmers living standards and the lack of
government support, gained popular support for guerrilla groups. Paramilitary groups, initially
created to protect rich landlords, have became a political and military movement to oppose the
guerrillas. Some of the most active paramilitary groups in the Sierra presently control some urban
areas and portions of the rural areas. The involvement of the regular army to combat the armed
groups has also contributed to increasing violence and insecurity. Violations of human rights by
all groups are widespread. Reports and interviews with staff of the Red de Solidaridad indicate
that the Sierra is a region expelling population due to armed conflict. Data from 1999 slhow that
all municipalities in the Sierra, particularly the municipal capitals, are receiving population
displaced by violence (estimated at 8,000 families in 1999). Though not all of the persons are
displaced from locations inside the Sierra region, many are.
IV.       Institutional Assessment and Legal Framework
(a) Institutions and Organizations
The multiplicity of institutions, with overlapping functions and lack of coordination, is an issue
affecting the general development of Sierra Nevada eco-region. Three departments, fifteen
- 56 -



municipalities, two indigenous reserves, two national parks, and several representatives of the
central government in the region, claim the right to decide upon the Sierra's future. Various social
organizations struggling to express their views and participate in decision-making complete this
panorama. This makes it challenging to reach basic agreements on common objectives and to
coordinate actions to preserve the Sierra. However, there is a precedent for considering the Sierra
Nevada as a region: the National Rehabilitation Program (PNR) considered it a special
rehabilitation district in the late 1980s. Likewise, as a result of the SDP, several eco-regional
coordinating mechanisms have been introduced: the Regional Environmental Council and the
Steering Committee for the SDP.
Indigenous organizations. The indigenous peoples in the Sierra have survived five hundred years
of social violence because of their persistence in maintaining social cohesion and traditional
values. The moral and spiritual power of the group over economic and social factors have been a
strength. More recently, under the pressures of modern life, each ethnic group has developed a
political organization in charge of managing relations with the external world, including
government, NGOs and other social organizations. Four such organizations are presently
organized: (i) Arhuacos in the Indigenous Tayrona Confederation (CIT); (ii) Kogis, Arhuacos and
Wiwas in the Gonawindua Tayrona Organization; (iii) Wiwas in the Wiwa Yugunaiun
Bunkwanarwa Tayrona Organization; and (iv) Kankuamos in the Kankuama Indigenous
Organization. In November 1999, the leaders of the four indigenous organizations agreed to
establish the Cabildos Territorial Council as a unified body through which they will speak with
one voice to the government and external organizations about matters of concern to them; this is a
major achievement.
Farmers Organizations. Farmers do not have a unified strong organization due in part to the
disparity of their origin and cultural background, and also to their scattered occupation of the
region. Several farmer sub-regions, each one with its own characteristics, were identified during
the PNR: Minca-La Tagua, Troncal del Caribe, Mingueo-Dibulla, Tomarrazon-Los Gorros,
Caracol Marocaso; Atanquez, Pueblo Bello; Villagermania; Chimila-Copey; Santa Clara; Rio
Piedras- La Ye; Palmor y San Pedro de la Sierra. Each sub-region has developed a certain type of
organization though not strong enough to have regional representation. However, there have been
several attempts to develop a unified farmers' organization that have been partially successful and
continue to develop.
Local Governments: Local governments comprise three departments (Cesar Guajira, and
Magdalena) and fifteen municipalities: Santa Marta, Aracataca, Fundacion, El Copey,
Valledupar, San Juan del Cesar, Fonseca, Cienaga, Pueblo Bello, Barrancas, Riohacha,
Hatonuevo, Dibulla, Distraccion and Zona Bananera. Each department manages extensive
territories in which the Sierra accounts for a part: 26% for Magdalena, 31% for Guajira and 18%
for Cesar. However, local governments at both levels have not paid much political or economical
attention to the Sierra, as indicated by low levels of public investment and public programs for
these areas. In the case of the municipalities, attention is focused on the urban population in the
municipal capitals that represent on average around 70% of the total, and on the rural areas of the
lowlands rather than on the rural population of the middle and upper slopes of the Sierra.
National Parks: The National Parks account for 20% of the land area of the eco-region and 34%
of the area of the highlands. The Sierra Nevada National Park was created in 1964 and expanded
in 1977, comprises 383,000 hectares that extend from the Caribbean Sea to the Colon and Bolivar
peaks. The Tayrona National Park created in 1964 has 15,000 hectares including a coast line of
55 kilometers. The Regional Office of the Special Administrative Unit of the National Parks
System (Parks Unit) under the Ministry of the Environment is in charge of managing both parks.
- 57 -



The Park Unit's new policy towards protected areas management is critical to addressing the
issue of overlapping territory with indigenous reserves.
Regional Institutions. Under the National Environmental System established in 1993 by Law 99,
three Regional Autonomous Corporations (CARs), one in each of the three departments in the
Sierra, have responsibility for handling environment matters (except for national parks):
Corpomagdalena, Corpoguajira and Corpocesar. Additionally, under Law 99, a CAR for the
Sierra Nevada was created on paper (Corposierra), but was later eliminated when the Regional
Environmental Council for the Sierra Nevada was created in 1996 (Article 42 of Law 344 of
1996). The Council is presided by the Minister of Environment and responsible for coordinating
the implementation of the SDP. A Steering Committee (Comite Directiva) was established in
March 1998 to ensure full participation of the four indigenous organizations in overseeing the
SDP.
Central Government Institutions. Several central government institutions operate in the Sierra
including agencies related to the Agriculture Ministry (INCORA, INAT, CORPOICA, ICA, and
Caja Agraria now known as Banco Agrario) related to land tenure, extension and technical
services, rural development and credit. Other central government institutions involved in the
Sierra are the Labor Ministry's training agency SENA, the Interior Ministry through the
Indigenous Affairs Department, FINDETER the lending agency to municipal and departmental
governments, and the Presidency through the Red de Solidaridad Social intended to improve
living standards of poor communities. The performance of these entities has been intermittent and
weak due to budgetary constraints, lack of coordination among them, and overlapping functions.
This has contributed to local peoples' lack of trust in public institutions.
(b) Legal Framework
The most important regulations directly influencing the situation in the Sierra Nevada are: (i)
Decree 2811 of 1974, the National Code for Renewable Natural Resources and Protection of the
Environment that contains regulations concerning the national parks; and (ii) the Agrarian
Reform Law 160 of 1994. According to Decree 2811 all productive activities are forbidden
within national parks and protected areas. Later, Article 7 of Decree 622 of 1977 recognized that
indigenous peoples' activities are compatible with protected areas and established a special
management regimen; other groups however should move. Resolution 0199 of October 8, 1980
which established the Kogui-Malayo and Arhuaco reserves in the Sierra Nevada specifically
indicates that no land occupation or labor activities are permitted for persons not belonging to
these ethnic groups. The Agrarian Reform Law 160 and complementary decrees establish the
process for establishment and expansion of resguardos, procedures for relocating persons from
resguardos and protected areas including payment for land improvements, as well as subsidies to
buy land and support to carry out relocation for those eligible as land reform beneficiaries or
those displaced by violence. In practice, INCORA's lack of resources to pay for the relocation
process means that many families are living in a vacuum, illegally located within protected areas
but unable to move.
VI.       Participatory Approach
A. Background: Sustainable Development Plan for the Sierra Nevada
The project builds on a more than ten year participatory process initiated by the Foundation in
1988 to develop a conservation strategy for the Sierra Nevada. The process involved the key
stakeholders in the Sierra including: indigenous peoples, small farmers, large producers
(gremios), urban inhabitants, local and central government agencies, and organizations and
- 58 -



political groups with influence in the Sierra. The process culminated with: (i) in February 1997,
the publication of the Sustainable Development Plan (SDP) which was endorsed by central,
regional and local government authorities, community and other organizations; and (ii) the
creation in 1996 of the Regional Environmental Council to coordinate and the Environmental
Fund in the Ministry of the Environment to finance implementation of the Plan. In March 1998, a
Forum involving 600 persons representing the Plan's main stakeholders took place in Santa Marta
in order to: (i) analyze and review the Plan and define priorities; (ii) obtain financial and technical
support from national and international sources; (iii) initiate the implementation of the Plan in
collaboration with all institutional, social and political sectors in the Region; and (iv) install the
Regional Environmental Council. The main results of the Forum were confirmation of the Plan's
five programmatic areas (conservation of eco-systems, strengthening of indigenous cultural
identity, stabilization of the peasant population, strengthening of fundamental rights, and
modernization of institutions), and establishment of the Steering Committee as a mechanism for
indigenous organizations to oversee the Plan and regional development.. The LIL has been
designed to support implementation of the SDP, taking into account its "living" and evolving
nature.
B. Project's Participatory Approach
The project continues the participatory process described above and has been prepared by:
(i) directly involving main stakeholders during preparation; (ii) reaching agreements upon priority
actions; (iii) developing a social strategy that promotes participation; and (iv) building a
partnership with the Foundation and the Colombian Government. During project preparation,
two workshops were carried out to promote stakeholders' participation. In the first one, carried
out in December 1998, a draft logical framework for the project was developed based upon inputs
provided by representatives of the main stakeholders. In April 1999, the second workshop was
held with a similar audience in order to: (i) review the results of the previous workshop; and (ii)
reach agreement upon the priority aspects to be incorporated into the project's learning process.
The workshop confirmed the results of the first in terms of main issues and problems to address,
and provided the necessary information for identifying priorities in order to design the project's
components. A final round of consultations on the project was held with key stakeholders
(Cabildos Territorial Council, farmer leaders and representatives, local authorities and regional
organizations) in February 2000 to discuss the project as described in the project document prior
to negotiations of the loan with the Government. The consultations confirmed previous
agreements and priorities, and the willingness of the main actors to participate in the project.
The Foundation, with more than thirteen years experience working in the region, will be
implementing the project within the framework of its six-year program. The project has been
prepared in close collaboration with the Foundation's staff who have played a critical role in
providing ideas and acting as an efficient intermediary with the local actors. Preparation has also
involved representatives of the Colombian Government through the Plan Caribe Office in DNP,
the Ministry of the Environment, Parks Unit, CARs, municipal authorities and other local
institutions. The process has helped to develop a partnership that will be useful in facing the
challenges ahead.
The project has been designed to promote collaboration and ownership of all actors involved.
Therefore, rather than addressing specific sectors and/or social groups, the project includes
participatory mechanisms for achieving common goals during implementation. The Foundation's
program, through the eco-regional strategy for biodiversity conservation, will provide the
framework for sustainable activities to be carried out under the LIL. Both the LIL and proposed
GEF project include a component for strengthening community organizations and participation,
and bringing key stakeholders to work together on collaborative management plans. For
- 59 -



implementation of the participatory approach, three tools were developed which are described
below: (i) a multicriteria analysis used to select the pilot regions and to be used in conjunction
with the participation strategy to select the target zones and areas within these regions; (ii)
cultural landscapes map; and (iii) a participation strategy.
Multicriteria Analysis for Selecting Pilot Regions. As opposed to the traditional conservation
approach which tends to focus exclusively on ecological criteria, the selection of the target
regions for the project took into account the following criteria: (i) socioeconomic aspects such as
poverty levels and type of economic activities; (ii) cultural aspects mainly social capital
development and cultural diversity; and (iii) operational aspects by identifying opportunities for
partnerships and collaboration. To these factors were added conservation priorities based on the
eco-regional conservation strategy. Each criteria received a value based upon existing information
and technical discussions in order to prioritize the seven regions initially identified and select
three to serve as pilot regions under the LIL. A sensitivity analysis was carried out to take into
account the impact that changes in weighting of the criteria would have on the outcome. Three
regions, one for each one of the Sierra's three departments, were selected: (i) Northwestern
Sierra-Santa Marta Axis in the Magdalena department; (ii) Northeast Sierra-Hato Nuevo and
Fonseca Axis in the Guajira department; and (iii) Southwestern Sierra-El Copey Axis in the Cesar
department. (See Map 2.)
Cultural Landscapes Map. The map resulted from a stakeholder analysis carried out by the
Foundation to identify "cultural units" i.e. specific cultural groups, their production systems and
their pattem of land occupation. The landscape map is constructed by overlapping the cultural
units on vegetation maps containing information on the production and land occupation patterns
such as areas of cattle-rearing, business-oriented agriculture, coffee production, and illegal crops.
This map will facilitate the participatory approach by providing both technical, cultural and
economic information to guide collaborative management activities under component 3. (See
Map 3.)
Participation Strategy. This strategy aims to: (i) strengthen stakeholders participation in decision-
making related to the conservation and development of the Sierra; (ii) promote partnerships and
collaboration to carry out sustainable development activities; and (iii) develop mutual
understanding to avoid and/or reduce conflicts. The strategy will be more fully developed during
the first four months of the LIL and then tested in the pilot regions during the remainder of the
project. It will be used to identify, through ajoint analysis with a broad array of participants, the
pilot zones and areas within each region where the project will provide support, and, together
with the cultural landscapes map (see Map 3), will be used to develop specific guidelines for
promoting participation of each cultural unit. The strategy has four steps: (i) agreement on
participation mechanisms; (ii) participatory diagnosis and agreement upon priority activities and
contributions of beneficiaries; (iii) work program and implementation of activities agreed; and
(iv) monitoring and follow up activities.
IV.        Social Strategy
The social strategy will contribute to the project's objectives by addressing main social issues and
providing mechanisms for collaboration of all stakeholders. This approach will also help to
reduce tensions in the region by giving all actors an opportunity to work together, building the
basis for common understanding. Accordingly, the project's incorporates this approach into its
three components (see a-c below) and institutional arrangements (see f below), as well as the
strategies for indigenous peoples and voluntary resettlement (see d and e below).
- 60 -



(a) Knowledge Generation and Dissemination
The project will continue promoting awareness about the need to preserve the Sierra by carrying
out several studies that will improve knowledge about the Sierra's biodiversity and identify better
practices for a sustainable use of its resources. This process will integrate traditional and non
traditional knowledge in the Sierra, namely indigenous and non indigenous, by promoting an
inter-cultural "knowledge dialogue" (dicilogo de saberes) and by building consensus.
Dissemination of best practices, education programs, and promotion of collaboration and
understanding between rural and urban areas will complement this effort.
(b) Participation, Organizational Strengthening and Coordination
Strengthening local organizations is critical to promoting equity and reducing social exclusion in
the Sierra, particularly in the case of poor farmers and indigenous groups. The project will
support local organizations with technical assistance, training and legal advice, if necessary, to
enable them to play a more active role in decision-making affecting their interests. Special effort
will be made to promote participation of the business-oriented producers of the lowlands and
some other interest groups in the urban areas that are critical for a comprehensive strategy of
conservation and sustainable use of the Sierra's natural resources. A participation strategy will be
tested in the pilot regions, under the third component, where different groups will work together
to achieve common goals. The strategy includes providing incentives to promote collaboration for
biodiversity conservation, and adoption of sustainable production systems.
(c) Collaborative Management and Subprojects
The main activity of the project will be promoting collaborative management of natural resources
to contribute to sustainable development, including an improvement in the living conditions of
the people. From the social point of view, this collaborative management builds on three
principles: (i) collaboration of different groups working together to achieve common goals; (ii)
focusing on pilot regions, zones, and areas, selected through a participatory process
complemented by the multicriteria methodology; and (iii) providing incentives to develop
sustainable production systems in selected areas.
Through collaborative management, the project aims to overcome longstanding conflicts of
interest by building consensus among different groups to address common problems and by
providing incentives to carry out a whole range of actions considered critical for biodiversity
conservation and sustainable use of natural resources in selected locations. The zones and areas
within each pilot region will be selected through the participatory process complemented by the
multicriteria methodology which takes into account technical, social and political factors to
ensure feasibility. The pilot regions include the full range of lands in the Sierra: parts of the
national parks and other protected areas, indigenous reserves, private lands and public lands.
The project also offers support to the effort of the Parks Unit and indigenous organizations to
develop a collaborative management plan for the overlapping areas of the Sierra Nevada Park and
the indigenous reserves. Instead of an approach based on restrictions, the project will promote
participation and offer incentives to incorporate improved practices within these areas. The new
policy of the Parks Unit to consolidate protected areas on the basis of social participation in
conservation policy provides legal and technical support for this approach. The project, in
conjunction with the proposed GEF project, will comply with the Bank's OP 4.04 Natural
Habitats by including actions to recover endangered natural habitats in the Sierra Nevada and
promote sustainable development alternatives to ensure the protection of its natural resources.
-61 -



(d) Indigenous Peoples Strategy
The four indigenous groups in the Sierra, though representing only 2.5 % of the total population
and 15% of the rural population in the Sierra, are critical for the project's success because of their
positive attitude towards conservation, rooted in their ancestral traditions, and their contribution
to preserving the cultural heritage and diversity of the Sierra. Moreover, their reserves occupy
around 28% of the Sierra's highlands comprising areas of rich biodiversity. It is also important to
address social exclusion issues that have affected indigenous peoples, as well as the issue of
overlapping territories with the national parks and farmers living inside the reserves in order to
reduce social risks and to achieve conservation objectives. Based on these considerations and in
compliance with Bank's OD 4.20, the project includes an Indigenous Peoples Strategy. (See
Annex 12 for a full discussion.)
The project was designed in collaboration with indigenous peoples organizations. It promotes the
informed participation of the indigenous groups involved, incorporates their knowledge and
preferences, and respects their rights to natural and economic resources. The initial point in
defining this strategy has been the identification and recognition of laws and regulations related to
indigenous peoples' rights in Colombia namely: (i) the 1991 Constitution which recognizes
cultural plurality, indigenous peoples rights over their territory, and their right to have their own
authorities; (ii) the decrees issued to create the two indigenous reserves for the main indigenous
groups in the Sierra as communal lands subject to special protection; and (iii) the acceptance
(Law 21 of 1991) of the ILO Treaty 169 which recognizes ancestral territories as the cultural
habitat of indigenous peoples' groups. This strategy also takes into account indigenous peoples'
priorities expressed during the preparation and review of the SDP, and in direct consultations
with indigenous peoples' organizations through their participation in two workshops carried out
during preparation of the LIL and a final consultation in February 2000 prior to loan negotiations
with the Government. The Foundation also undertook consultations with the Mamas, spiritual
leaders of the indigenous groups. Finally, the role the four indigenous organizations play in the
Sierra as environmental authorities within their territories and as the principal members of the
Steering Committee of the SDP have been also taken into account.
The project's Indigenous Peoples Strategy responds to the main principles of the Foundation's
program: (i) recognition of the cultural plurality of the Sierra; (ii) promotion of inclusion and
collaboration among stakeholders; and (iii) reduction of conflicts and development of an
intercultural dialogue which will support the conservation and sustainable development of the
Sierra. The strategy includes four action lines: (i) acknowledgement of indigenous authorities;
(ii) recognition of indigenous priorities; (iii) compatible conservation and sustainable
development which takes into account indigenous knowledge; and (iv) active and continuous
participation. Specific activities identified as priorities by indigenous authorities are included
under each of the project's three components, such as support for: (i) dissemination of planes de
vida, agreements and other papers contributing to enhancing the cultural plurality of the Sierra;
(ii) support for-the dev.elopment of the Cabildos Territorial Council; (iii) the on-going process of
developing with the Parks Unit a collaborative management plan for the overlapping area of the
Sierra Nevada Park and indigenous reserves which incorporates traditional and modern
knowledge; (iv) promoting agreements between indigenous peoples and farmers to establish
sustainable development practices within indigenous reserves; (v) legal and financial support to
gain access to sacred sites outside the reserves according to a priority program defined by the
indigenous authorities; and (v) support for the recovery of indigenous territory by providing
assistance to farmers wishing to resettle outside the reserves through a pilot project. (See below,
and Annex 12 for more details.)
-62 -



The Foundation's experience working with indigenous organizations and peoples during the
preparation and consultations concerning the SDP has shown their resistance to conforming to a
"western" timetable and notions of a formal written "plan." Therefore, while the project includes
the above strategy based on priorities determined by indigenous organizations and authorities, it
will remain flexible and be developed in an iterative process according to the wishes and
timetable of the indigenous organizations and authorities. Thus, it has been agreed that the
specific activities to be supported each year by the project will be decided by the Cabildos
Territorial Council and incorporated into the project's annual operating plans allowing time for
the customary consultation with the traditional spiritual authorities and the community.
(e) Voluntary Resettlement
The Foundation's program, of which this project is a part, embodies a conservation strategy
which promotes better practices through broad participation and incentives, rather than
restrictions. No new restricted areas or expansion of existing ones are foreseen under the project.
Nor does the project support any kind of involuntary resettlement. However, the project does
envision support for the recovery of indigenous territory by providing assistance to farmers
wishing to resettle outside the reserves through a small pilot project in cases where this would
have a positive conservation and social impact. At this time, it is envisioned that this would be
restricted to a very small number of farm families (possibly 7 in the year 2000) whose lands may
be bought by the Gonawindua Tayrona Organization with funding from The Nature Conservancy
(TNC).
A study undertaken during project preparation found that many families living inside the
boundaries of the Sierra Nevada park-reserves are seeking to relocate due to factors unrelated to
the Foundation's program, including: (i) the legal limitation on receiving land titles; (ii) the lack
of road infrastructure that makes market access difficult; (iii) the lack of basic services that keeps
living standards low; and (iv) the increasing violence in the Sierra. Though many families are
willing to relocate, they are expecting INCORA to fulfill its role in providing the compensation
and support foreseen under Law 160. In practice, this process stopped in 1998, because of
INCORA's lack of resources. However, indigenous peoples have been using their own resources
to buy farmer lands within their territories. In both cases, relocation has had several flaws
affecting farmers and indigenous peoples alike. There is evidence indicating that relocated
farmers face difficulties recovering economically; on the other hand, the re-occupation of
indigenous territories by farmers whose land has been purchased is a phenomenon hindering
indigenous peoples' efforts to regain complete control of their territories and has been mentioned
by the cabildos as a concern for which they are seeking a solution.
Voluntary Resettlement Guidelines. Under these circumstances, the project aims to offer an
alternative satisfactory to farmers and indigenous peoples by testing a voluntary resettlement
strategy based on the following guidelines: (i) the families involved will recover or improve their
living conditions; (ii) no involuntary resettlement will be carried out; and (iii) the resettlement
process will be implemented under a participatory approach allowing the families involved to
play an active role in decision-making. (Approaches tested under the Bank-supported Pilot Land
Reform initiative will be an important experience to draw on in this regard.) The commitment of
the Foundation to abide by these guidelines and follow the specific operational mechanisms
described below is included in the Loan Agreement, as well as the Government's commitment to
ensure that the Foundation does so. In addition, the Loan Agreement contains a protective clause
whereby the Foundation and Government agree that they will not involuntary resettle any farmers
living in the national parks or indigenous reserves during the course of the project.
- 63 -



Legal Framework. As established by Colombian law, the ruling regulatory framework is Law 160
that defines the legal rights prevailing within protected areas and indigenous reserves. According
to Law 160: (i) it is mandatory to compensate farmers established in good faith within protected
areas or indigenous reserves; (ii) without this compensation, farmer can not be forced to relocate;
and (iii) a compensation package includes paying for land improvements and, if the farmer is
eligible as a land reform beneficiary which should apply to the affected farmers in the Sierra, a
subsidy of 70 % to buy new land can be provided. There is no provision for support after
resettlement. In practice, this process has been blurred by bureaucracy and, in some cases
corruption, directly affecting the resettled population.
New Parks Policy. In addition to the provisions of Law 160 is the new policy of the Parks Unit,
"Parks with People," which recognizes that the socially and culturally sustainable approach to
management of national parks and protected areas is to involve the local population. Therefore,
instead of restrictions which are difficult to enforce, the new policy provides for support of
environmentally friendly activities inside and around the protected areas. Implementation of this
policy will take into account the local population's: (i) historical links with the protected area; (ii)
cultural and socioeconomic background; (iii) land occupation patterns and use of natural
resources; (iv) legal situation; and (v) environmental vision and expectations. Based on this
analysis, the conservation strategy for the park or protected area is to provide alternatives for
sustainable development, through negotiations and agreements, for the local population living
within these areas thus reducing the need of resettlement.
Parks Unit's Agreement with Indigenous Organizations. Prior to the announcement of this new
policy, the Parks Unit, the Gonawindua Tayrona Indigenous Organization (representing Kogi,
Arhuacos and Wiwas), and the Indigenous Affairs Department of the Interior Ministry had agreed
to develop a collaborative management plan for the overlapping area of the Sierra Nevada park
and indigenous reserves. They established a Working Group that completed in November 1999 a
document entitled "General Guidelines for the Inter-Cultural Management of the Sierra Nevada
de Santa Marta National Park." The other three indigenous organizations, Tayrona Indigenous
Confederation (CIT), Wiwia Yugunaium Bunkwanarwa Tayrona Organization (OWYBT) and
Kankuamos Indigenous Organization endorsed this approach in late November 1999 and agreed
to join in the preparation of a collaborative intercultural management plan for the Sierra Nevada
Park. This agreement will facilitate the eventual incorporation of farmers living within the
overlapping area of the park-reserves into these intercultural arrangements. The project will
provide resources for the completion and implementation of the collaborative management plan.
Limits of Resettlement. The availability of resources to pay compensation for land improvements
according to Law 160 is a critical constraint to carrying out resettlement of farmers from
indigenous territories. By the end of 1998, INCORA, the legal entity in charge of this process,
had bought 421 plots within indigenous reserves during the previous fifteen years. The process
stopped in 1998 due to lack of resources, and there are few possibilities that this will change in
the near future. Indigenous people have been directly buying land though their resources are also
limited. The other source of resources to buy land inside the reserves are those provided by The
Nature Conservancy (TNC) through an agreement signed with the Gonawindua Tayrona
Organization in 1999 and managed by the Foundation. This two year program will allow the
Organization to buy land according to their priorities, while taking into account TNC's condition
that the lands be in areas of high priority for conservation. According to these priorities, last year
three farms were bought, all from absentee owners so no relocation was involved. This year, the
initial indication from the Gonawindua Tayrona Organization is that possibly seven families
might be affected by the purchases. The Foundation, in its role of managing the TNC project, will
play a critical role in minimizing resettlement, ensuring it is a voluntary process, and monitoring
all transactions financed under the TNC project.
- 64 -



The Role of the Foundation. The Foundation, as the executing agency of LIL and certain
management aspects of the TNC project, will be in charge of this voluntary resettlement pilot. It
will be in charge of carrying out the following activities, as needed: (i) identification (based on
the indigenous Organization's priorities) and socioeconomic analysis of families willing to
relocate; (ii) promotion of community organization to facilitate the resettlement process; (iii)
establishment of consultation and participation mechanisms; (iii) providing technical and legal
support to buy new land and complementary resources; (iv) providing technical assistance and
training to initiate sustainable economic activities; (v) providing investment resources from the
project to re-establish or improve living conditions; and (vi) promoting agreements with public
and private institutions that will contribute to the success of the voluntary resettlement. The
monitoring and evaluation system of the Foundation will establish a specific monitoring system
to assess compliance with agreements, goals and expected outcomes of this pilot.
Operational Mechanisms. The Foundation will use the following operational mechanisms to carry
out the pilot: (i) each year of the project, the Foundation will prepare a plan for the resettlement
pilot comprising the work program and budget; (ii) the Annual Operating Plan and/or the Project
Management Reports will incorporate the resources the Foundation needs to undertake the
activities under the pilot; (iii) quarterly reports will be prepared to assess progress; and (iv) an
annual report will be prepared presenting the main results from the pilot, lessons learned and
recommendations for improving the process.
(f) Institutional Arrangements
The project's institutional arrangements have been designed to face the difficulties and
institutional weaknesses affecting the Sierra. For this reason, the Foundation will be in charge of
implementing the project, because is an experienced and well respected institution which is
recognized and respected by all actors in the Sierra and has a good track-record working in the
complex conditions of the region. The Foundation will maintain a direct link with the National
Planning Department through its Office for the Caribbean Region (Oficina Plan Caribe) which
will oversee the project on behalf of the Government and be responsible for ensuring that the
Foundation carries out the project in accord with the Government's agreements with the Bank.
On the other side, the Foundation will be the bridge to reach grass roots organizations of farmers
and indigenous peoples, the private sector, NGOs and local governments to ensure broad
participation in the project. The Non Government Fund (NGF) to be established with support
from the GEF and through which LIL funds for subprojects will flow will be an important vehicle
for supporting community based initiatives in the pilot regions. The decision to establish the
Fund within the Foundation was in order to benefit from its capacity, and international experience
and reputation. However, to maintain transparency and avoid any political bias, a Technical
Committee, comprising well-recognized experts in biodiversity, sustainable development and
local cultures, will be in charge of selecting subprojects to receive funding in accord with
provisions in the Fund's Operating Manual.
VII.      Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning System
The Foundation has experience and information that will be very useful in setting up the
monitoring, evaluation and learning system for the project including: (i) an archive of information
about the Sierra; (ii) a GIS mapping system; (iii) an existing Monitoring and Evaluation Unit;
(iv) a process of community participation through community-based monitoring and evaluation
committees for ten pilot projects under an on-going Dutch financed project; and (v) a system to
document and analyze past experiences. These experiences and the Foundation's participatory
approach, with some adaptations, is the basis for the LIL's Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning
- 65 -



System. The main indicators to be tracked will be the ones proposed in the logical framework
(Annex 1) which will be adjusted in accord with: (i) the detailed design of the M&E system to be
completed in parallel with the definition of the participatory strategy during the first four months
of project implementation; and (ii) experiences and learning during project implementation.
- 66 -



Annex 12: Indigenous Peoples Strategy
COLOMBIA: SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELPMENT
The four indigenous groups in the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta (Sierra) though representing
only 2.5 % of the total population are critical for the project's success, because of their positive
attitude towards conservation of natural resources rooted in their ancestral traditions and their
contribution to preserving cultural heritage and diversity in the Sierra. Their territories occupy
around 28% of the eco-region and nearly half the area of the highlands, overlapping to a large
extent with protected areas in the national parks system. The Colombian Constitution of 1991
recognizes the compatibility of indigenous management of territory and conservation objectives,
and the positive conservation impact of traditional indigenous management practices in the Sierra
Nevada has been documented. The four indigenous organizations are a critical force as members
of the Steering Committee (Comite Directivo) for the implementation of Sustainable
Development Plan for the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta (SDP). In spite of these strengths, it is
also important to address social exclusion issues that have been affecting indigenous peoples and
resulted in their being one of the poorest groups in the Sierra. All these factors have been taken
into account in incorporating into the project an indigenous peoples strategy.
This strategy is intended to ensure that indigenous peoples benefit from the project by taking into
account their priorities and cultural background particularly their close attachment to ancestral
territories, their approach to protecting natural resources which is deeply rooted in their traditions,
as well as their customary social and political institutions.
1. Socioeconomic Background
An indigenous civilization, the Tairona, was well established and developed long before the
arrival of the Spaniards to Santa Marta's shores in 1502. The Tairona built around 260 "pueblos"
and five important "cities"--Teyuna or the Lost City, Pueblito, Noanasangui (El Congo) and
Pocigueica --well connected through an extensive road network and water systems. (See Map 6
below.) They were semi-nomadic and practiced an extensive, shifting agriculture moving
between the ecosystems at different altitudes--from sea level to the highlands--according to the
seasons and a ritual calendar thus obtaining a variety of products. The Conquest destroyed this
civilization, and the majority of its population, forcing the survivors to flee to the higher areas of
the Sierra thus upsetting the balance of their productive system. Indigenous people lived in
relative isolation until the end of the nineteenth century which helped them to maintain their
traditions and social structure.
During the twentieth century, several migration waves brought colonists into indigenous ancestral
territories, progressively reducing indigenous peoples' access to the warmer areas by the coast.
This situation affected not only living standards, but also the social and spiritual equilibrium of
the indigenous society. According to indigenous traditions, four indigenous groups-Kogis,
Wiwas, Arhuacos y Kankuamos--were created to guard the Sierra Nevada, their "mother." For
them, the Sierra Nevada is a sacred place, the heart of the world; the mountains and nature are
perceived as living bodies, vital for harmony with the environment and the universal equilibrium.
The "antique law" rules indigenous people's behavior under the surveillance of the Mamas, their
spiritual leaders, to guarantee the vital cycle of men, animals and plants. Presently, these
indigenous groups still maintain some of their traditions and are struggling to regain control over
their territories and social groups. They number around 24,000 inhabitants, II % of the Sierra's
rural population.
- 67 -



Table I Indigenous Groups in the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta
Ethnic Group        Inhabitants    Percentage
Arhuacos                   13,383          56.16
Wiwas                       1,857           7.79
Kogis                       8,590          36.04
Other                      7,917           24.9
Total in the Sierra        23, 830         100.0
National Total            603, 280         3.95
Source: El Salto Social; Volume 1, 1994-95. This figure does not
include the Kankuamo who were not officially registered in 1994-95
as an ethnic group. If they are included, the total is 32,000, roughly
15% of the rural population.
Map 6. Key Pre-Hispanic Population Centers in the Sierra Nevada
| _ /S * BI~~ORTHW65T CORNER OF SE S
* )_ n St~~15CRRKA NCVADA DE SANTA tiARTA 
0 WCArO OTPY  KCHALO61CAL SITU5 5VD75CT 
Source: Historia Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, Fundaci6n Pro Sierra, 1995.
- 68 -



Each group has its own language, clothing and architecture and relates in different ways with the
other inhabitants in the Sierra called " the little brothers" (non-indigenous).
The Kogis are the most traditional group paying high respect to their traditions, ancestral
organizations and authorities. Many of them do not speak Spanish and money circulation within
their territories is limited. Kogis presently occupy the mid and upper areas of the valleys of the
Jerez, San Miguel, Garavito, Palomino, Don Diego and Buritaca rivers in the north; the
catchments of the Sevilla and Tucurinca rivers to the west and the Rancheria, Cesar, Guatapuri
and Badillo rivers to the southeast.
The Arhuacos have been the best-organized group in defending their territory and getting
resources from the government. However, Arhuacos have been exposed to external influences; as
a result, they are not a homogenous group. Though some of them speak their language and keep
closely to traditions, others are in more contact with the general trends of Colombian society.
There are also some Spanish-speaking mestizo groups who nevertheless keep in contact with
Arhuacos and Kogis and participate in their political decision-making. Arhuacos inhabit their
own reserve at the upper catchments of the Aracataca, Fundacion and Araguani rivers in the west;
the lower areas of the resguardo at the Palomino and Don Diego rivers in the north; and the upper
catchments of the Azucarbuena and Guatapuri rivers in the southeast.
The Wiwas have been the most affected by invasions, loss of territory and external influences and
presently they are highly mixed. However, they identify culturally with the Kogis and have
recently recovered some of their territory and traditional practices.
The Kankuamos have lost almost entirely their indigenous identity to the extent that they are not
officially registered as an ethnic group. However, in recent years, they have been in the process of
recovering territory and culture.
The most traditional indigenous groups, the Kogis and Arhuacos, are very respectful of natural
resources using their traditional knowledge of soil quality, climate and ecosystems. They are
semi-nomads, moving to different altitudes to cultivate crops according to the seasons. Through
this process, indigenous people obtain a diversity of products that guarantee their food needs.
Moreover, this allows for soil rotation that helps to maintain its fertility. Cultivation is a sacred
activity regulated by the "mamas" in which myths, social, and agricultural factors converge
according to a ritual calendar. Allocation of tasks and distribution of products are based on a
system of reciprocity according to the ecological and social conditions of each family.
In the last decades, this pattern of production has been changing due to the reduced access to the
warmer ecosystems. As a result, soil rotation is not that frequent and some groups, such as the
Arhuacos, have established permanently in the warmer lowlands. Production is oriented to
subsistence and tasks are distributed according to gender and age. The most important products
are beans, banana, maize, malanga, sugar cane, avocado and yucca for food, and coca leaves.
More recently, Kogis and Arhuacos have incorporated into their activities organic coffee
production for the market. Cattle rearing has also developed as an activity oriented to market or to
exchange for tools and domestic utensils.
The importance of market production has been increasing among some groups and has been
changing the traditional ritual approach towards agriculture and has modified land tenure from
communal to private property; in some cases, land has been progressively concentrating in the
hands of a few prosperous families. Some activities such as cattle rearing have had a negative
impact on the environment, particularly in the paramo, and affected the traditional balance with
-69 -



nature. In most cases, indigenous communities combine a traditional economy with production of
certain products for the market. Balancing these two types of production is critical to maintaining
indigenous traditions, while improving living standards.
2. Impact of Colonization Process on Indigenous Peoples Lands
Indigenous territories have been affected by several colonization waves since colonial times.
However, in recent times the colonization has been particularly destructive for indigenous groups.
(See Map 4 in Annex 11.) The first wave of migration in the twentieth century, from 1900 to
1940, was fairly dispersed. In the 50s and 60s, a massive in-flow of farmers fleeing violence in
other areas of the country, mainly coffee growers coming from the Andean region, occupied the
areas of the Sierra which are suitable for coffee production resulted in a tripling of the rural
population, from 4,000 to 12,000 families, by the mid-I 960s. Many settlers established their
homes on top of archaeological sites (stone terraces), and the practice of guaqueria (stealing
artifacts in particular offerings from indigenous sacred sites) began during this period. In an effort
to reduce this in-flow and control its negative effects, Law 2 of 1959 established a Forest Reserve
in a large area of the Sierra, thus limited the possibility for many of these farmers to obtain land
titles.
The third wave of colonization between 1960-80, was the most destructive and affected the whole
Sierra. The construction of the main highway along the coast between Santa Marta and Riohacha,
which was particularly intense between 1967-72, attracted small farmers, laborers and speculators
who illegally occupied lands along the road. Between 1971 and 1975, around 57 illegal invasions
by campesinos were carried out near Santa Marta, Aracataca, Cienaga, Fundacion, Riohacha and
Valledupar. The indigenous peoples lost their access to the sea as a result. This process continued
at different rates until 1987 when the last peasant invasion took place. Many of these farmers and
colonists occupied indigenous peoples' lands and found an excellent source of income in
guaqueria which became so important that a "Guaquero Union" including more than 1000
members was created in the mid-70s, and gained official recognition by the Ministry of Labor of
the time.
The most destructive part of the third wave of migration was the marihuana boom of the seventies
with an influx of more people than in the previous fifty years combined, causing a major negative
impact on indigenous peoples. Between 1975-80, at the peak of the boom, 70% of the Sierra's
forest, around 150,000 hectares, were destroyed to cultivate marihuana. The boom broke
agriculture patterns affecting food and coffee production, and labor markets. Violence and
corruption increased, further deteriorating the weak economy of indigenous peoples. Many of the
colonists had a "get rich quick" mentality and no respect for indigenous culture. Indigenous
peoples also becamne the target of marihuana dealers, because they refused to collaborate in its
cultivation. The end of the boom left behind violent gangs, called "combos" that spurred violence
and terror in the Sierra and led to the presence of the guerrilla movement FARC in the region.
When the boom ended in the early 1980s, many of the colonists left, but the social and
environmental scars remained.
The result of this process was a substantial increase in the numbers of farmers and colonists living
in the Sierra and occupying indigenous territories, the introduction of cultivation patterns that
have contributed to the deterioration of the eco-region, and deep-seated scars due to the disrespect
of indigenous culture and sacred sites. Indigenous peoples believe that the equilibrium of the
world was destroyed and that this is the source of evil and disasters.
- 70 -



3. Indigenous Peoples Reserves (Resguardos)
After a long struggle for recognition of their rights over their ancestral territory, INCORA
(Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform) established two indigenous reserves: (i) the Arhuaco
Reserve; and (ii) the Kogui-Wiwa Reserve. The Arhuaco Reserve, created in 1974, comprised
initially 185,000 hectares in Pueblo Bello, Nabusimake (formerly San Sebastian de Rabago) y
Atanquez within the municipality of Valledupar in the Cesar Department, and the municipalities
of Fundacion and Aracataca in the Magdalena Department. In 1983, the Arhuaco Reserve
incorporated an additional 10,900 hectares for a total of 195, 900. The Kogui-Wiwa Reserve
established in October 1980, comprised 364,840 hectares on the border of the Arhuaco Reserve in
Magdalena and Guajira departments. In 1994, the Kogui-Wiwa reserve was expanded an
additional 19,200 hectares including a strip between the Palomino and Don Diego rivers which
allowed this group to regain their traditional access to the sea. This was an important achievement
as it signaled a process of reclaiming territory in the lowlands of the Sierra.
Table 2 Indigenous Peoples Reserves
Reserve                   Hectares     % of the
Sierra
Arhuaco                                      195,900         9.2
Arhuaco de Busichama                            128          0.0
Kogui-Wiwa-Arhuaco (Kogui-Malayo)           384,040         18.1
Total Actual Reserves (a)                   580,068         27.4
Proposed Kankuamo Reserve (b)                32,956          1.6
Total (a) + (b)                             613,024         28.9
Total Sierra Nevada Eco-region             2,115,800       100.0
Source: Enrique Sanchez, 1999 based on DNP: Ethnographic Base List of Colombia,
1997 and Fundacion Pro-Sierra.
Through this process, the three major indigenous groups, Kogui, Arhauco and Wiwa have
obtained legal recognition of their rights over lands which are now officially their territory. In the
case of the Kankuamo group, which is the less traditional one, the struggle to establish its own
indigenous reserve continues. In spite of this progress, indigenous peoples continue to claim their
rights over their so-called ancestral territory, the one they had before colonial times, which
comprises most of the Sierra Nevada eco-region including the city of Santa Marta. The so-called
"Black Line" conformed by various sacred sites demarcate this territory (see map below). An
official resolution issued by the Ministry of the Interior in 1995 recognized indigenous rights over
their ancestral territories (Resolution 837 of August 28, 1995 modifying Resolution 004 of
August 4, 1973). Though this resolution does not provide any legal property rights, it has helped
to reinforce the claim of indigenous organizations. In practice, indigenous organizations have
indicated repeatedly that their critical concern is to regain access to sacred sites, a condition for
re-establishing the equilibrium of their communities.
- 71 -



54
. i   at                          S                                 i X g S    f g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
B5    5W
4 .......                                                            ........... ...............    ........................ .....................     ........A...1x...E.
--    ---- ------
U          w                                   II:,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........
rj ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~c



4. Indigenous Peoples Organization
Indigenous peoples organizations have overcome five hundred years of social violence, because
they have been able to maintain social cohesion and traditional values. The moral and spiritual
power of the group over economic and social factors has been a factor of strength that has yet to
face new challenges.
Though with some differences, the three main ethnic groups, Kogis, Arhuaco, and Wiwas, share
an organization based on a strict social hierarchy headed by a Mama and his apprentices who
concentrate the political and religious power and the traditional knowledge of the group,
including medicine, history and natural sciences. Each community has a "commisario" in charge
of political and administrative matters within the community, under the higher authority of the
Mama. The life of the community evolves around the principles dictated by the Mamas, both for
general guidance and for daily life decisions. The Kankuamos do not have this sort of traditional
organization and they are still struggling to recover their identity.
More recently, under the pressures of modem life, each ethnic group has developed a political
organization in charge of managing relations with the external world, including the government,
NGOs and other social organizations. Four such organizations are presently organized: (i)
Arhuacos in the Indigenous Tayrona Confederation (CIT); (ii) Kogis, Arhuacos and Wiwas in the
Gonawindua Tayrona Organization; (iii) Wiwas in the Wiwa Yugunaiun Bunkwanarwa Tayrona
Organization; and (iv) Kankuamos in the Kankuama Indigenous Organization. Each one of these
organizations has a Cabildo Gobernador at the top and several leaders in charge of specific tasks
such as negotiating territories, health and education programs, and the management of fiscal
transfers from the central government. Cabildos should report periodically to their communities
and keep them informed; they can be removed at any time by consensus of the group. In all
groups, decision-making relies on the general assembly, including the whole community, where
agreements are reached under the advice of the Mamas as the supreme authority.
The establishment of indigenous reserves, as independent territories under the rule of indigenous
authorities, and the recognition in the 1991 Constitution of indigenous peoples right to maintain
their own traditions and use of their territory, and their right to receive fiscal transfers from the
central government, has strengthened indigenous people organizations. They are among the most
important and well recognized organizations in the Sierra. However, they have been facing some
difficulties such as: (i) disagreements and disputes among the various groups; (ii) a long process
of consultation and decision-making that affects timely participation in the political process; (iii)
an extremely hierarchical structure that limits participation of youth and women; and (iv) periodic
tensions and disagreements between cabildos gobernadores and mamas. These issues might
weaken indigenous organizations. Despite this, efforts to strengthen the organizations continue.
In response to the four indigenous organizations' request to play an active role in decision-
making concerning the SDP and activities in the Sierra, the Steering Committee (Comite
Directivo) for the SDP composed of the four cabildos gobernadores, Minister of the
Environment, General Director for Indigenous Affairs in the Ministry of the Interior, and a
representative of the Presidency was established in 1998. In November 1999 in their meeting in
Valledupar, the four indigenous organizations prepared a joint declaration indicating their
agreement to establish the Cabildos Territorial Council (Consejo Territorial de Cabildos) as a
unified body that will guide and regulate programs, projects, actions and activities affecting their
territory, and speak with one voice in dealing with the government and other external
organizations. Other agreements reached were to: (i) request that the government elevate the
- 73 -



Steering Committee to a permanent body which would be the main forum for the involvement of
the indigenous in the decisions concerning the Sierra and for their relations with the government;
(ii) establishment of a permanent working group, supervised by the cabildos, for national and
international projects to be implemented in the Sierra; and (iii) sign an agreement with the Parks
Unit and other environmental authorities to prepare management plans in which their knowledge
and authority are recognized. These agreements are an important achievement which should
contribute to consolidating indigenous peoples' organizations and to a positive outcome for the
project because they facilitate collaboration.
5. Overlapping Territories: National Parks-Indigenous Reserves-Farmers
Protected areas in the Sierra Nevada were established as early as 1959 under Law 2 which
declared a large area of the Sierra a Forest Reserve. In 1964, two national parks were created
presently accounting for 20% of the land area of the eco-region and 34% of the area of the
highlands. The Sierra Nevada National Park presently comprises 383,000 hectares (including
area added in 1977) that extend from sea level to the peaks of Colon and Bolivar, more than
15,000 feet high. The Tayrona National Park has 15,000 hectares including a coast line of 55
kilometers. The Regional Office of the Special Administrative Unit of the National Parks System
(Parks Unit) within the Ministry of the Environment is in charge of managing both parks.
According to the agreements that created both parks, no economic activity is permitted within
their boundaries (Decree-Law 2811 of 1974); land titling within the parks and a buffer zone of 5
kilometers around is also forbidden under Article 67 of Law 160 of 1994. However, this
restriction do not applies to indigenous people whose way of living is considered compatible with
national parks (Article 7 of Regulatory Decree 622 of 1977).
Indigenous leaders claim their right over an ancestral territory delineated by the so-called "Black
Line" demarcated by geographic points such as river mouths and sacred sites comprising most of
the land in the Sierra. However, the officially recognized indigenous territory is a much smaller
portion under the jurisdiction of the indigenous reserves (resguardo). The main indigenous
reserves overlap almost completely with the national parks (see Map 5, Annex 11). Legally,
national parks and indigenous reserves are compatible. In practice, indigenous peoples have been
managing these overlapping areas due to the lack of capacity of the Parks Unit to exert control
and to their recognition in the case of the Sierra that indigenous management could contribute to
conservation. However, there have been on-going tensions about who was the ultimate authority
and about how best to manage these extensive territories.
In May 1999, the national Parks Unit and the Gonawindua Tayrona Indigenous organization
agreed to initiate a process of preparing a collaborative Management Plan for the Sierra Nevada
Park and the reserve. This process was bolstered by the National Environmental Council's
adoption in August 1999 of a new protected areas policy prepared by the Parks Unit which
emphasized working with communities living in and around protected areas, with particular
recognition of the role of indigenous authorities. Thus, the Parks Unit's work with the indigenous
organizations in the Sierra became a pilot for applying this policy. The collaborative process
initiated in May culminated in November 1999 with the presentation of a paper summarizing the
agreements reached by the Parks Unit and Gonawindua Tayrona Indigenous organization
concerning the principles which would guide the preparation of the management plan, of which
respect for indigenous knowledge and culture was fundamental. Later in November in a meeting
in Valledupar, the three other indigenous organizations in the Sierra endorsed these principles and
agreed to join the process of preparing the collaborative management plan for the overlapping
territories.
- 74 -



However, the problem remains of small farmers who live within the area of the parks and
indigenous reserves. When the parks and indigenous reserves were established, there were
already farmers living within these areas (estimate of 446 farmers living in the reserves).
However, when the two main reserves were established it was the middle of the marihuana boom
when a large in-flow of migrants came to the Sierra. There was virtually no control over
settlement of colonists inside the reserves and parks, nor were adequate records kept by INCORA
or monitoring done when lands were purchased from colonists inside the parks and reserves to
ensure that they moved permanently outside the area. As a result, it is difficult to determine the
number of families currently living inside the reserves and parks, and impossible to establish with
certainty the ones who have particular rights to compensation because they had possession of the
land prior to the establishment of the parks and reserves.
The Foundation estimated in 1991 that around 800 families were living or had property inside the
reserves and parks (Enrique Sanchez, 1999). According to Colombian law, such families should
be relocated outside the indigenous reserves and parks, through a process that involves INCORA
buying land improvements (mejoras). Since the reserves were established, from 1984-1998
INCORA bought 421 farmer plots accounting for an area of 45,000 hectares, but because of lack
of resources no farms have been bought since then. The Plan Eco-sierra which involved a
coordinated effort of the three regional corporations, the Parks Unit, INCORA and the indigenous
organizations, with support from the Presidency, made a major effort to buy farms in the
indigenous reserves between 1993-95 (the numbers are included in INCORA's figures),
prioritizing the farms to purchase with the indigenous organizations while also taking into
account conservation priorities. Given the priority indigenous organizations give to gaining
control over their territory, they have also been directly buying land using fiscal transfers from
the central government which began in 1993/94. The current rough estimate of the number farms
inside the reserves and parks is 450, but there is no data on the number of abandoned properties
or those bought by the indigenous.
The process of relocating people from the parks and reserves, has many flaws, because farmers
usually do not receive any support to re-establish their living conditions after their farms have
been bought and some eventually re-occupy lands in other restricted areas. Farmers who are
eligible as land reform beneficiaries under Law 160 of 1994 may receive through INCORA a
subsidy of 70% to buy new lands; however, the few examples of this have also not been
successful in part because farmers have not been adequately prepared and in part because of
weaknesses of INCORA and other institutions involved in the process. The Cabildos have
expressed concern about the problem of ensuring that those farmers whose land is purchased find
an acceptable living situation outside the reserve, so that they do not return and in order to reduce
social tensions in the Sierra. Likewise, there are farmers who are anxious to leave, but in
satisfactory conditions.
Taking into account these circumstances the project aims to offer an alternative satisfactory to
farmers and indigenous peoples by testing a voluntary resettlement strategy under the following
principles: (i) the families involved will recover or improve their living conditions; (ii) no
involuntary resettlement will be carried out; and (iii) the resettlement process will be
implemented under a participatory approach allowing the families involved to play an active role
in decision-making. Through this initiative it would be possible to reduce conflicts and promote
new means of collaboration between these two groups. (See Annex 11 for a fuller discussion.)
- 75 -



6. Social Issues: Social Exclusion and Violence
Indigenous peoples, forced since colonial times to move to higher, less fertile areas in the Sierra
to survive, suffered yet another big divestment under the pressure of the in-flow of colonists,
particularly during the fifties and seventies. The loss of territory destroyed the basis for their
subsistence and forced them to adapt to more precarious conditions. This situation caused a major
impact on their social and cultural structure that revolves around the communal, ritual use of land
and natural resources. Newcomers brought new social patterns opposed to indigenous traditions
and sickness such as tuberculosis. The lack of respect for indigenous sacred sites that were
constantly robbed of their treasures contributed to an attitude of mistrust and resentment towards
farmers and colonists.
The establishment of indigenous reserves in the mid-seventies and the official recognition of
indigenous rights and culture in the 1991 Constitution have been changing slowly this situatior.
In 1995, the Colombian government recognized indigenous peoples claim to their ancestral
territory delimitated by the so called "black line" which has contributed to reinforcing the cultural
and political role of indigenous peoples in the Sierra though it may also have contributed to
increased land disputes and social conflicts.
The disputes over land spurred by illegal crop production, the lack of government support,
corruption and mismanagement in public affairs propitiated the development of violent factions.
Guerrilla groups first arrived in the late 1980s to control the gangs of ex-marihuana producers,
locally called "combos," that terrorized the whole population in the Sierra. The critical
deterioration of living standards among small farmers and the lack of government support,
facilitated the arrival of other guerrilla groups and growth of those already there. Paramilitary
groups, initially created to protect rich landlords, got stronger and became a political and military
movement to oppose emerging guerrillas. The presence of armed groups has complicated the
social situation in the Sierra as they take -sides and aggravate various conflicts, and add enormous
uncertainty.
Though indigenous organizations claimed neutrality towards these forces, which has been in
general respected, violence has directly affected them. The strength of indigenous organizations,
the legal support they have and an increasing recognition of their cultural values have helped to
overcome these problems though violence is a constant risk. The project aims to strengthen
indigenous peoples organizations and disseminate their culture in order to gain public recognition
and support as a mechanism that has proved adequate to mitigate violence against them.
7. Legal Framework
The Colombian Constitution of 1991 (Articles 7 and 8) not only recognizes the cultural and
ethnic diversity of Colombia, but establishes as a duty the protection of the country's cultural and
natural richness through mandates such as the following: (i) indigenous peoples languages are
official within their territory; (ii) collective property rights over land in resguardos; (iii) rights
over archeological heritage; (iv) the recognition of indigenous territories as public entities
(entidad territorial indigena); (v) the right to receive fiscal transfers from the central government;
and (vi) the recognition of the right of indigenous authorities to function according to their own
norms and procedures. Colombia ratified, via Law 21 of 1994, the ILO's Convention 169 on
"Indigenous and Tribal People."
- 76 -



The 1991 Constitution reinforced rights of indigenous peoples over their territory as an essential
element of their culture as previously recognized in other laws (for example, Article 2 of Decree
2001 of 1988). In Article 21, Decree 2164 of 1995, "Resguardo Indigena" is defined as: "a legal
and socio-political institution with a special character, composed of one or more indigenous
communities that with a collective land title enjoy the guarantees of private property, possess
territory and control its management and the internal life of the community through an
autonomous organization governed by the indigenous community's own normative system."
(Reserva indigena is a transitional stage prior to becoming a resguardo.) Property rights in the
lands of the resguardo are permanent and cannot be mortgaged or sold (Constitution, Articles 63
and 329).
In Article 286, the Constitution incorporates the concept of "Resguardo Indigena" within the
national territorial structure defined as a decentralized entity with political and administrative
autonomy, therefore giving indigenous authorities the right to manage their territory. In article
357, the Constitution established the right of the indigenous resguardo to receive fiscal transfers
from the central government, a practice initiated in 1994 with funds passing through
municipalities in accord with Decree 1809 of 1993. Article 330 of the Constitution indicates that
indigenous territories will be governed by councils (consejos) formed and regulated in accord
with the practices and customs of their communities. Decree 1088 of 1993 recognizes as a public
entity the establishment of "asociaciones de cabildos". In November 1999, the four indigenous
organizations in the Sierra Nevada agreed to constitute such an organization (Consejo Territorial
de Cabildos) in order to present a unified position to the government and other external
organizations.
The most important regulations directly influencing the situation in the Sierra Nevada are: (i)
Decree 2811 of 1974, the National Code for Renewable Natural Resources and Protection of the
Environment that contains regulations concerning the national parks; and (ii) the Agrarian
Reform Law 160 of 1994. According to Decree 2811 all productive activities are forbidden
within national parks and protected areas. Later, Article 7 of Decree 622 of 1977 recognized that
indigenous peoples' activities are compatible with protected areas and established a special
management regimen; other groups however should move. Resolution 0199 of October 8, 1980
which established the Kogui-Malayo and Arhuaco reserves in the Sierra Nevada specifically
indicates that no land occupation or labor activities are permitted for persons not belonging to
these ethnic groups. The Agrarian Reform Law 160 and complementary decrees establish the
process for establishment and expansion of resguardos, procedures for relocating persons from
resguardos and protected areas including payment for land improvements, as well as subsidies to
buy land and support to carry out relocation for those eligible as land reform beneficiaries or
those displaced by violence. In practice, INCORA's lack of resources to pay for the relocation
process means that many families are living in a vacuum, illegally located within protected areas
but unable to move. (See Annex 11 for a fuller discussion of this issue.)
The development of this legal framework has had a positive impact on indigenous peoples
organizations in the Sierra. They have been pro-active in seeking recognition of their rights and
taking advantage of all possibilities offered in the Law, particularly in relation to territory and
autonomy. The four indigenous peoples organizations which united their efforts by establishing
the Consejo Territorial de Cabildos in late 1999 have the ability to defend their rights and exert
control and are the recognized authorities over their territories.
- 77 -



8. Consultation and Participation
The project builds on more than ten years of consultation initiated in 1988 by the Foundation to
develop through a participatory process a strategy for the conservation of the Sierra Nevada that
culminated in 1997 in the publication of the Sustainable Development Plan (SDP) and the
subsequent efforts to implement it. From the beginning, indigenous peoples have been consulted
recognizing their ancestral rights and their importance for the preservation of the Sierra.
However, the consultation process with indigenous peoples involves their own procedures that
are lengthy and difficult because they involve reaching consensus at the community level and
spiritual guidance from their traditional authorities. Reaching western style agreements is
difficult, because of this process and indigenous peoples' decision to participate on their own
terms as a continuous exercise has been fully respected by the Foundation.
Indigenous peoples directly participated in preparing the SDP through their Cabildos
Gobernadores and a series of community meetings. Consultations with traditional authorities
were also carried out following traditional rites called "pagamentos" which are offerings specially
designed for the occasion. Their complaints and priorities were included in the final version of the
Draft Plan in 1996 mainly: the loss of ancestral territory, contamination and deforestation
affecting the Sierra, the imposition of the "little brother" (the way non indigenous persons are
referred to), the lack of government assistance, the lack of recognition of traditional management
of natural resources and the impact of "guaqueria" (robbery of sacred offerings from ritual sites).
However, before formally endorsing the Plan, indigenous authorities requested yet another round
of consultations directly with their communities. The Foundation promoted, funded and carried
out this consultation process including the meeting in Bonga in which traditional authorities and
the Kogi and Arhauaco Cabildos Indigenas and the whole community participated. One
important outcome of this process was the delimitation of the ancestral indigenous territory,
delineated by sacred sites, which comprise the so-called Black Line (Linea Negra).
The SDP was published and endorsed by various central, regional and local government
authorities in February 1997. In December 1997, an agreement was reached by the Foundation
and Indigenous Affairs Department of the Ministry of the Interior with the four indigenous
organizations in the Sierra to carry out an official round of consultations on the published version
of the Plan; this would include a meeting in the region of each indigenous organization and a
final, joint meeting of the four groups to agree on the indigenous response to the Plan. Four
consultation meetings took place in Achintukwa (Organizacion Wiwa Yugumain Bukanarrua
Tayrona); Sabana Crespo (Confederacion Indigena Tayrona); Guatapuri (Organizacion Indigena
Kankuama); and Bonga (Organizacion Gonawindua Tayrona). Selected leaders from each
organization presented and explained the Plan to their communities in their own language.
Indigenous peoples expressed their priorities in the joint meeting carried out in Bonga in March
1998 including: (i) the problem of the overlapping territory National Parks-Resguardos-farmers;
(ii) traditional authority and autonomy; and (iii) the need to prepare Planes de Vida (life plans)
for each ethnic group. They indicated that more time was needed for consultation with the Mamas
(traditional authorities) on the Plan, that they considered the preparation of Planes de Vida to be a
top priority, and the need for a mechanism which honored their right to be consulted about any
activities and plans to be carried out in the region.
In March 1998, the Forum for the Sustainable Development of the Sierra Nevada took place to
continue the participatory process and validation of the SDP involving more than 600 participants
including indigenous leaders. One session was specifically dedicated to SDP's programmatic area
of strengthening indigenous cultural identity. The priority of preparing planes de vida was
- 78 -



reiterated and recommendations included the need to analyze different models of land use and the
dissemination of indigenous peoples knowledge. On the request of indigenous organizations
during the Forum, the Steering Committee for the SDP (Comite Directiva) was established
comprising the four Cabildos, the Minister of the Environment, Indigenous Affairs Department
from the Ministry of the Interior, and a representative of the Presidency with the Foundation
acting as the Technical Secretariat with voice but no vote. The decision to create the Committee
arose in response to the concern of indigenous authorities expressed in the Bongo meeting and
reiterated during the Forum that they should be consulted regarding all matters related to the
region's development. The Committee is in charge of overseeing SDP activities and ensuring
that the concerns and priorities of indigenous authorities are fully taken into account; it can
present proposals and recommendations to the Regional Environmental Council and
municipalities.
The consultation process around the SDP and related issues has continued influencing positively
and strengthening indigenous organizations. Presently, the rights of indigenous peoples and the
value of their culture are broadly recognized among all groups in the Sierra. Consultations
between the four indigenous organizations in the context of the Steering Committee has probably
contributed to their decision in late 1999 to establish the Consejo Territorial de Cabildos so that
they can speak with a unified voice which will substantially strengthen their influence. As of
February 2000, the process of preparing the planes de vida was reaching the final stages with a
proposal of the Consejo Territorial de Cabildos (Consejo de cabildos) to share them with non-
indigenous authorities throughout the region in March 2000. In addition, the Foundation is
seeking support for SDP activities for which indigenous peoples are the main beneficiaries such
as the agreement with The Nature Conservancy (TNC) and the Organizacion Gonawindua
Tayrona to finance the purchase of lands to build the indigenous territory which will also
contribute to conservation in critical areas.
The project fits within this framework, benefits from the previous process and continues the
participatory approach. Two consultative workshops were carried out during the project's
preparation (December 1998 and April 1999) in which indigenous peoples' leaders and their
representatives shared their views with other stakeholders and expressed their priorities such as:
(i) to continue the recovery of their territory, including access to sacred sites; (ii) strengthening
indigenous organizations and developing leadership; (iii) to gain recognition and disseminate
their culture; (iv) to advance in preparation of theirplanes de vida; and (iv) to reach agreements
with the Parks Unit on preparation of a collaborative plan to manage their overlapping territory.
These priorities have been incorporated into the project design. However, respecting the cultural
procedures of indigenous peoples, it has been agreed that consultation will be a "work in
progress" to incorporate the views of the whole community into the decision-making process. In
February 2000, a final round of consultations prior to negotiation of the loan agreement with the
Government was carried out with the Cabildos Territorial Council. During this meeting, the
cabildos reiterated their main concerns and expressed their goodwill towards the project. (The
consultation process is fully documented with minutes, agreements, and videos in the project
file.)
- 79 -



8. Indigenous Peoples Strategy
This Indigenous People Strategy (IPS) responds to the main principles of the Foundation's
program, including the LIL and proposed GEF project, namely: (i) recognition of the cultural
plurality of the Sierra; (ii) promotion of inclusion and collaboration among stakeholders; and (iii)
reduction of conflicts and development of an intercultural dialogue which will support the
conservation and sustainable development of the Sierra. Accordingly the IPS evolves around four
action lines:
* Acknowledgment of Indigenous Authorities: The project promotes recognition and support of
indigenous peoples' traditional authorities the Mamas and their four cabildos gobernadores.
In accord with the decision of the indigenous organizations, the contact point for discussions
and agreements concerning the projects will be the Cabildos Territorial Council (Consejo
Territorial de Cabildos) comprised of the cabildos of the four indigenous organizations.
* Recognition of Indigenous Priorities: Indigenous priorities have been incorporated into the
project's design and receive special attention in its three components. The project's annual
operating plan will incorporate specific actions yearly agreed with indigenous organizations
in accord with their Planes de Vida.
 Compatible Conservation and Sustainable Development: The conservation strategy embodied
in the Foundation's program and the two projects is fully compatible with indigenous peoples
traditions, productive system and holistic vision of the environment. Indigenous peoples'
knowledge will be fully incorporated into the collaborative management plan for the Sierra
Nevada park, being jointly prepared with the Parks Unit. The project aims to more broadly
disseminate indigenous knowledge and to promote an intercultural dialogue.
* Active and Continuous Participation: The project incorporates mechanisms for indigenous
peoples participation throughout project implementation through a process established by
indigenous organizations themselves which takes into account their customary process of
consultation and decision-making.
These principles have been incorporated into the project's components along with specific actions
identified as priorities and agreed on through the consultation process carried out during project
preparation. However, the specific activities to be supported each year will be decided by the
Cabildos Territorial Council and incorporated into the project's annual operating plans allowing
time for customary consultation with the Mamas and the community. The Foundation, which is
the implementing agency of the project, has the social, technical and legal skills to carry out the
consultation process and the activities described below, and an established track-record that
demonstrates this capacity.
(a) Knowledge Generation and Dissemination
This component comprises activities to disseminate indigenous people's values and promote
recognition and understanding of their culture and the role they play in preserving the Sierra, such
as the following:
- 80-



(i)    Dissemination notes about the four indigenous groups, their cultural background and
views about the Sierra, their relationship with and management of natural resources and
the environment as part of promoting an intercultural dialogue;
(ii)    Preparation of studies to document and disseminate indigenous peoples' conservation
strategy and its impact;
(iii)   Dissemination, on the request of indigenous organizations, of planes de vida, agreements
and other papers contributing to enhancing the cultural plurality of the Sierra;
(iv)   Public events to analyze and discuss indigenous culture and its present and future role in
conservation of the Sierra;
(v)    Exchanging experiences with other projects involving indigenous people's organizations
in conservation activities.
(b) Participation, Organizational Strengthening and Coordination
Stronger indigenous organizations are critical to overcome exclusion and better protect them from
violence. Activities under this component respond to indigenous priorities and are intended to
strengthen their role as a critical actor in the Sierra, and may include the following:
(i)  Support for the development of the Cabildos Territorial Council providing upon request
legal advice, training etc.;
(ii)  Support to develop indigenous leaders by providing training and opportunities to participate
in exchanging experiences with other projects;
(iii) Advice and support to access national and intemational donors providing resources for
preservation of the Sierra's cultural and natural riches;
(iv) Support to carry out traditional ceremonies presided by Mamas and other customary
consultation processes within communities to promote active participation in the LIL and
GEF projects.
(c) Collaborative Management
This component responds to indigenous organizations main priority: to gain control of their
ancestral territory. However, it has been designed to reduce conflicts with other interest groups by
promoting understanding and reaching mutual agreements, including mitigation measures if
necessary. Under this component the project will undertake activities such as the following:
(i)  Support, through legal and technical advice, for preparation of the collaborative
management plan (intercultural management plan) for the overlapping area of the Sierra
Nevada park and indigenous reserves;
(ii)  Technical and financial support to carry out specific actions to implement the intercultural
management plan (see i above) and document its results;
- 81 -



(iii) Implementation of a pilot voluntary resettlement project to support the recovery of
indigenous territory while mitigating impact on farmer families willing to resettle;
(iv) Legal and financial support to gain access to sacred sites according to a priority program
defined by the indigenous authorities;
(v)  Testing of alternative sustainable production activities within indigenous territory
compatible with their cultural background.
(d) Monitoring and Evaluation
The project's monitoring, evaluation and learning system is being prepared under component I
with an approach involving active participation of indigenous peoples.
- 82 -



It - - 
i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
~~~ zi~~~~~~~~~   = ~ ~ ~
~~~UEThE1~~~~~~~~~~~~EIUEUUUNfl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~  . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...I. . . . . . . . . . . . .
...    ...                       ....                                    ....................~~~~i -------
tl: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-
.......           ... ......
.....................
C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~...................    .........






Map 2. Pilot Regions, Sierra Nevada Sustainable Development Project
-PR
~~~~~~~~~~~~/< 
1
ikr
PR,A414arJ  I'n.12                           .,        ,'        ~I           .     .
;Of,--n                   '                                     V          '   '<.   0 "  ''                        ---
A.- X'~~-0  N. ': i"'                                                                                            N.--
-.     -.     .   c ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ 4R91 -~:J.D     I '.  -
Al ~ ~    ~ ~ -%
Soutrce    udc6  Pro-v. Sie~- '.  rraqX . PlJanC de Dearol  Sosenibe, 199
t t_, P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R: iotRgionesSloioeo
sAr;cuans~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .o O  _nooe is Sa' Ots............,__ 
Souree:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Fungacio  PronSierra Plan deen Desrrll  So non) 99






C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
C)~~~~~~~~C
------~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ---  - ------
, .  ..............   .............  .  . ,   ,  . -  -'.t-.  -'--    .  ---- --  --   '   ---------                ............-  ....z... ---'--



