                                                                        CONFORMED COPY



                                                                   LOAN NUMBER 7016-CO




                                    Loan Agreement


                   (Sierra Nevada Sustainable Development Project)


                                       between


                                 REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA


                                         and


                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT




                                  Dated May 23, 2000

                                                                   LOAN NUMBER 7016-CO

                                    LOAN AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated May 23, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

      (B)    the Borrower, through its National Planning Department (DNP) will cause
the Project willto be carried out by Fundación Pro-Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, a
Colombian non-governmental organization pursuant to its articles of association
approved on July 24, 1986 (the Foundation); and

      (C)    the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend to the Borrower the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the
Loan), upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;

      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                      ARTICLE I

                           General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the
modification set forth below  (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.

      Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 is modified to read as follows:

             "(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date
as may be    agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower,
through its        National Planning Department shall furnish to the Bank a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the
execution of the Project, its cost, the       performance by the Borrower and the Bank
of their respective obligations under the Loan              Agreement, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, and the lessons learned from the
execution of the Project."

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

      (a)  "DNP" means the Borrower's National Planning Department (Departamento
Nacional de Planeación);

      (b)    "Eligible Categories" means categories (1) through (5) set forth in the
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (c)    "Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;

      (d)    "Foundation's Account" means the account referred to in Part B.1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

      (e)    "Fund" means the separate fund to be created within the Foundation for
purposes of financing Subprojects through GrantsTransfers;

      (f)    "Fund Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 3.01
(c) (iv) of this Agreement;

      (g)  "Grants" means the grants referred to in Part C.1 (d) of this Agreement;

      (h)    "Indigenous Peoples Strategy" means the strategy, referred to in the
Foundation's letter sent by DNP and the Foundation to the Bank, dated on March 29,
2000, for the carrying out of the Project with due observance of the rights of the
indigenous peoples living in the Sierra Nevada, which includes recognition of, and
support to, traditional social organization and cultural values, recognition of land
and natural resource use rights, and a continuous process of consultation between the
Foundation and indigenous authorities with respect to specific activities to be
carried out in the development of such strategy;

      (i)    "Pilot Regions" means the regions in the Sierra Nevada which are referred
to in the Foundation's letter sent by DNP and the Foundation to the Bank, dated on
March 29, 2000;

      (j)    "Procedures and Policies Manual" means the manual, issued by the
Foundation in 1992, containing the internal procedures and policies applicable to the
operations of the Foundation, as such Manual will be amended pursuant to this
Agreement;

      (k)    "Project Management Report" means any of the reports prepared in
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;

      (l)    "Sierra Nevada" means the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta eco-region defined
in the Plan de Desarrollo Sostenible de la Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta: Estrategia de
Conservación, published by the Foundation in February 1997;

      (m)    "Subproject" means any of the projects referred to in Part C.1 (d) of the
Project;

      (n)    "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement;

      (o)    "Transfer" means any of the non-reimbursable transfers of funds referred

to in Part C.1 (d) of this Agreement; and

      (p)    "Voluntary Resettlement Guidelines" means the guidelines, set forth in
the Foundation's letter sent by DNP and the Foundation to the Bank, dated on March 29,
2000, containing the principles and procedures applicable to the voluntary
resettlement of population referred to in Part C.2 of the Project.

      Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to the Foundation.

                                      ARTICLE II

                                       The Loan

      Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five million
Dollars ($5,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this
Agreement.

      Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan [and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General
Conditions].

      Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 15, 2005 or such later date as
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

      Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee. Such fee shall be payable not later
than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.

      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i)
eighty-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b)
of the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date;
and (ii) seventy-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.

      Section 2.06.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period
equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period,
pay interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions.

      Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.

      Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: a
change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; a change of the interest rate basis
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable
Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and the setting of limits on the Variable Rate
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on
said Variable Rate.

      (b)    Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in Section 2.01
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions
of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

      (c)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless otherwise notified by the Borrower
in accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each
Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate in
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the
Conversion Guidelines.

      (d)    Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium
be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any
premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to
the amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

                                     ARTICLE III

                               Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project, and, to this end, shall, through DNP, pursuant to the Subsidiary Agreement,
cause the Foundation to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and environmental practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.

      (b)    The Borrower, through DNP, shall:

             (i)   enter into an agreement, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank               (the Subsidiary Agreement) with the Foundation whereby (A)
the Foundation will                     undertake to carry out the Project as set
forth or referred to in this                         Agreement, and to comply with the
other obligations to be undertaken by the                   Foundation pursuant to
this Loan Agreement, and (B) the Borrower will                           undertake to
transfer to the Foundation the proceeds of the Loan and the
counterpart funds as required for the Foundation to carry out the Project; and
             (ii)  exercise its rights, and comply with its obligations under the
Subsidiary                       Agreement in such a manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the                    Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Project, and, except as the Bank                  shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower, shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive                   or
fail to enforce such agreement, or any provision thereof.

      (c)    Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the
Borrower, through DNP, shall cause the Foundation to:

             (i)   carry out the Project in accordance with the annual operating
plans referred                   to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement or the Project
Management Reports, as the                    case may be;

             (ii)  carry out the Project in accordance with the Indigenous Peoples
Strategy;

             (iii) carry out any voluntary resettlement activity under Part C.1 (d)
of the                           Project in accordance with the Voluntary Resettlement
Guidelines;

             (iv)  carry out Part C.1 (d) of the Project in accordance with the
provisions of an                 operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the
Fund Operational Manual),               which shall contain the criteria for

eligibility and selection of Subprojects                    and recipients of
GrantsTransfers, the procurement, financial management,
environmental and other procedures applicable to Subprojects, and the model of
      the contracts for provision of Grants Transfers;

             (v)   to maintain a general coordinator and a technical committee,
satisfactory to                  the Bank, responsible for the operation of the Fund,
the appraisal and                       supervision of Subprojects and approval of
GrantsTransfers; and

             (vi)  carry out its operations and the Project in accordance with the
provisions of                    the Procedures and Policies Manual; and

             (vii) not later than three months from the Effective Date, employ and
thereafter                       maintain, during the execution of the Project,
persons with terms of                         reference, qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank for the                      positions of Project coordinator,
chief of the monitoring and evaluation unit,                and administrative and
financial director.

      Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

      Section 3.03.  The Borrower, through DNP, shall cause the Foundation to furnish
to the Bank, not later than November 1 of each year during the execution of the
Project until the Foundation starts to produce Project Management Reports, an annual
operating plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the carrying out of the Project in the
immediately subsequent year.

      Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall not cause, and shall not allow the Foundation
to cause, during the execution of the Project, any involuntary resettlement of
population living in the national parks and indigenous reserves in the Sierra Nevada.

      Section 3.05.  The Borrower, through DNP, shall cause the Foundation to:

      (a)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators (as such indicators
may be modified from time to time with the agreement of the Bank) set forth in the
letter sent by DNP and the Foundation to the Bank on March 29, 2000, the carrying out
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and

      (b)    employ, in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section II of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the services of an external evaluator in a timely
fashion so as to enable such evaluator to submit to the Bank, not later than April 1,
2002 and April 1, 2004, reports evaluating the progress of the Project and the
achievement of its objectives.

      Section 3.06.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through DNP, shall cause the Foundation to:
(a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the
Bank not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the continued
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and (b) afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower and the Foundation on said plan.

                                      ARTICLE IV

                                 Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower, through DNP, shall cause the Foundation to
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare
financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the
Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition
and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the
Project.

      (b)    The Borrower, through DNP, shall cause the Foundation to:

             (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets,                          statements of income and expenses and related
statements), including the                           records and accounts for the
Foundation's Account, for each fiscal year                        audited, in
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank,
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;

             (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six                   months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of the financial                 statements referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section for such year as so              audited, and (B) an opinion on such
statements and report of such audit, by                     said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have                          reasonably
requested; and

             (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such
records, accounts                and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and
concerning said auditors,               as the Bank may from time to time reasonably
request.

      (c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of
expenditure, the Borrower, through DNP, shall:

             (i)   maintain or cause the Foundation to maintain, in accordance with
paragraph (a)                    of this Section, records and separate accounts
reflecting such expenditures;

             (ii)  retain or cause the Foundation to retain, until at least one year
after the                 Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last                          withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
records (contracts, orders,                          invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;

             (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and

             (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit                     referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit                    contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the Project                     Management Reports or statements of
expenditure submitted during such year,                     together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their                       preparation,
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.

      Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement, the Borrower, through DNP, shall cause the Foundation to carry out a
time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 (including the
updating of the Procedures and Policies Manual) in order to enable the Foundation, not
later than April 30, 2001, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:

             (i)   (A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the
Project, both                    cumulatively and for the period covered by said
report, and projected sources                 and applications of funds for the
Project for the six-month period following                  the period covered by said
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures                     financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said                          report
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
      Loan during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;

             (ii)  (A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both
cumulatively              and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains
variances between                the actual and previously forecast implementation

targets; and

             (iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and
expenditures under               contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
as at the end of the                          period covered by said report.

      (b)    Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower, through DNP, shall cause the Foundation to prepare, in
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later
than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for
such period.

                                      ARTICLE V

                                 Remedies of the Bank

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Foundation shall have failed
to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.

                                      ARTICLE VI

                              Effectiveness; Termination

      Section 6.01.  The following event is specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of this Agreement, within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)    the Subsidiary Agreement has become effective; and

      (b)    the procurement section of the Procedures and Policies Manual has been
amended in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has
become effective and is legally binding upon its parties in accordance with its terms.


      Section 6.03.  The date August 23, 2000 is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

                                     ARTICLE VII

                      Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

             Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
             Palacio de los Ministerios
             Plaza San Agustín
             Carrera 7A, No. 6-45, Piso 3
             Santa Fé de Bogotá
             Colombia

             Cable address:             Telex:              Facsimile:

                   MINHACIENDA          43289 MHAC CO       (571) 350-9344

      With copies to:

             Departamento Nacional de Planeación
             Calle 26, No. 13-19, Piso 14
             Santa Fé de Bogotá
             Colombia

                                                            Facsimile:

                                                            (571) 2826939

      For the Bank:

             International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America

             Cable address:             Telex:              Facsimile:

                   INTBAFRAD            248423 (MCI) or     (202) 477-6391
                   Washington, D.C.      64145 (MCI)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.


                          REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA



                          By /s/ Luis Alberto Moreno
                                                             Authorized Representative



                          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                             RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                          By /s/ David de Ferranti
                                                               Regional Vice President
                                                       Latin America and the Caribbean

                                      SCHEDULE 1

                        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan

A.    General

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                 Amount of the
                                 Loan Allocated         % of
                                 (Expressed in       Expenditures
      Category                     Dollars)          to be Financed

(1)   Works (other than
      under sSubprojects)           200,000          85%

(2)   Goods (other than
      under Subprojects)            300,000          85%

(3)   Consultants' services
      (including
      auditor's services)
      and training                2,550,000          90%

(4)   Operating costs               700,000          85%

(5)   Grants Subprojects          1,000,000          100% of amounts
                                                     disbursed under
                                                     Transfers

(6)   Front-end fee                  50,000          Amount due under
                                                     Section 2.04 of this
                                                     Agreement

(6)   Unallocated                   250,000

             TOTAL                5,000,000


2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term:

      (a)    "operating costs" means sundry costs, such as office rental, utilities,
office supplies, fuel, communications and transportation expenses, incurred by the
Foundation during Project implementation; and

      (b)    "training" includes the cost of rental of training facilities, materials,
per diem and transportation of trainees and trainers, tuition fees, and study tours.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of:

      (a)    any Category set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule,
unless and until the Borrower shall have paid to the Bank in full the front-end fee
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement;

      (b)    payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and

      (c)    any GrantSubproject, unless the Fund Operational Manual has been issued,
and the general coordinator and the members of the technical committee referred to in
Section 3.01 (c) (v) of this Agreement have been appointed.

4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Accounts to be made on the basis
of statements of expenditures for expenditures: (a) for training, operating costs and
GrantsSubprojects; and (b) under contracts that are not subject to prior review by the
Bank pursuant to Section I, Part D.2, and Section II, Part D.2, of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.

B.  Foundation's Account

1.    The Borrower shall cause the Foundation to open and maintain in Dollars an
account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure
and attachment.

2.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Foundation's
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited
into the Foundation's Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)    until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, and (ii) a request from the
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and

      (b)    upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall

be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.

3.    Payments out of the Foundation's Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Foundation out of the Foundation's Account,
the Borrower shall (or shall cause the Foundation to), at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.

4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not
be required to make further deposits into the Foundation's Account:

      (a)    if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this
Agreement;

      (b)    if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or

      (c)    if the Borrower or the Foundation shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement,
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section
in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Foundation's Account,
or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.

5.    The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Foundation's
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any
time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole
or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank
shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the
Foundation's Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making
such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.

6.    (a)    If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the
Foundation's Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure,
or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide cause the Foundation to provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or cause the Foundation to deposit into
the Foundation's Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Bank into the Foundation's Account shall be made until the
Borrower or the Foundation has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.

      (b)    If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the
Foundation's Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Bank, cause the Foundation to refund to the Bank such outstanding
amount.

      (c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any
portion of the funds on deposit in the Foundation's Account.

      (d)    Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.

                                Annex A to SCHEDULE 1

                  Operation of Foundation's Account When Withdrawals
               Are Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports

1.    For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means the
amount of $350,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Foundation's Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to

the amount of $100,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the
equivalent of $250,000.

2.    Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Foundation's Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Foundation's Account of an
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Foundation's Account such amount as the
Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)    For replenishment of the Foundation's Account, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank requests for deposit into the Foundation's Account at such intervals as
the Bank shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part
B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Foundation's Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Foundation's Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the
Foundation's Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or
more of the Eligible Categories.

3.    The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Foundation's
Account once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Foundation's Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.

                                Annex B to SCHEDULE 1

                  Operation of Foundation's Account When Withdrawals
                 Are Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports

1.    Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Foundation's
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such
deposit into the Foundation's Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.

2.    Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the
Foundation's Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.

3.    Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Foundation's Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order
to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of
such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount
indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Foundation's
Account, shall not exceed the amount of $600,000.

                                      SCHEDULE 2

                              Description of the Project

      The objective of the Project is to develop and test in the Pilot Regions a
participatory methodology and operational mechanisms for promoting sustainable
management of production and natural systems in the Pilot Regions.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A:      Knowledge Generation and Dissemination

1.    Design of the methodologies and operational mechanisms, which will be tested in
the Pilot Regions, for promoting collaborative management, sustainable production
systems at the farm level, and institutional strengthening.

2.    Design and implementation of a communications strategy to enhance awareness and
generate support for conservation of biodiversity and sustainable development in the
Sierra Nevada, including the dissemination of good practices and experiences.

3.    Carrying out of study tours and visits, farmer exchanges, and workshops to
promote exchange of knowledge and experience.

4.    Carrying out of studies and action-research to develop new information,
methodologies and tools in innovative areas where knowledge and experience are
limited.

5.    Establishment and implementation of a monitoring, evaluation and learning system
for the Project.

Part B:      Participation, Organizational Strengthening and Coordination

1.    Carrying out of a program to strengthen regional and local (particularly at the
community level) organizations supporting sustainable development in the Sierra
Nevada, including capacity building activities, technical support and training to
critical stakeholders, and assistance in the preparation of Subprojects.

2.    Carrying out of Project management activities, and technical assistance for the
design and implementation of a strategic plan for the institutional development of the
Foundation.

Part C:      Collaborative Management and Subprojects

1.    Carrying out of the following activities in the Pilot Regions:

      (a)    testing of a participatory methodology for bringing together key
stakeholders within a given level of the ecosystem (region, zone, area) zones and
areas in each Pilot Region to develop collaborative management plans;

      (b)    testing of a participatory methodology for developing sustainable
production systems at the farm level;

      (c)    provision of technical and material support for implementation of
activities related to those under (a) and (b) above; and

      (d)    provision of grants (the Grants)transfer, on a non-reimbursable basis, of
funds (the Transfer) required to finance projects related to conservation and
sustainable use of natural resources in the Pilot Regions (the Subprojects).

2.    Technical assistance for the implementation of a collaborative management plan
for the overlapping territories of the Sierra Nevada park and indigenous reserves,
which may include assistance to complete the process of defining such plan,
consultations and agreements with farmers living within such territories to support
such plan, sustainable development alternatives for farmers and indigenous peoples
living within such territories, and a pilot voluntary resettlement project for such
farmers.

                                         ***

      The Project is expected to be completed by JulyJune 15, 2005.

                                      SCHEDULE 3

                                Amortization Schedule

1.    The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
applies.

                                              Installment Share
      Payment Date                            (Expressed as a %)

      On each February 15 and August 15

      Beginning August 15, 2005
        through August 15, 2016                      4.17%

      On February 15, 2017                                  4.09%


2.    If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

      (a)    To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

      (b)    Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.

3.    (a)    Withdrawals made within two months prior to any Principal Payment Date
shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any
Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the
date of withdrawal.

      (b)    Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3,
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such
billing system.

4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank

so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate
component of the Screen Rate.

5.    If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.

                                      SCHEDULE 4

                                     Procurement

Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:      General

      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.

Part B:      International Competitive Bidding

      Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.

Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Shopping

      Goods (other than under Subprojects) estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $330,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.

2.    Procurement of Small Works

      Works (other than under Subprojects) estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $230,000 equivalent, may be
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works,
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.

3.    Procurement under Subprojects

      Works, goods and related services under Subprojects shall be procured in
accordance with the procedures specified in the Fund Operational Manual, which will
provide that: (a) works will be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to
in paragraph 2 above (procurement of small works) or through community participation
procedures, as set forth in paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines; and (b) goods and
related services will be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in
paragraph 1 above (national shopping procedures) or, if such procedures are not
feasible under a specific Subproject, through direct contracting procedures.

Part D:      Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.    Procurement Planning

      Prior to the issuance of any invitation to bid for contracts during any year of
Project implementation, the proposed procurement plan for the Project during such year
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the

provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods
and works during any such year shall be undertaken in accordance with the
corresponding procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.    Prior Review

      (a)    The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply to the contracts to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of
Part B of this Section I, if any.

      (b)    The following procedures shall apply to the first contract to be procured
in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part C.1 and 2 above:

             (i)   prior to the selection of a supplier or contractor, a report on
the comparison                   and evaluation of quotations received shall be
furnished to the Bank;

             (ii)  prior to the execution of the contract, a copy of the
specifications and the                  draft contract shall be furnished to the Bank;
and

             (iii) the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the                Guidelines shall apply.

3.    Post Review

      The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part D.

Section II.  Employment of Consultants

Part A:      General

      Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following
provisions of Section II of this Annex.

Part B:      Quality- and Cost-based Selection

      Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants' services
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.

Part C:      Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants

1.    Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications

      Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

2.    Individual Consultants

      Consultants' services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.

3.    Single Source Selection

      Services that meet any of the requirements of paragraph 3.9 of the Consultant
Guidelines, costing in the aggregate not more than $400,000 equivalent, may, with the

Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Part D:      Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants

1.    Selection Planning

      Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals during any
year of Project implementation, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants
under the Project during such year shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants' services during any such year
shall be undertaken in accordance with the corresponding selection plan as shall have
been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.

2.    Prior Review

      (a)    With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

      (b)    With respect to the first two contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost the less than $100,000 equivalent, and the contract for the
external evaluator referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a))
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

      (c)    With respect to each contract for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and for the
employment of the persons referred to in Section 3.01 (c) (vii) of this Agreement
regardless of the cost of their respective contracts, the qualifications, experience,
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to
the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after
the said approval shall have been given.

3.    Post Review

      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for assignments of individual
consultants costing more than $20,000 equivalent shall be subject to the Bank's prior
review and approval.

