Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5750-LSO Type: (PR)
AIKINS-AFF/ X34616 / J11137/ AF6IN                   Repon No. P-5750-LSO
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
iNTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 7.2 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OP LESOTHO
FOR AN
INFRASTRUCTURE ENGINEERING PROJECT
JUNE 2, 1992
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipies only in the performance of
thdr official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed ithout World Bank autorzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of May 1992)
Currency Unit      -      Loti (pl. Maloti)
L 1.0              -      US$0.34
U$1.00             -      L 2.9
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)  -      0.0400 inch (in)
1 Meter (M)        -      3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)  -       0.6214 miles (mi)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREV:ATIONS
AB    - Architect Branch of Ministry of Works
AfDB  - African Development Bank
ESAF  -  Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GOL   -  Government of Lesotho
IDA   -  International Development Association
ILO   -  International Labor Organization
IMF   -  International Monetary Fund
IRMP  -  Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
LCU   -  Labour Construction Unit of Ministry of Works
LHDA  -  Lesotho Highlands Development Authority
LHWP  -  Lesotho Highlands Water Project
LSPP  -  Department of Lands Survey and Physical Planning
MOW   -  Ministry of Works
MPEMD -  Ministry of Planning, Economic and Manpower Development
ODA   -  Overseas Development Administration of the United Kingdom
PCR   -  Project Completion Report
PFP   -  Policy Framework Paper
PSIP  -  Public Sector Investment Program
RB    -  Roads Branch of the Ministry of Works
RSA   -  Republic of South Africa
SACU  -  Southern Africa Customs Union
SADCC -  Southern Africa Development Coordination Conference
SIDA  -  Swedish International Development Authority
WASA  - Water and Sewerage Authority
WSB   - Water and Sewerage Branch of the Ministry of Water, Energy &
Mining
FISCAL YEAR
GOL: April 1 to March 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KNGDM  OF LESOTHO
IN1AST1J~URKENGrINEERIla PRO3ECT
m R Tr AND PgRJCTY
borrowers                      KXngdom of Lesotho
leneficiariess                 Ministry of Vorks and Ministry of
Water, Energy and Mining
Credit Amounts                 SDR 7.2 million (US$9.8 million
equivalent)
Teamss                         Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Fliancing glant                                         USS Millions
IDA                          9.8
Government                   2.5
Totals                      12.3
Economic Rate of Returns       Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:        None
Mal"                          IBRD No. 23718
T  dwocument has a rickd ditbution nd may be used by rpients ony In e perfonnme
of thke offiia duteks. Its contents may not orwise be dsclosed without Word Bank authodiation.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF TUE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIrE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO LESOTHO
FOR AN INFRASTRUCTURE ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.  I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation
on a proposed development credit to Lesotho for SDR 7.2 million, the
equivalent of US$9.8 million, on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40
years, to help finance an engineering project for infrastructure.
2.   Country/Sector Background. Lesotho is a poor, landlocked, mountainous
country, completely surrounded by the Republic of South Africa (RSA).
Besides its 1.8 million people and abundant water, it possesses few natural
resources.   Due to its mountainous terrain, only I3S  of the country's
30,000 square kilometer land area is suitable for agriculture. The most
significant characteristic of Lesotho's economy is its heavy dependence on
RSA, which is the destination of 80 percent of its ezports and where more
than 95 percent of its imports originate, as does most of its foreign
investment. About 40 percent of the male labor force is employed in RSA
(mainly in the mines); remittances of migrant workers account for as much
as one-half of Lesotho's US$440 (1989) per capita income. Approximately
one b.J.f of government revenues comes from Lesotho's share of import
tariffs collected by the Southern Africa Customs Union (SACU)ll and
distributed with a two-year lag.
S.   Vhile the dependency relationship has been beneficial to Lesotho, it
also exposes the economy to major risks from external shocks. Lesotho
currently faces real dangers of rapid declines of financial flows from its
two major sources of income from RSA. SACU revenues are not likely to grow
as quickly as In the past since RSA is now placing greater emphasis on
domestic indirect taxation - value-added tax (VAT) was introduced in
September 1991 - and RSA is also studying ways to reduce the compensatory
element of SACU payments. The compensatory portion of SACU, a direct
transfer from RSA, is intended to offset the polarization of development
and price-raising effects of Lesotho's membership in a customs union with a
much larger economy like RSA's. In addition, total employment in RSA's
mines has been falling since 1986. This, coupled with other adverse
factors that are affecting the employment of Basotho workers in the mines,
such as the observed tendency of South African mining companies to
substitute Basotho with black South African workers given the increasing
teusions in RSA's labor market and rising trade union activity, point to
expected decreases in migrant miners' remittances. The current drought in
Southern Africa will accentuate the need for employment generation,
particularly in rural areas.
4. Recognition that the country has to prepare itself for changing
circumstances is at the core of the Government's agenda of structural
adjustment and policy reform. The objectives of the agenda ares (i) to
achieve effective fiscal discipline and prioritization of development
goals; (il) to reduce dependence on employment opportunities in RSA by
1/ Member countries of SACU are Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, RSA and
Swatiland.



-2-
diversifying the domestic ecouomy; and (iii) to develop the human resource
base to meet the challenges and rV erse the decline In the terms of trade
against migrant labor by enhancing the akills of those who might still need
to seek employment in RSA. The Government has articulated its strategic
agenda in a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) every year since 1988, and has
received support from the IF, the Bank and the de,or communmity. During
this period, the fiscal deficit after grants h.s been reduced from a high
of 20 percent of GDP in 1987/88 to about 2 percent of GDP in 1990191;
overall government expenditures have been reduced from 60 percent of GDP In
1987/88 to about 52 percent in the same period; non-SAUU revenues have been
raised from 14 percent to 18 percent; and initiation of the Lesotho
Highlands Water Project (Ln. 8853-LSO, US$110 million) has not only created
new employment and stimulated the supply of services and goods from the
private sector, but has also added to SACU payments from the imports
associated with the project.
5.   At the same time, there have been policy changes directed at
structural changes in the economy to induce greater contribution to
economic performance from the private sector, particularly in agriculture.
construction and manufacturing. While there have been discernible
responses in the last two categories, the overall progress In
Implementation of the policies has been slower than anticipated. The
introduction of grazing fees, land reform and compilation of a national
livestock inventory designed to improve the efficiency of agriculture to
not only stimulate the sector's growth but also deal with the longer term
effects of environmental degradation have been delayed because of the
Government's desire to obtain greater consensus on these issues.
Impleamentation of a divestiture and commercialization program for state-
owned enterprises has also been delayed, as the Government opted for a more
comprehensive approach to parastatal reform and privatization, and has
since sought Bank assistance in preparing an action plan for this purpose.
Reform of the civil service which began 2 years ago has slowed down due to
the ongoing democratization process expected to culminate in multiparty
elections in October/November 1992.
6.   The reduction in public expenditures (para. 4) has particularly
affected public investment, notably infrastructure. While this led to
improvements in the selection criteria of projects approved under the
Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP), the reduction of funds, often done
across the board, reduced the affected sector's ability to maintain
existing assets and to make key investments targeted to enhance the value
and service coverage of investments already in place. Funding constraints
have also shrunk the already weak capability of the sectors in terms of
their staffing, management and lnformation systems. The Government, the
Bank and donors involved in the sectors now recognize the urgent need for a
more focused approach to enhance the concerned sectors' ability to maintain
the considerable existing infrastructure assets, improve the efficiency of
their utilization and expand their coverage to serve the general population
as well as the emerging private sector. An Infrastructure Rehabilitation
and Maintenance Project (IRMP) is included in the lending program for FY94
in order to rehabilitate aud expand the road network, expand and upgrade
water systems, rehabilitate public buildings and strengthen existing
maintenance systems. However, significant institutional preparatory work
and training are needed to ensure sufficient capacity to implement the
IBM?. Key government agencies in the infrastructure sector need to build



capaclty to beneflt frou the Government's coordinationlprivatization
luitiatives (para. 5)* Skills are needed to assess timing and ranking of
new Investments, evaluate rehabilitotion of old investments as an
alternative to new ones, and budget for resources needed for operation and
maintenance. Capacity also needs to be in place for full cost recovery and
systems instituted for procurement of private sector services.
7.   Prolect Obiectives, The primary objective of the infrastructure
eangneering project is to increase the economic benefits derived from
infrastructure Investments in the roads, urban water and sewerage, and
public buildings sectors. This will be achieved by: (i) establishing
procedures in the respective sector agencies for allocating available funds
for investment and maintenance in line with economic criteria, and (i1)
developing the administrative and management capacity of pubLic and private
agencies providing these servlces to increase operational efficiency.  The
project will serve as the vehicle for developing these skills, and will
assist Government in installing suitable coordination and monitoring
systems and improved implementatLon urrangements prior to implementatLon of
the IRIP.
S.   Proiect Description. The project will focus on the four key agencies
that will be responsible for implementation of the IRMP: the Roads Branch
(RSB) and the Labour Construction Unit (LCU) responsible for the national
roads network, the Water and Sewerage Authority (WASA), a parastatal
responsible for urban water supply and sewerage, and the Archltect Branch
(AB) in charge of the maintenance of public buildings. The project will
comprise the following components:
The Roads Component will strengthen the capacity of RB and LCU to
plan, construct and maintain Lesotho's road network bys (a) developing
and implementing a Pavement and Maintenance Management System (PNMS)
In RBB (b) addressing shortages of q4alified professional staff in RB
by (i) funding a Manpower Development and Training Adviser in RB and
(Ui) supporting an ovetseas training program for RB technical staff;
(c) developing a small-scale contracting industry for road maintenance
and construction through LCUJ and (d) reviewing and updating the
Taung-Mokhotlong-Sani Pass Road feasibility and engineering studies.
(DUA will provide a total of US$5.6 million for the Roads Component.)
The Water and Sewerage Component will reinforce WASA's ability to meet
customer demand for water and sewerage services, particularly in the
Haseru urban area, by: (a) funding two experienced senior
waterlsanitation engineers, one for Maseru and the other for the
districts, and an economistlplanuer to develop investment criteria and
maintenance plans to facillitate WASA'8 development into a financially
self-relLant parastatal; (b) conducting an analysis of loss of
revenue due to unaccounted-for-water and proposing measures for
rehabilitation of the Maseru water supply system; and (c) preparing a
long range plan for sanitation in the peri-urban areas of Maseru.
(IDA will provide a total of US$1.5 million for the Water and Sewerage
Component.)
The Public Buildings Componenu will develop the capacity of AB to
maintain public buildings by: (a) funding a Tecknical Advisory Team to
develop a maintenance assessment, prioriti:atioa and implementation



- 4 -
system; and (b) preparing engineering studies for the rehabilitation
and restoration of selected public buildings under the IRMP.  (IDA
will provide a total of US$2.0 million for the Public Buildings
Component.)
9.   In addition to these three components, the project will provide four
man years of technical assistance to MOW for project management and
accounting. A financial controller and a principal accountr at will be
recruited externally to manage project accounting and to strengthen
accounting procedures in the implementing agencies. (IDA will provide a
total of US$0.7 million for Project Management and Accounting.)
10. A breakdown of costs and the finsucing plan is shown in
Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement, and the categories and
schedule of disbursements are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key
project processing events and the status of Bank Group operations in
Lesotho are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. Further details on
the project components are provided in the technical annex which includes
the project implementation plan and supervision schedule. A map, IBRD No.
23718, is also attached.
11. Proiect ImNlementation. The project will be coordinated by the
Ministry of Planning, Economic and Manpower Development (MPEMD) where the
Director, Sectoral Planning will act as project coordinator. This will
ensure a strong link with Government's efforts to strengthen the management
of public funds at the central level. A steering committee for the protect
will be constituted including the project coordinator, the managers of the
four agencies implementing the project and a representative from the Office
of the Chief Financial Controller in the Ministry of Finance. The steering
committee will meet not less than quarterly to monitor progress in project
p_lementation and facilitate overall project management. The regular
representatives to the steering committee will serve as their respective
agency's project manager, responsible for project Implementation and
providing updates to the steering cowl.ttee. The government has agreed to
facilitate timely Implementation of the project by: (i) utilizing to the
extent possible Sample Bank Bidding Documents, Letter of Invitation for
selection of consultants and Sample Consultant's Contract and (it)
identifying counterpart staff and preparing short lists for individuals and
firms to be hired uader the project during the period leading up to credit
effectiveness.
12. Proiect Sustainability. Institutional strengthening will support
WASA's development as a financially independent parastatal by increasing
its ability to recover costs and earn a reasonable rate of return on
capital employed. Improved maintenance procedures in all three sectors
will increase the economic life of existing infrastructure and defer the
need for new investments. The capacity building related to project
evaluation and ranking, and training of private contractors could be
extended to other government agencies in other sectors.
13. Lessons Learned from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement. Previous IDA
supported projects in the roads and urban water sectors have highlighted
the need to strengthen institutional capacity in order to improve
implementation performance. The Seven Towns Water Supply Project (Cr. 887-
LSO, US$6.0 million), which was closed on December 31, 1984, accomplished



the physical objectives of the project but not the institutional
X velopment which was necessary to Improve operational efficiency. The
four highway projects (Cr. 82-BL, US$4.1 million; Cr. 619-LSO, US$5.5
milliong Cr. 884-LSO, US$9.0 million; CR 1481-LSO, US$32.2 million) 'lave
all suffered from shortages of professional staff In RB. This was
particularly evident in the preparation of bidding documents, tender
evaluations and the definition of work programs. There has been no
previous direct IDA Involvement in the pub.ic buildings sector, though
shortages of trained staff in AB were cited as the cause of delays in the
buildings and workshop components of the Third Highway Project. In order
to address these Institutional needs, the engineering project will focus on
technical assistance, skills transfer and training of personnel. The
lessons outlined in the Operations Evaluation Department assessenat of
tecbnical assistance ('Technical Assistance for Institutional Developmet
in Sub S%a2ran Africa', Report go. 8573) have been reflected in the terms
of reference for consultancies and specialist positions.
14. The LCU training program for private contractors will be based on a
program developed in Ghana and successfully implemented throughout Africa
('Developing Domestic Contractors for Road Maintentnce in Africa' by Jean
Marie Lantran, AFTIN). Previous experience with skills development for
sm11 scale enterprises in Lesotho, supported by the Industrial and Agro-
Industries Development Project (Cr. 8990-LSO, US$21.0 million) has
demonstrated the ability of the locally based private sector to provide
government services under contract.
15. Rationale for IDA Involvement. While a number of multilateral and
bilateral donors are actively supporting infrastructure development in
Lesotho, IDA is the only institution which has consistently targeted its
assistance to support Government's overall fiscal management objectives.
IDA participation will extend the capacity enhancement efforts outlined in
the PPP (para. 4) to four key sector agencies responsible for the bulk of
Lesotho's infrastructure. It will also help to ensure that public works
programs and related policy changes are in line with the country economic
development strategy and that further improvements in strategy, policy
formulation and capacity-building are pursued.
16. Atreed Actions. During negotiations, it was agreed that credit
effectiveness will be conditional ons (i) appointment of the project
s8mager and steering comittee and (il) recruitment of a suitably qualified
Financial Manager/Controller in MOW to coordinate accounting procedures
under the project. It was agreed that in the event that a suitably
qualified Financial Manager/Controller cannot be recruited in time to avoid
delay of project implementation, the Government will hire an independent
accounting firm until a qualified applicant is recruited.
17. Environmental Aspects. Environmental assessment of proposed future
Investments under the IUNP will be carried out in parallel with the
engineering studies. Technical assistance under the project will include
building the capacity of the  implementing agencies to carry out
environmental assessments in accordance with the National Environmental
Action Plan. Civil works under the project will be limited to regravelling
and maintenance of existing roads as part of the training of small-scale
contractors.



18. Program Obiective Categories. While the project does not have a
direct poverty alleviation profile, economic use of scarce funds vill
benefit all sections of the population. Rehabilitationjupgrading of roads
will lead to savings In transport costs for rural farmers, many of whom are
poor and most of whom are women. Expansion and rehabilitation of urban
water and sewerage networks prepared for implementation under the TRMP will
Increase the supply and reliability of safe drinking water and hygienic
waste disposal leading to mproved health and the opportunity to devote
time, formerly spent collecting water to income-generating activities.
19. Prosect Benefits. The project will implement the Goverrnet's
adjustment efforts regarding coordination and privatization at the sectoral
level. Successfui implementation of the project will lead to substantial
savings in costs of, and increased benefits from, future Investments
through the use of sound economic criteria for better selection of
investments and the strengthening of maintenance systems. Moreover, a
capacity building engineering project is needed since some technical
expertise in the sector agencies has been absorbed by L.he Highlands Water
Project or by job offers elsewhere In the region. Improved transportation
and water supply infrastructure will lead to higher productivity In the
industrial and agricultural sectors. Considerable benefits are also
anticipated from increased efficiency In the administration and delivery of
public services.
20. Risks.  The primary risk is that skills provided under technical
assistance will not be transferred to Basotho staff. Identification of
suitable counterparts, preparation of detailed, unambiguous terms of
reference, coordination with other donors and careful supervision are
expected to mitigate this risk.  In addition, the follow-on IBMP creates
Incentives within the agencies to ensure that local counterpart staff are
prepared to take over the specialist positions. Realization of the longer
tern goals of the project are threatened by the possibility that the
Government may not reallocate budgetary funds for maintenance work in the
roads and public buildings sectors from force account to private sector
contractor services. However, the Government has a strong commitment to
rationalization of public sector operations and conditionalities will be
Includee in the IRMP to ensure that the expected reallocation occurs.
21. Recommendation. I am satisfied that the credit will comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
June 2, 1992



- 7..
Sch*edule A
KIGDOMF 0    SOT8O
INPEAS nUC tR    - KNgsINR   PROJECT
Estimated Costs and  inacing Plan
A.  Estimated Costs                       LFal        Foreign      Total
-------(tlS$ miillon)-__-_-
Technical Assistance X tra
Roads                                1.3         4.4          5.7
Urban Vater & Severage               0.4         1.3          1.7
Public 3uildIns                      0.4         1.8          2.2
Project Nangeamnt ad Accoutitg            0.1         0.6          0.7
Vehicles & Equipmnt                       0.0         0.4          0.4
Base Cost                                 2.2         8.5          10.7
Coatingencies
Pbysical                             0.1         0.5          0.6
Price                                0.2         0.8          1.O
Total Project costs                       L.A          LI
3.  Financin  Plan
Local       Foreign     Total
______--(US$ million)_____---
IW                                        0.0         9.8          9.8
GouernmentiI                              2.5         0.0          2.S
Total .a                                         LI          JLa
V1 Governmeat's contribution will cover IOOZ of local costs including
the provision of office space and training facilities; transportation
for project staff including vehicle fuel, repairs and maintenance; and
counterpart and support staff salaries and expenses.



-8-
Schedule J
page 1 of 2
KINGD OF ?ISOTNO
IRASTRUCGE                 PROJECT
PROCUREMENT MKOD AID DISBUUSEMIRTS
A. Procurement
Project Elements                            Procurement Method 31
IC0     LCB    Other    Total
C)st41
- (US$ million)--------
Technical Assistance &                                11.0      11.0
TraiRIrA15                                            (8.6)    (8.6)
Project Management and Accounting                      0.8       0.8
(0.7)    (0.7)
Vehicles and Equpmet6/                 0.4             0.1       0.5
(0.4)           (0.1)    (0.5)
Total                             G.4            11.9      12.3
(0.4)           (9.4)    (9.8)
31 IDA contribution shown in parenthesis.
41 Figures have been rounded.
5/ Includes five major consultancies for (i) roads pavement and maintenance
management system; (ii) engineering study of Taung-Mokhotlong-Sani Pass
Road; (iii) water loss study for Maseru; (iv) engineering study of Greater
Maseru sewerage needs; and (v) engineering studies for rehabilitation of
public buildings.
61 Vehicles and equipment includes three vehicles and thirteen vibrating
rollers for the LCU small contractors training.



-9-
Schedule a
Page 2 of 2
KINM  OP LESOTHO
INUSSRCWURE UENGTINEGIING PROJSCS
Procuremaent Method and Disbursements
D. Disbursement
Cateaon                 Amount of Credit  Percent of Exgenditures
(US$ mllion)       to be finaeed
TSchnical Assistance         7.5           100? of foreign
and traiing                                expedtures, 80 of
local ezpenditures
Project Managemat and        0.6           100? of foreign
Accounting                                 expenditures, 80Z of
local expenditures
Vehicles and equipment        0.4          1OOZ of foreig
ezpenditures, 80? of
local expenditures
Unallocated                  1.3
Total Credit Mout            9.8
-stimted IDA disbursements                     IDA Fiscal Year
92       93        94
------- (US$ million) -…-
Annual                                    1.9        4.8       3.1
Accumulative                              1.9        6.7       9.8



10 -
Schedule C
INGDM OF LSOYHO
UN   I IING PROJ0t
tmtable of Ke Credit Processin  heats
Tlm  taken to ppae8    ths
Prepare  by*                     the Gowvramt of Lesotho
vith IDA assistanc e
Mr. Anders Zeijlon (task Manager)
Mr. Steven Schoaberger (Economist)
First IDA iseslon;               August 1991
Appraisal Miessin Departures    November 1991
Date of Negotiation              May 1992
Plawned date of effectlvenesst   September 1992
List of releat PIOse             Lesothot Second Highway Project
(Cr. 0619-LS0)
Lesothot Third Highway Project
(Cr. 0884-LSO)
Lesotho: Seven Towns Vater Supply
Project (Cr. 0887-LS0)
Lesotho: Urban Development Project
(Cr. 106-LS0)



- 11 -
Low ~ ~ ~   ~    ~
14 Cerdt(c)   Ckead                                             "A.l
CUU4814fl      no3    Lam1    H1gwA13 IV                         25.33               "mm 33101 S
cns um         I=      WU0111i    MLM"     .                     son         1."4    3//  p)
e104           I=      LEM        LAND I. A                      t"lll       M.u      #i
Caow zsa9m             Lm.m       u   HOT. t                     u11 040    iS.,      12
C20590-l3   1 K  _fOl   tEAUPA            P                     U.10         low     1//4
C2ouo-LM       I=3    L1Sl        SALI/UPU                        2.0        7.33   W  aRIaa/
C229704ME      aml    LESOIK    MM. SUCOtU                        .32.7              3/1/
Total vmb. .IAG                                                             U.s
o Losss)       Csed_
L064E5LS       1III    LESI       HSAID WTR   t0100                        110.60       /IS
Total somWhaI of L*505   I 1                       1.310.40
Tot0l                                             no0.          %WO
Of W11ic2  epd-                                               AAl 
Total alld by S.* & 3                             10.33          mm
amut sold of wibch reawld
Tout e adiebarsad1mm
Nates:
a    Total approved: Rspasysta.t sad oubtaWland   beat... reprom"s bath estw  sad Isastiva .......
credits.
Indicated foualls reviswe Cloat  Da..
Zodaesb =A4SECAL Leoan. and Crts..
The Nt Approved .W Bsa  Smpaymsat are historical vaiua* al otaa we mnlb valsa.
VW SgC., tfectve and Cle1ag1 dates are based pe tha Lee Sdepat  offical d_t ad aft sat taim
t     z   WSdga t 1-.



- 12 -
Schedule D
Page 2 of 2
KIGOM 0?LSOTNO
INFR&STRUCTUR ENGINEERING PROJECT
The Status of IFC Investments in Lesotho
(as of March 31, 1992)
Investnena   PY    Obligor         Type of   Loan    Equity   Total
Number                             Business
--------       ----------…(----------------(S$ )Nllioa) ----------
2114-LSO     1991  Upper Qeme      Constr     0.1     0.0     0.1
Material
*0S-LSO     1978  Quality         Constr     0.3     0.0     0.3
Aggregate Ind   Material
Total Gross Coinitments                  0.4     0.0     0.4
Lests Cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustments, repayments,
wrSte-offs. and sales                    O.3     0.0      0.3
Total commitments now held by IFC        0.1     0.0     0.1
Total undisbursed                        0.0     0.0     0.0
Total Disbursed                          0.1     0.0     0.1



_ 13 -
?ROCNI, CL ANNEX TO THE      AD      O RECOEDTIONS 0F-=
PIESIDENT FOR AN INFTRtCTuRENGINEEiNG PROJBCT
Section As Detailed Proiect Descriution
laa
1. Infrastructure development is a key element in the strategy to
liversify the sources of growth in the Lesotho economy. Lesotho's
improved economic climate resulting from fiscal constraint and the
revenues from the Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LEWP) creates a
unique window of opportunity to upgrade the infrastructure necessary to
support the development of the country's agro-industrial and industrial
sectors, the two areas of economic activity with good immediate growth
prospects.
2.   However, effective transformation of this opportunity into a vital
component of the country's sustainable economic development will require
that sufficient institutional capacity be in place to maximize the
efficiency of infrastructure investments. Institutional needs include
the followings
(a)    Priority Ranking of Investments:  The Public Sector
Investment Program (PSIP) prepared by the Government with
Bank assistance has pointed out that projects often reflect
donor priorities rather than Government's development
objectives. The Government has initiated measures to
institute central review of all public sector projects, to
develop mandatory procedures for investment budgeting and
accounting, and to establish compulsory assessment of the
impact of new investments on costs for operation and
maintenance.   In order to support this initiative, the
capacity of the infrastructure agencies, which account for
over 40S of government expenditures, must be built up to
allow sectoral level identification, preparation and ranking
of investment alternatives.
This Memorandum and Recommendation of the President (MOP) was prepared
on the basis of an appraisal mission that visited Lesotho in
November/December, 1991. The appraisal mission consisted of Messrs.
Anders Zeijlon (Mission Leader/Economist), Preben Jensen (Principal
Highway Engineer), Ebenezer Aikins-Afful (Senior Sanitary Engineer),
Pieter Smoor (Architect/Consultant) and Erlend Sigvaldsen (Financial
Analyst/Consultant). Mr. Steven Schonberger (Economist) assisted with
preparation of project documentation. The report was reviewed by Mr.
Isaac Sam (former Division Chief, AF6IN). Ms. Phyllis Pomerantz is the
Division Chief of AP6IN. The Director of the Department is Mr. Stephen
Denning. The document was also reviewed by the following three peer
reviewers: Jean-Cristoph Laederach (EMTPH - the public buildings
component), Amadou Cisse (AFTIN - the roads component) and Lars
Rasmusson (MN2IN - the water component).



- 14 -
Cb)    Infrastructure Maintenances  The PSIP has also identified
the need to ensure proper balance between the rehabilitation
of existing infrastructure and the construction of new
facilities. Capital expenditure should not be higher than
normal maintenance allowances can reasonably sustain. Poor
maintenance procedures and administrative and technical
skill limitations have reduced the user benefits from
infrastructure as well as shortening the useful life
resulting in additional investment requirements. A recent
analysis of maintenance and capital expenditures in the
three sectors covered by the engineering project, concluded
that actual maintenance expenditures were less than half the
amount required to efficiently keep the existing
infrastructure as long-term assets.
Cc)    Privatization and Service Contracting.  The Government, as
part of its program to streamline the Civil Service, has
placed a priority on transformation of public agencies into
parastatals operating on a commercial basis and contracting
of field operations including construction and maintenance
activities to the private sector. However, while operation
of the agencies as parastatals in a commercial framework
confers greater operational flexibility, rigorous financial
administration is necessary to ensure a sufficient return on
assets. Further, private sector provision of services to
government agencies requires that contractors have
sufficient management and administrative as well as
technical skills to prepare bids and execute projects
according to government specifications.
(d)    Inaineerina Studies# Previous infrastructure projects have
suffered from Inadequate engineering studies which have
seriously delayed project implementation. Several potential
components of the lRMP will require detailed engineering
studies. These studies will be undertaken only after being
analyzed within the context of investment and maintenance
prioritization.
3.  While these needs apply to all agencies involved in infrastructure,
the impending lRMP project provides the immediate impetus to build up
institutional capacity in the three sectors targeted for IRMP
investments.  The other infrastructure sectors, such as rural water
supply and sewerage are no less important but are generally better
funded than the three sectors targeted for the IRMP. Nonetheless, it is
expected that the experience gained from the engineering project will be
extended to other agencies. The engineering project will strengthen the
Institutions responsible for infrastructure construction and maintenance
in the following sectors:
Roads Sector: The Ministry of Works (MOW) has responsibility for
Roads. MOW has delegated planning, construction and maintenance
responsibility for 4,731 km (90Z) of the national road network to
the Roads Branch (RB) and the Labour Construction Unit (LCU). RB
is responsible for the 2,346 km of paved and gravel roads requiring
the use of heavy machinery. In 1989, LCU was given responsibility



-15 -
for the maintenance and upgrading of 2,385 im of minor roads with a
mandate to promote labor intensive methods.
The pressing need of the transport sector is to rehabilitate the
main paved roads, built-up over the last 20 years, and to properly
maintain and improve the remainder of the road network. Government
policy in the transport sector has placed priority on extending the
road network into the country's eastern mountain areas to develop
their full socil-economlc potential as well as ensure their
political and administrative integration.
The Urban Water and Sewerage Sector: Responsibility for urban
water supply and sewerage provision rests with the newly formed
public corporation, the Water and Sewerage Authority (VASA),
formerly the Water and Sewerage Branch (WSB) in the Ministry of
Water, Energy and Mining.
Lesotho's urban population is growing at over two and a half times
the general population growth rate of 2.32 per annum. During the
1980s. a number of major urban water supply and sewerage
development projects were undertaken in Maseru and 13 other urban
centers to develop networks which make higher levels of service
available to all urban dwellers and the emerging private sector
manufacturing activities, most of which are located in urban areas.
The principle of full cost recovery has created a demand-driven
basis for service provision, with clients buying into higher levels
of service in accordance with their ability to pay. Presently, the
largest investment needs are in Maseru where studies show that
existing water supplies can meet demand only up to 1995.
The Public Buildin8s Sector: The Architect Branch (AB) in MOW is
the overseer of the design, construction and maintenance of public
buildings. Its mandate covers government offices, hospitals and
,pool' housing for government employees.
Maintenance budgets have rarely been sufficient to prevent the
steady deterioration of many government buildings, often resulting
in permanent structural damage, loss of usable space and
deterioration of the working environment. The task of AB is
complicated by the allotment of maintenance funds for government
offices to the agency occupying the building rather than directly
to AB with the consequence that these funds are often poorly spent
or diverted from the intended purpose. Maintenance funds for pool
housing and hospitals are provided directly to AB.
Detailed Description of Prolect Components 71
4.   Roads. The Roads component of the project will build on previous
and ongoing efforts to rationalize the sector through investment
ranking, improvement of maintenance systems, manpower development,
7/ All costs in this section are base costs, and exclude physical and
price contingencies.



- 16 _
training of private contractors and an engineering study to extend the
all weather road network to the eastern region of Lesotho:
(a)    Matntetance.  RB intends to upgrade, update and enhance Its
road maintenance and pavement management proceduree to
achieve a fully implementable and functional system which at
the same time, is compatible with systems being prepared for
other countries in the Southern Africa Development and
Coordination Conference (SADCC) region. A Pavement and
Maintenance Management System (PMMS) will be designed and
implemented to adapt existing RB technical standards to
levels that are economically sustainable in the long run,
and to identify and prioritize preservation works in a way
that minimizes the social cost of transport within
applicable budgetary constraints.  The PMS will also
develop methodologies for planning long-term policies and
expenditure plans for the preservation, maintenance and
expansion of the network, evaluating and designing
construction projects, managing maintenance operations and
for enhancing the safety performance of the network. A
consulting firm will provide a team of specialists including
highway planners, highway engineers, economists and systems
analysts. These specialists will work with and train local
counterpart staff. It is estimated that 72 man months of
technical assistance will be required (US$1.2 million) over
a period of 30 months. Terms of reference were finalized at
negotiations.
(b)    Personnel Development.  RB suffers from a severe shortage of
technical staff. Over one third of posts are vacant, and of
the balance, half are filled by expatriates. A Manpower
Development and Training Advisor will evaluate current
staffing levels and skills and prepare a personnel
development program including overseas training for Basotho
technical staff. Shortages of professional personnel in the
LCU are not as acute as in RB. A recent assessment has
indicated that shortages of technical staff in LCU will not
become critical until 1994. The staffing needs of LCU will
be closely monitored during supervision of the engineering
project to determine the necessity of providing LCU with
similar personnel development assistance in the IRMP. It is
estimated that 24 man months of technical assistance (US$0.4
million) and 300 months of overseas staff training (US$0.8
million) will be required over a period of about 2 years.
Terms of reference were finalized at negotiations.
(c)    Develonment of a Small Scale Contracting Industry.
LCU Intends to involve the private sector in maintenance and
construction activities. The experience in many other
countries, including the most recent successes in Ghana are
models that, with modifications to local conditions, could
be used to develop a nation-wide cadre of small scale
contractors trained in the use of labour-based techniques.
The key advantages will be creating employment
opportunities, boosting the rural economy, reducing reliance



- 17 -
on equipment and improving work efficiencies by shifting
responsibility for the day-to-day site management from 260
LCU support staff to the private sector. LCU will introduce
tendering, contracting, supervision and payment systems
appropriate to the needs of small-scale contractors.
Technical assistance and supporting equipment will be
organized by the Interuational Labor Organization(ILO) to
train contractors in estimating, costing, tender and payment
procedures, labor-intensive work methods and finuancial
management. Training will be conducted at the training
facility in Teyateyaneng, recently constructed with funding
from the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA).
The training program will include the routine maintenance of
480 km and regravelling of 78 km of roads by the
contractorltrainees. Once contracts have been let to
successful tenderers, works will be carefully monitored and
contractors assisted as required to encourage good work
performance and financial success. The labor-intensive work
methods promoted by LCU are aore amenable to decentralized
technical transfer to the private sector than are the
capital intensive techniques utilized by RB.  Nonetheless,
the PMMS will determine road maintenance needs and required
technical skills. During preparation of the IRMP, the
possibility of training local contractors to undertake some
of the maintenance and construction activities presently
carried out by RB will be assessed. It is estimated that
about US$3.4 million will be required for the LCU contractor
training program and associated road works. Terms of
reference were finalized at negotiations.
(d)    Engineering Studies.  The district headquarters town of
Mokhotlong lies in the remote mountain area of the eastern
region. Mokhotlong is not presently connected to the other
district headquarters by an all weather road and the
existing gravel road is often impassable to all but four
wheel drive vehicles. A feasibility study and engineering
design were completed in 1978 and 1979, respectively, for a
proposed paved road from another district headquarters,
Taung, to Mokhotlong and then on to the Sani Pass, a border
crossing between Lesotho and RSA. Review and updating of
the previous studies is necessary in order to determine the
economic viability of upgrading the present gravel roads to
all weather pavement in the context of the investment
priority ranking being prepared under the African
Development Bank (AfDB) funded National Transport Study. It
is estimated that 21 man-months of technical assistance
(US$0.3 million) will be required over a period of 9 months.
Terms of reference were finalized at negotiations.
5.   Urban Water and Severage.  This component will assist the WASA to
become a self-sufficient commercial entity through the provision of
technical assistance, improved maintenance, and engineering studies to
determine the appropriate technology for treatment schemes. The
technical assistance will be implemented in conjunction with on-going
donor assistance.



- 18 -
(a)    Investment, Cororate and Technical Planning. WASA's
financial viability wlll depend on its capacity to meet
urban water and sewerage needs while earning a return on its
assets. An economistiplanner and two planning engineers
will provide technical assistance to improve investment
ranking and operational efficiency. The economist planner
will undertake an investment study to assess and prioritize
existing project proposals in WASA; develop and implement
systems and methods for investment, cost and tariff analysis
incorporating both economic and financial criterial and
initiate an annual corporate planning cycle consisting of
goals and strategy assessment, long- and medium-term plans
and short term budgeting. The planning engineers will
support the planning and coordination of technical services
provided by various operational units. One engineer will
assist the Senior Engineers responsible for water supply and
sewerage in Maseru while the other will assist the Senior
Engineer responsible for District Operations. The engineers
will be responsible for data collection and analysis,
coordination and supervision of maintenance activities,
including accounting of materials, labour and all resources
used so as to maximize the productive utilization of
personnel and equipment. These activities will be
coordinated with the ODA-sponsored twinning agreement
between WASA and Wessex Water International (UK) to
strengthen management, personnel development and financlal
administration. It is estimated that 72 man-months of
technical assistance (US$1.1 million) will be required over
a two-year period. Terms of reference were finalized at
negotiations.
(b)    Maintenance.  In addition to the supervisory and
coordination assistance provided by the planning engineers,
improvements in the maintenance performance of WASA will be
encouraged through an unaccounted for water study in Maseru.
Historically, the Maseru water supply has contributed over
60X of WASA's revenue. However, available data for
unaccounted for water in the Maseru system varies on average
from 15? to 40? of production. Any efforts made to close
the gap between water production and tariffed consumption
will therefore improve the authority's revenues and delay
the need for expensive investments in new water supplies.
The proposed Maseru Water Unaccounted-For Water Study will
establish the extent of unaccounted for water, prepare a
consumer location plan, recommend measures for
rehabilitation together with an implementation program,
estimate the costs for reducing losses to an acceptable
level and the expected associated benefits. The study will
require 20 man-months to complete at an estimated US$0.3
million over a perio4 of one year. Terms of reference were
finalized at negotiations.
(cc)    Enineerinx Study.  Due to the rapid expansion of the
building program now occurring outside of the nearly fully
developed Western and Central Zones of Masern and the



- 19 -
completed Maseru Water Supply Project - Phase It, which
doubled the service area, it has become necessary to review
the long term seweragelsanitation development requirements
iu the new areas being provided with a piped water system.
The Greater Maseru Sewerage Feasibility Study included in
the project will assess the probable physical growth of the
city's peri-urban areas and, taking into account planned and
likely changes in population densities and development
patterns, provide estimates of population for the years 2000
and 2010 and identify physical boundaries for suitable
conurbations. For each conurbation identified, a
determination of the most appropriate wastewater treatment
technology will be made with consideration for service
demand, affordability and willingness to pay, soil and
topography, ground water elevation and environmental
protection. Financial and economic analysis procedures
developed by the economist/planuer to be funded under the
project will be incorporated into the study to assess the
appropriate priority of investments. It is estimated that
20 months of technical assistance (US$0.3 million) will be
required over 14 months to undertake the study. Terms of
reference were finalzsed at negotiations.
6.   Public Buildiaxs.  This component will focus on improving the
systems and skills for maintenance of public buildings through technical
assistance and engineering studies.
(a)    Maintenance Systems.  AB lacks the manpower and resources to
effectively monitor the condition of its building stock,
carry out and supervise maintenance activities and provide
support to the user ministries to budget for maintenance
needs.    A technical advisory team consisting of an
architect, an estate manager, a quantity surveyor and a
structural engineer will be placed in AB for varying lengths
of time tos (1) update the inventory of the building stock;
(2) assess and cost its rehabilitation and maintenance
needs; (3) improve procedures for budgeting for maintenance;
(4) increase the role of private contractors in this area;
and (5) nake proposals for organizational reform of all
entities involved with management and upkeep of public
buildings. Senior personnel in AB will receive training in
estate management, and vehicles and some equipment will be
provided. It is estimated that 60 man-months of technical
assistance (US$1.0 million) will be required over a period
of two years. Terms of reference were finalized at
negotiations.
(b)    Ranineerina Studies.  On the basis of the updated building
inventory conducted as part of the project. AB will identify
a number of public buildings for rehabilitation and/or
restoration during the follow-up IRMP. Consultants will
carry out detailed feasibility and design studies for those
buildings identified and special studies, where necessary,
for buildings with historical significance. The studies
will only be implemented once financing for the execution of



- 20 -
the works had been identified. The studies are estlmated to
require about 80 man months of consultancy (US$1.2 million)
over 15 months. Terms of reference were finalized at
negotiations.
Poject MMaagement and AccountinA
7.  The project wlll be coordinated by the Ministry of Planning,
Economic and Manpower Development (MPEMD) where the Director, Sectoral
Programming, will act as project coordinator. This will ensure a strong
link with Government's efforts to strengthen the management of public
funds at the central level. Similarly, a steering committee for the
project including representatives (one regular and one alternate) from
NPEMD, RB, LCU, AB, WASA and the Office of the Chief Financial
Controller in the Ministry of Finance will be constituted. The steering
committee will meet not less than quarterly with meetings determined by
the program of reviews required under the implementation schedule. The
regular representative to the steering committee will serve as that
agency's project manager, responsible for monitoring progress in project
implementation and providing monthly updates to the steering committee.
The project manager will be responsible for implementation of all
foreign donor assistance in the agency concerned to ensure effective
control over the project components and coordination with on-going
technical assistance.
S.   Project accounting has been identified as a weakness in all of the
participating agencies. A recent analysis of maintenance and capital
expenditures in RB, LCU, AB and WSB (now WASA) concluded that:
(i) The branches rarely have an updated balance sheet or a reliable
fixed asset register.
(ii) Maintenance allocations are difficult to determine due to
weaknesses in the accounting and recording systems.
(iii) It is difficult to get reliable estimates of actual capital
expenditures for the last five year period.
In order to strengthen the accounting function in the participating
agencies as well as the Government's overall project accounting
capabilities, the project will provide four man years (US$0.7 million)
of technical assistance to MOW for project management and accounting.
Specifically, a financial controller and a principal accountant will be
recruited externally for a period of two years each. In addition to the
maintenance of overall project accounts for RB, LCU and AB, the
controller and accountant will assist MOW agencies with the design and
iplementation of accounting systems to value fixed assets, record
capital expenditures and track maintenance expenditures to ensure that
allocations of funds to maintenance are sufficient to maximize the
economic life of infrastructure investments. Similar assistance will be
provided to VASA by the economist-planner.



- 21 -
Section St Prolect Costs. Financlnt. Procurement and Disbursement
Prsoect Costs
9.   The total project cost is estimated at US$12.3 million equivalent.
with a foreign exchange component of US$9.8 million or 80 percent. An
IDA Credit of US$9.8 million equivalent will be provided towards
financing 80 percent of the total project cost. The Government will
contribute US$2.5 million equivalent to finance 100 percent of local
costs, or 20 percent of total costs. The Government will bear the cost
of any taxes and duties on imported goods and services. Project cost
estimates are summarized in Section A.
10. Base cost estimates are calculated in January 1992 prices. The
total contingencies of US$1.4 million equivalent represent 12.5 percent
of total costs. Physical contingencies of 5 percent have been applied
to technical assistance and vehicles and equipment. Price contingencies
represent 8 percent of base costs, and are derived from (i) the
implementation schedule; and (ii) the following expected foreign price
increasess 6 percent in 199211993, 5 percent in 199311994, and 4 percent
In 199411995.
Project Financing
11. The IDA Credit will be utilized for financing the technical
assistance, and the procurement of vehicles and equipment. Government
financing will be utilized for the local costs of all the technical
assistance components including local counterpart and staff salaries,
office space and training facilities, and fuel and maintenance costs for
vehicles and equipment attached to the project.
Procurement
12. Consulting firms, and short- and long-tern specialists will be
recruited both lcally and internationally. The selection,
qualifications, experience and terms of employment for the consultants
will be subject to standard IDA review procedures as set out in the
World Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants. Technical assistance
for the LCU small contractors training component will be procured
through direct contracting with ILO. Vehicles and equipment are
estimated to cost, in the aggregate, not more than US$0.5 million.   To
the extent practicable, contracts of goods should be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more and will
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding according to the procedures set forth !.n the Bank's
Guidelines on Procurement, and in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association.   Items or groups of items estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to US$100,000, will be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the association. Contract documentation for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more will be forwarded
to IDA for prior review. Post-award procurement documentation for all



- 22 -
contracts will also be forwarded to IDA. Government agreed at
negotiations to use Sample Bank Bidding Documents, Letter of Invitation
for selection of consultants, and Sample Consultant's Contract.
13. Procurement of technical assistance will be as follows#
PROJECT COMPONENr             STAFF MONTHS    BASE COST    METHOD OF
PROCUREMNT
A.                           . ____ft__   _______ ____ __
_______________________ P    72_____ US$1.2 nmila   COanPeUII Proms
2. Manpom Develpmet fim      24             US$0. OAMia       U
3. OVrea Tain                300 T       Monf   MUS$0 minio   NA
4. Contrto Tann (LO)        TOW Proan Cos   US$3A mnOn   LO Dirc C0ont
& Engveen ft* (firm)         21             US$0.3 miln   Compt  PPs
Watewand NE  rap
1. Eonmc and Tehial Panin (fm)  72          US$1.1 man   CompetI Props
2. Unccounld-ar Watr S8h (m)    20          US$0.3 nmion    a.a
3. S9anon Study  )           20             US$0.3 MiMan  s
C. Bukdngo Maintn_
1. MaInena  Assesmnw (fArm)  so             US$1.0 mln   ComeIe Prom
2. EngInen Ste (AIrm)        s0             US$12 fflaun    .
D. Proects   sn    ____
1. Fancia and AcontIn (fmn)  48             US$.7 milon   Competv Props
TOT'L                                 US$10.7 mUn
Disbursements
14. Disbursements will be made against standard Bank documentation.
For expenditures on operating costs, purchase orders and contracts not
exceeding US$100,000, disbursements will be made on the basis of
statements of expenditures as follows: 100 percent of foreign and 80
percent of local expenditures for technical assistance and training, as
well as for vehicles and equipment. In order to ensure the timely
provision of funds available to finance the costs of services and goods
to be procured under the project, the Government will establish a
Special Account In the amount of US$1.0 million. Funds in the Special
Account will be available to finance only eligible expenditures under
the project. The estimated schedule of disbursements of IDA funds is
set out in Schedule B of this document. Disbursements are expected to
be completed by the closing date scheduled for December 31, 1995.



- 23 _
Accountig, Auditing and Reportiag
15. The Special Account will be administered by MPEMD. WASA will be
responsible for funds for the water related parts of the project, while
the MLnistry of Works will account for project funds to RB, LCU and AB.
The Financial Manager/Controller in MOW will be responsible for
coordinating project accounting of the different branches, and for
producing an aggrepated and consolidated project account for the
Ministry. The project funded Financial Manager/Controller and principal
accountant in MOW will work with the project managers to ensure that
necessary measures to strengthen the project accounting capabilities of
their respective agencLes are implemented. To ensure that audits are
done in a timely manner, the project will finance audits done by private
auditors as a part of project management costs. The Auditor General
will supervise the work done by the private firms.
Schedule of Actions to be Taken and Agreemeats Reached
16. The following actions were agreed upon at negotiations to facilitate
timely project Izplementations
ACONS TO BE TAKEN PRIOR TO PROJECT IMPLEMENTAnON
ACflON TO BE TAKEN                    RESPONSIBLE AGENCY    TO BE OOMPLIETED:
Geei P_oumnt Noc drafd ma submitd for   R. LUU, AB WASA   may 1i1s92
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
GL apova of t ngodfa  draft credlt aeem  MPEMD            By June 1, 199
-tw    to A_
Daft Wm of r1 ee  for 0he Fiaca Ma1r and   MOW            By May 20. 192
Deputy Financal Mnage In MOW ftran*mted to VA  ________
Tomds f ter  fr e Finanhl Mag and     MOW                 By Junm 18,10o
Deput FinW Managr In MOW mfied t efleo
VA commnt and suggowe an aufld for IDA
Shot b1t  ofsMV *mu6nMdu" ptpared an    MOW, PB LCU, Al, WASA  By Jun e0, 1902
for IDA appwoal    -----
TARtr DATE FOR BOARD PRESENTAIION                         June 30, 1902
Lm ocautrwpea aWldd.                  MOW, RB, LU, AS. WASA  By Ju 1, 1092
Petacconsestbided.                   MUt,y of Fnme, MPEMD  By Au" 1,1902
Co ulg Ilfrli in*dMduaeldflbnd coacts    MOW, RB LCU, AS, WASA  By Sept*br 1,1002
pae for tDAapprovaL
Prnc Cordnator ad  eincommite apponted   MPEMO, PA LCU. AS.  ondirion of Cle
and operatoaL                         WASA, Misdty of fnane   ns
Financl Managr recrted ot IDA pprvednt e  MOW             Condio on Cedit
TARGE DATE FOR CREDIT EFF-.                               Septeber 1962



- 24 -
Midtem i
17. The Project Coordinator In WEND will be responsible for organizing
and convenlng a midterm reviewiproject implementation workshop to be
held no later than March 31, 1994. The midtem reviewiworkshop will be
attended by the project Steering Comittee, the Bank supervision
mission, technical specialists and consultants employed under the
project and their local counterparts, and representatives of other
donors agencies active In the sectors. The review process will Include,
but not be lmited to progress In meetfing the project's technical and
overall objectives, skills transfer and mechanisms to mprove project
Ismplemntation.' Needs in the various sectors vill be Identified and
discussed to guide preparation of the IRMP.



- 2S -
SUCTION C: Terms of Reference for Ccasultancy Assinmnents
18. This section comprises four appendices which are attached a.
Appendices A through D. The appendices cover the following areass
Appenudi As Draft Term of Reference for strengthening the
Institutional capacity of the government agencies and private
contractors in the roads sector, includings
(a)    Development and implementation of a Pavement and Maintenance
Management System in RBs
(b)   Manpower and training needs assessment and
personnel development plan for 1B3
(c)    Training program for RB professional staff;
(d)   Development of a small scale contracting industry for road
maintenance and construction through LCU; and
(e)    Review and update of the feasibility and engineering study
for the upgrading of the Taung-Mokhotlong-Sani Pass Road.
Appendix Be Draft Terms of Reference for institutional
strengthening and maintenance and engineering studies for VASA
including:
(a)    Development and implementation of Investment, corporate and
technical services planning and coordination;
(b)    Preparation of an analysis of unaccounted-for water and
proposals for rehabilitation of the Maseru water supply
system; and
(c)    Preparation of a long-range plan for development of
sanitatios facilities in the peri-urban areas of Maseru.
Appendix C: Draft Tenns of Reference to develop the capacity of AB
to maintain and protect public buildings, including:
(a)    Development of maintenance assessment, prioritisation and
implementation system; and
(b)    Preparation of engineering studies for rehabilitation and
restoration of selected public buildings.
Appendix De Summary Implementation Schedule.



- 26 -                    SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Page 1 of 26
Draft Terms of Reference for the Roads Sector, including: (a)
Pavement and Maintenance Management System for B3t (b) Personnel
developmnt plan and manpower and training needs assessment for 3Bs
tc) Training program for professional staff In the Roads Branch
(n83) (d) Development of a small scale contracting Industry through
the Labour Construction Unit (LCV)1 and (e) Review and update of
the feasibility and engineering studies for the Taung-Mokhotlong-
Sani Pass Road.
Introduction
1. The Government of Lesotho is preparing an Infrastructure
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project(IRMP), with assistance from the
World Bank, for rehabilitation and maintenance of infrastructure
services in the roads, urban water and sewerage, and public buildings
sectors. In order to ensure the maintenance and sustainability of the
infrastructure investments that would be associated with this project,
the operational and financial viability of the agencies responsible for
provision of infrastructure services need strengthening. An action
plan, designed to identify and then implement recommendations for the
strengthening of the concerned infrastructure agencies, is therefore to
be undertaken. The three components of the action plan will address the
particular  institutional, financial and technical/engineering needs of
the loads Branch (1B), Labour Construction Unit (LCU), Water and
Sewerage Authority (WASA) and Architect Branch (AB).
2.   Each project component addresses the needs in the sector identified
by the GovernAent and as the result of previous project experience and
consultancies financed by the World Bank and other donors. Specific
actions to be taken have been coordinated with Government's objectives
in the sector and with past and on-going programs of donor assistance.
3.   This annex sets out the terms of reference, for which consultants
are being recruited, to address the needs in the roads sector to improve
pavement management and maintenance; attract, train and retain qualified
professional staff; increase private sector involvement in roads
maintenance and rehabilitation; and prepare engineering studies for the
follow-up IMP.
4.  The terms of reference will cover RB and LCU of the Ministry of
Works.
Obiectives
5.   The overall objective of these terms of reference is to identify
actions to be undertaken to improve the institutional capacity of the RB
and LCU to maintain, rehabilitate and expand the roads network.
6.  The sub-objectives for the Pavement and Maintenance Management
System (PHIS) are to (i) provide a sustainable source of relevant and
valid information for managing the highway system through a system of
road monitoring and road data base, and (ii) enhance the programming and



2 27                      SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 26
budgeting of all the maintenance and rehabilitation of the road
pavements using economic efficiency criteria.
7.   The sub-objectives for the personnel development and training
support are to update recruitment, remuneration and career development
policies annually, establish an effective in-house training and manpower
development unit, and monitor the progress of RB trainees enrolled in
overseas courses in order to increase the ability of RB to attract and
retain professional staff.
8.   The sub-objectives for the Training Program for Professional Staff
are to support a two year overseas training program for RB staff
consisting of training at the Higher National Diploma, BSc. and NSc.
level for potential engineers and senior supervisorsltechnicians;
certificate courses for the training of specialist tradesmen and senior
administrative staff; and short courses which will cover mangemet,
finance and budgeting, project management, personnel management, and
traffic planning.
9.   The sub-objectives for the Development of a Small-Scale
Construction Industry are to establish a carefully selected cadre of
small scale contractors trained in the use of labor-based techniques for
road maintenance and to establish the conditions required for a nation
wide expansion of the use of small scale contractors for road
maintenance.
10. The sub-objective for the Taung-Mokhotlong-Sani Pass Road
Engineering Study is to review and update the economic feasibility study
and detailed engineering design completed in 1978 and 1979 respectively
by Eoughton & Partners (UK), Consulting Engineers in preparation for
upgrading to all-weather standard under the IRMP.
Background Information
11. Almost 5,000 kilometers of roads, representing over 90 percent of
Lesotho's roads network, are administered by RB and LCU. RB is
responsible for the overall planning, construction and maintenance of
the 2,346 km of paved and gravel roads requiring the use of heavy
machinery. LCU was given the responsibility, in 1989, for the
maintenance and upgrading of 2,385 km of minor roads with a mandate to
promote labor-intensive methods.
12. RB employs about 1200 people which includes 130 permanent staff,
150-200 temporary staff and about 900 temporary laborers. A major
concern of BB is that a high proportion of established posts for
technical staff are now vacant, and of the balance, half are filled by
expatriates. LCU employs 250 permanent staff members and almost 1300
casual laborers. LCU presently has sufficient tecbnical staff but is
pltnning to transform itself from a construction-oriented agency into an
administrationlcontract management-oriented agency with private sector
contractors doing the actual maintenance work.
13. Government pollcy in the transport sector has placed priority on
extending the road network to, and in, the country's eastern mountain.



- 28                      SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Pasge 3 of 26
areas to develop their full socdo-economic potential as well as ensure
their political and administrative integration. Expenditures for roads
are expected to Increase from 3? of total public sector expenditures
during the 1991192 fiscal year to 12X by fiscal 1993194 according to the
PSIP. Both RB and LCU are aware of the need to prioritize their
Investments to reflect a reorientation towards maintaining the roads
netvork constructed over the last twenty years. MPEMD is currently
Implementing a National Transport Study, supported by the African
Development Bank (AfDB) which will include a roads investment
prioritiation study. The study is scheduled for completion by the end
of 1993. LCO bas recently completed a nation-wide Inventory of all
roads Included in its upgrading/maintenance mandate. The data obtained
during this inventory has been used to prioritize all LCU roads and an
investment plan based on this prioritization has been completed, by
district, for all three regions of Lesotho. The conclusions from these
studies will guide much of the work undertaken in the roads component of
the engineering project and the choice of road works under the IRMP.
Assignment Imiemntation
14. A number of International and national specialist positions, two
consultancies and support for overseas training of professional staff
vill be funded under technical assistance. A Manpower Development and
Training Advisor will (i) provide assistance for three years to senior
RB management in reviewing and implementing the manpower plan, training
programs, and recruitment and remuneration policies proposed in the 1991
Manpower Training and Institutional Requirements Study prepared by Matt
MacDonald Consultants (UK): and (11) supervise the overseas training
program for professional staff. An ILO advisor, a local contracts
engineer, two local contracts supervisors and a number of local
specialists will design and administer the LCU training program for
small contractors which includes the regravelling of 78 km and routine
maintenance for 480 km of roads by the contractoritrainees.
15. In order to strengthen the skills transfer portion of the technical
assistance, at least 202 of the specialists' time will be devoted to
training of counterpart staff in RB and LCU. The work programs prepared
by the specialiots will list expected skills to be imparted to
counterparts to serve as a benchmark for final perfonnance review.
16. The Pavement and Maintenance Management System and the engineering
study of the Taung-Mokhotlong-Sani Pass road will be prepared by
international consultants. Each consultant will prepare an inception
report to be presented to RB within 30 days of being awarded the
contract. It shall outline the consultant's detailed organizational and
work plan for accomplishing the scope of the work, and any initial
observations deemed appropriate. Upon submission, it will be evaluated
by RB, adjusted as deemed necessary, and returned to the consultants for
the completion of their assignment. RB will appoint a liaison officer,
who will assist the consultants In obtaining access to all available
information required for the successful completion of the project. The
consultant will report on progress of his activities in monthly liaison



. 29 -                   SSCTION C
6LPPINDIX A
Pagp 4 of 26
ameetigs. A draft report will be submitted to 3  for comments and
approal, prior to presentation of the flnal vorsion.
17. The detailed tome of reference for the roads component of the
project are set out below.



- 30 -                    SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Page 5 of 26
Roads - Part 1: Pavement and Maintenance Managment Systems Terms of
Reference for Consultancy.
lackaround
Gemerals
17. The Government of Lesotho (GOL) intends to upgrade, update and
enhance its road maintenance and pavement management procedures to
achieve a fully implementable and functional system which at the same
time, is compatible wita systems being prepared for other countries in
the SADCC region. At present, there exists elements of a computerized
highway maintenance and inventory that was prepared by BCEOM Consulting
Company of France in 1983, However, these are considered inadequate in
the scope of validity of the data stored, the data collection methods,
the reporting and data processing capability, and the computing
technology and environment. As a result the present system has been
found to be wanting in many respects and needs to be revieved. There
are sizeable rehabilitation and maintenance needs, and also significant
expenditure programs on new construction, expanding and upgrading the
existing network.
18. The Government is desirous of having a comprehensive and reliable
information available for all decision-making in the highway sector of
the country, at a standard which is affordable and appropriate to the
scarce financial and human resources available. The Government
therefore wishes to establish a highway information system (HIS)
comprising a monitoring system for regular road and bridge system and
all the appurtenant road structures and data acquisition, and a
computerized road data base. The intention is to seek standards for
highway information which could also be applicable throughout the SADCC
region. There is therefore a desire to develop an HIS system applicable
and compatible with those in the SADCC region, in schedule and
definition of essential data, but with independent computing environment
and communication, although having common primary reporting procedures
and performance indicators.
19. Improvement in the planning, programiag and budgeting process for
preservation of the existing road and bridge network has been identified
as of utmost importance to the country. The priority identified for
this project is for the introduction of a Pavement and Maintenance
Management System (PMHS).
20. The task is to adapt technical standards to levels that are
economically sustainable in the long run, and to identify and prioritize
preservation works in a way that minimizes the social cost of transport
within applicable budgetary constraints. Specifically, the tool should
analyze the pavement and traffic data as well as the maintenance system
presently followed, evaluate technical options and develop annual and
rolling program of works and expenditure that optimize the net social
benefits under whatever funding constraints that may apply. There are
also needs for tools for planning long-term policies and expenditure
plans for the preservation, maintenance and expansion of the network,



- 31 -                    SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Page 6 of 26
for programming bridge and appurtenant road structure expenditures,
evaluating and designing construction projects, managing maintenance
operations, and for enhancing the safety performance of the network.
Pramework for Development of Road Managemnt Systems:
21. The highway information system and pavement management system are
to be designed in the context of a general framework for a comprehensive
Road Management System (RM8) which will be implemented in stages. The
INS will eventually comprise some or all of the following sub-systems
(a)    Highway Information System, comprising the collection,
storage and reporting of data on the road inventory,
pavement, structures, traffic, accidents, costs and
projects;
(b)    Planning and policy development, an executive tool for
evaluating expenditure plans and policies and their impacts
on the performance of the network in respect of pavements,
structures, safety and traffic capacity;
(c)    Pavement management, a tool for programming and designing
works for maintaining, rehabilitating and improving paved
and unpaved road pavements, in accordance with economic
optimization and budgetary constraints;
(d)    Bridge and structures management, a tool for programming and
designing works for maintaining, rehabilitating and
reconstructing bridges and other road structures;
5e)    Capacity expansion, a tool for planning, feasibility
evaluation and design of new road and bridge construction;
and
(f)    Maintenance and project operations mnagement, comprising
the monitoring and administration of routine maintenance
operations, and supervision of rehabilitation and
construction projects.
22. Safety management, which embraces both road and user dimensions,
could also be linked into the RMS but in the first instance it is
proposed that accidents statistics be stored in the HIS and that safety
Improvements be evaluated within the pavement and bridges management
sub-systems.
23. Although the sub-systems are to be developed at different stages,
they are to be modular parts of a linked or integrated total RMS within
a compatible, efficient and user-friendly computer environment. The
computing environment is expected to be a distributed network of
microcomputers, with individual supplemental database, and regional
roads offices.



_ 32 -                    SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Page 7 of 26
oblectives
24. The objectives of this study ares
(a)    to provide a sustainable source of relevant and valid
Information for managing the highway system through a system
of road monitoring and road database, and
(b)    to enhance the programming and budgeting of all the
maintenance and rehabilitation of the road pavements using
economic efficiency criteria.
25. To achieve these objectives the Consultant shall review the present
situation where maintenance is carried out on subjective assessment as
restricted funding allows, to a situation where medium to long-term
management system, along the lines of the World Bank's 'Highway Design
and Maintenance Standard Model" (HDK III), is applied for the entire
road network in the country.
Scope of Work
26. The work comprises the following tasks:
(a)    Review of the existing maintenance systems
(i)   The program of Routine and Periodic maintenance
operations as currently practiced by Roads Branch;
(ii) Roads Branch's present maintenance structures
(iII) The coordination, planning, budgeting and followlng up
of maintenance operations carried out by Regional and
Special maintenance sections;
(iv) The traffic count system showing structure of traffic
as well as its distribution throughout the year over
Lesotho's road network;
(v)  Maintenance management system as recommended by BCEOM
and as currently practiced by Roads Branch;
(vi) Preparation of Annual Road Inventory aimed at
informing on the type, structure and condition of the
roads and bridges.
(b)    Development and restructuring of existing systems for a full
Pavement and Maintenance Management System that can be able
to integrate with HDM-IIII
(c)    Establishment of a computer based highway Information
system, including road data base, date entry facilities and
data access and reporting facilities;



33 -                    SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Page 8 of 26
(d)    Establishment of road monitoring procedures, including
selection of methods, survey sampling rates and survey
frequencies, recommendations on equipment and
implementation;
(e)    Development and installation of a model for central
preparation of rolling programs and budgets of road works;
(f)    Development and installation in all the regional offices of
models for the preparation of a regional annual pavement and
bridge works program and routine maintenance budget: and
(g)    Training of counterpart staff.
Documents/Output to be submitted by the Consultant
27. The Consultant shall provide a team of specialists, including
highway planners, highway engineers, economists and systems analysis.
These specialists will work with and impart some training to local
counterpart staff from the Government to carry out the following tasks.
(a)    Data Requirements and Dictionary
A review is to be made of the information required for
planning, programming and budgeting of road and bridge
works, and the data items to be collected are to be
identified, consistent with current World Bank guidelines.
Data should be identified for the following information
groupst road inventory, pavements, structures, traffic,
finance and operations. It is expected that an Information
Quality Level (IQL) of IQL-3 will be appropriate for the
collection of most data items on main and secondary roads,
and IQL-4; on tertiary roads, and the Consultant is to
determine the appropriate level in consultation with the
Roads Branch. A data dictionary is to be prepared, defining
qach item, specifying the units, format and precision of the
data, and identifying the method of collection.
(b)    Sighway Information System Database
The design of the information system database shall comprise
the hardware, software, administration and documentation to
provide a computing environment and operation which is
sustainable and appropriate to the size, structure and
personnel of the highway administration. The database
design shall permit future expansion to include other data
not included in the initial data dictionary developed in
this project. The system shall be able to support the
applications software for the decision-support models
developed in this project and also other proprietary models
to be used regularly by the department e.g. automated
drafting, mapping and graphics, accident analysis, etc.



- 34 -                    SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Page 9 of 26
(i)   System Softwares  The operating system shall support
the chosen database management and applications
database, preferably adapted to transport applications
but In any case satisfying the requirements of all
functional applications, with a high surety of
continuing support and compatibility with future
developments. A transport-oriented Geographic
Information System (GIS-T1) may be considered provided
due comparison is made with alternatives of
conventional DBMS plus graphic and mapping facilities.
(it) Hardware: The selection should be able to accommodate
a distributed database and should be based on
evaluation of existing systems in place, estimates of
eventual database size and the communications linkages
between the functional divisions and other branches in
the Ministry of Works.
Communication linkages with regional database shall be
portable and not fixed. Data entry devices should
accommodate both manual and electronic entry
compatible with the format or collected data. Output
devices shall include graphic display and printing and
mapping capabilities.
(iii) Administrations Recommendations shall be developed on
the administration and operation of the information
system, with the aims of effective coordination and
consultation among heads of the function divisions.
efficient service, clearly defined responsibilities
and rules for maintaining and updating each data file.
and allocation of system security levels.
(iv) Data Processing: Applications software for entering,
auditing, pre-processing and storing the data from the
various surveys, and for maintaining the data files,
is to be developed, including provisions for ensuring
data integrity and security of access. Modules for
standard and ad-hoc reporting are to be developed,
using very user-friendly query formats and satisfying
the primary information requirements identified in the
review. User's documentation should be intelligible
to the target end-users and cover all the listed
functions.
(c)    Roads Monitoring Procedures
Standardized procedures are to be developed or revised for
the collection of data of road inventory, pavement structure
and condition, bridge inventory and condition, traffic
volume and loading, unit costs, and accidents. The
procedures are to be in accordance with the chores IQL, and
should include the method, equipment, sampling plan, and
survey frequency to be applied. The choice of procedure



- 35 -                    SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Page 10 of 26
should be based on consideration of contlnued
oustainability, 3fflciency of the whole collection and entry
process (e.g. use of electronic field data logging),
affordability (total collection costs should alm for a
target of 0.3 percent and not exceed 0.5 percent of amnual
bighway expenditures), and an accuracy consistent with the
IQL. Particular considerations should includes
(i) Pavement Roughness: Measurement are to be mechanical
or electronic and calibrated to the International
Roughness Index (IRI)s
(ii)  Pavement Conditions Measurements should be
repeatable, with clear guidelines that permit
replicability by different surveyors within a standard
variation of less than 10 percents
(iii) Pavement Strength: Measurements are to be made by
non-destructive methods, and two survey procedures are
to be developeds
-     a stratified sample of the entire network; and
-     a detailed survey for the preparation of
rehabilitation design projects.
(iv)  Bridgess  Basic inventory survey, and routine
condition inspections (further development into
principal and specialized inspections is deferred to a
future time);
tv)   Traffics  Spot counts should be automated, vehicle
classification counts may be manual, and adjustments
for seasonal and daily fluctuations should be revised
at least every three years by sample counts. Heavy
vehicle and axle loading factors should be determined
from sample axle load surveys updated at least every
five years; and
(vi)  Unit Costss  Costs are to be a rolling average
determined from an analysis of recent and current road
works contracts, in both financial and economic
(without taxes and duties) terms, and vehicles
operating costs are to be determined by component
suitable for use in the HDM-III model.
(d)    Decision Model for Road Works Programuing
The model shall analyze data directly from the road data
base, and be capable of comparing alternative maintenance
strategies for all homogeneous pavement segments of the
network on the basis of a life-cvcle technical-economic
evaluation, and generating a three-year program of pavement
maintenance and rehabilitation and routine maintenance that



_ 36 -                     SECTION C
APPEIX A
Page 11 of26
optimize the net benefits within annual budget constraints.
The model should utilize the principles of life-cycle
simulation and economic analysis embodied in the BDM-Ill
model, and may be implemented by customizing available
software or be custom-developed. The model should have the
following particular capabilities:
(i)   Technical Analysist  A full life-cycle prediction of
physical pavement deterioration and maintenance
effects under applicable environmental conditions, of
traffic volume and loadings, of pavement strength, and
of vehicle speeds and operating costs as affected by
road condition and characteristics;
(ii)  Validations  Where foreign technical models are used,
elementary validation and calibration of the models to
local conditions is to be made, and recomendations
given on further steps that are needed to complete the
adaptation of the models;
(iii) Segmentation: Preliminary identification of road
sections that are homogeneous for analytical purposes,
and subsequent review to rationalize treatments of
adjacent sections into segments that are viable for
implementation and into viable packages;
(iv) Economic Evaluation: Determination of cost streams
over the analysis period for road works and vehicle
operating costs, and of standard economic criteria
including present value of costs at applicable
discount rates, internal rate of return and first year
benefits;
(v)   Optimization:  A multi-year (up to 3 years), multi-
section, multi-option optimization of net economic
benefits with annual constraints on total budget,
taking account of committed and continuing projects;
('i) Interaction: Facility for interactive refinement of
the works program and budget by the end-user,
indicating the impact of individual adjustments on the
costs, benefits and rate of return.
(e)    Decision Model for Regional Preparation of Annual Program
The model shall screen data of the region's roads and
bridges from a regional data base and determine maintenance
needs by applying fixed maintenance intervention thresholds
and prior commitments from existing works programs, and will
prioritize the needs by means of a priority index based on
simplified economic criteria. The model shall identify a



- 37 ^                    SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Page 12 of 26
definitive budget of needs for routine maintenance for roads
and bridges, aud an iudicative program of periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation needs to be received at a
central level.



- 38 -                    SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Page 13 of 26
Roads - Part 2: Manpower Development and Training Advisors Terms of
Reference of Technlcal Assistance
JOB TTiLE:t KNPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING ADVISOR
PURPOSE:    To assist the Roads Branch (RB) in devising policies and
implementing procedures to retain and develop existing staff
and to recruit and train new entrants to meet RB's planned
programs of road construction and maintenance.
SPECC DUTIES
1.     Assist senior RB management in reviewing the manpower plan,
training programs, recruitment and remuneration policies
proposed in the previous Study on Manpower Training and
Institutional Requirements and update these annually to
ensure conformance with RB institutional development
strategy.
2.    Work with existing RB training staff and personnel staff to
establish an effective in-house training and manpower
development unit, responsible for providing induction and
in-service training, planned work experience and field
training for existing staff.
3.     Recruit and arrange relevant career development programs for
new entrants.
4.     Assist in updating previously prepared training manuals and
In-house technical training course syllabuses.
5.     Identify suitable courses and candidates for local training
of technical and administrative staff.
6.    Lisise closely with the Ministry of Vorks (MOW) Training
Officer and relevant donor agencies to ensure that the
progress of individual RB trainees on overseas courses is
closely tracked and monitored. Prepare progress reports for
trainees every six months.
7.     Participate directly in the training and work experience
program for senior technical, administrative and managerial
staff.
8.     Train counterpart staff. At least 202 of the specialist's
time should be devoted to skills transfer.
OUTPUTSt
1.     Work schedule, including terms of reference for counterpart
staff, to be approved by RB.



- 39 -                    SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Page 14 of 26
2.    Annual revisions of (i) Manpower Plan, (ii) Training
Program, (iii) Recruitment and Renumeration Policies.
3.    Updated-training manuals and in-house technical training
course sylabuses.
4.    ITdividual progress reports for overseas trainees.
5.     Career development programs for new entrants and existing
staff.
6.     Survey of suitable courses for local training and trainee
selection criteria for technical and administrative staff.
7.     Monthly progress reports including assessment of skills
transfer to counterpart staff.
Qualificationslzxperience:
The Manpower Development and Training Advisor will be a
personnel management specialist with practical experience in
human resource development, manpower planning and technical
training in developing countries, preferably in Sub-Saharan
Africa.
Duration of Assigmuets 2 years



_ 40 -                    SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Page 15 oDf=2
oads - Part St Trauinig Program for professional staff In the loads
Brancht Terms of Reference for Training Programs.
lackaround
28. Presently, the training of engineers and technicians in Lesotho at
the Lerotholi Polytechnic is carried out only to the level of Ordinary
National Degree (ORD). It is therefore necessary to provide for
overseas training of potential engineers and senior
supervisorsltechnicians for qualifications of Higher National Diploma
(HND), BSC/BEng or MSCIMEng standards. Donors currently require that
candidates for overseas training should have two years of practical
experience as well as adequate qualifications. Provided Roads Branch
(RB) organizes its training so that potential overseas students have
already had a program of valid work experience within RB, this should
help to minimize losses in the training pipeline. Trainees will have
greater loyalty to RB and will see a greater opportunity for a planned
career development inside U. If RB introduces closer planning and
tracking of the overseas training program, the present system for
contractual commitments and repayments of tuition fees will be more
readily enforceable and provide a stronger incentive for students to
return to work in the public or parastatal service in Lesotho.
29. The requirement that BSc level students should start with an HND
level course is also reasonable in that it ensures a student is capable
of completing the university level training. In case the student does
not go to study for a degree at least the student returns to RB with the
1ND qualification and can go on to develop a career at sub-professional
level in UB. The one year certificate courses are designed to cover the
training of specialist tradesmen (e.g. mechanical or electrical) and
senior administrative staff including storekeepers. The short courses
will cover aspects such as management, finance and budgeting, project
management, personnel management, traffic planning.
Supervision
30. The overseas training program will be jointly supervised by the
Ministry of Works Training Officer and the RB Manpower Development and
Training Advisor. Individual trainee progress reports will be prepared
every six months to ensure that training is consistent with career
development programs.
Detailed Descriotion of Overseas Trainina Progran
Second Degrees at MSc of M. Eng Level
31. The objective of the training is to give U Engineers qualified at
first degree level further opportunities to develop specialized
knowledge of more advanced techniques and thus equip them to take up
senior positions in areas like road construction and maintenance, design
and planning, materials.



- 41 -                    SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Page 16 of 26
32. Suitable two year MSc courses Include those ins
-      Construction Engineering
-     Materials Science
Transport Planning and Engineering
-      Project Management.
33. Courses are available at Universities in the United States, United
Kingdom, Australia and other countries.
Vinst Degrees at BSc or S. Rag. Level Su Civil Enaineering
34.  The objective of this training is to provide trainee engineers with
a first degree qualification in Civil Engineering and to equip them to
take up their first posts as professional engineers with RB. On return
during and imediately on completion of the degree course engineers
should receive planned professional work experience in U's maintenance,
design, materials, construction and projects department before taking
their first more permanent position as Engineer II.
MMD (Righer National Diploma) Courses
33. The objective of these courses - In the period before the Lerotholi
Polytechnical is able to produce Civil Engineering Diplomas at higher
than ODD (Ordinary National Diploma) level - is to equip supervisors and
technicians with qualifications in Civil Engineering practices which
will enable them to go on to positions as Senior Supervisors or Senior
technicians In BB maintenance, construction, materials or drawing office
departments. In the future, promotion to Assistant Engineer position
could require END qualifications. Other 8ND courses are provided in
technical specialties such as mechanical or electrical engineering.
36. Courses usually last two years and have In the past been provided
by technical colleges.
Certificate Courses (1 Year) and Short Courses (3 months)
37. The one year certifLeate courses are intended to cover the training
of specialists in mechanical or electrical practice or of senior
administrative personnel In subjects such as materials management,
administration, project planning, business studies. The short courses
are designed to provide top up trainLig in specialist areas for senior
staff such as general and financial management, budgeting, project
management and loan administration, personnel management, traffic
planning.
Numbers and Categories of Staff for Overseas Tralning
38. The likely numbers of RD staff or recruits requiring overseas
training is estimatetd to be as follows;



- 42 -                    SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Page 17 of 26
Level of Course I Average      1 19921  I 1993/
| Duration     1993    1994
(No. of students commecing overseas
courses)
Mac/Eng           2 years          1       0
END11Sc           4 years          4       0
END only          2 years          3       0
Certificates      1 year           1       2
Short courses     3 months        10       14



_ 43 -                    SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Page 18 of 26
toads - Part 4  Development of a Small Scale Contractfig Industry for
Road Maitentacoe Terms of Reference for Specialist Positions and
Training Support.
BackAround
39. The Government of Lesotho (GOL) recently issued a policy statement
regarding the uses of labor - based construction methods and the
Ministry of Works (NOW) has proposed to Government the establishment of
a Roads Authority. Pending the approval of the Roads Authority, OWV has
proceeded within its own powers to assign the Labour Construction Unit
(LCU) the responsibility for upgrading and maintenance of over 2,000 km
of low-volume roads.  This new responsibility has been recognized by 0OL
by allocating aside H1.8 million during 1989190 and nearly M 3.4 million
in 1990191 to LCU for its recurrent budget to cover the costs of routine
maintenance of roads. The list of roads assigned to LCU represents a
comprehensive rural road network and goes some way to providing the
means by which LCU can produce a long-term development plan.
40. LCU has now been firmly established as a full branch of MOW. The
assigned rural roads responsibility will constitute the bulk of the
Branch's operations and will thus provide the means within which to
fully develop the LCU.  A permanent 3 story Headquarters building
financed by the German Government has been recently constructed the use
by LCU. Building sites f or erection of central stores and workshop in
Maseru, Training Center in Teyateyaneng and regional offices In Mohale's
boeck and Teyateyaneng have also been allocated to LCU. In 1991192 GOL
has budgeted over 4.4 million for LCU routine maintenance activities.
41. A Long-term (20 years) development plan Including the establishment
of a relevant and effective training capability has been prepared by ILO
consultants to LCU. This 20-year development program including
reorganization of LCU, improvement of technical standards, and
introduction of an effective and relevant training institution, will
enable LCU t9 prepare proposals for donor support to the program. This
has become even more meaningful now that the Government, through its
substantial increase in recurrent funds for the labor-based works, has
demonstrated its support to the program.
42. All activities to date have been undertaken using force account
resulting in the need for LCU to establish a large support staff
currently in excess of 260.
43. In line with OL policy LCU intends to Involve the Private Sector
in undertaking, initially, routine and recurrent maintenance activities
and. later, periodic maintenance and construction works.
44. The experience in many other countries including the most recent
successes in Ghana are models that, with modification to local
conditions, will be used to develop a cadre of traLied small scale
contractors in Lesotho.



- 44 _                    SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Page 19 of 26
Obiectives
Development Objectivess
45. The project aims to lmprove and maintain the road network of
Lesotho through the development of a small scale contracting industry
trained in the use of labor-based techniques. The key advantages will
be creating employment opportunity, boosting the rural economy, reducing
reliance on equipment and Improving work efficiencies though a shift In
the day to day site management from Government to the Private Sector.
46. Indicators of Achievement of Objectives will consist of an impact
study will be incorporated into the project to assess the impact both oan
GOL and the local communities benefiting (from the roads and the
employment opportunities in maintaining the roads). A further
indicator will be the length of road network under maintenance by
contract and the quality of works done. It may also be possible to
assess contractor success though access to accounts to determine
profitability.
I_mediat6 Objectives:
47. Initially this project will be concerned withs
(a)    Establishing a carefully selected cadre of small scale
contractors trained in the use of labor-based techniques for
road maintenance.
(b)    Establishing the conditions required for a nation wide
expansion of the use of small scale contractors for road
maintenance.
48. Indicators of achievement of objectives will be GOL approval and
funding together with donor support for the project.
Organizational Framework
49. The project implementing agency will be LCU who will undertake all
project activities Including the training of potential contractors at
its new training center in Teyateyaneng. LCU will also be responsible
for the allocation of contracts and the administration of these
contracts including the development of appropriate measures for
evaluating contractor performance, and so on.
50. Specifically, LCU will establish within its existing organization,
a "contracts' section headed by a Senior (contracts) Engineer and a
staff consisting of two Field Engineers to monitor works undertaken by
contractors, a Training Engineer to implement contractor - training and
a Systems Specialist to assist LCU establish suitable tendering, payment
and other administrative procedures to adequately cater for the unique
and specific needs of omall scale contractors in Lesotho. All 4 posts
will be required for duration of the project: i.e 3 years.



- 45 -                    SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Page 20 of 26
S1. The ILO has an ongoing program on appropriate construction
technology. The ILO will contribute to the project from resources
available to the program. These contributions will be in the form of
technical backstopping and specialized training.
Scoye of Work
5Z. The major activities of the project will be as follows:
-      selection of potentiel small-scale contractors
-      training of the selected contractors
-      regravelling and maintenance of roads by contractors on a
trial basis.
-      identifying the quantities of work involved on each of the
roads where cor,racts are to be awarded and costing the
works
-      procurement of the necessary tools, materials and simple
equipment.
-      establishing an efficient system for tendering, contract
allocation and payment for the contractors
-      implementing an effective planning, reporting and control
system
-      test various systems of road maintenance and develop
capacity in LCU Headquarters and Regional Offices to use the
most appropriate
-      assess the technical and economic efficiency of the systems
and techniques being used
-      develop an overall 20-year program for feeder road
maintenance by contractor.
Outputs
53. The outputs of this project over the 3 year duration can be grouped
under seven main categoriess
(a)    Selection:  Through an advertising and subsequent interview
program, suitable persons will be selected for training both
at the LCU training center and on-site at carefully selected
locations in Lesotho.
(b)    Trainings.  Selected persons will submit to a training
program involving estimating, costing, tender and payment
procedures, work methods and so on. Successful participants
will then be given the opportunity to tender for maintenance
works based on, initially, labor-only contracts.



- 46 -                    SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Page 21 of 26
(c)    Field Activitiess Once contracts have been let to successful
tenderers works will be carefully monitored, payments made
regularly and contractors assisted as required to encourage
good vork performance and financial success. 78 km of LCU
roads regravelled and 480 km of LCU roads maintained by
contractors as trial sketches.
(d)    Organization and Managements LCU will introduce methods for
teudering, issuing contracts, supervision of works, payments
to contractors, etc appropriate to the needs of small-scale
contractors.
(e)    Documentations LCU will prepare all necessary technical and
administrative manuals related to the use of small-scale
contractors for road maintenance. Six monthly and Final
Evaluation Reports will also be prepared to monitor results
and critically analyze the project.
(f)    Financial Supports Through the use of Commodity Aid,
successful contractors could be upgraded from a capacity to
undertake labor-only contracts to the level where contracts
Involving equipment could be awarded. This will need the
involvement of Financial Institutions in Lesotho to lend the
necessary funds at discounted rates and where all loan
repayments will go into a form of revolving fund to develop
.the small-scale contractors via procurement of plant,
equipment, etc.
(g)    Follow Ups LCU will create follow up procedures that
identify those small-scale contractors worth developing.
These procedures should also identify areas in training,
works methods, organization and management, etc., that
require refinement in order to provide the most favorable
environment which will encourage a high rate of success
among the small-scale contractor community.
Duties of the Government
54. LCU will be responsible for providing the following:
-      counterparts to the Senior Contracts Engineer and System
Specialist.
-      counterparts to field engineers (2); one in Region North and
the other in Region South.
-      office, storage and administrative facilities in the LCU
Headquarters and in the two Regional Offices.
_      fuel, lubricants and maintenance costs for government
vehicles and equipment attached to the project.



- 47 -                    SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Page 22 of 26
Roads - Part St Review and update of the feasibility and engineering
studies for the Taung-Nakhotloug-Sani Pass Roads TeDn of Reference for
Coasultancy.
Back1round
55. It is stated policy of the Government of Lesotho (GOL) to improve
the access to the remote mountain areas of the country, particularly the
eastern region. Within this region lies the district headquarters town
of Mokhotlong which as yet is not connected to the other district
headquarters by an all weather road. Taung is an important town on the
route from Hokhotlong to Thaba Tseka, another district headquarters in
the central region of the country. Sani Pass is a border crossing
between Lesotho and the Republic of South Africa and with the
development of the eastern region it will become a very important and
much used crossing point. In accordance with its policy it is now the
intention of the Government to improve the Taung - Mokhotlong - Saai
Pass Road to Bitumen II Standard.
56. The existing route from Taung through Mokhotlong to Sani Pass is
approximately 118 km in length and runs through difficult mountainous
terrain. Although approximately 33 km of the route between Taung and
1sokhotlong (75 km) has been improved departmentally to modified Gravel
III standard during 1989 and 1990 and improvement works are still
ongoing. However, at present approximately 30 km of the route consists
only of mountain track and is barely negotiable by four wheel drive
vehicles when weather conditions are favorable. The route from
Mokhotlong to Sanu  Pass (43 km) is also of modified Gravel III standard
but in wet or snowy conditions is only negotiable by four wheel drive
vehicles.
57. A feasibility study and detailed engineering design were completed
In 1978 and 1979 respectively by Roughton & Partners, Consulting
Engineers, with British Goverament (ODA) funding.
Oblectives
58. The objectives are as follows:
(a)    To review and update the .Economic Study Report for
Mokhotlong - Taung and Mokhotlong - Sani Top Roads 1978 by
Roughton & Partners.
(b)    To collect additional data as may be necessary.
(c)    To prepare a revised document which takes the current
situation in Lesotho into account and which may be used by
the Government in securing donor funding for the project.



- 48 -                     SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Page 23 of 26
Scope of Work
59. The scope of work to be undertaken under the study is as followss
(a)    The Consulting Engineer shall perform all field
investigations, engineering work, related works and an
economic analysis as required to obtain the objectives given
in paragraph 3 above.
(b)    In the conduct of his work, the Consulting Engineer shall
maintain close liaison with the Ministry of Works and with
other govermnent ministries and departments responsible for
transport and development planning, and with the Lesotho
Highlands Development Authority.
(c)    In order to adequately review and revise the original report
the following tasks must be carried out by the Consulting
Engineer.
{d)    To check that route proposed is the most advantageous or to
suggest a viable alternative location giving sound economic
and technical reasons for doing so.
(e)    To determine the type and volume of future traffic for the
roads, the Consulting Engineer shall analyze all existing
data on traffic in the areas served by the roads. To
determine the nature of the traffic and the present volume
of freight and passenger movements on the roads under the
study, the necessary additional counts and other field
investigations shall be undertaken by the Consulting
Engineer. In addition, the Consulting Engineer shall
identify, describe and quantify existing and potential
traffic generating factors in the area served by the roads
based on the economic reasons and the future needs for
highway transport that will result from:
-     population growth and changes in rural and urban
population distribution
-     national and regional economic growth
-     development of agriculture and tourism, and
incremental farmers income within the project areas
-     effect of the road on agricultural extension
-     effect of the road on social services, medical,
schools etc.
(f)    Based on the above findings the Consulting Engineer shall
makes
-     traffic forecast for a period of ten years after the
completion of the roads and above.



- 49 -                    SECTION C
APPENDIXA
Page 24 of 26
-     traffic forecasts should be given at three growth
rates, namely, low medium, and high. The Consulting
Engineer shall use these three growth rates in
obtaining the internal economic rate of return of the
project.
(g)    Traific studies will includes
-     traffic composition ant volume count Including daily
variation of traffic, average daily traffic, normal
traffic growth, generated, diverted, tourist traffic
as well as future traffic growth.
-     origin-destination of the maximum practical capacity
of bridges in terms of traffic flow.
-    Consulting Engineer shall examine all avail.-le
information on vehicle operating costs, and shall
amend the original data on such costs. Attention
should be given to conditior.s affecting costs specific
to Lesotho. The Consulting Engineer shall carry out
economic analysis of the impact areas along the lines
indicated in Section 4.2.2 above.
In connection with the tourist potential in the
project areas concerned the Consulting Engineer shall
provide in his analysis an estimate of the economic
returns likely to accrue to the Lesotho economy.
-     The Consulting Engineer shall give special attention
to the impact of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project
on the Lesotho economy as a whole and in particular to
how it effects the project tone of influence.
(h)    In view of the fact that many social and economic benefits
of a highway project are *intangible' or not quantifiable,
the Consultant shall give a detailed qualitative analysis of
these benefits.
Mi)   The Consulting Engineer shall make a comprehensive study of
road and abridge construction costs in Lesotho at the
present time and shall revise the original (1979) estimated
construction cost of the project road to present day cost.
The cost should be broken down into local and foreign parts
and should includeltake into account local taxes.
(j)    Saving estimated the construction cost including consultancy
costs the Consulting Engineer shall evaluate the project in
terms of future benefits of the road with regard to user
benefits savings in road maintenance costs, salvage value of
road and structures, and any other parameter (i.e.,
incremental farmer's income) that the Consulting Engineer
may consider necessary for his analysis. The evaluation



- 50 -                    SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Page 25 of 26
will Include the determination of the Internal rate of
return (IRR) and the cost/benefLt (CIB) ratio.
(k)    Economic assessment shall include a brief analysis of likely
distribution of benefits between local farmers, transport
operators, tourists, the Government and others and of the
likely demand that future maintenance of the road wlll make
on the Government's budget.
(1)    The consulting Engineer, based on his analysis, shall
comment on whether the Bitumen III Standard of road as
proposed by the Client is economically justifiable and if
not, shall recommend the most appropriate standard for the
project road.
(m)    The Consulting Engineer shall also prepare an Environmental
Assessment of the proposed project in conformance with World
Bank Guidelines.
Documents to be submitted by the Consultant
60. The Consulting Engineer shall prepare and submit the following
report.
(a)    Preliminary Report (10 copies) giving a preliminary
assessment of the Consulting Engineers progress including
route selection and traffic counts since comuencement and
identifying any aspects of the project for discussion with
the Client. The Preliminary report should be submitted
vithin 4 weeks of commencement.
(b)    The draft Final Report (10 copies) must be submitted to the
Client within 16 weeks of commencement.
(c)    The Final Report (20 copies) should be submitted to the
Client within 22 weeks of comencement.
Duties of the Government
61. The Government shall provide the Consulting Engineer with all
relevant data, as available in the Roads Branch of the Ministry of
Works, which the Government considers will facilitate the proper and
prompt execution of the Consulting Engineer's work. Such data will
include the followings
(a)    The original document which is to be reviewed and updated
i.e., Economic Study Report from the 'Mokhotlong - Taung and
Mokhotlong - Sani to Roads" 1978.
(b)    The Detailed Engineering Report for the above 1979.
(c)    Transportation and Feeder Road Studies carried out for the
Ministry of Works.



51 -                    SECTION C
APPENDIX A
Fage 26 of 26
(d)    Highway traffic counts.
(e)    Construction costs for recent road and bridge projects.
(f)    Existing survey data, maps, photos etc.
(g)    Existing soil survey data.
(h)    Existing Inventory data for roads.
(i)    Design standards and specifications in use by the Client.



- 52 -                     SECTION C
APPENDIX B
Page 1 of 27
Draft ferzs of Reference for the Urban Water and Sewerage Sector,
Including (a) Investment, corporate and technical services
planning and coordination for WASA; (b) Naseru Water Lose Surveys
and (c) Greater Maseru Sewerage Pre-Investment Study.
Introduction
1.  The Governmeat of Lesotho is preparing an Infrastructure
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project(IRMP), with assistance from the
World Bank, for rehabilitation and maintenance of infrastructure
services In the roads, urban water and sewerage, and public buildings
sectors. In order to ensure the maintenance and sustainability of the
infrastructure investments that will be associated with this project,
the operational and financial viability of the agencies responsible for
provision of infrastructure services need strengthening. An action
plan, designed to identify and then implement recommendations for the
strengthening of the concerned infrastructure agencies, is therefore to
be undertaken. The three components of the actiou plan will address the
particular institutional, financial and technicallengineering needs of
the Roads Branch, Labor Construction Unit, Water and Sewerage Authority
and Architect Branch.
2.  Each project component addresses the needs in the sector identified
by the Government and as the result of previous project experience and
consultancies financed by the World Bank and other donors. Specific
actions to be taken have been coordinated with Government's objectives
in the sector and with past and on-going programs of donor assistance.
S.  This annex sets out the terms of reference, for which consultants
are being recruited, to address the needs in the urban water and
sewerage sector to improve operational efficiencies and cost recoverys
reduce water losses in the Maseru water supply system; and develop
sanitation facilities ln the peri-urban areas of Maseru under the
follow-up IRMP.
4. The terms of reference will cover the Water and Sewerage Authority
operating as a parastatal under the Ministry of Water, Energy and
Mining.
Oblectives
5.  The overall objective of these terms of reference is to identify
actions to be undertaken to improve the institutional capacity of the
Water and Sewerage Authority to maintain, rehabilitate and expand urban
water and sewerage services while earning a reasonable rate of return on
its assets.
6.   The sub-objectives for the development and implementation of
investment, corporate and technical services planning and administration
are (i) to develop, establish and implement suitable and efficient
systems and methods for Investment analysis and general cost and tariff
analysis incorporating both economic and financial criteria; (i1) to
Initiate and introduce an annual corporate planning cycle consisting of



- 53 -                     SECTION C
APPENDIX B
Page 2 of 27
goals and strategy assessment, long and medium term plans, and short
term budgeting$ (III) to undertake an Investment study to assess and
prioritize existing project proposals in WASA for implementation under
the IR1W; and (iv) to assist in the planning and coordination of
tecbnic41 services provided by various operational units.
7.  The sub-objectives for the Maseru Water Loss Study are (i) to
prepare system layouts and a network analysis of the existing water
system iv Greater Maseru; (ii) to quantify the leakage losses, recommend
leakage control methods and assess the establishment of an Unaccounted-
For Water Section within VASA; (iv) to prepare an optimization report
which will recomend measures to reduce operating costs; and (v) to
propose specific rehabilitatiou measures for the existing water system
in Greater Maseru.
8.   The sub-objectives for the Greater Maseru Sewerage Pre-Investment
Study are to define the sanitation needs for the subject areas and to
recommuend a program of physical works to address these needs under the
IRMP.
Iackfround Information
9.   The Water and Sewerage Authority (WASA) is a parastatal formed from
the Water and Sewerage Branch (WSB) in the Ministry of Water, Energy and
Mining. WABA is charged with the provision of water supplies, water
borne sewerage and sewage treatment and disposal for all major urban
centers in Lesotho. VASA was established as a parastatal in late 1991
and now faces the challenge of realizing operational efficiencies and
raising charges from service users to cover its operational. financing
and replacement costs of assets. The Water and Sewerage Branch
Transformation Study undertaken by Price Waterhouse Management
Consultants in 1986 concluded that operational functions were effective
and efficient but that weak administrative, maintenance and accounting
functions will inhibit financial viability.   The African Development
Bank (AfDB) finances a technical assisiance post, the financial manager,
who has computerized the comuercial accounting system. ODA is financing
a three year twinning consultancy with Wessex Water International to
strengthen management, personnel training and development and financial
and operational administration. While this assistance is expected to
significantly improved WASA's operational capacity, increased emphasis
is needed on planning and analytical activities.
10. WASA's primary operational objective is to develop water supply and
sewerage networks which make higher levels of service available to all
urban dwellers. During the second half of the 19809, the former SB
managed the  implementation of a number of major water supply and
sewerage development projects, aimed at increasing piped water -supply
coverage and waste water treatment in Maseru and several other urban
centers. Presently the largest investment requirements are in Maseru
where the existing water supply is expected to meet demand only up to
1995. Lesotho's urban population is concentrated in the capital of
Maseru and about 732 of the Maseru population is residing in the
periurban area which is growing at an estimated annual rate of 8.752 as
opposed to 4.32 in the Central Area of the city.



- 54 -                     SECTION C
APPENDIX B
Page 3 of 27
11.  In order to assist the Government in meeting the water and sewerage
needs of this rapidly growing urban population, the engineering project
will provide technical assistance to strengthen the management and
operational efficiency of WASA and prepare engineering studies as a
prerequisite to rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply and
sewerage network in Maseru under the IRMP.
AssiAgnment Implemeatation
12. Three specialist positions and two consultancies will be funded
under technical assistance. Management and operational support will be
provided for a period of two years by qualified experts recruited
externally. An economistiplanner with appropriate experience in
investment and corporate planning, and financial and economic analysis
of water supply and sewerage systems will work in collaboration with the
Financial Manager, the ODA sponsored Training Officer and the Internal
Auditor for a period of two years. Two planning engineers with
experience in the planning, coordination and supervision of technical
services provided by urban water and sewerage agencies will assist the
Senior Engineers responsible for Maseru Water Supply and Maseru Sewerage
and the Senior Engineer responsible for District Operations.
13. WASA will appoint suitably qualified counterpart staff to work with
the specialists. In order to strengthen the skills transfer portion of
the technical assistance, at least 202 of the specialists' time will be
devoted to training of counterpart staff. The work programs prepared by
the specialists will list skills to be imparted to counterparts to serve
as a benchmark for final performance review.
14. Consulting services will be provided to undertake the Haseru Water
Loss Survey and the Greater Maseru Sewerage Pre-Investment Study. Each
consultancy will prepare an inception report to be presented to WASA
within 30 days of being awarded the contract. It shall outline the
Consultant's detailed organizational and work plan in narrative and
diagrammatic form, for accomplishing the scope of the work, and any
initial observations deemed appropriate. Upon submission, it will be
evaluated by WASA, adjusted as deemed necessary, and returned to the
consultants for the completion of their assignment. The Government will
appoint a liaison officer, who will assist the consultants in obtaining
access to all available information required for the successful
completion of the project. The consultant will report on progress of
its actives in monthly liaison meetings. A draft report will be
submitted to WASA for comments and approval, prior to presentation of
the final version.
15. It is expected that the technical assistance will precede the
consultancies by a period of two months so that development of water
loss reduction systems and evaluation of investments to extend sewerage
services to Greater Maseru will conform with the investment, corporate
and technical services planning and implementation systems developed by
the externally recruited economist/planner and planning engineers.
16. The detailed terms of reference for the urban water and sewerage
component of the project are set out below.



55 -                     SECTION C
APPENDIX B
Page 4 of 27
Urban Water and Sewerage - Part Is Investment, Corporate Plaunnig and
Tecbnical Services Planning and Coordinations Terms of Reference for
Specialist Positions.
JOB TITLE:        ECONOMIST IPLANNER
PURPOSEt   A.    To develop, establish and implement suitable and
efficient systems and methods for investment analysis
and general cost and tariff analysis incorporating
both economic and financial criteria,
B.    To initiate and introduce an annual corporate planning
cycle consisting of goals and strategy assessment,
long and medium term plans, and short term budgeting.
C.    To undertake an investment study to assess and
prioritize existing project proposals in the Water and
Sewerage Authority and propose projects for Phase II
of the Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project.
D.    To transfer investment and management skills to WASA
counterpart staff to ensure sustained implementation
of the various systems and routines introduced.
SPECIFIC DUTIESS
A. Financial and Economic Analysis
1.     Review and assess present skills and perception levels
concerning investment and financial analysis in line with
management functions;
2.     Review and determine needs and demands for economic and
financial analysis at all organizational levels. Special
consideration should be given to cost, demand and tariff
aspectos
S.     Develop basic criteria for all financial and economic
analysis, with due regards to measures for practical
decision making;
4.     Develop and implement a system for regular assessment and
forecasting of main assumptions for use in financial and
economic analysis;
5.     Develop and implement a specific investment analysis
system/method. Both financial and economic appraisal shall
be included. Risk, sensitivity and environmental analysis
should be incorporated;



- 56                       SECTION C
APPENDIX B
Page 5 of 27
6.     Develop and implement a systemlmethod for other financial
and economic analysis that is deemed necessary for
operational and decision making purposesg
7.     Coordinate with the Financial Manager and the Management
Accountant reporting formats and application of indicators,
criteria etc, for use in Management Information Systems
(MIS)l
8.     Coordinate necessary training with the ODA sponsored
Training Officer; and
9.    Assist the Internal Auditor in developing routines to check
and maintain the analysis systems implemented.
D. Plannfing System
1.     Review and assess current planning and budgeting routines
and systems;
2.     Review management understanding, perception and opinion of
planning in general. Discuss and agree on the overall demand
for planning, and how planning shall be used in WASA;
S.    Develop, recomuend, discuss and implement a suitable and
coordinated planing cycle including short-, medium- and long
term plans. Regular appraisal of goals, objectives and
strategy discussion should be included;
4.     Develop a planning format for each planning exercise
recoe ended, including a step-by-step guideline describing
participators and department responsibilities. It is a basic
premise that the plans have a practical application;
5.     Coordinate with the Financial Manager and the Management
Accountant reporting format and application of results from
planning exercise, for use in MIS;
6.     Coordinate necessary training with the ODA sponsored
Training Officer; and
7.     Assist the Internal Auditor in developing routines to check
and maintain the Implemented planning system.
C. Inestment Study
1.     Review and list all relevant capital  investment projects
currently discussed in VASA area of responsibility;
2.     Discuss all such projects with relevant parties, including
donors and financiers. Obtain updated information, and
assess status of the projects;



- S7 -                     8ECTION C
APPED IX 8
Pags 6 of 27
3.    Discuss and agree with WASA management on criteria for
prioritization of Investments. Ideally, these should be the
same as defined In A.31
4*.    Do an investment analysis exercise according to the method
aud system Implemented in A.5 for each projects
5.     Prioritize all investments, and Indicate timing schedule for
implementation of projects. Discuss financing with relevant
parties; and
6.     Propose projects for inclusion in the Infrastructure
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project Phase U1.
D. Other
1.     The adaptability of systems, methods etc. to WASA skills
levels and qualifications shall be a major consideration in
all work undertaken. Sustainability of routines and systems
Introduced shall be an important criterion. At least 20Z of
the consultant's time should be devoted to skills transfer
to counterpart staff;
2.    All activities must be coordiuated with VASh management and
other donor TAs; and
3.     Perform all other tasks within ftnancial and economic
analysis, Investment appraisal and planning that the
financial manager deems necessary.
-8S
1.     Work schedule, including terms of reference for counterpart
staff, to be approved by WASA.
2.     Financial and economic analysis system integrated with
WASA's MIS.
3.     Planning and budgeting system Integrated with WASA's MIS.
4.     Investment prioritization study including implementation
schedule and financing options.
5.    Monthly progress reports including assessment of skills
transfer to counterpart staff.
Duration of Assignments 2 years



- 58 -                     SECTION C
APPENDIX B
Page    of 27
JOB SitLB*        PLANNING ENGINEER I
PUIPOES   I       To assist the Senior Engineers responsible for Maseru
Water Supply (SEW) and Maseru Sewerage (SES) in the
planning and coordination of technical services
provided by various operational units.
SPCIFC  DUES
1.    Assist the SEW and 8ES in the collection, analysis and
syntheses of all operational data for Maseru Water Supply
(M41) and Maseru Sewerage.
2.    Assist the SEW and $SS in compilation of Management reports
on MWS and Maseru sewerage activities.
3.    Assist the SEW and SES in the coordination of operational
and maintenance activities by issuing work orders in
accordance with priorities established by SEW and SES in
consultation with Regional Engineers and the Chief Treatment
Works Superintendent.
4.    Assist the SEW and SES in ensuring that all ordered new
maintenance works are carried out timeously and to the
satisfaction of WASA Management by maintaining a proper
record of work orders and job returns.
5.    Assist the SEW and SES in ensuring full accounting of
materials. labour and all reisources used in various internal
operational and maintenance works.
6.     Assist 8EW and SES in developing a system to monitor and
control water quality.
7.     Train counterpart staff. At least 20X of the planning
engineer's time should be devoted to skills transfer.
8.     Carry out other duties as the SEW, SES or WASA Management
may assign.
-WT8t
1.    Work schedule, including terms of reference for counterpart
staff, to be approved by WASA.
2.    Proposal for revised operations and management procedures
for MIS and Maseru sewerage activities.
S.    Works and materials tracking system.
4.     Implementation report.
S.     Monthly progress reports including assessment of skills
transfer to counterpart staff.



-59 -                     SECTION C
APPNDIX I
Page 8 of 27
Qualifizatioa/Mcperiences         Minim=u BSc Civil Rngiueering with
at least eight (8) years In
Municipal Water Supply Operations.
Duratian of Aesigwmuts             2 years



. 60 -                     SECTION C
APPENDMIX 
Page 9 of 27
JOB TILKT         PLhNNINaG BGIN3ft 1I
PUEPOSUS          To assist the Senior Engineer responsible for
Districts Operations (SED) in the planning,
coordination and supervision of technical services
provided by various operational units.
SPCIC DUTIES
1.     Assist the BSD in the collection, analysis and synthesis of
all operational data for Districts Water Supply and sewerage
services.
2.    Assist the BED in compilation of Management reports on
Districts Operation and maintenance activities.
3..    Assist the SED In the coordination of operational and
maintenance activities by issuing work orders in accordance
with priorities established by SED In consultation with
Regional Engineer/officers.
4.    Assist the BED in ensuring that all ordered new maintenance
works are carried out timeously and to the satisfaction of
VASA Managemenu by maintaining a proper record of work
orders and job returns.
S.    Assist the SED In ensuring proper accounting of materials.
labour and all resources used In operational and maintenance
works which have to be duty paid for the parties causing the
damage necessitating or requesting VASA to execute certain
works.
6.     Assist SD in developing a system to monitor and control
water quality.
7.     Train counterpart staff.  At least 2O  of the planning
engineer's tine should be devoted to skills tranfer.
8.     Carry out other duties as the SED or WASA Management may
assign.
OUTPUS
1.     Work schedule, including terms of reference for counterpart
staff, to be approved by WVSA.
2.     Proposal for revised operations and maintenance management
procedures for Districts Water Supply and sewerage services.
3.     Works and materials tracking system.
4.     Implementation report.



_61-                       SECTION C
APPEDIX B
Page 10 of 27
S.     Monthly progress reportesixcludL1g assessment of skills
transfer to counterpart staff.
Qnaliticat4o Bulhpereieces         Mkiulmum B8c Civil Engineeriag with
at least eight (8) years ezp.rieuc.
in Urban Water Supply Operations.
turatiom of Asslgmati                2 years



- 62 -                      SECTION C
APPENDIX B
Page 11 of 27
Urban Water and Sewerage - Part 2: Maseru Water Loss Study: Terms of
Reference for Consultancy.
lacktround
16. the Study Area% Maseru is the administrative, commercial and
industrial capital of the Kingdom of Lesotho. In the last ten years the
city has experienced rapid socio-economic growth and this trend is
likely to continue in the foreseeable future. The city has a current
population approaching 150,000 people and a substantial portion stays in
the Peri-urban areas with minimum basic social infrastructure. There
is urgent need to extend especially water supply to these needy areas.
17. Historically, the Maseru Water Supply has contributed over 602 of
the WASA's revenue although there still is a discrepancy between water
production and tariffed consumption. Any efforts made in closing the
gap will go a long way in improving the WASA's revenue and/or defer
expensive new investments.
18. Weisting Water Supply System: The inner city area and portions of
the outer urban areas of Maseru are supplied by a piped water system,
with approximately two-thirds of the population of Maseru being served
by a system with full water treatment and a piped reticulation system.
19. Supply is from the Mohokare River, or indirectly from the river via
the Maqalika reservoir, a pumped, off-stream raw water storage
recervoir. Treatment has been provided since the early 1950's by a
filtration plant with a current nominal capacity of 27,500 cubic
meters iday.
20. As of 1986, there were about 185 km of water supply watermains in
Maseru (excluding house service connections) including about 10 km of
300 mm waterm.in and above, 10 km of 250 mm watermain, 7 mm of 200
watermain, 13 km of 150 mm watermain and 145 km of watermains between
125 and 30 mm diameter. The trunk and secondary watermains have since
been increases. Water is supplied to the top of each reservoir by a
separate rising main, with water being fed to the reticulation system
from the bottom of the reservoir. Water transferring from one reservoir
to another is either pumped or flows by gravity.
21. All water is presently pumped directly from the treatment works to
the low pressure Palace 'A' and 'B' reservoirs, and on to Cemetery 'C'
reservoir with each reservoir serving a separate low pressure service
zone. Reservoir 'B' also feeds Reservoir 'F', set at a lower elevation,
which serves the Thetsane Industrial Area.
22. There are five major supply sub-projects within the Maseru system,
as followst
(a)    Khubetsoana Supply
The Xhubetsoana area is located in the North-East section of
Maseru and is served by a single, major supply line which is



- 63 -                     SECTION C
APPENDIX B
Page 12 of 27
located, for the most part, along the Main North 1 Road.
Por the Ehubetsoana supply, water is pumped from the
treatment works to the Palace *A' reservoir. From the
Palace facility, water is pumped up to reservoirs 'D  and
*Zs, which are located near the Lesotho Sun Hotel, and are
called the 'Hospital* reservoirs. The Rhubetsoana line is
fed by gravity from Reservoir 'D". The supply line from
Reservoir 'DO consists of 2,600 meters of 200 mm diameter
pipe, 1,300 meters of 250 mm diameter pipe, and 4,320 meters
of 300 mm diameter pipe.
(b)   Lithabaneng Supply
the Lithabaneng area is located in the South-East portion of
Maseru and is presently served by a pipeline running along
the Mafeteng Road. For the Lithabaneng supply, water is
pumped from the treatment works to Palace A reservoir, and
thence pumped to the "Hospital" reservoirs OD" and *EB,
which are located near the Lesotho Sun Hotel.
Prom the *Hospital' reservoirs, the major supply line
extends along Mafeteng Road and includes 2,000 meters of 250
m watermain, and 3,750 meters of 150 mm watermain
terminating along Mafeteng Road at Ha Keiso. Due to
pipeline losses along Mafeteng Road, the areas south of
Thamae are served by a booster pumping station. Further
pumping is provided to serve the Makoanyane area, which is
served by the Makoanyane Tanks east of Ha geiso.
High pressure service is drawn from the pipeline of the
Mafeteng Road near NTTC and pumped by PS-8 TO Reservoir 'M"',
serving the area above the KUL facility. A further pumping
statior draws water from Reservoir 'X', for boosting to the
Botsabelo and Makoanyane areas.
(c)    Ha Thetsane Supply
Supply to Ha Thetsane is pumped from the treatment works to
Palace A and B reservoirs and thence to the 'Hospital'
reservoirs D and I near the Lesotho Sun Hotel. From the
'Hospital' reservoirs, the supply line leads in a south
westerly direction to Ha Thetsane and includes about 1,050
meters of 150 mm watermain and about 3,000 meters of 250 mu
watermain.
(d)    Ha Ratjomose Supply
Supply to Ha Ratjixaose is by pumped supply from the
treatment works to reservoir C. From this reservoir water
is fed by gravity along 1,700 meters c5 200 mm watermain and
1,900 meters of 300 am watermain to Reservoir 'F' in the Ha
Ratjomose Area.



- 64 -                     SECTION C
APPENDIX B
Page 13 of 27
(e)    Maseru West Supply
Supply to Maseru West is by pumped supply from the treatment
plant to the Cemetery C reservoir and thence by a 150 ma
supply line (1,400) meters in length) from the reservoir
facility to Maseru West.
23. A summary of the existing reservoirs and their supply areas is as
follows:
Facility                Areas served
Palace 'A' Reservoir    LTI, Europa, supply to 'D' and '5'.
Palace 'B' Reservoir    RLDF and supply to Res. 'F'
Cemetery 'C' Reservoir Industrial Area, Hoohlo.
Thetsane 'F' Reservoir Thetsane Industrial Area
Hospital 'D' & 'E'      Maseru West, Rhubetsoana, Cathedral,
Reservoir         Stadium, Moshoeshoe 1I, Qoaling,
Makoanyane, New Europa, White City,
Thetsane.
Pump station 8 and
Reservoir 'M'        NUL Housing Area.
24. Water distribution is throug8h a network of piping ranging from 25
to 350 mm diameter. Piping is primarily asbestos cement (AC) with about
175 km of AC pipe and less than 10 km of galvanized steel pipe. Some of
the piping in the system is over 40 years old.
25. While the majority of the system provides good quality water on a
24-hour day basis, certain areas, particularly at the extremities of the
system and at higher elevations, experience periods of low flow when
other system demands are high.
26. A number of water mains pass through private property, making it
difficult for WASA maintenance staff to repair lines in an emergency.
In these instances, water mains should be re-routed in established
right-of-ways to provide easier access for WASA staff.
27. The condition and efficiency of the existing system has been
assessed, partly by visual inspection of exposed pipe and partly by
reviewing operational aspects of the system.
28. Pressure Zones: Due to varied topography within the service area
from a low elevation of about 1480 to a high of over 1600 meters, the
water distribution system is based on high, medium and low pressure
zones.
29. The system development was based originally on the low pressure
area being areas below elevation about 1540 a with reservoir top water
level (TWL) at about 1560 m. and medium pressure between 1540 m and 1580
m. with reservoir top water level of about 1600 m.



- 65 -                     SECTION C
APPENDIX B
Page 14 of 27
30. These levels give static water levels ranging from 20 to 60 meters,
which provide a reasonable operating pressure range.
31. Reservoir Storages With the exception of the smallest facilities,
storage is provided on the system with ground level reservoi-^ at an
elevation to give adequate pressure for the service area.
32. Storage is provided to balance peak flows and to ensure water
supply for special conditions such as fire flows, and to ensure supply
during power failures, line breaks, etc.
33. Maseru (Peri-Urban and Rural)% Outside the area served by the
central system, water supply is sporadic and variable. Supplies are
from various sources such as surface water (streams or reservoirs),
springs, boreholes, or trucked water. Certain areas are served by water
piped from springs in the Berea Plateau. Water demand, as well as
quality, quantity and reliability of supply are highly variable.
Obiectives
34. To obtain updated and up-to-date drawings of the water distribution
system in the Greater Maseru area together with its operational
efficiency.
35. Prepare a network analysis of the existing water system in Greater
Maseru, which shall include the investigation by computer modeling
techniques of the complex relationships between the network and water
consumption, pressure and flow. Estimate effective demand and prepare
demand projections for the Greater Maseru area based on different
demographic and economic growth scenarios.
36. Unaccounted-for Water and Leakage Controls Conduct leakage and
metering facilities surveys in Greater Maseru to quantify the leakage
losses from the trunk mains, reservoirs and distribution systems; based
on the surveys and economic studies in the pilot areas, recommend
appropriate leakage control methods; and assess the current resources
employed on waste control and prepare proposals for the establishment of
an Unaccounted-For Water Section within WASA.
System Optimization
37. Prepare an optimization report for the Greater Maseru water system
that will examine alternate modes of operation, identify poteatial
savings, define optimum pumping schedules and recommend measures to
reduce operating costs.
System Rehabilitation
38. From information lathered in the network analysis prepare
comprehensive proposals for the rehabilitation of the existing water
systems in Greater Maseru to ensure compliance and implementation or
overall findings of this study.



- 66 -                     SECTION C
APPENDIX B
Page 15 of 27
Scope of Work
39. The Consultant shall prepare technical and financial findings in a
manner as may be required for presentation to financing institutions.
40. The Consultant is expected to carry out the duties as followss
System Layouts of the existing Network
41. The available drawings of the existing Maseru Water Supply System
may not fully represent the situation on the ground. System layouts
will therefore have to be updated on the basis of data from the
following sourcess
-     Existing record drawings.
-    As-built drawings from mains laying contracts
-     Local knowledge of WASA staff
42. Any discrepancies that arisie during the preparation of system
layout drawkigs will be resolved during the field tests.
Stages of system layout preparation
Getting the latest copy of the maps for the Greater Maseru
area from the Department of Lands Survey and Physical
Planning (LSPP). It is the Consultant's responsibility to
compare and update these maps to actual conditions.
Preparing drawings with a scale of 1sS000 to show the water
system facilities such as pumping stations, reservoirs,
primary and secondary pipe networks.
Preparing drawings with a scale of 1s2500 to show the route,
type and diameters of primary and secondary pipe networks,
including isolating valves, washout valves, air relief
valves, pressure reducing valves, and zone separatin. All
connections to consumers shall be reasonably indicated to
the extent that any illegally connected premises can easily
be identified.
Preparing record drawings (where necessary) with a scale of
1:200 for the pumping stations to show the contents of the
pumping station such as pumping units, suction and delivery
components, etc.
Preparing record drawings with a scale of 1:200 for the
reservoirs to show the reservoir plan, inlet and outlet
water lines, drainage lines, etc.
The originals of drawings mentioned in previous items shall
be drawn, prepared and delivered on white permatrace paper.
The consultant shall prepare and deliver copies of the
drawings mentioned in previous items colored and drawn on



- 67 -                     SECTION C
APPENDIX B
Page 16 of 27
white glazed paper covered with thin transparent contact
film on both sides. Every copy shall be prepared neatly and
handed over as an album as required by WASA.
Retwo* Anaysis
43. The network analysis of the existing water system shall be carried
out to describe the investigation of the complex relationships between
the network, water consumption, pressures and flow to achieve the
following benefitss
Assessing total hydraulic capacity and performance of the
existing network.
Identifying anomalies such as closed or open valves,
recirculatory pumping of water from a reservoir back in to
that reservoir.
Checking on fire fighting capacity and its effect on
pressure depletion in other areas.
Identifying existing or potential problem areas especially
in terms of excessively high or low pressure.
Optimizing the planning and timing of new sources, pipework
extensions or reinforcements to the pipework, to meet the
existing and future demands satisfactorily.
Optimizing pumping schedules and thereby saving on pumping
costs by modeling 24-hour operation.
Optimizing source utilization and making the optimum use of
the cheapest water available.
Identifying poor quality pipework caused by internal
corrosion.
Designing leakage control schemes, in particular the size
and location of supply zones, meter location and size and
type of meter.
Planning and evaluating the optimal size, type and location
of pressure control valves and the areas that they will
supply.
Simulating the behavior of the distribution system as part
of the decision support software which is required of an
overall operational management scheme; such a scheme may
require a model for design of telemetry and telecontrol.
Studying areas of poor supply to determine the most
effective solution.



- 68 -                      SECTION C
APPENDIX B
Page 17of 27
Studying areas where supply problems may srise in the near
future and identifying actions to be taken.
Network analysis requirements - In order to model the
distribution system of Greater Maseru area, a great deal of
accurate information about the network is needed. It will
be the responsibility of the consultant to collect and
prepare the requirements necessary for this job such ass
Pipeline records - to be prepared in the first stage by the
consultant.
Source characteristics, including reservoirs, water
reservoirs, pumping stations which provide the input flows
and pressures. It will be the responsibility of the
consultant to collect the pumping-unit characteristic
headiflow relationships either from manufactures' curves, if
available, or derive them during field tests.
Demand information-Collect and calculate the water demand
allocated to each node in the schematic layout. The number
of house connections between two successive nodes shall be
determined according to the area under study. Forecast
future water demand based on various urban growth scenarios.
Network flows and pressures-monitor flows and pressures at
the necessary points for this study.
Computer software-decide on the suitable software to be used
for the network analysis. It shall be suitable for use on
WMSA IBK-XT or AT microcomputers.
Instrumentation equipment - buy the necessary
instrumentation equipment for this job. This equipment
shall be handed over to WASA free of charge.
Training - the consultant shall train two engineers or
technicians on using the computer model, instrumentation and
data logger equipment.
Unaccounted for water (UPW and leakage control
44. The purpose of this study is to assess the current resources
employed on waste control and to prepare proposals for the establishment
of an UFW Section within WASA.
District metering - WASA will define areas in Greater Haseru to be
discrete supply areas. Each area will contain an agreed number of
properties. The selection of the district areas will be carried
out depending on the network analysis report.
Leakage surveys - measurements will be made in the individual zones
to quantify the leakage losses from the trunk mains, reservoirs and
distribution system.



- 69 -                     SECTION C
APPENDIX B
Page 18 of 27
A sample surwey shall be carried out of the accuracy of consumers'
meters and of any irregularities in meter reading in order to
assess, (a) the total loss attributable to metering deficiencies
and (b) the actual unit domestic consumption in different social
conditions and supply areas.
The Consultant shall allocate total UFW between metering losses and
physical losses due to vasts.
Economic Study
45. The aim of this vork will be to identify the cost of producing
water and hence the cost of water lost through leakage expressed as the
amount of money that will be saved by WASA if one cubic meter of water
vere saved as a result of detecting and repairing a leak.
Leakage control benefit-cost study - once the levels of leakage
have been identified and the cost of leakage calculated it will be
necessary to determine which of the following methods of leakage
control are likely to be most economic, given effective demand, and
make recommendations about each method and then select the
appropriate leakage control methods
- Pressure control
- Passive leakage control
- Routine or regular sounding
- District metering
- Waste metering
- Combined district and waste metering.
Equipment
46. The consultant shall bring the necessary equipment to carry out the
above activities. This equipment shall be handed over to WASA at the
end of the contract free of charge. This shall include, but not be
limited to, equipment such ass
- Electronic listening devices.
- Leak noise correlators.
- Pipe and surface box locators.
- Water meters.
47. The offer shall contain unit prices for the supply and erection of
each piece of equipment and the meters of different sizes.
Training
48. Training of WASA staff is considered to be a very important aspect
of this project. The offer shall includes
Workshop training in Maseru for VASA staff concerned with the
management and operation of the water supply system (ten persons).



- 70 -                     SECTION C
APPENDIX B
Page19 of27
System Optimization
49. The objective of system optimization is to reduce the operating
costs of the water system.
Most of the data required for the optimization study will have been
collected for the network analysis. However, it will be the
responsibility of the consUltant to collect pumping cost, power
tariffs, treatment costs and operational constraints specifically
for the system optimization.
After finishing the network analysis computer model, alternative
modes of operation will be examined for each pressure zone and the
overall water system. Operating costs will then be assessed on the
basis of the required discharge, pumping times and pumping heads.
Potential savings will be identified and the optimum pumping
schedules will be defined.
Two other aspects to be addressed during the system optimization
are operations strategy and demand prediction.
The system optimization report shall contain the data used, an
appraisal of the potential savings, an approach to realizing these
savings and recommended scheduling and prediction methods.
The report shall also make recommendations concerning more
sophisticated online computer solutions and automatic control to
show savings and operational advantages that can be obtained by
these routes.
System Rehabilitation
50. At every stage of preparing the network analysis, the consultant
will be gathering information on the condition of the water system in
Greater Maseru. As part of this phase of the study, the Consultant
shall use this information and the computer model to determine the parts
of the system that need rehabilitation including, but not limited to,
undersized pipes that should be replaced with larger pipes, old and
unreliable pipes that should be rehabilitated, changes in house
connections and pumps and pumping stations that should be renovated.
The Consultant shall design the changes for pipes of 75 mm and larger
and prepare tender documents for one or more contracts. The system
layouts of the existing and proposed facilities shall be drawn on scales
of 1l5000 and 1:2500 and shall be of the same quality as indicated in
Section 3.1 above.
Documents to be submitted by the Consultant
51. The Consultant shall submit to WASA the following documents
covering all the work performed by him as described in Section 3. All
documents shall be presented in English and in ten (10) copies In the
case of draft documents and twenty copies final reports unless otherwise
specified and shall include all the relevant data, maps, diagrams and
other details as appropriate.



- 71 -                     SECTION C
APPENDIX B
Page 20 of27
Inception Report
52. The report shall be prepared within 30 days of being awarded the
contract. It shall outline the Consultant's detailed organizational and
work plan In narrative and diagrammatic form, for accomplishing the
scope of the work, and any initial observations doemed appropriate. All
activities and events shall be well coordinated and their timing
efficiently organized, so that they can be carried out within the
duration of the contract. The workplan shall also include schedules of
services to be provided, with a staff chart listing names of personnel
engaged, with the number of manmonths.
53. The workplan may undergo certain modifications, especially when
found necessary for a more satisfactory attainment of the project
objectives.
Preliminary Water Loss Study Report
54. The report shall detail the findings of the consultant's review of
the situation in the stttdy area. The report shall also contain a
detailed discussion of preliminary findings and alternatives considered,
and shall present outline corrective measures and cost estimates of all
options and recommendations proposed by the Consultant.
55. The draft reports shall be submitted to the WASA for comments and
approval, prior to the preparation of the final version.
Final Water Loss Study Report.
56. The report shall detail the critical calculations of the various
elements of the selected options, controlling physical parameters and
relationships with the overall system, the selected materials for use In
the remedial works and giving sizes, and cost estimates of key
components, all hydraulic network analysis at various operating
conditions and the losses related thereto shall be clearly documented.
Additionally, an appendix should be submitted to separate volume
containing specification of work, materials, etc. and related Bills-of-
Quantities shall be prepared.
57. One copy of priced Bills-of-Quantities shall also be submitted,
constituting the consultant's confidential cost estimate for the
remedial measures.
Proposal Documents to be submitted by the Consultant
58. The Consultant shall present the following documents which will
constitute the proposal. The Technical and Financlal Proposals shall be
submitted in separate envelopes.
Technical Proposal
59. The Technical Proposal shall includes



- 72 -                     SECTION C
APPENDIX B
Page 21 of 27
(a)    The general approach which vill be adopted for providing the
required services.
(b)    A vorkplan, Including the organization and time schedule for
the proposed services.
(c)    A bar chart indicating clearly the estimated duration and
the probable timing of each professional to be used, and the
estimate of the total number of man-months required.
(d)   Detailed description of the specific tasks to be assigned to
4each professional of the proposed team.
(e)    The name, age, background, employment record and detailed
professional experience of each professional, to be assigned
for the proposed services.
(f)   An estimate of office space, vehicles, office and field
equipment etc., required for carrying out the proposed
services. All such equipment and offices to be provided by
the Consultant but where items of equipment are purchased
out of direct project funds they shall revert to WASA on
completion of the assignment.
(g)    Details of any other related services, which may be required
for executing the work.
(h)    Reference and description of similar works, previously
undertaken by the Consultant including size, location,
contract amount, whether completed or not and date of
completion.
Financial Proposal.
60. The Financial Proposal shall include:
(a)    The man-month rate for each category of staff to be engaged,
with a breakdown of all time-based rates, including basic
salary, social charges, overhead, fee and overseas allowance
as applicable.
(b)    Cost of purchasing and maintaining vehicles and equipment.
(c)    Total cost of the services to be provided.
(d)    The required payment schedule.
(e)    Hourly rates payable for various categories of engaged staff
where services over and above the proposed assignment may be
ordered by WASA.



-73 -                      SECTIs% C
APPENDI. B
Page 22 of 27
lties of VASA
Documents
61. VASA widl make availble to the Consultant all relevant documents
and data, relating to the assignmeut.
Liaison
62. VASA will appoint a liaison officer, who will assist the
Consultants In obtaining access to all available iuformation required
for the successful completion of the project. The Consultant shall
nominate a senior member of its staff who shall liaiss with VASA on all
matters, during the duration of the assignment.



- 74 -                     SECTION C
APPENDIX B
Page 23 of 27
Urban Water and Sewerage - Part 3S Greater Maseru Sewerage Pre-
Investment Study. Tenm of Reference for Consultancy.
BakrouD
63. Maseru, the Capital of Lesotho, is a fast growing city with a
population of approximately 150,000. Sewerage systems were first
installed in the late 1950's on a limited scale and although, siuce
then, there were some extensions to the system, the rapid development of
the city had quickly exceeded the capacity of the whole sewerage system.
In 1974, a report titled *Maseru Sewerage Scheme' was published In which
reconmendations for a Sewerage Hasterplan to the year 1988 were set out.
64. By the late 1970's financing had been secured from the British ODA
to implement the first phase of the report's recomuendations. This
comprised the construction of a centralized sewage treatment plant at
Ratjomose, a trunk sewer system and a number of pump stations to
accommodate flows at 1988 from the city's western and Central Zones.
The Phase I was completed and commissioned during 1981.
65. By 1980, the urban area of Greater Maseru was set up by declaration
under the Urban Areas Notice. This resulted in the city's boundaries of
Maseru being extended to enclose an area some 5 to 6 times the original
city area of about 23 square kilometers.
6. Due to rapid expansion of the building program now occurring
outside of the near fully infrustructured Western and Central Zones of
Maseru and the completed Maseru Water Supply Project - Phase II, Which
have doubled the service area, it has become necessary to review the
longterm sewerageisanitation development requirements in the new areas
being provided with piped water system.
Obiectives
67.  This review will enta'l study of the development proposals for the
subject areas, preparation of an inventory of existing demand for
sanitation services and sanitation conditions, anticipated developmental
impact on prevailing sanitary situation and preparation of comprehensive
proposals oa ways and means of sustaining acceptable hygenic environment
in the subject areas in both short and long term.
68. Consultancy services are thus urgently required for the preparation
of relevant documentation for early definition of the sanitation needs
for the areas within the Maseru City Boundaries not covered in the 1974
Maseru Sewerage Report. Short, medium and long term sanitary facilities
needs will be addressed and elaborated adequately with due appreciation
for appropriateness of technology adopted, affordability and willingness
to pay.



- 75 -                     SECTION C
APPENDIX B
Page 24 of 27
Scone of Work
69. The Consultant shall prepare a Long Range Plan for phased
development of sanitation facilities in areas lying outside of the
infrustructured Western and Central Zones of Naseru.
70. The Consultant shall assess the probable physical growth of the
city's peri-urban areas up to the target year and shall take into
account planned and likely changes in population densities and
development patterns and provide estimates of population in the
facilities planning horizons of 1995, 2000, 2005 and 2010.
71. Based on this information, the Consultant shall recommend and
establish on the most suitable physical boundaries for sewerage and/or
other appropriate sanitation systems to serve the need. of these areas.
72. Having identified the physical boundaries, the Consultant will
identify conurbations for sewering with due regard to water catcbment
protection and affordability and willingness to pay for the system by
the consumer.
73. Depending on the catchment configuration and extent of sewering,
the Consultant shall seek a site (or sites) for the construction of new
sewage treatment plant(s) which should outfall downstream of the present
raw water intakes situated on the Mohokare River. The location of the
treatment plant(s) should minimize network pumping.
74. The Consultant shall initiate an Environmental Assessment of the
proposed system through scoping readings and review of design
alternatives.
75. The Consultant shall further prepare a recommended phased program,
including cost estimates for physical works. The program shall be
broken down, as far as practicable, into sub-projects in order that
individual elements could be put to different financing arrangements.
76. The Consultant shall also address the additional operation and
maintenance cost implications its proposed sanitation facilities and
staffing and training requirements;
77. Based on its work as outlined in the foregoing paragraphs, the
Consultant shall proceed to prepare all necessary detailed reports
concerning the conceived and proposed alternative schemes. In this
regard, the Consultant shall undertake the exercise of preparing
indicative wayleaves, servitudes, site acquisition schedules and plans
for consideration by the WASA.
Documents to be Submitted by the Consultant
78. The Consultant shall submit to the WASA the following documents
covering all the work performed by it as described above. All documents
shall be presented in English and In six (6) copies in the case of draft
documents and fifteen (15) copies in final reports unless otherwise



_ 76 -                     SECTION C
APPENDIX B
Page 25 of 27
specified and shall Include all the relevant data, maps, diagrams and
other details as appropriate.
Inception Report
79. The report shall be preparod within 30 days of being awarded the
contract. Xt shall outline the Consultant's detailed organizational and
work plan In narrative and diagrammatic form, for accomplishing the
scope of work, and any Initial observations deemed appropriate. All
activities and events shall be well co-ordinated and their timing
efficiently organized, so that they can be carried out within the
duration of the contract. The work plan shall also include schedules of
services to be provided, with a staff chart listing names of personnel
engaged, with the number of man-months.
80. The work plan may undergo certain modifications, especlally when
found necessary, for a more satisfactory attainment of the project
objectives.
Pre-investment Study Report
81. The report shall be submitted In draft and final form, and shall
detail the findings of the Consultant's review of previous relevant
studies and documents. The report shall also contain a detailed
discussion of any alternatives considered, and shall present estimates
of the expected needs and willingness to pay for sanitation services and
include outline designs, drawings and cost estimates of all options and
recommendations proposed by the Consultant.
82. The draft reports shall be submitted to the VASA for comments and
approval, prior to the preparation of the final version.
Final Design Study Revort
83. The report shall be submitted in draft and final form, and shall
detail the critical calculations of the various elements of the selected
scheme options, controlling physical parameters and relationships with
the overall system, the selected materials for use in the permanent
works and a general description of the scheme, giving sizes, capacities
and cost estimates of key components.
84. The draft report shall be submitted to WSB for comments and
approval, prior to presentation of thee Final Version which shall be
submitted in 10 copies.
Progress Reports
85. The Consultant shall report on progress of his activities in
monthly liaison meetings during which problems encountered and likely to
arise will be discussed and solutions expounded.



- 77                       S 8ECTION C
APPENDIX B
Page 26 of27
ftoposal Docwunts to be submatted by t4e Consultant
86. The Consultant shall present the following documents which will
constitute the proposal. The Technical and Financial Proposals shall be
submitted in separate envelopes.
Technical Proposal
87.  The Technical Proposal shall includes
(a)    The general approach which will be adopted for providing the
required services.
(b)    A work plan, including the organization and time schedule
for the proposed services.
(c)    A bar chart indicating clearly the estimated duration and
the probable timing of each professional to be used, and the
estimate of the total number of man-months required.
(d)    Detailed description of the specific tasks to be assigned to
each professional of the proposed team.
(e)    The name, age, background, employment record and detailed
professional experience of each professional, to be assigned
for the proposed services.
(f)    An estimate of office space, vehicles, office and field
equipment etc., required for carrying out the proposed
services. All such equipment and offices to be provided by
the Consultant but where items of equipment are purchased
out of direct project funds they shall revert to WASA on
completion of the assignment.
(g)    Details of any other related services, which may be required
for executing the work.
(h)    Reference and description of similar works, previously
undertaken by the Consultant including size, location,
contract amount, whether completed or not and date of
completion.
Financial Proposal.
88. The Financial Proposal shall include:
(a)    The man-month rate for each category of staff to be engaged,
with a breakdown of all time-based rates, including basic
salary, socLal charges, overhead, fee, and overseas
allowance as applicable.
(b)    Cost of purchasing and maintaining vehicles and equipment.
lc)    Total cost of the services to be provided.



- 78 -                     SECTION C
APPENDIX B
Page 27 of27
(d)    The required payment schedule.
(e)    Hourly rates payable for various categories of engaged staff
where services over and above the proposed assignment may be
ordered by WASA.
Duties of WMS
Documents
89. VASA will make available to the Consultant all relevant documents
and data, relating to the assignment.
Liaison
90. WASA will appoint a liaison officer, who will assist the
consultants in obtaining access to all available information required
for the successful completion of the project. The Consultant shall
nominate a senior member of its staff who shall consult with and liaise
with WASA on all matters, during the duration of the assignment.



- 79 -                     SECTION C
APPENIX C
Page 1 of 8
Draft Terms of Reference for the Public Bulldings Sector,
Including& (a) Developmnt of a maintenance assessment,
prioritizatiom an4d simplemestation stem; and (b) ngineeraing
studies for rehabilitation and restoration of selected public
buildings
TItroduction
1.  The Government of Lesotho (GOL) is preparing an Infrastructure
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (IRMP), with assistance from the
World Bank, for rehabilitation and maintenance of infrastructure
services in the roads, urban water and sewerage, and public buildings
sectors. In order to ensure the maintenance and sustainability of the
infrastructure investments that will be associated with this project.
the operational and financial viability of the agencies responsible for
provision of infrastructure services need strengthening. An action
plan, designed to identify and then implement recommendations for the
strengthening of the concerned infrastructure agencies, is therefore to
be undertaken. The three components of the action plan will address the
particular institutional, financial and technical/engineering needs of
the Roads Branch (RB), Labor Construction Unit (LCU), Water and Sewerage
Authority (WASA) and Architect Branch (AB).
2.   Each project component addresses the needs in the sector identified
by the Government and as the result of previous project experience and
consultancies financed by the World Bank and other donors. Specific
actions to be taken have been coordinated with Government's objectives
In the sector and with past and on-going programs of donor assistance.
3.  This annex sets out the terms of reference, for which consultants
are being recruited, to address the needs in the public buildings sector
to improve the management and maintenance of the public buildings stock
and to carry out detailed feasibility and design studies for the
rehabilitation and restoration of a number of public buildings under the
follow-up IRMP.
4.   The terms of reference will cover AB of the Ministry of Works.
Obiectives
S.   The overall objective of these terms of reference is to strengthet
the management and maintenance capacity of AB so as to extend the useful
life of public buildings.
6. The sub-objectives for the development of a maintenance assessment,
prioritization and implementation system are (i) to make an inventory of
the building stock; C(i) to assess its rehabilitation and maintenance
needs; (iii) to improve procedures for budgeting for maintenance; (iv)
to increase the role of private contractors in this area; and (v) to
make proposals for organizational reform of the structures involved with
management and upkeep of public buildings.



- 80-                      SCtONC
APPDDIX C
Page 2 of a
7. The sub-objectives of the engineering studies for rehabilitation of
public buildings are to survey selected public buildings and prepare
detailed structural proposals for their rehabilitation.
Backaround Information
8.   The maintenunce of public buildings is the responsibility of AS.
AB has its own budget for maintaining 'Pool' buildings (mostly
residential houses) while it is supposed to carry out maintenance of
Institutional buildings and houses with funds sub-warrented from
maintenance budgets from the respective user ministries. AB has no
control over the adequacy of these budgets and relies on the complaint
system for intervention. AB carries out part of its task with its own
labor force of around 300 people and the balance through subcontracts
with about 200 registered small contractors. CapabLe contractors,
however, are scarce and in the rural areas virtually non-existent and
few have the capacity to price correctly for jobs.
9. Maintenance budgets have rarely been sufficient to prevent the
steady deterioration of the fabric of many government buildings, often
resulting in permanent structural damage, loss of usable space and
deterioration of the working environment. Current maintenance budgets
although improved in recent years are not based on realistic assessments
of needs and do not take into account the need to bring buildings up to
a reasonable standard for normal regular maintenance to be effective.
There is also confusion among the ministries as to who is responsible
for the maintenance of institutional buildings and budget allocations
are not necessarily specific enough to ensure that maintenance money is
spent on the upkeep of buildings.
10. A special category for rehabilitation is formed by the numerous old
stone buildings in Maseru and other parts of the country which are owned
by government and have architectural and enviromental significance.
Not only do they form an unique part of the country's cultural
inheritance but they also pose special problems in 'Lerms of their
selection, restoration and use. A 1987 study financed by Swedish SIDA
identified 43 historical buildings in Maseru of which 15 are used by
government.
U1. AB lacks the manpower and resources to effectively monitor the
condition of its building stock, carry out and supervise maintenance
activities and provide support to the user ministries to budget for
maintenance needs. A program of technical assistance and engineering
studies has been prepared as part of the engineering project to address
these needs prior to the implementation of a public works program under
the IM.
Assignment Imlementation
12. Four specialist positions and one consultancy will be funded under
technical assistance. A technical advisory team will develop the
management and maintenance capacity of AB. An architectlteamleader with
appropriate experience in designing and supervising architectural



a81                       SIMO  c
APPMR C
Page 3 of 8
projects and preferably with government agency experience In
rehabilitation of buildings will be recruited externally for a period of
two years. A building surveyoriestate manAger with experience in
contract management, building maintenance and estate msonagement will
also be recruited externally for two years. A quantity surveyor and
structural engineer with experience In the area of refurbisament and
rehabilitation of buildings will be recruited externally for a periods
of 6 months each. The te&r 5'.ill work together with the Chief Technlcal
Offlcer in the NoV (Archltect), Buildings Branch and report to the Chief
Architect.
13. AB will appoint suLtably quallfied counterpart staff to work with
the technical advLsory team. In order to strengthen the skills transfer
portlon of the technical assistance, at least 20? of the specialists'
time will be devoted to training of counterpart staff in AB. The work
programs prepared by the specialists will list skllls to be imparted to
counterparts to serve as a benchmark for final performance review.
14. Consulting services will be provided to undertake the engineering
studies   The consultant will prepare an inception report to be
presented to AB wlthin 30 days of being awarded the contract. It shall
outline the Consultant's detailed organizatLonal and work plan in
narrative and diagrammatic form, for accomplishing the scope of the
work, and any initial observations deemed approprlate. Upon submission,
it will be evaluated by AB, adjusted as deemed necessary, and returned
to the consultants for the completion of their assignment. The
Government will appoint a liaison officer, who will assist the
consultant in obtaining access to all available information required for
the successful completion of the project.
15. The consultant will report on progress of his actives in monthly
liaLson meetings. A draft report will be submitted to AB for comments
and approval, prior to presentation of the final version.
16. It is expected that the development of a maintenance assessment,
prioritization and implementation system will precede the consultancies
by a period of 9 months so that selection of public buildings to be
surveyed for rehabilitation can be completed by the technical advisory
team.
17. The detailed terms of reference for the public buildings component
of the project are set out below.



- 82 -                     SUCTIONC
APPENDIX C
Page 4 Of a
Public Buildings - Part 1 Development of a Maintenance Assessment,
Prtoritization and ImplementatioA Systems Taers of Reference for
Specialist Position.
JOB TITLEt The Technical Advisory Team will comprise the following
disciplines:
ArchitectlTeamleader
Structural Engineer
Quantity Surveyor
Building Surveyor/Estate Manager
PURSE:    The Government of Lesotho (GOL) with assistance of the
International Development Agency (IDA) is about to undertake
a major Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenane
Project (IRMW) involving roads, water & sewerage and public
buildings. In preparation, a smaller engineering project
will be undertaken with, inter alia, the objectives to
improve GOL capacity for managing and maintaining its
building stock and to carry out detailed preparation work
for IRMP. In order to achieve this objective one of the
components of the engineering project is to provide
Technical Assistance to the Architect Branch (AB) of the
Ministry of Works with the specific task to (a) make an
Inventory of the building stock, (b) assess its
rehabilitation and maintenance needs, (c) improve procedures
for budgeting for maintenance, (d) increase the role of
private contractors in this area, (e) make proposals for
organizational reform of the structures involved with
management and upkeep of public buildings.
SPECIC DUTIES:
1. Building Inventory
(a)    Review-the Register of Public BuiLdings, develop and
implement proposals to facilitate its upkeep and ensure its
usefulness as a tool for effective monitoring of maintenance
and rehabilitation needs.
(b)    Survey existing building stock and establish for each
building its physical condition, current replacement value,
immediate rehabilitation needs and cost plan for regular
preventative maintenance.
2. Special Engineering Studies
(a)    Develop in liaison with the Chief Architect selection
criteria and prepare a prioritized list and cost estimate of
urgent rehabilitation projects.



- 83 -                     SUCTIO  C
APPENDIX C
Page 5 of 8
(b)    Coordinate selection and recruitment of consultants and
supervise their activities.
S. Maintenance Budgeting
(a)   Develop a format for and implement a system of annual
consultation with each user ministry regarding its
maintenance and rehabilitation requirements and budget.
(b)    Develop proposals for adoption by the Ministry of Finance to
ensure that user ministries make adequate and specific
provision in their budgets for the upkeep and protection of
their institutional buildings.
4. Assistance to Small Contractors
(a)    Review the existing procedures for the registration.
selection and supervision of small contractors and develop
procedures which facilitate and encourage the involvement of
private contractors in maintenance and refurbishment work.
(b)    Organize workshops and prepare instruction material
regarding the procedures and technical requirements of AB.
(c)    Liaise with ILO managed Contractor Training Program and
assist with identification of practical training projects.
5. Organizational Development
(a)    Assist and train the Chief Technical Officer in all aspects
of his job.
(b)    Review existing organization of AB, Direct Labor and Joinery
Workshop and identify weaknesses and problem areas within
the existing structures.
(c)    In consultation with the relevant authorities, make
reccamendations for strengthening or, where appropriate,
reforming existing structures, taking into account the
necessity for developing an lEstate Management" function in
government.
(d)    Prepare detailed costing of above proposals taking into
account manpower, training, equipment and other appropriate
resources.
OUTM
1.     Work schedule, including terms of reference for AB
counterpart staff, to be approved by AB.
2.     Building inventory and dilapidation survey.



- 84 -                      SECT1O  C
APPENIX C
Page 6 of 8
3.     Short list of refurbishment projects.
4.     Format and system for maintenance and budgetary
consultations with user ministries.
5.     Second year workplan to be approved by AB.
6.     Reorganization proposals and costing.
7.     Monthly progress reports including an assessment of skills
transfer to local counterpart staff.
Qualifications:
Architect/Teamleaders
Degree in Architecture and/or Building Science with at least
6 years postgraduate experience in designing and supervising
architectural projects. Experience in rehabilitation and
restoration of buildings and working :Ath or within
govermuental agencies will be an advantage.
Structural Engineers
Degree in Structural Engineering with at least 4 years
practical, postgraduate experience, particularly in the area
of refurbishment and rehabilitation of buildings.
quantity Surveyors
Degree in Quantity Surveyor with at least 4 years
postgraduate experience, particularly in the area of
rehabilitation and restoration of buildings.
Estate Managert
Degree in building science, quantity surveying and/or
structural engineering with experience in contract
management, building maintenance and estate management.
Experience with Direct Labor contracts will be an advantage.
Duration of Assignments
Architect/teamleader                 24 months
Structural Engineer                   6 monthe
Quantity Surveyor                     6 months
Building Surveyor/Estate Manager    24 mmoths
Total       60 months



- 85-                      SCSION C
APPDMIX C
Page 7 of 8
Public Buildings - Part 2: ZUgineering studies for rehabilitation of
selected publlc buildings T erms of Reference for Consultancy.
lackaround
17. The Government of Lesotho (GOL) with assistance of the
International Development Agency (IDA) its about to undertake a major
Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (IRMP) involving
roads, water & sewerage and public buildings. In preparation, a smaller
engineering project will be undertaken of which one of the components is
to carry out detailed feasibility and design studies for the
rehabilitation and restoration of a number of selected public buildings.
Because many buildings are constructed in sandstone and some have
historical significance special expertise in this area will be required.
Objectives
18. This proposal concerns the provision to the Architect Branch (AB)
In the Ministry of Works of architectural and related quantity surveying
and engineering services for the rehabilitation and where applicable
restoration of selected public buildings in Lesotho. The services will
be required in 2 phasest firstly a preliminary and detailed design phase
and secondly a tender action and supervision phase. The terms of
reference below relate to the first phase only.
scope of Work
19. The scope of work is as followss
(a)    Review Works(architect) documentation Including structural
and quantity surveyors report.
(b)    Carry out a measured survey of certain buildings where
indicated, noting services also, and presenting
comprehensive measured sets at a scale of generally 150.
Ay special features may be further presented and
highlighted at a scale of 1:20. Measured sets should Include
plans, typical sections and all elevations, as well as a
site plan at a scale of 1-200.
(c)    Prepare a structural report on each building, with
recommendations for both immediate and longer terms remedial
measures.
(d)    Prepare a schedule of dilapidation for each building.
(e)    Prepare outline scheme for proper functional use for each
building, after consultation with the Chief Architect and a
representative of the user Ministry. For buildings with



- 86 -                      SECTION C
APPENDIX C
Page 8 of 8
historical significance special attention to all details of
this aspect is essential.
(f)    Prepare costing for works to be executed, allowing for
escalation.
(g)    Prepare detailed structural proposals which will form part
of any tender documents prepared.
(h)    Prepare detailed drawings and tender documents for each
building.
Ii)    Establish a tentative program for execution of the project.
Documents to be submitted by the Consultant
20. The consulting engineer shall prepare and submit the following
reports.
(a)    Inception Report including a detailed work plan to be
reviewed by AB.
(b)    Engineering Reports for buildings identified under the
Maintenance Assessment, Prioritization and Implementation
system including a structural report, dilapidation schedule
and use plans.
(c)    Final Report including a tenetative project execution
program under the IRMP.



IinLjmuaatle  Sdwd.l.
is"g                  t991                                           1994
A    3   O  N  D  J  f  N  A  J  J  J                          0      J  F  N  A  V  J  J  A
A.
1.   POVaMe  VW Mat tnase
UMW$apeas Sysbte PB)
Complete treouvt. of e     Its.              XX
Prep. of ineeptiea rert                         x2O
awl"  ae  approv a  lm
SovIew o  esltottag "iot. eye.                             X2OOOCOOO
Reviw e   nd approv_l
RovlOp d   ~u -°r                                                                                 ~                          t*1
Peie and appmoval                                                                                                XXXX
Prep. of mute. for Implesm                                                                                         xoO
Train, of osentra  sta"                                                                                             xxx to Set lo"4
Urp, of Piml Report                                                                                                      Oct/Now 1_04
AIwlm aN    ao l
2. uNupmw  VW,, u.    Trainin  Aft. OM
CoUple   mre it. of epe1etait                     XX
Prop. of work sehea                                 lo=
R-view and approal                                      XXt
Upd.k amap         plas tain., remus.                                                                            .........
Revlm sOd approva                                                                                            XX                       X
TeaiNee Progres  rports                                                              XX                       xx         July AO 1k004o
o-.ab. In4mmes train. suit 
Updat  train. |ma   s                                                                                                    3=
Review SWd approval                                                                  XXXxx2O
8.Oversmea  Training Progra  (RB)                                                                                                            - 
8.5.4 trolaesw                                     RXOC
Identify prgrms oversees                           XX200000(
Bee. prooraf                                                                                                             to *---199
No  programs                                                                                                             tor:A"7t9A4l4
U*rt C_____s                                                      ~                                                      to be  1904



4   0 O         0   J  F  J  A  6  J  J  A  S  O  N  D  J  F  9  A  0  J  J
4.~~~~~~~ *.611k1-.
4. DM. oll Sa"I Coop. ImilaTr O.M
CUOmpat remrit. of apasoliao               x
Pro. of work edasi.300000
Rovion ad approa                                   0-
Selection of estruora/thraimes,                                -MOM1
11110    tf  Ii.a                                                     moooaoNX    -----------------
Field .4tluiti.. - til soatraa                                                       -
lessA Training
Field awsbtlvlt    - trial contracts                                                                             X to so"1W4
latredsa m  toador. NW  ap. - .                       x       m
Prep, 2r. read aitb. po.                                                    t
RmevImd appmova                                                                       U2OxX
L. Read Ieagias   bo         )
Caste recrui. of esnuota1   .                                                                                                       0
.o  as            epo                                                              xm    t
P     o. et preil.. Fepo-t-----I
o11v,d app v Io .00r
PM. at fInal low                                                                                               0 to march 199
Rmlw md oppmel                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~April 190W
S. Urban Water an SgEr
1. lI., Crp. ad 16k. Sarvia  aW Pleaing (a)
Cpeto  rea  It. of   sa                         X
Pre. of work 1-hetdle,                           0MX
Revuew ai approval                                   XX X 
S1port to a=o esgineero                                                                                           to Sept 1904      a
o N        sWse t i., eisa., end In. plan.    - 3________________-
Bevise Nd approval 
,. o       ot ai  room. for a  procedrs n
Review san  opnmxtl                                                                             x                      ep1
1 1el"lo              .mm QOOtOo 8ot 1994



1WI                  1WS                                       104
^   8   0  "  t  J  F  9  A  9  J  J  A  S  O  N  D  J  P  9  A  N J J
to Ower.n Wate Las $d  MU)
Couplet. ooIt. So commit.                 gx
apoereport                     xx 0
Prep. So prelim. wateos As                  -OOOt
Prep. offlst           t8o"  1 
"view and approval                                                              XXXX
PtaN. "s"  atlle 1os tu"Y
Coplete relouIt. of PRemults.             XX
Prop. of Im_ep0i1  aer                      X1O
Review sd apprvl                                XXX
Prp. pro-invostmat stwdy
"view and aproval                                                           Xo
Prp. final desig Study
Reie  Nd approval0
C. Pu lic Bel Idiom
1.  elat. As_ess. Pruoriltizti.o ai lplen. Sly. (AB)
Cuplet reuit. of specielist                     xxx
Prop. of work seduile 
bui  tldn  loeto7 a" dilip.  r" 
mm on a"pproval
Prop. aborb ileb of refuth. projects
-Ibt  Sa approval                                                                                    0?-i
Prep. fonat for budgt. conl.                                        F                        
Pro. report Sand yr. orkplaa 
a.oo sad approval                                                                                                           A
Flnal reo. pro_le a  eaid   ost                                                                                to Ang  109
R"view me aproval



- 90 -                    SECTION C
APPENDIX D
-S                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 4 of 4
U
eoX
.~~~
J'       U
.S
a
U}1 
-~~  a      s    t 



- 91 -                       SECON D
LUSOTRO
nPIW TRUCTUR  NGIURU  PIOJRC
SIJPRISION mLm
1. IDA Supervision Inputs Bank staff Input into the supervision of
the project will take the following forms
(A) Portfolio Management Operations:
Review of work programslschedules, reports (progress, final
and feasibility and design), and financial statements at
headquarters and correspondence and internal reporting
related to such activities are estimated to require 9 staff
weeks in each year of project execution.
(B) Field Supervisions
The supervision of the project in the field will comprise three
broad aspectss
(i)    Roads -- (a) review of progress in der-'loping and
implementing the Pavement and Maintenance Management System,
(b) review of the personnel development program including
overseas training, (c) detailed review of progress In
developing the small scale construction industry, Id) review
of Taung-l4okhotlong-Sani Pass Road engineering study and Ce)
skills transfer to local counterpart staff.
(i1)   Urban Water and Sewerage -- (a) detailed review of progress
in developing and implementing investment and corporate
planning procedures for WASA and skills transfer to local
staff counterparts, (b) review of the Maseru Water Loss
Study, Cc) review of the Greater Maseru Sewerage ngineering
study and (d) skills transfer to local counterpart staff.
Ciii)  Public Buildings -- (a) detailed review of progress in
preparing and implementing the maintenance planning system,
(b) review of the engineering studies for rehabilitation of
public buildings identified under the maintenance planning
system and (c) skills transfer to local counterpart staff.
2.   It is planned to undertake field supervision of the project on a
semi-annual basis. Supervision mLssions will coincide with preparation
of the INN?. A project implementation workshop will be   held 
conjunction with the midterm review to assess past progress and mprove
future mplementation. The workshop will be coordinated with other
donors to provide a comprehensive assessment of the needs in the various
sectors. Additional institutional strengthening needs identified as
part of supervisionlliMP project preparation will be addressed through
the Project Preparation Facility or Incorporated into the IBNP.
3.  An activity plan for the first two project years Is Indicated In
the table below.



11        §                       I          DN
Wt|}}XiltEl$|}TlilIlXl X ,
X|| }t||    lf   i|   tZ| | i'5            -. ftn
g  fX ~I  i1
e  ^   "  4   tE           £t~~~~~ 0



SOUTH
AFRICA
;::dh =121W~~~210
IR                                                                          1
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ms. R..                                F"       <    s        f
/1  t   vPM   / t  t ; /      r                          ~~~~LESOTHO
g \ e i44 i 3 ~~~~~INFRASTRUCTURE ENGiNEERING PROJECT
)   @ _o_ PRAIECTSMS          -     ~~~~P0VED ROMS DER5 MII
IKLNS WAIER PROIECT'.     GAVLROA11RDS  b1R
NEW ROADS         -     EAlrrH ROADS / TXS
\,                              ,!             g   a  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~DAMAS/RESERVOIR5  S.eu
\{  o   11   <                       *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISMRCT HEADQUAERS
tSb~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NATO  CAPITAL                       W*.-
OUH AFRiCA               ?   _i
1.*t-_._,_;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m o,z o                        9  z



