Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16674
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
INFRASTRUCTURE ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 2400-LSO)
June 11, 1997
Transport
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
During Project Appraisal
(as of May 1992)
Currency Unit      =     Loti (pl. Maloti)
1US$                     L 2.9
During Project Implementation Completion Mission
(as of May 1996)
1US$                     L 4.2
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CAS      =      Country Assistance Strategy
ICR      =      Implementation Completion Report
IEP      =      Infrastructure Engineering Project
IRMP    =       Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
LCU      =      Labour Construction Unit
MEP      =      Ministry of Economic Planning
MNR      =      Ministry of Natural Resources
MOF      =      Ministry of Finance
MOW      =      Ministry of Works
PMMS   =        Pavement and Maintenance Management System
PVPS            Plant and Vehicle P'ool Services
RB       =      Roads Branch of the Ministry of Works
RRMP   =        Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
TA       =      Technical Assistance
WASA            Water and Sewerage Authority
Vice President: Callisto Madavo
Country Director: Pamela Cox
Task Team Leader: Bernard Becq
ICR prepared by: Asamanetch Fantaye



LESOTHO                                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INFRASTRUCTURE ENGINEERING PROJECT
CREDIT 2400-LSO
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE ..........................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..........................................................i
A. INTRODUCTIION/PROJECI BACKGROU'ND) .                                      .........................................................
B. SI1ATITMFNTF/EVAL! ATION OF PROJEC I'OBJ(CTIVES ...........................................................;
C. AC'HIFVFNFINT OI PROJI:CTI'OBJICT'IVIS/IMPLEMENTAIION ExINFRII NCE ............II.....................................
D. POIICY DIALOGUE l       ..............  .      ...................... ..........................................................Ij
E. MAJOR FACiORS AFFECTING I I IE PROJEC'I' .. ................................ iV
F. PROJECT SU!S' AINABIIIl Y ..........        ........................... ........................................................ iV
G. BANK PFRFORMANC(I ...................................   V
H BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..................................                                                           v
I AsiSSESSILNTVOF O I ICONIF.............................I..   ...................... ......vi
J.ASIFu S11  NIF    O PFRAT'lI'O5NS,,..................,,,,,,,,.........................................   .....   ......................................................... ,,,,, .. ,,,,,,,,   .....,,,,.,   ..   ,,,,,,   V
J. FUT I1RE OPE.RATIOI(NS.vi
K. KEY LESSONS LFARNID.I) .v
PART 1: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .                                                                                 I
A. IN I RODlC I ION.   .                                                                                            I
B. PROJECT BACKGROUND.I .                                                                                           I
C. S1TA I'FMEN I /EVALUAIION OE PROJECI' OBJECTIVES .                                                               2
D. ACHIEVEMENI OF PROJEIC CIOBJECI YVES/IMPIFMFNTArION EXPIERIENCE ..2
E. POIICY DIALOGUE.                                                  .                                              7
F:. MIl)-TERM RE,VIEW .8
G. MAJOR FACTORS AFFICTING TClE PROJEC'T .                                                                          9
F. PRO)JECT Sl lSTIAINABI.ITIY .9
G. BANK;PERFORMANCE .10
H. BORROWER P[:REORMANCI .I I
I. ASSESSM1ENTI OF OIJTCOMI.I I
J . FUTUlRE OPERATIION..@ b                             ...1 2
K. KEY LE^SSONS LEIARNED).1I2
PART 11: STATISTICAL TABLES
T able I                     Summary of Assessments
Table 2                      Related Bank Credits
Table 3                      Project Timetable
Table 4                      Loan Disbursements
Table 5                      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6                      Project Related Studlies
Table 7A                     Project Costs
Table 713                    Project Financing
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- 3 -
Table 8             Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9             Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Table 10            Bank Resources - Missions
PART III: APPENDICES
A                   Completion Mission Aide-Memoire
B                   Evaluation of the Government of Lesotho
C                   Map: IBRDNo. 23718



LESOTHO
INFRASTRUCTURE ENGINEERING PROJECT
CREDIT 2400-LS
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Infrastructure
Engineering Project (IEP), for which credit 2400-LS in the amount of SDR 7.2 million
was approved on May 24, 1992 and made effective on December 22, 1992.
2.    The project was closed on December 31, 1996. The closing date was extended
twice, from June 30, 1995 to December 31, 1995, then to December 31, 1996. Final
disbursement took place on May 22, 1997, at which time the undisbursed balance of
SDR 814,607.09 was canceled.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Asamanetch Fantaye, Operations Analyst, Water, Urban
and Energy I, Eastern and Southern Africa. It was reviewed by Bernard Becq, Task
Team Leader; Pamela Cox, Country Director, Country Department 1; Imogene Jensen,
Transport I; Jacomina de Regt, Principal Operations Officer, Operations Support I; Steve
Gaginis, Disbursement Officer; T. Mpoy-Kamulayi, Legal Counsel.
4.    Preparation of the ICR was started during the Bank's completion mission in May
1996. It is based on data provided by the Roads Branch (RB), Labour Construction Unit
(LCU) and Architect Branch (AB) of the Ministry of Works (MOW), and the Water and
Sewerage Authority (WASA) under the Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR). The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing relevant information and
by preparing its own evaluation.






LESOTHO
INFRASTRUCTURE ENGINEERING PROJECT
CREDIT 2400-LSO
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.   INTRODUCTION/PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.   IDA's involvement in the highway and urban water sub-sectors began in 1966 and
1984, respectively. The projects financed by the IDA were Highways I - IV and the
Seven Towns Water Supply Project. While the objectives of the highway projects were
to assist government in increasing accessibility to rural areas, strengthen the institutional
capacity, and generate employment, the objectives of the urban water sub-sector were to
provide water to new consumers and strengthen WASA's financial management in order
to make it a self-reliant parastatal. The physical objectives of the above projects were
fully achieved; however, the institutional development objectives were only partially
achieved.
2.    The Infrastructure Engineering Project (IEP) evolved from an evaluation of the
institutional strength of the agencies providing infrastructure services. An infrastructure
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (IRMP), was designed to complement the
ongoing World Bank and IMF supported adjustment program. This project aimed at
improving the planning capacity of the institutions managing the infrastructure sectors.
However, in September 1991, it was decided that a IRMP should be preceded by an
engineering project, as significant amounts of resources were needed for studies,
technical assistance, and institutional strengthening before the actual rehabilitation,
maintenance and upgrading could be carried out. In February 1995, the IRMP was split
in two projects: a Water Sector Project and a Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project (RRMP). In regard to the public buildings, it was decided that further assistance
could be provided through the ongoing sector projects. Assistance to the water sector
will be provided through the Water Resources Management Study, the Privatization
Project, and the Poverty Reduction Project. Decision to prepare a stand alone project will
be taken as part of the preparation of the new Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).
B.    STATEMENTIEVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    The primary objective of the Project was to increase the economic benefits
derived from infrastructure investments in the roads, urban water and sewerage, and
public buildings sectors by: (i) establishing procedures in the respective agencies for the
allocation of available funds for investment and maintenance in line with economic
criteria; and (ii) developing the administrative and management capacity of public



- 11 -
agencies that are responsible for infrastructure construction and maintenance of the roads,
urban water and sewerage, and public buildings sectors.
4.    The project objective was clearly stated and was key to the country's sustainable
economic development which required sufficient institutional capacity in the road, public
buildings, and water sectors. The objective was, also, consistent with the government's
development objectives of strengthening the management and implementation capacity of
the agencies which provide infrastructure services.
C.   ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES/IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
5.    Although implementation started a year late due to delays in launching key
Technical Assistance (TA), the project components were successfully completed,
including a number of additional activities. The extension of the Project Closing Date by
one year provided time to complete some of the components that were not completed by
the initial closing date, carry out additional studies and training, and implement more
pilot labor-based road works. Furthermore, the extension provided further short-term TA
to assist MOW and WASA in elaborating and implementing complementary reforms.
The planned, as well as additional, activities completed under each sub-component are
discussed below.
6.    Under the roads component the following were successfully completed: (i)
development and implementation of a Pavement Maintenance Management System
(PMMS); (ii) training of professional staff of the Ministry of Works road agencies (a
total of 1 13 staff were trained) ; and (iii) development of a small-scale, labor-based
construction industry responsible for gravel roads maintenance and upgrading, including
the elaboration of training and technical manuals, environmental guidelines, contracting
procedures, and supply of equipment. The impact of the development program was
significant in terms of employment generation and poverty alleviation through the
creation of local contractors and provision of jobs to communities, in line with the
poverty reduction strategy recommendation to introduce labor-based public works to
provide a safety nct to poor communities. As a result of changes in priorities, the fourth
component, the Taung-Mokhotlong-Sani Pass Road feasibility study, was substituted
with a design study for the rehabilitation of selected paved roads to be carried out under
the Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (RRMP). The position of Manpower
Development and Training Adviser, (which was to assist the Road Branch to review the
manpower plan, training programs, and recruitment and remuneration policies) was not
filled. Instead an existing Manpower Development Plan was updated and a
comprehensive training program for MOW was elaborated as part of the training TA and
the RB activities. A satisfactory training program for the MOW has also been elaborated.
7.    Under the Water and Sewerage component, the following planned
activities/studies were completed/developed: (i) Financial Module; (ii) Capital
Investment/Prioritization Report and water demand assessment; (iii) Corporate Plan; (iv)
Maseru Water Loss Study; (v) Greater Maseru Sewerage Pre-Investment Study; (vi)



- 111 -
Tariff Study; and (vii) design standards. In addition to what was planned during
appraisal, the following activities were completed: (i) Beneficiary Assessment; (ii) Peri-
Urban Mapping; (iii) Customer Survey; (iv) Assets Revaluation; and (v) Outsourcing of
non-core activities. Also, a community liaison specialist and an operations manager were
recruited.
8.    Under the Public Building component, the AB in MOW completed/developed: (i)
Public Buildings Condition Surveys; (ii) update of Building Register for Maseru District
and the 9 Rural Districts; (iii) a budget for backlog maintenance and rehabilitation,
(iv) update of the Building Classification System. In addition, proposals for
organizational, maintenance, and financing/budgeting reforms have been prepared and a
policy dialogue with government, which is essential for organizational reforms, has
started.
9.   In addition to the above three components, the project provided five staff years of
technical assistance to MOW for project financial management and accounting. A
Project Management System and an Administrative and Accounting Procedures Manual
have been developed. Several workshops were held and training was carried out for the
accounting staffs of the project implementing agencies. Training was also extended to
the financial and management staffs of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and Ministry of
Economic Planning (MEP).
D.   POLICY DIALOGUE
10.   As it was realized that the development of an infrastructure sector policy
framework was a prerequisite for a successful implementation of the IRMP, extensive
policy dialogue took place. As a result, major policy reforms were made and
implemented, existing policies were enhanced or new policies introduced, and sector
strategies for the Road and Water Sectors were prepared and approved by Government.
The key elements already implemented under the road strategy include: (i) creation of a
Road Fund to finance road maintenance and rehabilitation works; (ii) appointment of a
Road Board; (iii) action plan for restructuring MOW and its force account units;(iv)
launching of the privatization process of the Plant and Vehicle Pool Services (PVPS); (v)
merging of all road agencies under one ministry; and (vi) action plan to strengthen the
Local Road Construction Industry. In addition, MOW developed a housing policy and
estate management plan.
11.  In the water supply and sanitation sector key measures implemented include:
(i) improved cost recovery and billing system; (ii) reduction in unaccounted for water;
and (iii) managerial changes and new operating procedures to make WASA a more
efficient institution. Government also defined institutional reforms such as: (i) Board
autonomy; (ii) tariff restructuring; (iii) staff development planning and staff redundancy
measures; (iv) elaboration of an urban water and sanitation sector strategy; and (v) a
study of water resources management. Further reforms with regard to the privatization of
WASA are currently discussed with MNR, MEP, and the Privatization Unit of MOF.



- Iv -
E.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
12.   here was no factor that negatively affected the outcome of the project. EHlowever,
because of delays in the imnplementation of the Public Building Component, the plan to
provide financing for the needed rehabilitation of public buildings and the finalization of
the organizational reform did not materialize. As indicated during IEP project appraisal,
maintenance budgets have been insufficient in the past, and this is likely to continue in
the future.
F.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
13.   Sustainability is certain for the activities achieved under the Road Component,
unlikely for the Public Building Component, and uncertain for the Water and Sewerage
Components.
14.   Although there was no mechanism to assure the return of staff who took long-
term overseas training under the project, or to assure skills transfer from the TAs to the
RB staff, sustainability is likely because of the continuation of these two programs under
the RRMP Institutional Reform and Capacity Building Component. The retention of
qualified staff would be addressed through: (i) a sustainable long -term development
strategy; (ii) the implementation of a professional development program for MOW
engineers; and (iii) the review and implementation procedures to enforce bonding
agreements and repayment of training fees by staff having benefited from long-term
training. Sustainable for cost recovery is expected through strengthening the Road Fund.
15.   Sustainability for the activities completed under the Public Building Components
is unlikely because of Government's failure to set clear priorities and the lack of
momentum to follow up on proposals to provide funds for maintaining the existing public
buildings, rehabilitate priority buildings, tackle the issue of the large housing stock and
make decisions on the needed reorganization of the administrative services. This is
demonstrated by the recent construction of new buildings to benefit the Maseru based
central administration. Furthermore, the Government did not make a decision on the
proposed maintenance budget policy and organizational reforms. Therefore, the
investment made - from the limited resources Government has - on the preparatory work
is considered unlikely to be followed upon by sustainable maintenance policies and
adequate maintenance budgeting.
16.   Sustainability is uncertain for activities achieved under the Water and Sewerage
Components despite significant progress regarding: (i) the financial management
capacity; (ii) cost recovery; (iii) identification of customers needs; (iv) rehabilitation and
investment requirements; and (v) partial strengthening of its operational capacity. The
objective of assisting WASA to become a customer-focused, autonomous, and
commercially-oriented authority has not, however, been fully achieved. Furthermore,
transfer of skills was partially achieved because of a lack of clearly defined modalities,



- v 
and schedule for such transfer. The Bank is to follow-up on the preparation work carried
out under IEP through the Water Resources Management Study, the Privatization Project,
and the Poverty Reduction Project. To address the need to improve the performnance of
the fragmented water sector, Government needs to restructure the sector organization,
decide on the best performance based option for the delivery of services (including
WASA's status), and adopt environmental and financial regulations. Were Government
to commit to maintain the previous momentum to privatize WASA through a concession
or a management contract, the likelihood of sustainable achievements in the water sector
would be greatly increased.
G.   BANK PERFORMANCE
17.   The Bank's performance was somewhat unsatisfactory in the identification, and
satisfactory in the preparation, appraisal, and during the three years of supervision.
During project idenf (ication, the Bank assisted Government in identifying areas that
needed immediate ac1ion and that were complementary to the IMF/World Bank
adjustment program. I fowever, the Bank's performance in fully identifying at this stage
all constraints and required policy reforms, which were in the end provided through
project restructuring, was not adequate.
18.   During project preparation and appraisal, the Bank played a valuable role in
assessing the institutional strength of the agencies providing infrastructure services. The
Bank's recommendation to have an engineering project before an investment project was
the result of the identification of management and implementation capacity weaknesses.
Significant amounts of resources were needed for studies, technical assistance, and
institutional strengthening before the actual rehabilitation and maintenance work could be
carried out. Therefore, a decision was made to provide funds for the above activities
under an engineering project.
19.  Implementation and Supervision. The Bank's performance during the first year of
project implementation was unsatisfactory. No Bank mission visited Lesotho during the
first year of implementation to assist government; this resulted in a one year
implementation delay. However, the supervision missions that visited Lesotho from
1993 onward were effective in accelerating implementation and providing the necessary
advice to government. This has been particularly prevalent in the water sector where
major reorientation of the water project components took place midst project
implementation. The dialogue with Government regarding the road sector resulted in a
significant reorientation of the MOW which has been key in the preparation of the RRMP
project.
H   BORROWER PERFORMANCE
20.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory in project identification,
preparation, appraisal, and covenant compliance. The Borrower's performance during
project implementation was also satisfactory.



- vi -
I     ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
21.   The outcome of the project is satisfactory. All initially planned studies were
completed, procedures to allocate funds for investment and maintenance in line with
economic criteria were developed for all three sub-sectors (PMMS, Road Fund for the
road sector, project management procedures, capital investment programs, economic
analysis). The administrative/ management capacity of road agencies and WASA has
significantly improved. The procedures developed and the administrative/management
capacity of MOW would be further developed under the RRMP. Impact in terms of
project management, auditing, cost recovery, implementation, and contracting out was
also significant.
J.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
22.   The reason for the IEP to precede an investment project was to strengthen the
administrative capacity of the agencies providing infrastructure services so that these
agencies could implement the succeeding rehabilitation and maintenance projects. The
RRMP is providing funds for the rehabilitation and maintenance in the road sub-sector,
and further strengthening the institutions. The immediate implementation of RRMP
allow the road agencies to use all the tools developed under IEP. In the water sector, the
preparation work carried out under IEP will be useful in the preparation of the proposed
Poverty Reduction Project, and possibly, a stand alone water project. It would be also
useful with regard to WASA's potential privatization under the Privatization Project.
K.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
23.   The key lessons learned from the implementation of the project are:
(a)    Studies to be carried out need to be linked to institutional policy reforms
and tragedies to effectively implement them for a TA project to be
effective.
(b)   Donors coordination is essential in order to avoid duplication of activities.
(c)    Success in capacity building depends on the availability of counterparts
with the required basic skills and a sound and detailed skills transfer
process as well as a clear skills transfer performance targets for TAs.
(d)   A single sector project is more effective in attaining project objectives
than . of a multi-sector one. A multi-sectoral project has difficulties to
addressing all the necessary reforms and pre-investment preparatory work
effectively for each sector. Also since the Bank's resources are allocated
by project instead of by sector, it is more difficult to provide adequate time
and skills for each sector.



- vii -
(e)   Training activities must take place within a comprehensive manpower
development and retention strategy and trained staff and studies must be
evaluated through an agreed mechanism, in order to ensure quality of
studies and the effectiveness of training.






LESOTHO
INFRASTRUCTURE ENGINEERING PROJECT
CREDIT 2400-LSO
PART 1: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   INTRODUCTION
1.   IDA's involvement in the highway (Highways I - IV) and urban water (Seven
Towns Water Supply Project) sub-sectors started in 1966 and 1984, respectively. The
objectives of the highway sub-sector projects were to assist Government in its effort to:
(i) increase accessibility of rural areas; (ii) strengthen the institutional capacity that is
providing infrastructure services; and (iii) generate employment through the
establishment of a labor-intensive work program within MOW. The Seven Towns Water
Supply Project in the water sub-sector aimed to: (i) provide water supply to about 20,000
new consumers - the poorer segment of the seven towns population; (ii) improve services
to existing customers; and (iii) strengthen WASA's financial management by providing
consultants to design a commercial accounting system, including a tariff study. While
the physical objectives of the above projects were fully achieved, the institutional
development objectives were partially achieved in that the transfer of skills to the local
staff was not fully realized.
B.   PROJECT BACKGROUND
2.    Project preparation started in the midst of implementation of a World Bank and
IMF supported adjustment program. The program primarily aimed to link budgetary
management to economic planning that included planning for public investments and
associated operational maintenance expenditures. Initially, a project Infrastructure
Rehabilitation and Maintenance (IRMP) was proposed to provide the necessary support
for priority rehabilitation and expansion of key infrastructure investments. Specifically,
the IRMP was designed to complement the ongoing adjustment efforts, i. e.,
strengthening the capacity of the institutions managing the country's infrastructure in
order to implement an investment program. However, in August 1991, it was noted that
significant amounts of resources would be needed for studies, technical assistance, and
institutional strengthening before the actual rehabilitation, maintenance and upgrading
actions could be carried out. Therefore, it was recommended that IRMP be preceded by
an engineering project. The emphases of the engineering project were to be, primarily,
institutional building and pre-investment preparatory activities for the Roads, Urban
Water and Sewerage, and Public Buildings sub-sectors. In September 1991, it was agreed
that the IRMP be preceded by IEP. In particular the project was to be used as the key
vehicle whereby government would strengthen the management of three sectors in
preparation for the envisaged IRMP.



- 2 -
C.   STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    The primary objective of IEP was to increase the economic benefits derived from
infrastructure investments in the roads, urban water and sewerage, and public buildings
sectors by: (i) establishing procedures in the implementing agencies (RB, LCU, WASA,
and AB) for allocating available funds for investment and maintenance in line with
economic criteria; and (ii) developing the administrative and management capacity of
public and private agencies providing these services in order to increase their operational
efficiency. The project was to serve as a vehicle for developing the necessary procedures
and human resources needed to achieve effective fiscal discipline and prioritization of
development goals.
4.    The project objective was consistent with one of the government's development
objectives of linking budgetary management to economic planning, which included
planning for public investments and associated operation and maintenance expenditures.
This was particularly necessary for the infrastructure sector where the provision of funds,
staffing, and systems for maintenance and operation had not been sufficient to secure the
expected flow of benefits from investments made. The project objective was also
consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, which was to support the
adjustment program designed to address the above objectives among other reform
programs.
5.    The objective of the project was clearly stated and was key to the country's
sustainable economic development which required sufficient institutional capacity in
order to maximize the efficiency of infrastructure investments. The key institutional
needs to be addressed were: (i) priority ranking of investments with recognition of
budget constraint; (ii) development of procedures and technical skills required; and (iii)
privatization and service contracting.
D.   ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES/IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
6.    Despite delays in project implementation, the project components required to
meet the objective (increasing the economic benefits derived from infrastructure
investments and increasing the operational efficiency of the roads, urban water and
sewerage, and public buildings sectors) were successfully completed. Delays in
implementation were caused by procurement delays in launching the TAs. However,
extension of the Project Closing Date by one year provided time to complete some of the
components that were not completed by the initial closing date, to carry out additional
studies and training, and to implement more pilot labor-based road works. It is expected
that: (i) the economic benefits from infrastructure investments would increase through the
application of the established procedures that are in line with economic criteria; and (ii)
the staff trained under the training program would increase the administrative and
management capacity, and the operational efficiency of the institutions that are managing



- 3 -
infrastructure services. The implementation experience for the three components are
discussed below.
7.    Roads Component: Three of the four sub-components were successfully
completed: (i) development and implementation of a Pavement and Maintenance
Management System (PMMS); (ii) training of professional staff in RB - extended to
LCU, MOW, MOF and Ministry of Economic Planning; and (iii) development of a
small-scale, labor-based, contracting industry for gravel roads maintenance and
construction. Due to changes in priorities, the fourth sub-component, Taung-
Mokhotlong-Sani Pass Road feasibility study, was replaced with a design study for the
rehabilitation of selected paved roads to be carried out under the RRMP.
(a)   The PMMS was completed one year after the scheduled completion date.
Although the aim was to have the PMMS fully functional and operational
before implementation of RRMP began, this goal was not achieved
because of a one year delay in the start-up of the study. The PMMS is
expected to provide information for managing the highway system. It will
also enhance the programming and budgeting of the maintenance and
rehabilitation of the road pavements in order to allocate funds in line with
economic criteria. To heighten the usefulness of the PMMS, four
additional modules - rural roads traffic data, traffic information system,
traffic counting, and road reclassification/renumbering and gazetting -
were added and completed under the Project.
(b)   The training sub-component experienced delays resulting from lack of a
clearly defined short-term training program and monitoring system, and
from cost overruns for long-term training during the early stage of
implementation. Nonetheless, all of the initially planned program was
completed. As planned at appraisal, 2 staff received undergraduate
degrees (BEng), 1 staff received a graduate degree (MSc/Eng.), and 5
staff received Higher National Diplomas. Also, it was planned at appraisal
that eleven staff would receive certificates in short courses. However, 113
staff received certificates in: (i) construction site management; (ii)
maintenance management and methods; (iii) contract administration and
dispute resolution; (iv) road condition survey and rating; (v) supply and
materials management; (vi) project accounting; (vii) quality management;
and (viii) computer literacy. The position of Manpower Development and
Training Adviser (which was to assist the Road Branch management in
reviewing the manpower plans, elaborating training program, and
recruitment and remuneration policies) was not filled. The position was
not filled basically because of the RB's reluctancy to recruit additional
TA, given the number of TAs provided by other Donors/Funding
Agencies. Also, since two Manpower Development studies were carried
out, one in 1992 and the other in 1993, the RB argued that a full analysis



of staffing requirements and training needs could only be justified after
reorganization of the RB. Instead, the existing Manpower Development
Plan was updated and a comprehensive training program for MOW was
elaborated. The updated plan addressed the capacity problems (staffing,
functional reorganization, and need to strengthen management procedures,
such as payments and computerized accounting, etc.) in order to reduce
the number of expatriates occupying line management positions. The
Manpower Development Action Plan is to be further elaborated under
RRMP to propose courses of action to strengthen manpower development.
Also, additional training and study for the senior staff of MOW were
carried out.
(c)   The development of a small-scale contracting industry for road
maintenance and construction sub-component was carried out successfully
by LCU. The selected small-scale private contractors developed skills
such as pricing and bidding, site management, and road maintenance
techniques. The program (development of labor-intensive public works)
was based on a study of the domestic contracting industry called
"Entrepreneurship Development For lIabor Based Road Maintenance
Contractors." It is also consistent with one of the principles of the
Government's Five-Year Development Plan: generation of employment
through the development of the private sector. IDA-financed specialists
provided lecturing, enhanced training materials, managed the training
program, and coordinated the procurement of equipment. The training
materials produced (Handbook and Workbook) werc: (i) Improve Your
Construction Business (IYCB, 3 volumes: site managermient, business
management, and pricing and bidding): (ii) Routine Maintenance and
Regravelling (ROMAR); (iii) Strategy Note on Road Construction and
Rehabilitation; and (iv) Trainer's Guide. Selection of individuals and
small contractors to receive training was done through local advertisement
followed by a one-day workshop and a related written proficiency test to
select candidates from the larger group of applicants. Training consisted
of theoretical, and extensive practical training. The theoretical course
consisted of the technical aspects of routine mainteniance and regravelling,
and IYCB (focused on the business management aspect). The training of
the small-scale contracts was carried out in-house. Also, LCU's technical
staff received training with the contractors and are now managing
contracts. During the project period, a total of 150 applications were
received and a total of 36 small-scale private contractors received
technical and managerial training on how to run a labor-based road
maintenance project. Various trial contracts and practical training were
carried out. Also, 12 supervisors received training in site supervision. As
of December 31, 1996, under the practical training program, using small
scale contractors, 127.8 km of roads have been regravelled and 967 km
have received routine maintenance. f.ighty percent of the regravelling



- 5 -
work was financed by the Bank and 20% by LCU. The routine
maintenance works were paid by Government.
(d)   An evaluation of LCU's program was done in order to assess its success
and to propose activities for a second phase to be financed under the
R RMP inorder to pursue further an activity with great impact on
employment generation and poverty alleviation. The recommendation for
the training program was that the period and the distance of practical
training should be lengthened (trial contracts were only 2km). LCU is
becoming a contract executing agency, and in order to manage the
activities started under the project, it is recommended that its technical and
accounting staff be trained. Furthermore, recommendations to enhance
the training materials were made.
8.    Water and Sewerage Component: The objective of the water and sewerage
component, which aimed to develop financial management procedures, operational
systems, and programming and economic analysis capacity, was achieved. The
procedures/studies developed/undertaken were:
(a)   Financial Module - Prior to developing the Financial Module, a review
was carried out to determine the needs and demands for. economic and
financial analysis at all organi7ational levels. Based on the determination
made, a Financial Module was developed which included demand for
water and sanitation service, capital expenditure program, operating costs,
overheads, and summary.
(b)   Capital Investment/Prioritization Report - Criteria for all financial and
economic analysis, design standards, an investment analysis methodology,
and indicators for phased implementation of projects, were developed. As
there are competing needs for the Government's limited resources, all
relevant prioritization of capital investment projects under the
responsibility of WASA were reviewed and prioritized.
(c)   Corporate Plan - A five-year corporate plan with an annual business plan
was developed by Wessex International with ODA financing. The
Corporate Plan consisted of goals and strategy assessment, long and
medium term plans, and short term budgeting.
(d)   Maseru Water Loss Study was carried out. T he objective of the study was
to quantify unaccounted for water and recommend control methods.
During the early stage of the study, flow metering and analysis of the flow
data showed that the leakage was less than what was anticipated - only
20% of total output. The remaining 20% resulted from unbilled water
(illegal connection, leakage or poor meter readings). The Water Loss
Study made proposals for strengthening network management, and for



- 6 -
billing. Furthermore, the Billing and Maintenance Units were
reorganized.
(e)   Greater Maseru Sewerage Pre-Investment Study was also carried out. The
study was carried out with the objective of defining the sanitation need,
and recommending a program of physical works. In addition, an
environmental assessment was conducted.
(f)   Tariff Study - WASA's tariff was not reflective of the costs of providing
services, nor did it allow to be financially viable. Therefore, a tariff study
recommended a tariff restructuring which, through steps and cross
subsidization, would recover costs fully by encouraging the use of water
for basic needs. Charges under the new tariff structure will recover only
O&M costs for the lower tier of consumers, and the full cost recovery
level will be charged for large consumers. Based on the tariff study, a
Tariff Policy and Strategy Paper was prepared and the revised structure
adopted.
(g)   In addition to the above, initially planned studies, the following were
completed: (i) Beneficiary Assessment; (ii) Peri-Urban Mapping; (iii)
Customer Survey; and (iv) outsourcing non-core services.
9.    The Public Buildings Component: The objective of this component was to
strengthen the management and maintenance capacity of AB. Although the component
experienced considerable implementation delays, all planned studies were completed.
The delay was caused by long procurement processes in: (i) agreeing on the procedure to
procure the TAs; (ii) issuing the Letter of Invitation (LOI); and (iii) negotiating the
contract with the lowest evaluated bidder.
10.   The condition surveys were completed with about 2,500 properties surveyed, and
a Repair Budget for backlog maintenance was also prepared. The Building Register
record data for Maseru District and the 9 Rural Districts were updated and the building
inventory was also completed. In addition, a comprehensive Building Classification
system was developed with Specification Codes, Reference Cost rates, and Elemental
Spreads, defined for every building type. A proposal for organizational, maintenance,
and financing/budgeting reform has been elaborated. The policy dialogue with
Government, which is essential for the organizational reform, has been slow.
11.  In addition to the above three components, the project provided five man-years of
technical assistance to MOW for project management and accounting. Under this
consultancy, a project financial management system was developed to perform (i)
procurement procedures; (ii) project cost monitoring; (iii) payment procedures; (iv)
contract monitoring and financial management; and (v) filing. Furthermore, an
Administrative and Accounting Procedures Manual was prepared which outlines the
administrative and accounting procedures to be followed in the operation of a



- 7 -
consolidated monthly project reporting system. Also, several workshops were held and
training was carried out for the accounting staff of the implementing agencies, MOF, and
MEP.
12.   Coordination with other key donors involved in the sector (ODA for water sector;
and EU, ADB, and Irish Aid for the roads sector) helped to complement rather than
duplicate the work being pursued.
E.   POLICY DIALOGUE
13.   Although a plan to develop an infrastructure sector policy framework was not
included in the Project, a policy dialogue was carried out and an attempt to develop and
implement selected priority policies was made. The following policy
reforms/enhancements were carried out.
MOW
(a)   Development and implementation of sustainable financing and contract
management mechanisms (Road Fund/Road Board) in order to meet
rehabilitation and maintenance requirements;
(b)   Appointment of an Advisory Road Board;
(c)   Reorganization of MOW with more capacity in project supervision,
contract management and procurement, and improvement in the planning
and programming function;
(d)   Privatization of the Government plant pool;
(e)   Merging of all road agencies and restructuring of the Force Account Units;
(f)   Development of a strategy for the private sector to take on rehabilitation
and maintenance activities, primarily through the creation of small labor-
based contractors, in order to create productive employment; and
(g)   Elaborations of the training program and a draft manpower development
plan.
WASA
(a)   Restructuring of WASA into a more autonomous agency, i. e. to function
as a full-fledged, cost-effective, and commercially-oriented, autonomous
water and sewerage authority;
(b)   Tariff restructuring;



- 8 -
(c)   Development of staff and staff redundancy plan;
(d)   Revamping of the tariff structure as it was not conducive to efficiency of
operations and equity, as it allowed indiscriminate subsidization;
(e)   Institution of managerial changes and new operating procedures (network
management, billing, and operations);
(f)   Elaboration of an urban water and sanitation sector strategy; and
(g)   Involvement in the water resources management study.
F.    MID-TERM REVIEW
14.   The Mid-term Review was delayed by 7 months (planned for March 31, 1994 and
carried out on October 12, 1994) due to delays in project implementation. As the mid-
term review was to include an assessment of the needs of the sectors, it used the
opportunity of the Strategic Economic Options Exercise at the central level, and other
initiatives at the sector level to pursue a policy dialogue. It also focused on: (i)
performance of the Implementing Agencies; (ii) continued validity of the development
objectives; and (iii) project progress. Agreement was also reached on action plans for
each Implementing Agency. Some of the main action plans were:
LCU
(i)   preparation of the employment and revenues generated under the
current local contractors program;
(ii)  elaboration of the rural roads strategy;
(iii)  recommendation of tariff thresholds for upgrading dirt roads to
gravel standards;
(iv)  refining of local contractors development strategy; and
(v)   development of a manpower development action plan.
RB
(i)   defining a paved roads policy paper based on 5-year strategy;
(ii)  analyzing the road users costs;
(iii)  conducting a cost estimate of maintenance works; and



- 9 -
(iv)  developing accounting procedures in RB.
WASA
(i)   elaborating a water sector strategy;
(ii)  defining a strategy to carry out the necessary works;
(iii)  preparing of an action plan for tariffing water and sanitation
charges; and
(iv)  evaluating WASA's capacity to implement an investment program.
The above policy dialogues were acted upon, and followed by, the strategy elaboration
work and project preparation work for the road and water sector.
G.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
15.   Although there was no major factor that affected the overall project outcome,
implementation delays hampered the inclusion of the Public Building Component in the
IRMP. The objective of carrying out studies under the component was to determine the
rehabilitation needs of the public buildings in order to provide financing under the next
operation. Also, development of the administrative and management capacity of the
Architect Branch was to ensure sufficient capacity to implement the rehabilitation work.
However, at the time of IRMP appraisal, since none of the necessary engineering studies
had been completed, the plan to finance the needed rehabilitation work and finalization of
the organizational reforn did not materialize. As indicated during IEP project appraisal,
maintenance budgets have been insufficient in the past and this is likely to continue.
Government has been engaged in major construction of new buildings and has not
committed to allocate adequate funds for the backlog maintenance. Therefore, the
investment made in the studies is unlikely to be followed up by the required maintenance
budget.
F.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
16.   Sustainability is likely for the activities achieved under the Road Components,
and unlikely for the Public Building Components and uncertain for the Water and
Sewerage Components.
17    Although, there were no economic incentives or enforceable contractual
commitments for the trainees to return to the RB after completing their studies abroad
and within the country, the capacity building program would be sustained because of the
institutional reformn program included under the follow-up (RRMP) project. This
program includes changes in Government's personnel and pay policies. Furthermore,
sustainability would have been unlikely if the capacity building prograrn to fully



- 10-
implement the program started under IEP were not included under RRMP. Specifically,
retention of staff would be achieved through the implementation of a professional
development program for those RB engineers who received scholarships under the IEP.
Furthermore, a procedure to enforce bonding agreements and repayment of training fees
by staff having benefited from long-term training would be implemented under RRMP.
Sustainability for cost recovery is expected through strengthening of the Road Fund.
Sustainability for the procedures developed and studies undertaken (National Transport
Study and PMMS) is expected through the extensive implementation and use of these
procedures in the implementation of RRMP.
18.   Sustainability for the Public Building Component is unlikely because of
Government's failure to set clear priorities and the lack of momentum to follow up on
proposals. As demonstrated by recent construction of new public buildings,
Government's priority does not seem to be on rehabilitation and maintenance of the
existing buildings. Also, the task of AB would continue to be complicated due to the
existing allotment of maintenance funds for government offices to the agency occupying
the building rather than directly to AB; and Government did not make a decision on the
proposed policy maintenance budgeting and organization reforms.
19.   Sustainability for the activities achieved under the Water and Sewerage
Components is uncertain. Although there has been significant progress in financial and
operations performance, and corporate and investment planning, the objective of assisting
WASA to became a customer-focused, autonomous and commercially-oriented authority
has not been fully achieved. Furthermore, although about 20% of TAs time was to be
spent on transfer of skills, the program was partially achieved because the project did not
include: (i) a clearly defined transfer of expertise; (ii) a schedule for the counterparts to
assume responsibility for each of the tasks and functions; and (iii) a list of counterpart
staff to be trained. The Bank is to follow-up the preparation work carried out under IEP
through the Water Resources Management Study, the Privatization Project, and the
Poverty Reduction Project. Sustainability would only be assured by Government's
commitment to restructure the whole water and sanitation sector, which is very
fragmented, and privatize WASA to benefit from efficiency gains which could only stem
from adopting a delegated management contract option with adequate regulations.
G.   BANK PERFORMANCE
20.   The Bank's performance was somewhat unsatisfactory in the identification phase,
satisfactory in the preparation and appraisal phases, and highly successful during the
three years of implementation.
21.  Identification: Project identification started when World Bank and IMF
supported the adjustment program that was implemented to address the: (i) weaknesses
in public sector administration; (ii) weaknesses in the planning process, budgetary
control, and accountability of public funds; and (iii) inadequate level of road maintenance
in key main and secoadary roads. The program also included measures to link budgetary



- 11 -
management to economic planning and diversification of the productive sector. During
project identification, the Bank concentrated its efforts on assisting government in
identifying areas which would complement the adjustment program. However, the
project design did not address, fully, all of the necessary procedures and policy reforms
that need to be in place before an investment project begins. A training program was
designed without putting in place the incentives needed to keep the staff trained. Terms
of Reference of the TAs included requirements for counterparts, without a plan for
monitoring the progress of skill transfer.
22.   Preparation/Appraisal: During project preparation/appraisal, the Bank played an
important role in changing the project from an investment to an engineering project. It
was realized that strengthening the framework within the rehabilitation and maintenance
of Lesotho's infrastructure investments was fundamental for making sound decisions.
Therefore, the Bank recommended that an engineering project, which would assist in the
development of suitable procedures for determining investments and maintenance needs,
in line with economic criteria, precede the investment project.
23.  Implementation and Supervision: During the critical period - the first year of
implementation - no supervision mission visited Lesotho. As the Implementing Agencies
did not get adequate advice, implementation was delayed by one year. However, during
the last three years of implementation a Bank supervision mission visited the country at
regular intervals.
H.   BORROWER PERFORMANCE
24.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory in project identification,
preparation, appraisal, and covenant compliance. The Borrower's performance during
project implementation was also satisfactory although there were some weaknesses in
project coordination. Throughout project implementation, the Bank insisted on plans to:
(i) monitor TA performance and transfer of capacity; and (ii) create a reliable and simple
progress reporting system. Nevertheles,, these issues have never been fully addressed, by
the Project Coordination Unit in MEPand some implementing agencies. However,
commitment to project preparation in the road sector, and agreements reached to
implement major policy reforms in the road and water sectors are in are part due to the
project coordinator and the PS of the coordinating ministry.
I.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
25.   The outcome of the project was satisfactory. All initially planned studies were
completed and procedures for allocating available funds for investment and maintenance
in line with economic criteria were developed. The administrative/management capacity
of road agencies and WASA has significantly improved. The procedures developed and
the administrative/management capacity of MOW would be further developed under the
RRMP. Impact in terms of project management, auditing, cost recovery, implementation,
and contracting out was also significant. The impact of the development program was



- 12-
significant in terms of employment generation and poverty alleviation in that it helped
create local contractors and jobs for communities, in line with the poverty reduction
strategy recommendation to introduce labor-based public works and provide a safety net
to poor communities.
J.    FUTURE OPERATION
26.  In the road sector, the RRMP, which was appraised in July 1995, would: (i)
develop the Government capacity to regularly maintain the whole classified road network
by the year 2000, and upgrade priority roads to improved serviceability standards; (ii)
improve access to isolated areas and basic services in district centers by facilitating road
traffic and lowering transport costs; (iii) further develop the emerging private local road
construction and maintenance industry, using mainly labor-based methods to generate
productive employment; and (iv) strengthen the planning, implementation, and
management capacity of the Road Sector agencies through policy and institutional
reforms and capacity building support.
27.  In the water sector, preparatory work would continue through: (i) the Water
Resources Management Study funded under the Lesotho Highlands Development Fund;
(ii) the restructuring/privatization of WASA under the Privatization Project; (iii)
investments in community - based water and sanitation schemes under the Poverty
Reduction Project; and (iv) possibly further addressing needed policy reforms and
rehabilitation works in the peri-urban and urban areas under a stand-alone water sector
project.
K.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
28.   The key lessons learned from the implementation of the project are:
(a)   Studies need to be linked to institutional and policy reforms for a TA
projects to be effective.
(b)   Donor coordination is important in order to avoid redundancy and agree
on an institutional/policy framework under which all donors join
Government to implementing sector programs. For example, while ODA
financed a three year twinning consultancy with Wessex Water
International to strengthen management, personnel training and
development, and financial and operational administration, the Bank under
IEP financed an economic planner to work in collaboration with the ODA
experts.
(c)   Counterparts need to be identified and their availability ensured before the
arrival of TAs. Also, the government's commitment to make counterparts
available needs to be secured through legal covenants for a skill transfer
program to be effective.



- 13 -
(d)    Clear performance targets need to be established in the TORs for TAs,
and the types of skills to be transferred must be defined in order to
effectively monitor implementation of the skills transfer program. The
TORs should include procedures for handling ineffective performarice,
i.e., reducing consultants fees if warranted or terminating contracts.
(e)    Enforceable contractual commitments, and strong incentives for staff to
return to work after training, need to be in place to sustain any institutional
strengthening program.
(f)    Under multi-sectoral projects it is difficult to address effectively all the
necessary reforms and the necessary pre-investment preparatory work for
each sector. Also, since the Bank's resources are allocated by project
rather than by sector, adequate time and skills could not be provided.
(g)    In order to ensure the quality of studies and the efficiency of training,
activities must take place within a comprehensive manpower development
strategy, and trained staff must be evaluated through an agreed upon
mechanism.



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:            Summary of Assessments
Table 2:            Related Bank Loans
Table 3:            Project Timetable
Table 4:            Loan Disbursements
Table 5:            Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:            Project Related Studies
Table 7a:           Project Costs
Table 7b:           Project Financing
Table 8:            Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:            Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10:           Bank Resources: Mission



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Not
A. Achievement of Objective        Substantial    Partial     Negligible    Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                       x
Sector policies                    x
Financial objectives                            x
Institutional development          x      ___
Physical objectives                x       __
Poverty reduction                                                            x
Gender concerns                                        .                     x
Other social objectives                                                      x
Environmental objectives                                                     x
Public sector management                        x
Private sector development         x                                                 I
Other (specify)
IB. Project Sustainability                  __ Likely   I  Unlikely          Uncertain
I   LL   L  L  LL L            : L           X             -~~~~~~~~~ x
Highly
C. Bank Performance  ___                       Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                                                               x
Preparation assistance                                        x
Appraisal                                                     x
Supervision                                                   x
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                        Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                                                   x
Implementation                                                x
Covenant compliance                                           x
Operation                                                     x
Highly                                   Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome           Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactoryll
11_        _  _   _  __           1          1x              _  _  _  _  l              1]



TABLE 2: Related Bank Credits
i  Year of    Status
Credit                                     Purpose                           approval
Preceding operations
1. Second Highway Project       The project financed a road component to provide the       03/02/76      Completed
infrastructure for opening up the isolated mountain area and a
labor intensive component to deal with the employment situabon
which resulted from the return of Basotho miners from South
Africa.
2. Third Highway Project        The project was to improve the maintenance of Lesotho's road  03/13/79   Completed
network and to establish a labor-intensive work program within
the Ministry of Works.
3. Fourth Highway Project       The project was to assist the Government to lower transport costs   05/24/84  Completed
and increase accessibility of rural areas and in its iistitution-
building efforts.
4. Water Supply Project                                                                    03/20/79      Completed
The project was designed to provide water supply to about
20,000 consumers, most of whom were to be among the poorer
segment of the towns' population. The project objectives also
included the strengthening of Water Supply Board.
Following operations 
1. Road Rehabilitation and      The primary objectives of the project are to support both  05/9/96       On-going
Maintenance                   continued economic growth and the Government's poverty
reducton strategy through: (i) developing the Govt. capacity;
(ii) improving access to isolated areas and basic services in
district centers; (iii) further developing the emerging private local
constructon and maintenance industry; and (iv) strengthening
the planning, implementation, and management capacity of the
Road Sector agencies.



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle        Date planned          Date actual
Identification 1/                    02/21/91              02/2191
Preparation/Reappraisal 2/           11/01/91              08/20/91
Appraisal                            12/01/91              11/20/91
Negotiations                         06/01/92              05/04/92
Board presentation                   06/30/92              06/24/92
Signing                              08/27/92              08/27/92
Effectiveness                        09/01/92              12/22/92
Project completion                   06/30/95              12/31/96
Loan closing                         12/31/95              12/31/96
1/ The identification mission was for the Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project.
2/ It was at this stage that a decision was made an engineering project should precede
the Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project.



Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Appraisal                      Actual as % of
Fiscal Year       Estimate        Actual      Appraisal Estimate
1992            0.5                              0.0
1993            3.1            1.7              53.2
1994            7.5            3.7              49.3
1995            9.8            6.5              66.3
1996            9.8            8.9               90.8
1997       _   9.8             9.2              93.9
Date of final
disbursement    22-May-97



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
A       Roads
Planned Completion Actual Completion
1 Pavement and Maintenance Management System                   Dec-94            Dec-96
2 Recruitment of Manpower Development Training Adviser         Aug-92           Canceled
3 Update Manpower Plan                                         Jun-94         Partially done
4 Establish in-house training unit                             Dec-93            Sep-94
5 Overseas Training Program                                    Aug-94            Jun-96
6 Develop Small Scale Contracting Industry                     Aug-93            Dec-96
7 Road Engineering Study                                       Apr-94         Substituted for
another study
Completion
Dec-96
B       Urban Water and Sewerage
1 Develop economic and Investment Analysis Plan                Sep-94             Jul-96
2 Maseru Water Loss Study                                      Dec-93            Mar-95
3 Greater Maseru Sewerage Pre-lnvestment Plan                  Mar-94            Jan-96
C       Public Buildings
1 Develop. of a Maint. Assessment, Prioritization & Imp. System  Sep-94          Nov-96
2 Engineering Studies for Rehabilitation of Public Buildings   Nov-94           Canceled



Table 6: Project Related Studies
Description of Study                              Objective                         Status      Stated Objectives Achieved  Impact
A. Roads
Review and Update of the     To determine the economic viability of upgrading the  Completed     Substituted with another Rehabilitation to
Feasibility and Engineering  existing gravel roads to all weather pavement in the               study for the priority roads. be carried out
Studies for the Taunk-        context of the investment priority ranking being                       Fully achieved.    under RRMP.
Mokhotlong-Sani Pass Road    prepared for the next road rehabilitation project.
PVPS Equipment Valuation     Assess value of equipment which is to be auctioned   Completed          Fully achieved.    First step in
Study                         next FY.                                                                                  processing
privatization of
PVPS started.
Road Fund                    Elaborate guidelines and legislation for instituting a  Completed       Fully achieved     Road Fund
Road Fund.                                                                                instituted and
operational for
FY97.
Road Maintenance Management To provide a sustainable source of relevant and valid  Completed         Fully achieved.    Improved
System Study                 information (road data base) for managing the highway                                      programming,
system through a system of road monitoring and to                                         planning, and
enhance the programming, planning and budgeting of                                        budgeting
all maint., rehab., and upgrading works.                                                  process.
B. Water
Maseru Water Loss Study      To identify actions to reduce the vast amounts of    Completed          Fully achieved     Implementation o
unaccounted for water in the system both billed and                                       a unit to track
physical losses.                                                                          losses and
improved billing
started.



Table 6: Project Related Studies
Description of Study                                Objective                           Status      Stated Objectives Achieved    Impact
Greater Maseru Sewerage        To assess the probable physical growth of the city's peri   Completed     Fully achieved.     Assisting in
Feasibility Study           urban areas and provide estimates of population for the                                        designing future
years 2000 and 2010 and identify physical boundaries                                          projects.
for suitable con
Beneficiary Assessment         Assessment of populations' priorities and preferences  Completed          Fully achieved.     Knowledge of
for WS & S.                                                                                   water demand and
preferred delivery
modes.
Peri urban Mapping             Discriminative population preferences by peri urban   Completed           Fully achieved
area to prepare community participation schemes.                                              Pre project water
supply delivery
schems with CR
mechanism.
Customer Survey                Improve services on a knowledge - base assessment of    Completed         Fully achieved.     Improved service
customers needs and activities.                                                               delivery and
creation of special
unit to respond to
customers queries
and report
requirements.
2



Table 6: Project Related Studies
Description of Study                                 Objective                           Status       Stated Objectives Achleved    Impact
C. Public Building
Pre requirements Study         To assess the overall maintenance and rehabilitation    Completed          Fully achieved.      Assisted in
needs of the public buildings.                                                                 determining the
cost for backlog
and regular
maintenance, and
set proper
budgets.
Condition Survey               To assess condition of public buildings in all districts  Completed         Fully achieved.
(houses and offices).
Improved service
delivery and
creation of special
unit to respond to
customers queries
and report
requirement.
Building Inventory             To establishe a computerized data base of public        Completed           Fully achieved.
buildings.
3



Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate ( S$ Million)   Actual (US$ Mil lion)
Local   Foreign              Local    Foreign
Item                               Costs    Costs      Total    Costs    Costs       Total
echnical Assistance & Training
Roads                            1.3       4.4       5.7       0.0       4.4       4.4
Urban Water & Sewerage           0.4       1.3       1.7       0.1       2.2       2.3
Public Buildings                 0.4       1.8       2.2       0.0       0.9       0.9
Project Management & Accounting     0.1       0.6       0.7       0.2       1.1       1.3
Vehicles & Equipment                0.0       0.4       0.4       0.0       0.3       0.3
Base Cost                           2.2       8.5      10.7
Contingencies
Physical                         0.1       0.5       0.6
Price                            0.2       0.8       1.0
Total Project Cost                  2.5       9.8       12.3      0.3       8.9       9.2
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$ Million)   Actual (US$ Million)
Source                           Local    Foreign   Total      Local    Foreign   Total
IDA                                 0.0       9.8       9.8                    9.2       9.2
Government                          2.5       0.0       2.5          1.5       0.0       1.5
Total                               2.5       9.8       12.3         1.5       9.2      10.7



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Covenant   Present   Fulfillment   Fulfillment             Description of
Agreement   Secton       Type       Status      Date         Date                    Covenant
Credit         4.01 (a)  Accounts  Complied      Done                  The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
with      monthly                maintained records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound
accountng practces the operabons,
resources and expenditures in respect of
the Project of the departments or agencies
of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
Credit        4.01 (b) (i)   Audit    Complied  Six months              (i) Have the records and accounts
with    after the end            referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
of each                 including those for the SA for each fiscal
fiscal year.             year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA.
Audit    Complied
with                            (ii) Furnish to IDA, as soon as available, but
in any case not later than 6 months after the
end of each such year, a certfied copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the IDA
shall have reasonably requested.
Financial  Complied
with                            (iii) Fumish to the Associabon such other
informabon conceming said records,
accounts and the audit thereof as IDA shall
l __________            _________   __________    _________            from   bme  to  bme  reasonably  request.



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Covenant   Present   Fulfillment   Fulfillment              Descripbon of
Agreement   Section      Type       Status      Date         Date                    Covenant
Credit       4.01 (c)                                                   For all expenditures wifth respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were
made on the basis of Statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Accounts   Complied                            (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in
with                             accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, records and accounts reflectng
such expenditures;
Accounts   Complied                            (ii) retain, unbl at least one year after IDA
with                             has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of the SA
was made, all records evidencing such
expenditures.
(iii) enable the Associabon's
representatives to examine such records;
and
Audit       Complied                           (iv) ensure that such records and accounts
with                             are included in the annual audit referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Secbon and that the
report of such audit contains a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
SOE submitted during such
fiscal year, together with the procedures
and intemal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support
the related withdrawals.



Table 9: Bank Resources
Staff Inputs
Planned           Revised             Actual
State of Project Cycle   Weeks   USS     Weeks   US$       Weeks   US$
(000)
Through appraisal       NA       NA        NA      NA         35     54.6
Appraisal - Board       NA       NA        NA      NA        23.1    37.8
Board - Effectiveness   NA       NA        NA      NA        5.1      9.1
Supervision             NA       NA        NA      NA        50.5    43.0
Completion              6.0      9.9       NA      NA        8.7     14.5
TOTAL                                                       122.4   159.0



Table 10: Bank Resources
Mission
gStage of               I No. of   Days In    Specialize Staf    PI mplmntton I Development         Type Of
Trough         2/91        4        se         ME, Econ.            NA              NA              NA
ApraisSl 12191
Appasal         12/91       3        20       HE, Econ., OA          NA              NA              NA
through Board    7/92
Approval
Board Approval   7/92               NA             NA                NA              NA              NA
through
Effectivenes    9/92
Supervision     11/92       2        12         HE, Econ.            2                2
10/93       1        10          00, PS              2               1
2194       1        10            00                 2               2
6/94       1         7            00                 S               S
10/94       1        8            00                 S               S
1/95       1        9             00                S                S
7/95       1         7            00                 S               S
11/95       1        7            00                 S               S
5/96       2         6            00                 S               S
11/96       1        5            00                 S               S
Corpletion     5/96       2         8          00, OA               S               S
00    a      Operations Officr
Econ. -      Economist
CIS   -      Construction Industry Specialist
OA   -       Oprations Analyst
HE   -       Highway Engineer
PS   .       Procurement Specialist



PART III: APPENDICES
A.                  Completion Mission Aide-Memoire
B.                  Government of Lesotho - Evaluation
C.                  Map



Appendix A
LESOTHO
INFRASTRUCTURE ENGINEERING PROJECT - CR 2400-LSO
WORLD BANK IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
MAY 1996
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Mission visited Lesotho
from May 7 - 21, 1996 to carry out the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
Mission for the above mentioned project. The Mission was carried out by Ms.
Asamanetch Fantaye (Operations Analyst). Mr. Bernard Becq, Task Manager of the
project who visited Lesotho from May 12 - 21, 1996, to supervise the above project and
follow up on the condition of effectiveness for the Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project (RRMP), provided advice to the mission and contributed some essential facts to
the Aide-Memoire.
2.    The mission met with officials from the Ministry of Economic Planning; Road
Branch; Labor Construction Unit; Architect Branch; and the Water and Sewerage
Authority.
3.    The mission would like to express its appreciation for the kind assistance and
cooperation extended to it by officials of various agencies. The Aide Memoire
summarizes the main findings and conclusions of the Mission and the schedule for
completion of Government's ICR.
4.    The Credit Closing Date was extended from December 31, 1995 to June 30, 1996
and a further extension by six months, to December 31, 1996, was requested by the
Government and is considered for approval by IDA. As of March 27, 1996, a total of
US$ 6.9 million (about 71%) of the credit was disbursed and it is anticipated that about
US$ 2.2 million would be utilized by the end of December 31, 1996. As a result of the
depreciation of the dollar against the SDR, about US$ 700,000.00 was gained over the
life of the project and it is expected that this amount would be canceled. Notification of
the Borrower's responsibilities for the preparation of the ICR was communicated via
telex dated February 2, 1996 and letter dated April 19, 1996



2
Appendix A
OVERVIEW OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.    The project experienced implementation delays, of about a year, as a result of
delays in project start-up and delays in technical assistance contract processing.
However, as a result of the two project closing date extensions, it is expected that the
components that were not completed by the initial closing date would be fully
implemented. More of the initially planned studies were completed by the original project
closing date, except: (a) Taung-Mokhotlong-Sani-Pass Road which is substituted by a
design study for rehabilitation works to be undertaken under RRMP; and (b) feasibility
studies for rehabilitation of public buildings which was dropped as the result of
Government's decision not to undertake the studies as only a road sector and water
sector projects were to be processed. Furthermore the extensions would allow additional
studies and training to be undertaken and to finance technical assistance.
6.    The objective of the project was to increase economic benefits derived from
infrastructure investments in roads, urban water, and public buildings by: (a) establishing
procedures in the: (i) Road Branch (RB); (ii) Labor Construction Unit (LCU); (iii)
Architects Branch (AB); and (iv) Water and Sewerage Authority (WASA) in order to
allocate available funds for investment and maintenance in line with economic criteria; and
(b) developing the administrative and management capacity of the above agencies to
provide better services and to increase their operational efficiency. As implementation
progressed, it became necessary to restructure the components and include additional
studies and technical assistance in order to maximize the achievement of the development
objectives. In addition, it became apparent that initiating a policy dialogue was essential
before appraising the RRMP. Therefore, as early as February 1995, the Bank was
engaged in a policy dialogue with Government regarding both road and water sectors and
later the public buildings sector. Our evaluation of the of project cannot be completed at
this time because some of the components are still on-going. However, based on the
substantial work already completed, a conclusion could be made that the project would
substantially achieve its objective.
7.    Initially, an investment project, (Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project (IRMP) was planned to assist the Government to maintain its infrastructure assets
and improve its efficiency to provide service to the general population. However, it was
recognized that the concerned sectors needed significant institutional preparatory work
and training to ensure sufficient capacity to implement the IRMP. Therefore, a project
which will addresses the above need was planned. In February 1991, the project was
changed from an investment to an engineering credit with primary emphasis on
institutional building and pre-investment preparatory activities. About two years into
implementation of IEP, as a result of delays in implementation of AB's components, it
was agreed with Government that IRMP should only include roads and water sub-
sectors. In April 1995, because of the slow progress in the policy dialogue for the water
sector and in order not to delays the road component, it was decided to split the project
into two, roads and water.



3
Appendix A
STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION
8.    The project comprises the following components: (a) roads; (b) water and
sewerage; and (c) public buildings. Under the road component (a) a PMMS is to be
developed and implemented; (b) professional staff of the RB to be trained; (c) small scale
labor-based contracting industry to be developed; and (d) the Taung-Mokhotlong-Sani-
Pass Road feasibility and engineering studies to be reviewed and updated. Under the
Water & Sewerage component, (a) Maseru Water Loss Survey to be completed; (b)
Greater Maseru Sewerage Pre-Investment Study to be completed; (c) investment analysis
and cost and tariff analysis system to be developed; (d) corporate plan to be introduced;
and (e) an investment study to assess and prioritize project proposals in WASA for Phase
II of IRMP to be developed. Under the public buildings component (a) a maintenance
assessment, prioritization and implementation system to be developed; and (b)
engineering studies for the rehabilitation and restoration of selected public buildings to be
undertaken. The project also financed two technical assistants (financial controller and
accountant) to design and implement accounting systems and maintain the project
account for the implementing agencies.
9.    The Pavement and Maintenance Management System is substantially completed
and is expected to be finalized at the end of June 1996. In addition, the following were
included: (a) survey of the roads under the responsibility of LCU; (b) traffic information
system; (c) traffic counting; and (d) road reclassification/renumbering and gazetting.
Furthermore, substantial training has been provided, and it is anticipated that
sustainability would be strengthened once the programming and budgeting system is fully
operational.
10.   The professional staff training, i. e. first and second degrees at BSC/Eng. and
MSc/Eng level, program started in September 1993 and is expected to be completed in
September 1996. Five staff are participating in the Higher National Diploma courses and
are expected to complete their courses at the end of June 1996. Furthermore, the
certificate courses in (a) construction site management; (b) maintenance management and
methods; (c) contract administration and dispute resolution; (d) road condition survey
and rating; (e) project accounting; (f) quality management- (g) study tour; (h) road
management; (i) disbursements; and (j) project management were completed. The supply
and materials management certificate course is expected to be completed at the end of
May 1996. Also, three additional courses (computer literacy, project management, and
store keeping) were carried out for 30. Overall, less courses than anticipated were
offered and staff trained. The manpower development plan was updated. It was agreed
that a full manpower development plan for the Ministry of Works will be developed in the
early year of RRMP implementation.



4
Appendix A
11.   The policy dialogue with Government regarding the RB focused on: (a) financing
maintenance activities; (b) restructuring the RB; and (c) developing the private sector for
rehabilitation maintenance works; and (d) prioritizing roads and type of works to be
undertaken under RRMP.
12.   Under the development of a small scale contracting industry for road maintenance
and construction, a total of 24 small scale contractors received technical and managerial
training to run a labor-based road maintenance project at end of December 1995. Out of
the 24 graduates, 21 are capable of undertaking regravelling contracts. As at 31 of
March 1996, under the practical training contracts using small scale contractors, 81.6km
of roads have been regravelled and 46.2 are on-going. Also, 364km received routine
maintenance and 603km are on-going. Under the on-going training program, twelve
contractors have completed three week classroom training and four week practical
routine maintenance. Also, the following sections of the training program will be
completed before the closing date of the project: (a) 3 week classroom training (IYCB);
(b) 4 week regravelling practical; and (c) 3 month routine maintenance trial contracts.
Furthermore, the following studies were completed: (a) Revised Design Guidelines; (b)
Revised Technical Manual; (c) Evaluation of IEP; (d) Evaluation of training material; (e)
Environmental Guidelines; (f) Revised Standard Bidding Documents; and (g) Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation (ROMAR). In addition to road works contracts, the
project financed equipment amounting to about US$ 205,000.
13.   The policy dialogue with LCU for appraising a rural roads components for
inclusion in RRMP was carried out.
14.   Taung-Mokhotlong-Sani-Pass Road feasibility and engineering studies
encountered procurement problems, and it was agreed that it would be more effective to
substitute similar study for roads which are included in the RRMP project (roads under
the responsibility of the RB). The bidding for these roads are on-going.
15.   The draft Maseru Water Loss study was completed in May 1996 and the draft
final report which incorporated WASA's comments was submitted in April 1996. The
final Greater Maseru Sewerage Pre-Investment study was completed in March 1995.
16.   Under the water sub-component, Development option for WASA, (a) a Financial
Model; (b) Tariff Restructuring; (c) Capital Investment Program; and (d) Financial
Projections system are to be completed. Under the above reports, the outputs expected
include: (a) criteria for financial and economic analysis; (b) investment analysis
system/method; and (c) prioritization of investments and indication of timing for
implementation of projects. Also, a 5 year corporate plan with annual business plan
would be completed in June 1996, before the extended project closing date. The
responsibility of preparing the 5 year corporate plan was given to Wessex International



5
Appendix A
financed by ODA in February 1994. In addition to the initially planned studies, the
following studies were completed: (a) Beneficiary Assessment and Peri-Urban Mapping;
and (b) Customer Survey. Furthermore, the project provided funds for technical
assistance for community participation and operations management and the extension of
BKS's contract to cover projects identification. The policy dialogue has resulted in: (a)
WASA Policy Paper; (b) internal reorganization proposal; and (c) staffing assessment.
17.   Under the building sub-component, condition surveys were completed in
December 1995. The building inventory is expected to be completed in August 1996.
An action plan to implement proposals in a sustainable manner would be prepared before
the end of December 1996. The proposal for organizational, maintenance, and
financing/budgeting reform started in April 1996 and completion is expected in November
1996.
18.   Under the project management and accounting consultancy: (a) a Project
Management System which will assist to perform (i) procurement, (ii) project cost
monitoring, (iii) payment procedures, (iv) contract monitoring and financial management,
and (v) filing; and (b) an Administrative and Accounting Procedures Manual which
outlines the administrative and accounting procedures to be followed in the operation of a
consolidated monthly project reporting system were prepared. Also several workshops
were held and training carried out for the accounting staff of the implementing agencies.
COUNTERPARTS TRAINING
19.   In the Road Branch, six counterpart staff are receiving on-the-job training.
Training for counterparts is not formalized and a staff with the required qualification is
selected to be trained and to take over the final PMMS when the consultants leave. In
the Local Construction Unit, four counterparts have received adequate training from the
technical assistants. Furthermore, 6 of LCU technical staff have received training with the
small scale contractors and are carrying out their contract management roles. In the
Architect Branch, four counterparts are working with the technical assistants and
receiving on-the-job training. In the Water and Sewerage Authority, the Assistant
Cooperate Planner is currently working with the Economist/Planner and one engineer and
two technicians were attached to the Maseru Water Loss Study throughout the whole
assignment. Skill transfer was achieved largely through discussion of reports and
progress between consultants, TAs and staff of WASA.
Under the Project Management and Accounting sub-component, senior accounting staff
are receiving on-the-job training in project costing and accounting procedures.



6
Appendix A
PRELIMINARY CONCLUSION
20.   Despite delays in implementation, it is expected that the project would
substantially achieve its objectives. Under the Road Sector, the objective of
strengthening the institutional capacity of the MOW to plan construct and maintain
Lesotho's road network would be partially achieved through the completion of the
Pavement and Maintenance Management System (PMMS) and through the long and
short-term training of the professional staff of the RB. The development of a small scale
construction industry would be fully achieved through a well designed and administered
training (both class room and practical) program. Under the Water Sector, the objectives
would be substantially achieved through the provision of technical assistance that
developed investment criteria to facilitate WASA's development into a financially self-
reliant parastatal. Under the AB, the objective would be achieved through the completion
of (a) updated inventory of GOL building stock; (b) assessment and development of cost
estimates for its rehabilitation and maintenance; (c) improved procedures for budgeting
and maintenance; and (d) organizational reform plan. Under the project management and
accounting consultancy, project management system and administrative and accounting
procedures manual are completed and the financial staff of the project implementing
agencies received the necessary training.
21.   As the result of the extension of project closing date and availability of funds
under the project, the following is proposed to be financed under the project.
RB
* training project supervisors;
* training in project management;
* purchase of equipment for PMMS (computer); and
* computer literacy.
LCU
* extension of the two local trainers contract;
* additional equipment for labor-based contractors;
* additional training road maintenance contracts; and
* extension of the contract of Senior Operations Engineers.



7
Appendix A
WASA
* extension of community participation and operations management TAs
contracts;
* assets revaluation; and outstanding study; and
* outsourcing of non core activities study.
22.   The mission agreed with the Ministry of Planning, Economic and Manpower
Development, coordinating agency for the project, that the Government's ICR would be
sent to the Bank by the end June 1996.
May 21, 1996



Appendix B
CPO/4/014                                                30th MAY, 1997
Mr Bernard Becq
Operations Office
Transport 1
Eastern and Southern Africa Department
Africa Region
Dear Mr Becq
INFRASTRUCTURE ENGINEERING
PROJECT - IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT
Thank you for your letter of 3 April 1997 submitting the above report. We have
noted the issues covered by this report and are generally agreeable except to correct
the perception that Government is not committed to the follow-up on the Public
Building component of the project.
As correctly indicated in the report necessary ground work has not been completely
covered and this still need to be done before we can go a step further towards
implementing recommended measures.
A summary of GOL's perception on overall performance of the project is enclosed.
Yours Sincerely
T. NCHOLU
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY (a.i)



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INFRASTRUCTURE ENGINEERING PROJECT 1992 -1996
GENERAL BACKGROUND AND OVERVIEW OF
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND ACHIEVEMENT
I    INTRODUCTION
1.   A credit to the tune of 6.9 million U$ dollars was approved for Lesotho to
undertake an Engineering Infrastructure Project as preparatory phase for an
investment project in the Infrastructure sector including Roads, Urban water
and Sewerage, and Public Buildings.
2.   Thie main objective of the project was to increase economic benefits derived
from infrastructure investments in roads urban water and sewerage and public
buildings sectors; through establishing procedures in the respective sector
agencies for allocating available funds for investment and maintenance in the
on economic criteria  (ii)  developing the administrative and management
capacity of public and private agencies in providing these services to increase
operational efficiency. Project activities started in September in 1992 with the
exception of the Public buildings component which was delayed until 1993.
Due to difficulties in recruiting a consultant to operate the project due to this
delay and demand for continuation of activities in other components the project
closing date was extended twice in June 1995 and in June 1996 to finish in
December 1996.
3.   Despite the late start and delays on the start of the public buildings component
the government is very happy with the performance of the project overall,
including financial performance as well. The project disbursed 95% of its
budget and none of the project audit was qualified except on procedural issues.
11   Project performance and achievements:
4.   Overall performance of the project has been very good in terms of outputs
produced and at least 80%  of project objectives were met.  These are
mentioned bellow as follows;
i)   In the road sector the project resulted in are investment project for the



rehabilitation and maintenance of the road network which is meant to assist
government to gradually build capacity for sustained road maintenance
programme and upgrading of its road network to serviceable standards.
ii)    A road sector policy designed to guide development of the sector was
developed through the project and implementation of proposed reforms has
started already through
a)    Major institutional reorganization of the road sector to improve
efficiency and better coordination
b)   A Manpower Development plan to address the problem of brain
drain and attrition of professional staff has been developed.
c)   The Project developed a pavement maintenance management
system (PMMS) to guide technical selection of civil works
programmes of all roads in ... order. This means selection of
roads will be less influenced by political pressures lacking
economic rationale in the future.
d)   Other major policy reforms introduced by the project include;
i)    Establishment of a Road Fund dedicated to financing
maintenance on sustainable basis and appointment of the
Road Board to manage the Fund. While the road fund will
ensure a consistent flow of funds for road maintenance it is
also a cost recovery measure to ensure that users of roads
pay for that service.
5.   As part of implementing the poverty alleviation strategy the project embarked
on a programme of development of local road construction industry which is
aimed at privatising road works by contracting out maintenance works to the
private sector.  For proper implementation of the programme, the project
financed training of the small local contractors to prepare them to take up
contractual works on road maintenance. Training will continue during RRMP
implementation so as to ensure a larger convage of interested people. It is
envisaged that the programme will generate about 6000 jobs at the end of the
project.
6.   Although the Water and Building sectors were less successful in the
achievements in that investment projects were not realised, a lot of ground
was covered towards achieving the objectives.



In the Water and Building sectors the project financed relevant studies
(mentioned in the bank's report) which will determine future maintenance
requirements and other investments in the sector. In addition key measures for
transformation of WASA to a profitable commercial entity were initiated as
indicated in the Bank's report. However GOL is still to make decisions on the
proposed key policy measure for complete transformation of WASA such as
initiating a contract management as well as implementing measures towards
corporatising WASA.
7.   Although the Public Building component was delayed by a year, key building
blocks have been laid towards realising the objectives. Building inventory and
condition survey of the buildings and a review of the organisational structure
woich involves reorganization of the Architect Branch, and restructuring of
public maintenance budget were completed. The result of this assessment
together with recommended housing policy and a proposal for Estate
management and rehabilitation project were submitted to GOL for review.
IlI   FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
8    As part of project coordination a financial management unit managed by a
consulting firm of accountants was established to manage the finances of the
project and train local counterparts to prepare them for take over at completion
of the project.
9    Although the training component lacked behind due to problems in availability
of counterparts, performance of the Unit is commendable for good work
accomplished in terms of proper and flawless financial administration.
10   In addition to day-to-day financial management of the project the unit
conducted training workshops for accounts officials of LCU and Roads Branch
as well as local contractors engaged in small scale contractors training and
produced relevant materials such as "Administrative and accounting Manual"
which provides detailed relevant guide to the project accounting system as well
as guidance on World Bank and GOL reporting requirements procurement
issues, disbursement and withdrawal procedures, budgeting and cash forcasts,
payment procedures and operations of special account.
11   The unit also developed detailed payment procedures for the LCU small scale
contractors Training Programme which have proved very eftuctive in ensuring
payments are properly controlled and processed in timely manner.



12   A contract costing system was developed for the LCU contract programme to
facilitate monitoring and cost control of contracted-out works.
13   The project also supported WASA in maintenance of their computerised general
ledger and fixed asset systems, developed project management and contract
monitoring system which will be used in the implementation of RRMP and
considerable assistance was given to GOL in the formation of the operating
framework for the Road Fund and the Road Board.
IlIl   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT.
The project did not experience serious adverse effects during implementation. The
main setback was the late start of the public buildings component limiting
implementation of some of the main activities of the project. It is also important to
mention that there were some delays in major decisions regarding proposed changes
at WASA mainly due to the complexity and sensitivity of the issues concerned.
However these are still being pursuit.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
Sustainability of the project in GOL opinion is not doubted. Particularly for the road
sector where the design of the project included putting in place necessary
mechanisms such sustainability such as, the operating Road Sector Policy, together
with setting up of the Road Fund which is independent of GOL influence and has
stable source of funds.  GOI will ensure that the capacity of the Road Fund is
sustained.
Sustainability in the water sector should also not be too much of concern since
government is committed to restructuring and privatization of Public enterprices.
However the process take a longer time than expected during which time various
alternatives to achieving the objectives are being studied. For the restructuring of
WASA, the ODA was also approached to assist in studying the problem and provide
an opinion.
The same principle will apply to the public buildings sector except t.lat we feel these
will be need for more investigation on the institutional structure to accommodate the
proposed initiatives.



*0 7oTse~^    r*0* 129' 2 15W                                                            *3Lr                                         d                                       IBRD 23718
b,l. -JTd       -ff dRa,
,             ,-S :ft 'A,CF-6',
r~~~~~~~-r
sAUIs A  _ f  Johane_s.  f   r                                                              M7    $~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kcHn
uX~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~h, 11~ _ _                                   hol Vase yW    -                                                                      eafoalat,o                  0 L''q
Atl~~~~~~~~~~~~~onlafa,                        KEoa                                                                                                                                       T' Ifmn J eg0   1s}SO    
fF Mfoan  Woo a>ireA_                               7s       !           p rw ;          <f             Mln      
"r~^zrgonYmn2e&@   /   MavvwWce;-lw40           XS   Lt           f7omopp       \>,                      ,SLX /                  )tsoeotIi;Sii            0Naaan  Ie
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AE  ROAD  UNDE  CONSTRUCTIONn7t
a3i7e Seo 1         Re."      I6                                                                 DAMS>  / RSEVOIS                            AISTIP approc locaians0
e      DISTRIC  HEADQUARTERS
k.. f  MaqhzLo  Senkal  i M.L   L.t   P  lone_                            )   \    \   g        x            | L  YMo       @       N TOAnA IA
LiSs                                                                  a.IE T                                            RNA S
2*2T                                                                                            TkP*                                    0S
/  ,sr  MosL}7-  vsssLllLo / MdXlAtPrW |) b /( LTsbels sr r a*n7 M                                                                                                                    19
i  oIL_q\/    b*mmw jp        >^ e;          >a               '{g  j                                <OKmeLY;  f                        9   hoen
IomQhap / $ / 4 ~~~,b   ,..... o  
\O  _SV7wLholo   {)  L0M%@LEW  7dqh^wL1   omeberto>                         ch                                                   SoMbe    <\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-k
*pvrwpo> S.- hlhf ~ -\b b""=-g <3 G hLSom lw ) ,5he7 hr7 
va ,> Xo \ / f. h M~~~~No4/8s   -     
|   ,   Iwls  a  t ; ; i =   Shae   \tS   oMu>{{o               Otm on      oed     L                                        Molsosl \  P  v      
8,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - - -  PAE  ROAD  ,S .UN oDER CONSTRUCTION 
) Mbh l< 9 u- \ X ( dh~.                                                                                                        HIHAD  WATRPOJEC                              GRVE ROA_fiDS_
0   T   COMoRhuising   J     c        L           @             -tOIr                                                  L E S C) T H O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ISTIC  HADQARER
-30Dzxz   -_  t      ONtozimsed            8LgPwp w        %                                                                                3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ NATtONAi CAPITAL   0
y  >                                        j                                                                              -  --  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
.SOUTH AFRICA                                     b    
---}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 1992.









IMAGING
Report No.:          19974
Type:      ICR



