Dacun?t of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-6180-GH
MEHORANDUM AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 15.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
MARCH 23, 1994
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(;uIfe;cy Unit             -           Cedi (C)
USS 1                                  835
e 1=                                   US$ 0.00120
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
(W 'S                         Community water and sanitation
('8VSD                        Community Water and Sanitation Division
' \W Sp                       Community Water and Sanitation Project
L3DYS I                       District Water and Sanitation Team
GO(                          Govemment of Ghana
5(xS C                        Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
NGO                           Non-Governmental Organization
Q&NM                          Operations and Maintenance
PPF                           Project Preparation Facility
UND                           I United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January - December



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
CREDITAND PROJECTSUMAfARY
Borrower:                   Republic of Ghana
Beneficiaries:              Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporat on
Participating District Assemblies
Participating communities and households
Implementing Agency:        Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
Credit Amount:              SDR 15.9 million (US$21.96 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard with 40 years maturity.
Onlending Terms:            Proceeds of the credit would be passed on by the Government in
grant form to the Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation.
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign      Total
(US$ million)
GOG                     2.46       0.00        2.46
Communities             0.90       0.00        0.90
Government of
Canada                  0.62       1.06        1.68
IDA                     7.61      14.35       21.96
Total                  11.59      15.41       27.00
Economic Rate of Return:    N/A
Poverty Category:           Program of Targeted Interventions
Staff Appraisal Report No.:  12406-GH
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not othewise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESEI)ENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed development credit to the Republic of Ghana for SDR 15.9 million ($21.96
million equivalent). The proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms, with a maturity
of 40 years, and fina.'ce a community water and sanitation project. Part I of the document
discusses Ghana's development issues and prospects, the key priorities of the economic
reform prognim at the macroeconomic and sector levels, and the Bank Group's assistance
strategy. Part II of the document describes the proposed Credit.
PART I: COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
2.    This section describes Ghana's policies and development objectives and the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). It first summarizes recent developments and Ghana's
central development issues. A discussion of the status of the policy dialogue and the
Bank's country assistance strategy follows. The section concludes with a summary
assessment and criteria for evaluating progress in key areas. Annexes A1-A6 provide
details on portfolio performance, and key economic and exposure indicators.
A.    Recent Economic and Social Performance
1.    Background
3.    Ghana is well endowed with natural resources, including arable land, forests, and
sizable mineral deposits of gold, diamonds, bauxite, and man1ganese, as well as additional
potential for hydroelectric power. The economy has traditionally depended on primary
production and exports of cocoa and minerals. Most of the Ghanaian labor force is
employed in agriculture. Agricultural production, primarily small scale, is concentrated in
staple food crops and cocoa. Ghana ranks among the world's largest producers and
exporters of cocoa. The service sector is the second largest employer-over 25 percent of
the labor force-accounting for over 40 percent of real GDP. It consists largely of trade
and public sector services. The industrial sector accounts for about 14 percent of GDP
and employment; it is relatively diverse and well developed by Sub-Saharan Afiican
standards.
4.    Pre-reform Setting. Although Ghana once enjoyed a relatively high living
standard compared with most other West African nations, inappropriate economic policies
and a deterioration in the external terms of trade in the 1970s led to substantial declines in
income in the 1970s and early 1980s. Between 1970 and 1982, import volumes fell by a



2
third, real export earnings declined by 52 percent, and domestic savings and investment
declined from 12 percent of GDP to almost nothing. Production spiraled downward and
prices upward. The inflation rate exceeded 100 percent in 1983. The return of over one
million Ghanaians from Nigeria in 1982-83 and a prolonged drought during that period
severely strained food supplies and the employment situation.
2.    The Economic Recovery Program, 1983-93
5.    The Government introduced the Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in 1983.
The goals of the ERP were to: (i) restore and sustain macroeconomic stability; (ii) create
an incentive framework to enhance efficiency, encourage savings and investment, and
provide an enabling environment for economic growth; and (iii) improve the efficiency of
public sector management. The ERP was supported by financial and technical assistance
from the World Bank, the IMF, and other multilateral and bilateral donors. Real GDP
growth averaged 5 percent per annum in the decade following the introduction of the
ERP; this contrasts with minus 2 to 3 percent per annum in the preceding decade. On a
per capita basis, real income grew by 2 percent per annum, and the benefits of growth
were widely distributed. Most farmers and rural workers gained from improved producer
prices for cocoa and liberalization in trading of other cash crops. Real food prices (cereals
and reots) gradually declined. Government expenditures on social programs rose
significantly in the initial years of the ERP, resulting in improved provision of basic social
services and in improved social indicators.
6.    Exchange Rate and Trade Reforms. Exchange rate and trade reforms were the
centerpiece of the ERP; after a decade of reform, Ghana now has a market-determined
exchange rate system and a low-tariff trade regime free of quantitative restrictions.
Foreign exchange transactions at the bureaux de change were legalized in 1990. In April
1992, the Government introduced an interbank market in place of the weekly auction of
foreign exchange, with a view to encouraging such transactions among banks. The spread
between the interbank foreign exchange market and the bureaux has fallen since 1990;
currently it is less than 10 percent. The Government abolished the import licensing system
in 1989. Tariffs on imports were reduced substantially during the ERP; excise taxes on
imports were equalized with those on locally produced goods. Exports, except for cocoa,
are not taxed.
7.    Fiscal Management. Under the ERP, the Government improved the fiscal
situation and the efficiency of public resource management. Greater resources were
mobilized through tax reform, improved tax collections, and a rationalization of
consumption taxes and user charges. Reflecting previous shortages of materials and
supplies, recurrent expenditures were given higher priority under the ERP, with particular
emphasis on improving the efficiency of the health and education sectors. Public
investments, which grew from negligible levels at the beginning of the ERP to 10.4
percent of GDP in 1993, focused on the rehabilitation of economic and social
infrastructure. To improve investment allocations, sectoral ministries strengthened their
planning units and the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP) established a



3
committee to ensure that, within a three-year time horizon, investments would meet
established criteria and support sectoral strategies. These improvements notwithstanding,
there is a worrying trend towards expenditures for public service wages and salaries.
Indeed, some 70 percent of revenue (equivalent to 9 percent of GDP) finances the public
service wage bill. What is left after interest payments cannot adequately support required
operational and maintenance expenses. The develcpment budget is increasingly being
financed through foreign grants and loans.
8.    Financial Sector. Under the ERP, the Government began implementing a
program of wide-ranging financial reforms. It abolished interest rate controls and sectoral
credit ceilings, improved the legal framework goveming banking activities, and introduced
uniform accounting and auditing standards for all banks. The Bank of Ghana (BOG)
improved its supervision of banks. A program to restructure the finances and management
of distressed banks has been completed, and the second stage of the financial adjustment
program, to reduce government owrership in all the state controlled banks to a minority
position of 40 percent, is now under implementation. The two largest banks-Ghana
Commercial Bank and the merged Social Security and National Savings and Credit Bank
-are to be divested by the end of 1994; the divestiture of other banks will be continuing
over the next few years. Ghana has a small stock exchange, listing some 15 companies;
with the ongoing divestiture program in the commercial manufacturing and financial
sectors, it is anticipated that the stock exchange will be a vehicle for the flotation of
shares, thus facilitating a broadening of company ownership.
9.    Agricultural Sector. For the cocoa subsector, an important ERP objective was to
improve farmer incentives through increasing the share of the world price they receive for
their cocoa. The farmers' share of the FOB price increased from 25 percent in the 1984-
85 crop year to an estimated 45 percent in 1992-93; however, there has been some
reduction since then with the depreciation of the cedi. The Cocoa Board has reduced
operational e-xpenses by retrenching about 32,000 workers since 1984. From the 1992-93
season, private traders can compete with the Produce Buying Company of the Cocoa
Board in domestic cocoa trading. Five companies have been licensed to trade, and they
are expected to purchase 20 percent of the crop for the currem season. Vigorous private
trading of cocoa in the domestic market during the next few years should compete down
marketing costs and provide the basis for a corresponding increase in the farmers! share of
cocoa export revenues. An important element of the reform agenda yet to be undertaken
is the liberalization of cocoa export marketing.
10.   Mining. The mining sector accounts for some 20 percent of export earnings and
employs about 20,000 workers in the larger mines and about 30,000 workers in small
scale mining. Gold is the principal product, with about 85 percent of mining export values
and 85 percent of formal employment. Since the sector opened up for private investment
under the ERP, overall output has grown steadily--from 277,000 ounces in 1983 to
995,000 ounces in 1992. Value added in mining rose by about 7 percent in 1991 and over
I0 percent in 1992, reflecting investments in the rehabilitation of existing mines and in
increased small scale mining activity. Before the enactment of Small Scale Mining Law in



4
1989, illegal mining activity was rampant. Since the issuance of the law, over 400 licenses
have been issued to gold and diamond miners. Private sector participation in both small-
scale mining as well as large-scale mining is now on the increase. Meanwhile, the
Government's divestiture program has been quite successful. It has divested half of its
holdings of Ashanti Gold Fields; purchase offers for other gold mines are being evaluated.
3.    Recent Developments and Sustainability
11.   Macroeconomic Situation. During the last quarter of 1992, just before the
parliamentary and presidential elections, civil servants demanded-and obtained-a large
increase in wages. As a result, the narrow fiscal deficit (including grants) rose sharply in
1992-to 4.8 percent of GDP-the money supply expanded by more than 50 percent, and
the current account deficit widened to 12.9 percent of GDP. Though the 1993 budget
introduced significant corrective measures aimed at restoring macroeconomic stability, the
actual revenue turnaround fell short of expectations, largely because the second round
increase in petroleum tax rates could not be implemented. Thus the money supply grew
more than anticipated, the inflation rate was higher, and the cedi depreciated more than
had been expected. The 1993 fiscal outturn was a deficit of 3.0 percent of GDP, rather
than a surplus of 0.3 percent. However, a favorable agricultural outturn resulted in GDP
growth of 5 percent, instead of the projected 4.4 percent. The 1992 fiscal shock halted a
sharply rising trend in private investment and reversed a falling trend in inflation. Total
in';cstment, after peaking at 16 percent of GDP in 1991, fell to 13 percent in 1992 and
recovered slightly in 1993. National savings, after rising consistently to reach over 9
percent of GDP in 1991, fell to 4 percent in 1992 and have been estimated to be about 1
percent in 1993. The inflation rate, which had fallen to 10 percent in 1992, bounced up to
25 percent in 1993. Macroeconomic stability is programmed to be restored over the
course of 1994. At the core of the 1994 Government budget are measures designed to
secure a fiscal surplus of 1.3 percent of GDP. Credit policy aims at a 5 percent growth in
money supply, and the rate of inflation is targeted to slow to 15 percent on an annual basis
by the end of the year.
12.   Sustainability. After a decade of sustained adjustment in which Ghana has made
steady progress based on strong political support for the reform program, Government
commitment continues to be strong. Given the broad-based support for the ERP's
reforms, it is highly unlikely that they would be reversed. That said, what is less clear is
how quickly the next tranche of Ghana's economic reforms, especially in respect of public
service restructuring and privatization, will be adopted and implemented. Without public
service reform, the large wage bill will make fiscal balance difficult to sustain over the
medium term. This will affect the macroeconomic setting and the enabling environment
for private sector activities, both of which will strongly influence the vigor of the
economy's supply response. Policies that directly affect the private sector will also clearly
bu important. (These issues are discussed below in Sections C and D.)



4.    Social Conditions
13.   The prolonged decline in the economy in the 1970s and early 1980s caused a
substantial reduction in per capita income. Social indicators deteriorated markedly.
Under the ERP, some of the poor, particularly those in urban areas, were affected
adversely, and real wages, particularly of unskilled labor, declined due to civil service
retrenchment and the impact of increased competition on inefficient public and private
enttiprises. But these adverse effects were limited in duration. For the most part, social
indicators and living standards improved under the ERP, which enhanced opportunities for
gainful employment in rural areas. Attention is now focused on investing in basic social
services essential for improving living standards and enhancing poor Ghanaians' human
resources. Life expectancy is 55 years (compared with 51 for Sub-Saharan Africa), and
the infant mortality rate is 83 per thousand live births (compared with 107 for Sub-
Saharan Africa). The adult illiteracy rate is about 40 percent (compared with 50 percent
for Sub-Saharan Africa) and the primary school enrollment ratio is 75 percent (compared
with 70 percent for Sub-Saharan Africa). While these indicators compare favorably with
the rest of Sub-Saharan Africa, they are behind the levels attained in East Asia when those
countries began to grow rapidly. The implication is that investments in basic social
services need to be increased for improving social indicators and living standards, as well
as for establishing the foundations for accelerated growth.
14.   Poverty Assessment. Because of the lack of consistent data covering the period
prior to the start of the ERP, a comparative analysis of the effects of the pre- and post-
reforms on poverty is difficult to make. That said, the available evidence, as summnarized
in the FY93 Poverty Assessment, was that Ghana had made progress in reducing poverty
under the ERP. The assessment also found that poverty in Ghana remains predominantly
rural with considerable regional variations. Most of the poor live in the Savannan, the
Volta basin, and mid-coast zones; these areas account for 64 percent of the nation's poor
but only 32 percent of the nation's population. This suggests that programs and projects
focused on these areas are likely to be beneficial to the poor.
15.   Women in Ghana. Ghanaian women have been, and continue to be, active
participants in the country's labor force, particularly in agriculture, trade, and small scale
manufacturing. However, the potential contribution of women to the economy is
constrained by a lack of education (school enrollment ratios and literacy rates for females
are lower than for males, particularly in the North) and by legal, cultural and social
barriers that limit their access to land, credit, farming inputs, technology, and support
services. While some women have managed to participate in the formal economy
dominating the trade in domestic food commodities, most continue to spend long hours on
low output, physically demanding activities such as collecting fuelwood and headloading
of farm produce, in addition to their household responsibilities. On average, women in
Ghana bear six children.



6
5.    Environmental Issues
16.   The major environmental issues in Ghana are soil degradation, deforestation, and
the impact on health from mining activities, water contamination, and inadequate
sanitation. Traditional agricultural systems, because of population pressure reducing land
fallow periods, have exploited the soils and the forests, with little regard for their long-
term productive capacity. In the 1980s, 25,000 hectares of forest were lost each year, and
indications are that the rate is accelerating. In rural areas, less than 30 percent of the
population has access to safe drinking water aiW' less than IS percent have household
sanitation. Mineral production has polluted the air with corrosive and poisonous gases;
the discharge of heavy metals and cyanide is polluting water with a potentially serious
impact on human health. Government policies and programs to address these issues will
be vital for reducing health risks and for ensuring the sustainability of overall development.
To this end, the Government can shift some of the associated investment and conservation
costs to private beneficiaries; commercial mining and forestry ccncession should reflect
the associated environmental costs to the country. Subsidies for the use of fossil fuels,
chemicals, and logging, therefore, must be carefully reviewed for their impact on the
environment. The provision of clean water and improved sanitation, and the control of
toxic chemicals used in mining will greatly reduce health risks in both urban and rural
areas. Meanwhile, clarification of ownership and management rights can improve land
use. Such interventions, by preventing the erosion of fragile but important income
sources, can also contribute to poverty reduction.
B.    External Environment
17.   The Ghanaian economy is highly exposed to price fluctuations in world markets.
Exports contribute about 19 percent of GDP. Primary products-asically cocoa, gold,
and timber-account for about 78 percent of total exports. The country is also heavily
dependent on fuel imports, for which price fluctuations have a major impact on Ghana's
external terms of trade. Ghana is gradually adjusting to the changing international
realities, through diversification in the manufacturing and nontraditional agricultural
sectors. Ghana's nontraditional exports have responded well to the ERP, but from a very
low base; they still constitute a small fraction of total exports.
18.   Debt. Ghana has never rescheduled its debt service obligations. Its total debt
outstanding and disbursed (including IMF) amounts to $4.9 billion, close to 81 percent of
GDP. Of the total, IBRD loans and IDA credits account for more than 50 percent. The
share of non-concessional borrowing, especially for medium-term oil financing, has
declined significantly from 25 percent in 1988 to 18 percent in 1993. Including IMF
repurchases, the debt service ratio was 38 percent in 1993, compared to 59 percent in
1989. The ratio is expected to decline further to 27 percent in 1994, -in part due to
lower scheduled repurchases from the IMF and lower amortization of medium-term debt,
- and to 23 percent by 1997. The share of preferred creditor debt service to total public
debt service is expected to decline from 56.3 percent in 1996 to 45.3 percent in 2000.



7
Also, the preferred creditor debt service ratio is expected to decline from 13.4 percent in
1996 to 5.6 percent in 2000.
19.   Foreign Financing. Increases in the level of foreign direct investment and in
concessional aid financing are likely to he constrained. During the ERP, foreign aid
financed imports of capital goods and inputs for rehabilitation and reconstruction, and
softened the impact of adverse shifts in the terms of trade. Foreign assistance will
continue to be needed, although we are projecting a secular decline in real terns, in part
reflecting the projected decline in the ratio of the current account deficit to GDP.
External financing over the 1995-97 period is projected to total $2.5 billion, nearly 85
percent of which is expected to come from foreign aid. (During the last Consultative
Group meeting held in June 1993, $2.1 billion was pledged for a two-year period.)
Foreign direct investment, including receipts from the divestiture of existing enterprises to
foreigners, is projected at nearly $275 million for the 1995-97 period. Although foreign
direct investment is projected to rise three-fold between 1993 and 1997, its contribution
remains relatively small, given its low starting level; divestiture-related private inflows are
projected to account for some 50 percent of private capital inflows.
20.   Impact of CFA Devaluation. The impact of the devaluation of the CFA
currencies on the Ghanaian economy has two major components-cocoa and non-cocoa.
Th- former largely works through the impact on Cote d'Ivoire as a major cocoa producer,
since increased Ivorian output may depress cocoa prices in world markets from what they
would otherwise be. This would clearly have adverse consequences for Ghana.
Furthermore, Ghanaian farmers may export cocoa through Ivorian channels, thereby
lowering Ghana's official foreign exchange earnings and tax revenues. Ghana also stands
to lose in other ways, as foreign investors switch to CFA countries and as Ghanaian
producers lose markets to CFA competitors. These effects are difficult to quantify since
little border trade between Ghana and its CFA neighbors enters the official statistics.
Official trade between Ghana and neighboring countries is low, but unrecorded trade,
particularly in consumer goods and agricultural commodities, has flourished.
C.   Country Development Objectives and Policies
21.   Despite its rather successfull adjustment program, Ghana's average growth rate has
not crossed the 5 percent threshold. The associated 2 percent per annum growth in per
capita income is not enough to alter the poverty situation in a dramatic way. Nor is it
sufficient to match widespread expectations of more rapidly rising incomes. The
Government is therefore interested in achieving accelerated growth.
1.    Sources of Growth
22.   The achievement of faster growth will depend inter alia on how rapidly
macroeconomic balance can be achieved. In 1993, the magnitude of the macroecononic
adjustment to the fiscal shock of 1992 was less than anticipated, leaving a further fiscal
correction to be implemented in 1994. Beyond that, the achievement of rapid growth will



8
also depend on fully implementing an ambitious policy agenda of structural reforms
including public service reform -which will be necessary for sustained macroeconomic
balance- accelerated privatization, the liberalization of external marketing arrangements
for cocoa, and enhanced support for human capital development and capacity building.
23.   Investment and Savings. Taking account of past performance, the current
macroeconomic situation, and the Government's commitment to the unfinished reform
agenda, the central scenario forecasts a steady but modest increase in economic growth
from 5.0 percent in 1993 to 5.3 percent in 1997 and further to 5.6 percent in 2000. In the
scenario, private investment is projected to recover gradually, reattaining its 1991 share of
GDP at the turn of the century. Increases in private investment are projected to be
financed mainly through increases in domestic savings. Though higher foreign direct
investment would be desirable, actual increases in such investment over the next five years
are unlikely to be a large source of investment financing. Public investment is expected to
rise as a share of GDP, financed largely by donor-supported investment programs. Private
savings is projected to recover gradually, reattaining 1992 levels (in relation to GDP) by
2000. Public savings as a proportion of GDP is forecast to increase, reflecting the planned
implementation of the Value Added Tax (VAT) and the assumption of some progress on
public service reform, which in turn will permit a shift in public spending from wages to
investments in human capital development.
24.   Sou-ces of Growth. Most of the forecast increase in growth will come from
agriculture, mining, financial services, and transport. Rapid growth in manufacturing
should follow with a lag. Growth at the projected levels should not create serious sectoral
bottlenecks, as it will come mostly from better performance in agriculture and services.
For the anticipated growth to take place in agriculture, critical constraints in technical
support services and rural infrastructure must be addressed. Improvement in the
availability of agricultural inputs is also necessary. Most of the agricultural growth is
expected to come from increased productivity in traditional crops and from the growth of
nontraditional products (fisheries and horticulture). The mining sector, especially gold and
diamonds, is projected to grow in the early years, but rapid growth beyond that may face
environmental constraints. Given their long gestation periods, it is imperative that the
foundations for future growth-in terms of investments in education, telecommunications,
other infrastructure, and access to technology-are laid now.
2.    Key Development Constraints
25.   The ERP's growth was primarily public-sector led. To achieve accelerated growth,
greater participation of the private sector in the economy will be necessary. In the past, a
number of constraints, including mutual distrust between the private and public sectors
prevented strong private sector involvement. In the future, the private sector needs to
increasingly become the engine of growth. This will depend on overcoming the
constraints outlined below, both with respect to the private sector per se and with respect
to public service reform, capacity building, and poverty reduction.



9
26.   Private Sector Perceptions. During the past year there have been some
improvements in the enabling environment for the private sector. The Government has
streamlined business laws affecting the private sector, and a more liberal investment act is
now before the Parliament. To forge a working public-private partnership, a Private
Sector Round Table has been set up (with the Banks assistance). To attract foreign
direct investment, the Government has arranged a few successfiul investment seminars
abroad. Albeit very slowly, the private sector is beginning to show some signs of
response; for example, a few multi-national companies that had ceased to operate in
Ghana have now resumed business operations. However, the private sector remains
uncertain about Government intentions, and some constraints remain. The pace of
privatization remains slow-notwithstanding recent sales of shares in Ashanti Goldfields.
Financial sector weaknesses continue, and infrastructure bottlenecks, especially in the
telecommunications area, need to be removed. A recently passed Serious Frauds Act is
seen by many as a reflection of Government's continuing distrust of the private sector;
however, others feel that the Act should improve transparency and confidence, since due
process will now have to be followed in investigating allegations of fraud.
27.   Shortages of Institutional and Managerial Capacity. Ghana faces serious
capacity and human resource constraints. Although the country has much better educated
and trained manpower than most other sub-Saharan African countries, there is a serious
shortage of experienced personnel to manage and implement the various elements of the
economic reform program. Moving from a highly control-oriented system of economic
management to one that facilitates private sector development through market incentives
is indeed difficult for a bureaucracy whose previous experience has been with direct state
intervention. To address the managerial capacity constraints, the Government has recently
established an interagency Capacity Building Steering Committee under the leadership of
the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning. Under this Committee's guidance and
with UNDP's support a capacity assessment is being undertaken to be followed by a
national conference for consensus building (see also paragraph 36).
28.   Public Service Restructuring. Though the Ghana's public service (core civil
service and subvented agencies) remains one of the largest in Afiica, it lacks an
appropriate incentive framework to ensure effective public service performance in
implementing investment projects, in managing public expenditures, and in formulating
and executing policy. Given that nearly 9 percent of GDP is currently spent on public
service wage and wage-related expenditures, a substantial downsizing of the current
service must be an integral aspect of that strategy. Indeed, without substantial reductions
in the wage bill, macroeconomic stability may not be sustained over the medium-term,
and the private investment response will lag. In addition, improvements in the skill-base of
the public service through recruitment and through better pay-performance linkages will
not be feasible without downsizing. While the Government in principle accepts the need
for significant public service restructuring, it has, however, been rather slow in developing
a long-term strategy for doing so. Recently the Government has begun to talk of
developing a "home-grown" strategy around which a national consensus can be built. The
objectives include implementation of a new staff performance appraisal system,



l0
development and implementation of improved terms of service, and the realignment of
civil service functions, including the eradication of duplication in public services.
29.   Poverty. The Government's strategy recognizes the two way linkages between
poverty reduction and accelerated growth. First, it recognizes the importance of rapid
economic growth for poverty reduction, hence its preoccupation with accelerated growth.
Second, it recognizes that emphasis on human resources development is needed to ensure
that the poor are sufficiently healthy and literate to take advantage of the new
opportunities arising from growth. In primary education and overall literacy, Ghana lags
far behind the successful East-Asian countries, which had achieved nearly universal
literacy as a precondition to rapid growth. Thus, social services need to be sharply
improved and adequately supported. The Government plans to enhance its capacity to
deliver basic social services to the poor, especially in the areas of health, family planning,
nutrition, basic education and safe water and sanitation. It is also decentralizing
responsibilities for implementing social programs.
D.    Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy
30.   The thrust of the Bank's country assistance strategy in Ghana is to help the
Government achieve its objectives, as outlined above, through the policy dial .due,
economic and sector work (ESW), new lending operations, portfolio management, and
donor coordination. Over the past decade, IDA has played an important role in helping
Ghana to develop and implement its reform program and to coordinate donor assistance.
T he Bank's role is increasingly shifting to advising the Government on the formulation of
policy options, leaving much more of the work of developing the options to the
Government, albeit with support as needed from the Bank. Promoting Ghanaian
ownership and capacity is a guiding principle of our current efforts.
31.   Sectoral Strategies. The Bank's sectoral strategies and programs reflect country
objectives in poverty reduction, capacity building, and private sector development. Our
policy dialogue on poverty reduction is directed towards accelerated growth coupled with
a reorientation of public expenditures towards the provision of basic social services to
build up the human capital of tne poor. On capacity building, the policy dialogue focuses
on encouraging and supporting the Government's own efforts first, to gain public
recognition of the foregone development benefits resulting from a bloated and ineffective
public sector bureaucracy, and subsequently to forge a wide consensus on the strategy and
actions to be taken in improving public sector performance and in facilitating private
sector expansion. On private sector development, the dialogue focuses on reduction of
public sector involvement in commercial activities through rapid privatization and
strengthening of the legal and regulatory framework governing private sector activities.
These three themes are covered in flagship ESW tasks and the FY95-97 lending program,
which contains operations directed towards reduction of poverty, building capacity in
private and public sectors, and increasing the role of the private sector in the economy
with particular emphasis on non-traditional exports, trade development, technology
diffusion and industrial infrastructure support. The following matrix summarizes the
objectives and instruments of our country assistance strategy during FY95-97. The salient
features are discussed below.



Oblectives and Instruments of Country Assistance Strategy, FY95-97
Maintain macroaconomio
stability, >omplete remaining                                       SuNd capacity                  Increase rote of            Improve management
structural reform.s                 Reduce                      in private and            prhirsts swcor In economy,        of unurdl reoorrces
Invest in key sectors               povety                       pubfic sectoms                Includin exports              and the environment
olicy dialogue                                                                                                                                            l
ncrease public sector savings and  Define the causes of poverty niore National Capacity Building  Emphasis on etiminating restrictive  Ongoing consultation with the
iversify instruments foi private   clearlv reorient public expenditure, Workshop in March 1994 will  egulations, improving institutional Ministry of Environmnent and
orrowing/saving. strengthen   improve access of poor to basic    aRine a strategy and initiate  framework, reducing public sector  Environmental Planning Council
ndependence of financial systeon. services; Improve quality of  processes to develop and     involverrent in production through  (EPC) to insure that Ghena's
ncrease pace of privatization.  services; and achieve the goals of  implement an action plan.  privatization. and supporting  development policies, programs.
iberd7ze cocoa marketing.    Worid Summit of Children. Devise                               exports to promote private invest-  and projects take futly into account
more demand-driven approaches in                              ment.                          the impact on the country's
social sectors partly through                                                                environmental resource
____ _d__ __  ecentraNzation of services.                                                            management.
EM FY95 will focus on mediumt-  Extended Poverty Study (with  Capacity building study rY95 will  Industrial Sector Review FY96.    Preparatory Sector Work for Rural
rm sustainability of macro-balance HROVPI FY95; Urban Sector  |cover private sector, universities                          Water Credit. Urban Environment
nd the potential for private sector Strategy Update FY9S. Housing  land government.                                         Study FY95196.
rowth                         Finance Strategy Note FY95196.  |                                                                              _
ew lending                                                        ,_._._                                                                                 . I
diustment lending and         Educational/ Vocational Training;   Economic Management Support fil; Public Sector/Private Sector  Small-Scaea Mining; Growth-
frastructure projects will support PHN; Basic Education; Uteracy II;  Capacity Building. Parliamentary   Development; Financial Sector.    Environrment Ttade-offs in Western
reater private investment. Private Agriculture Sector Investment 11;  Project. Metro Cities Development. Many projects in infrastructure will Region. Fisheries; Wildlife
actor Adjustment Credit. Highwa Metro Cities Development; Small   Other projects also inciude major  strengthen environment for  Management; Water Rehab II.
ector, Telecomrnmunications Il,    Scale Mining.             institution-building components.   improved private investment.
termodal Transport, Public
nterprise Proiect.             _                                                                                                                           l
ortfollo management
ranche review process under   Supervision of Education,      Review of MFED operations under  Improved services and enhanced   Environmental Resources Manage-
ngoing Financial Sector (FINSAC) Health/Population and Urban  Economic Management Support It  credit for Ghanaian exporters under ment and Forest Resources Man-
nd Agriculture Sector (AGSAC)   Infrastructure Projects by RMG  Project, including some refocusing  Public Enterprise Export Project.   agement Projects strengthen
djustment Credits and Proposed  improves contact with beneficiaries of EMS 11.              AGSAC to strengthen private cocoa Government's planning capacity in
Prvate Sector Adjustment Credit,  participants and ownership.                                trading activities. FINSAC to secure key areas. Impternentetion of
supervision of infrastructure   Restructuring of PHN It Project.                          privatization of banks.        Agriculture Research and Extension
rolects.                                                _                _ ____                                        _   Projects.
onor coordination 
ext CG (June 19951; Regular   Locally organized donor group for  Assess Governrnent's Public  Active search for cofinancing  Consultations with donors and
nthly meetings of donors under population, health and nutrition  Expenditure Review with other    sources in Japan, USA (OPIC). and NGOs under the leadership of the
es7dent Mssion Review of macro  already in operation but more active donors; support the new Centre for European countries (CDC, CFD,    Environmental Planning Council
rogram, with IMF. SPA, meetings. participadon by Government still   Econonmc Policy Analysis with other KfWI.               IEPCI.
neods to be fostered.          donors. 



12
1.    Policy Dialogue
32.   The policy dialogue with the Government through the decade of the ERP was very
successful. Under democratic rule, the dialogue will have to broaden to a wider group of
decision makers and consensus builders. For the medium term, the Bank's policy dialogue
will emphasize maintenance of macroeconomic stability, private sector development,
human resources development and poverty reduction, and capacity building.
33.   Governance. In the Ghanaian context, governance issues revolve broadly around
three main areas: public service reform, dialogue between the public and private sectors,
and the transparency of economic decision making. Some progress is taking place in each
of these areas, which are central to the dialogue with the Bank and donors. The
Government recognizes the need to seriously review the overall issue of how to streamline
public services and downsize these effectively, given the importance for the sustainability
of the macroeconomic framework and for the effective provision of basic social and
infrastructure services. The dialogue between the Government and private sector is
gradually improving, partly through regular sessions with the Private Sector Round Table.
The Parliament is now playing a major role in economic decision making thereby
broadening its acceptance at all levels. New parliamentary processes for evaluating policy
proposals and for debating them are also evolving. Last year, a delegation of the
parliamentary committee on finances visited the United States to study processes and
systems within the finance committees of the U.S. Congress and state legislatures.
Similar study tours are planned to other countries.
2.    Economic and Sector Work
34.   ESW underpins our policy dialogue. It focuses on diagnosing development
problems and identifying constraints to long-term growth and poverty reduction that can
be relaxed through public policies, institutional development, and/or investments. The
ESW program is being conducted in a participatory manner, with Ghanaian institutions
collaborating with us on all ongoing studies. The current year's program includes four
large tasks: an extended poverty study, an examination of capacity building requirements,
a financial sector review, and an environmental study of the Western Region. (See
below.) The FY95-97 ESW program also covers: reviewing public expenditures (this
years public expenditure review is being prepared by the Government); preparing a
country economic memorandum (focused on the medium-term sustainability of
macroeconomnic balance and potential for private sector growth); assessing rural
institutions, the industrial sector, and intermodal transport; and developing strategies for
the urban, water, and housing sub-sectors.
35.   Poverty Analysis. The objective of the extended poverty study, which builds on
the FY93 Poverty Assessment, is to better understand the constraints facing the poor and
to develop a long-term Ghana-specific poverty reduction framework. The study will
update the poverty profile and include a qualitative poverty assessment, which will be



13
based on the poor's own perceptions about the nature and causes of their poverty. It will
also identify mechanisms for reaching the poor, and recommend ways of improving the
poor's utilization of social services. It is a collaborative effort between the Government,
the Bank, and several donors.
36.   Capacity Building. The Bank, through the Resident Mission, is actively
participating in the work of the Government's inter-agency Capacity Building Steering
Committee, along with UNDP and ODA. Following a UNDP-supported assessment of
capacity weaknesses throughout the economy, the Bank is working with the Steering
Committee in designing and financing a Workshop where Ghanaian leaders will discuss
capacity weaknesses and means of overcoming them. The Workshop is intended to assist
in forging a consensus around the urgency of defining a feasible strategy for both better
utilization of existing capacity and development of the specialized skills needed to achieve
accelerated economic growth. Although the focus of the Workshop is broader than civil
service reform or public sector reform, the initial thrust will be towards enhancing the
institutional performance ot the public sector. The intention is to support a process for
identifying the most urgent capacity needs. The Workshop should create consensus on the
direction and priorities, and from it should emerge a strategy and components for a
program of action to address capacity deficits in Ghana. This action plan will form a
framework for donor support.
37.   Financial Sector. In collaboration with a Ghanaian counterpart team, we are
looking at the financial system from three interlinking perspectives-macroeconomic,
microeconomic, and sectoraVdevelopmental. Since the official statistics suggest that the
savings rate in Ghana is low, an important component of the review deals with the two-
way linkages between financial sector development and savings and investment behavior.
The review is also looking at the legal and regulatory framework for the financial sector,
focusing on issues of collateral, information systems, and legal constraints. The study
includes a detailed analysis of the rural banks, which have been successful in mobilizing
deposits, but unsuccessful at recovering loan funds. Building on the ample research on
informal financial markets in Ghana, the review will make recommendations as to how
informal institutions can be encouraged to become more effective financial intermediaries
-between savers and the formal system. The review is also looking at non-bank financial
institutions.
38.   Western Region Environmental Study. The natural resource potential of the
Western Region has importance for Ghana's overall economic growth. The study is
looking at the various growth options on the regional and national economy, and the
social and environmental implications of the options. It will provide a more detailed
understanding of the region's development future, and particularly, a better understanding
of issues of sustainability. We expect that this work will provide a framework and a guide
for similar studies of other regions in the country. There is a very strong local ownership
of the study; the Bank's role is primarily catalytic.



14
3.    Lending
39.   Over the FY95-97 period, we anticipate total lending in the range of $480 to $780
million. We intend to rely increasingly on sector investment credits to support sectoral
policies and institutional development. Adjustment credits will continue to be used to
support policy and institutional reforms, although these are being kept at about 20 percent
of new commitments. These adjustment operations, including one currently under
preparation, would support private sector development through accelerated privatization,
public senrice restructuring, and public resource management, and financial sector
reforms. If implementation of reforms is on track and the country is hurt by a severe
terms of trade shock, creating additional balance of payments need, the Bank would
consider raising the share of adjustment lending. The investment lending program will
contain sector investment loans for infrastructure, social sectors, and private sector
development. Agricultural marketing and rural development will also be emphasized, with
the objective of increasing productivity and diversification in the agricultural sector.
Inadequate performance in achieving macroeconomic stability, in the promotion of private
sector development, in reducing poverty or in improving project implementation, would
result in the reduction of new commitments to the lower end of the planned range.
Criteria for assessing progress in these areas is provided in paragraph 58.
40.   Poverty Reduction. This is the central goal of IDA's operational work in Ghana.
To this end, our efforts are directed towards supporting the Government in achieving
accelerated growth and in reorienting public expenditures toward primary education and
health programs. We are also supporting increased opportunities for the poor, especially
in rural areas, through developing markets for labor and decentralizing responsibilities for
implementing social programs. Lending in support of poverty reduction includes projects
such as Agriculture Sector Investment, Community Water and Sanitation, Small Scale
Mining, Educational/Vocational Training and Fisheries. In addition, the planned Basic
Education, and Population, Health, and Nutrition projects focus on poverty reduction, by
supporting Government efforts to reduce fertility and population growth and to enhance
the poor's human capital.
41.   Private Sector Development. The Bank's strategy to support private sector
development ranges from the macroeconomic level-given the importance of
macroeconomic stability for private savings and investment-to more specific sectoral
assistance. Past Bank involvement in the sector was instrumental in getting the Private
Sector Roundtable process started; this has been very successful in broadening the
dialogue between the Government and the private sector started earlier by the Private
Sector Advisory Group. The Private Enterprise and Export Development project,
approved last year, is assisting private exporters by providing technical assistance to
facilitate export activity and short-term finance, while a new Private Sector Development
project, under preparation, will strengthen the Research and Development infrastructure,
commercialize the trade devulopment and support systems, and support small and medium
enterprises in developing better credit standards and bankable projects. The entire



15
adjustment lending program, which consists of three proposed credits, supports private
sector development. The Private Sector Adjustment project currently being prepared is
focused mainly on supporting an accelerated privatization program. The credit will also
provide support to Government's time bound and well-articulated process for generating
Ghanaian consensus on efforts to improve public expenditure management. The planned
Financial Sector Adjustment operation would support reforms relating mainly to non-bank
financial institutions. The Public Service Adjustment credit is expected to support
implementation of specific measures on public service restructuring, with a view to
enhancing the sustainability of macroeconomic balance over the medium term.
42.   Crowding-in the Private Sector. The Bank is also encouraging the Government
to involve the private sector in the provision of public services. In telecommunications,
we are actively supporting the development of an enabling environment for private sector
participation: a regulatory framework for the sector is under preparation with IDA
assistance. The Government is reviewing the possibility of bringing in a strategic investor
as a partner in Ghana Telecommunications. A proposed Thermal Power project will
increase power generation for industrial development. The project also supports increased
private sector participation in the power sector, and the development of an appropriate
regulatory framework. In agriculture, we are supporting small-scale infrastructure,
especially feeder roads, which are essential for improving transport of agricultural
products to market towns. Future industrial infrastructure projects will strengthen the
export markets through providing infrastructural support for perishable exports and an
export processing zone.
43.   Capacity Building. As a guiding principle of our country assistance strategy,
capacity building is addressed in all planned lending operations, including the three FY95-
97 adjustment operations discussed in paragraph 41. The Private Sector Adjustment
project will support government's initiation of the process for developing a "home grown"
program of public service reform, while the Public Service Adjustment operation is
expected to support implementation of specific measures to reform public service
generated by that process including possible downsizing, all aimed at improving the
capacity and effectiveness of public service. The Financial Sector Adjustment credit will
emphasize capacity building in both public and private sectors. The Bank is also
discussing with the Government a technical assistance project, which would include
support for the parliamentary committees (Finance Committee) and for the judiciary.
44.   Environmental Management. This has grown in importance in the past few
years. An ongoing Environmental Resource Management Project contains a component
designed to introduce new soil conservation techniques for small farmers, which will have
potential for much wider application once the pilot phase is complete. In the area of
mining, the Bank is assisting the Government in evaluating and monitoring the
environmental impact of mining activities and developing more environmentally
responsible techniques. A proposed Small Scale Mining operation will be based on these
principles. In conjunction with our capacity-building initiative, IDA will be supporting
Ghana's Environment Protection Council to more effectively execute its monitoring and



16
regulatory functions, establish a national environmental information and monitoring
system, and safeguard coastal wetland sites.
4.    Portfolio Management
45.   Total IBRD and IDA lending to Ghana as of December 31, 1993 amounted to
$2.78 billion, with total disbursements of $1.9 billion. Of total lending, about 42 percent
has supported private sector development mostly through adjustment loans; about 34
percent has been for infrastructure projects, including transport (14 percent) and power
and telecommunications (13 percent); agriculture has accounted for about 11 percent,
education and health 7 percent, natural resources development and the environment 4
percent, and the balance has been for technical assistance projects. In terms of completed
projects, Ghana's record is good: 79 percent of projects completed by December 1992
were rated satisfactory by OED. Annex AI (page 2) summarizes OED's findings about
the major reasons for unsatisfactory projects. (In brief, most were related to the pre-ERP
policy framework or to design issues associated with projects in the early days of the
ERP.)
46.   Disbursements. The current portfolio consists of 33 investment projects and 4
adjustment operations. As of end-December 1993, the undisbursed balance was $0.93
billion (investment operations $812 million: adjustment operations $116 million). The
Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) held in June 1993 reviewed Ghana's
disbursement performnance. As the size of the IDA portfolio increased under the ERP, the
average annual rate of disbursements on investment projects gradually declined, reaching a
low of 14.5 percent in FY92. In FY93, the disbursement rate went up to 17 percent. In
dollar terms, disbursements were 30 percent higher in FY93 than in FY92.
47.   Implementation. Annex Al provides indicators of portfolio performance. There
has been reasonable progress on problem projects in the past year. Their number has been
reduced to five from seven in FY92. An Action Plan on each of the problem projects has
been drawn up and agreed with project managers. Intensive monitoring of these plans is
under way.
48.   Procurement. Although the overall pace of implementation of IDA financed
projects is slow, it has gradually been accelerating. In the past, processes for
procurement, contract bidding, evaluation and award of contract were very complex and
time consuming. Use of standard bidding documents has helped. We proposed to the
Government during the CPPR to introduce simpler procedures with strict time limitations
given to various agencies involved with procurement. This should shorten the
unacceptably long periods of time taken to clear and approve purchase orders.
49.   Counterpart Funds. Currently, we are focusing on the availability of counterpart
funds, easing of which should improve project implementation. Counterpart funding and
the mechanics of cash flow management are being looked at by an ad hoc committee
established at last year's CPPR. New procedures have been recommended, and are under



17
consideration by the Government. As part of the FY94 Public Expenditure Review, the
Government is also looking at the counterpart finance requirements of all donor-financed
projects as well as projects within the approved Public Investment Program, assessing the
adequacy of cedi allocations, and investigating why release mechanisms fail to ensure that
projects receive funds on a timely basis.
50.   Quality at Entry. Efforts to improve quality at entry entail factoring
implementation constraints into project design and ensuring adequate country ownership
both on the ground and in the bureaucracy. Wherever possible, we are working with the
Government to develop simpler project design with limited number of implementing
agencies and projects with shorter lifespans, to reduce forecast error during project
preparation and design. We are also trying to ensure greater govemment involvement in
project identification and preparation and are looking more critically at proposals for
technical assistance to ensure that they are consistent with the overall capacity-building
and institutional development strategy. Greater involvement of implementing agencies at
the project design stage, and in highlighting institutional difficulties of execution, will help
us to better anticipate and design around constraints. Upstream participation at the
working level will help to ensure ownership among the people responsible for carrying out
the project. Last year's CPPR devoted a substantial amount of time to this topic.
51.   Resident Mission. The Resident Representative and his staff hold regular
discussions with the core ministries on the status of the portfolio and on generic and
project-specific problems. All education projects, and selected projects in other sectors,
are supervised by Resident Mission staff. In fact, for most sectors at least one
headquarters staff is now in the Resident Mission concentrating on project supervision.
The current year's CPPR, which will primarily be based on sectoral implementation
reviews, will be led by the Resident Mission. A Quarterly Summary of Operations, which
highlights problems in each project, is produced by the Resident Mission; this has proven
an effective aid to portfolio management. The Resident Mission also organizes
periodically an Introduction to the World Bank Seminar for new staff at the sectoral
ministries. The intention is to familiarize our clients' staff with Bank procurement and
disbursement procedures, to assist them in implementing their projects.
5.    IFC and MIGA Activities
52.   IFC has played an important role in Ghana's private sector development. As of the
end of December 31, 1993, IFC's gross loan and equity investments totaled $423.3
million. Resources have been targeted to the mining, tourism, and industrial sectors
through direct project financing and through capital markets. IFC has also been active in
the development of the financial sector: it participated in the creation of Ghana's First
Discount House and Leasing Company and is providing hands-on assistance to the
Government in the development of the Accra stock exchange. In the privatization field,
IFC participated directly in two transactions, and prepared the valuation study on Ashanti,
which underpinned the divestiture of the Government's shares. Seven projects are being
assisted under IFC's Africa Enterprise Fund which provides loan and equity financing of



18
$200,000-$1 million for projects with costs ranging between $400,000 and $5 million. As
of the end of 1993, IFC had assisted 20 small and medium size Ghanaian entrepreneurs in
developing marketing and other skills as part of its Africa Project Development Facility
(APDF). To meet the increasing demand for IFC services in Ghana, both IEFC and APDF
opened satellite offices in the country in May 1993. IFC expects to expand its operations
in Ghana, with an emphasis on diversification in value-added activities in the agriculture
and manufacturing sectors. MIGA has begun operations in Ghana. It has concluded one
guarantee operation in the mining sector and several others are under consideration.
6.    Donors and Multilateral Agencies
53.   The June 1993 Consultative Group (CG) meeting for Ghana pledged official
assistance at about current levels with the existing mix of program and project assistance.
As the country slowly graduates from adjustment lending, the Bank's coordinating role,
through the CG and in the SPA, is likely to become more complex. Donors have
expressed interest in cofinancing sector investment operations and have asked the Bank to
develop new modalities so that they can participate. Donors are also playing an expanded
role in the public expenditure review process.
54.   Relations with the IMF. The IMF has supported the Government's ERP with
three successive Standby Arrangements, and two compensatory Financing Facility
purchases, amounting to a total use of Fund resources by end-1986 of SDR 642.3 million
or 314 percent of quota. In November 1987, the IMF approved a three-year extended
arrangement for SDR 245.4 million, and a three-year structural adjustment arrangement
for SDR 129.9 million. These were replaced in 1988 by an arrangement under the ESAF
program amounting to SDR 368.1 million, or 190 percent of quota. After the completion
of the ESAF program, the Fund approved a $65 million Contingency and Compensatory
Financing Facility in July 1993. Ghana is on an annual Article IV consultations cycle with
the IMF, and there is currently an informally monitored program. The Bank maintains
close working relationships with the Fund, especially in support of the Government's
macroeconomic reforms.
55.   Multilateral Agencies. UNICEF is a major donor in the health sector in Ghana.
The Bank is working closely with UNICEF both on the National Program of Action for
Children and in the context of the ongoing Health and Population Project. In education
the Bank has been working closely with the African Development Bank in helping the
Government improve tertiary education.
E.   Agenda for Board Consideration
1.    Summary Assessment
56.   Ghana has successfully managed a complex adjustment process and is eager to
move towards sustained and accelerated growth. But, the shift to democratic rule and to a
parliamentary system of Government has brought with it a new phase of the economic



'9
reform process, for which consensus building is an essential ingredient. The process of
securing the latter will inevitably slow the adoption of new policy measures. But this
slowing should not be seen as a negative development; on the contrary, greater consensus
building means broader domestic ownership, and ultimately more sustainable development
impact. Meanwhile, the Government faces major challenges, particularly in the areas of
public service reform and privatization of public enterprises, where progress has so far
been limited. Although the Government has done much to streamline business related
laws and regulations to ease entry of new investment in the country, segments of the
private sector remain uncertain about Government intentions.
57.   Role of IDA. The Bank has played an important role in helping Ghana to develop
and implement its reform program and to coordinate donor assistance. The objectives of
our future efforts will be to support the Government in the transition from adjustment to
accelerated and sustainable growth and in building constituencies for the further reforms
that the transition will require. We thus plan to become more pro-active in disseminating
both relevant lessons learned from other countries and research findings about best-
practice development policies and approaches, in order to help inform the debate in Ghana
on the direction of policy. Reflecting our objective of promoting Ghanaian ownership
and capacity, the Bank's role is increasingly shifting to advising the Government on the
formulation of options, leaving the actual development of the options to the Ghanaians,
albeit with ready support from us as needed. Meanwhile, the Bank continues to provide
sectoral leadership within the donor community, based on participatory economic and
sector work aimed at developing effective sectoral policies and strategies.
2.    Criteria for Assessing Progress
58.   We fully expect that the planned lending at the upper end of the range (suggested
in paragraph 39) will be forthcoming over the FY95-97 period. However, we would
propose to move to the low case lending scenario in the event of a serious decline in the
Government's commitment to maintaining macroeconomic stability; reducing poverty;
promoting private sector development, and improving portfolio management. Progress in
these areas will be judged primarily as indicated below:
* Progress on macroeconomic management will be judged by Ghana's success in
containing inflation and achieving fiscal balance over the course of 1994, and by its
ability to set in train, steps to correct the structural problems underlying the fiscal
situation-in terms of public service reform.
* Progress on poverty reduction will be judged by the overall climate for efficient
growth and the orientation of public expenditures towards the delivery of basic social
services, especially primary education and health care.
* Progress on private sector development will be judged by Ghana's success in both
accelerating the pace of the divestiture of public enterprises and maintaining a
constructive dialogue between the public and private sectors.



20
Progress on portfolio management will be judged by the timeliness of procurement and
other implementation processes, and by the ava"1bility of counterpart funds as needed
for IDA and other bilaterally financed projects.
3.    Risks
59.   Sustained and accelerated growth will require continued strong support for reform.
Government commitment to the reform process clearly remains strong-and popular
support for the basic reforms is there-so the reforms undertaken under the ERP are
unlikely to be reversed. What is less clear is the speed with which Ghana will adopt and
implement the further reform measures that will be necessary to achieve accelerated
growth. If these reforms prove to be too politically difficult to implement, over time,
recurring macroeconomic problems-the result of a too-large public service wage bill-
and/or excessive uncertainty about Government intentions would undermine the private
sector response, and Ghana would not achieve accelerated growth.
60.   The projected growth of the Ghanaian economy is dependent on both internal and
external stability. A lower growth scenario is likely to emerge if the policy performance is
unsatisfactory with respect to either macroeconomic stability and structural reforms or the
government's management of investment projects and expenditures. If macroeconomic
performance is unsatisfactory in 1994 and 1995, whether due to domestic policy or
exogenous shocks, growth will be slower, as both public and private investment will be
adversely affected. If the privatization program lags and the Government's intentions vis-
a-vis the private sector continue to be perceived to be ambiguous, private investment and
public savings will not recover. Also, stability in the external environment wil be
important. Another adverse terms of trade shock would lead to a larger than projected
current account deficit and hence higher inflation and a more depreciated cedi.
Meanwhile, the full implications of the CFA devaluation of the currencies are not yet fully
visible.
PART U: THE PROPOSED PROJECT
61.   Background. Two-thirds of Ghana's population of 15 million live in rural
communities. Water supply schemes have been installed during the last 20 years with a
potential capacity to serve 3 million of these inhabitants; service, however, is subject to
frequent and long outages, particularly for the some 0.5 million served by rural piped
systems. Access to adequate sanitation is even lower. The Ghana Water and Sewerage
Corporation (GWSC) is responsible for urban and rural water supply and piped sewerage.
Districts and municipalities, assisted by the Ministry of Health, are responsible for on-site
sanitation. Extemal assistance agencies have financed the major share of rural water
supply investment and recurrent costs.



21
62.   A brief summary of the key sector issues is as follows: (a) Management GWSC
must put large amounts of resources into maintaining existing small water supplies; while
the approved tariff is sufficient to cover recurrent costs of boreholes fitted with
handpumps, the collection rate is only about 25% of this level. Its operations would be
strengthened by shifting to community management of rural and small town water supply
systems (i.e. relying on communities assisted by the private sector to operate and mair.tain
them), allowing it to focus on its financially viable urban operations and the development
of new community managed systems. (b) Planning and Finance Communities'
involvement in planning has been limited to deciding whether or not to accept the
technology that is being offered; there has been no choice between different technologies.
In addition, most boreholes were originally provided free of charge. The result has been a
supply rather than demand-driven sector and unsustainable systems. (c) Technology Use
of boreholes where hand dug wells would have been suitable has resulted in unduly high
construction costs, and unsustainable systems as many communities cannot afford or are
not willing to pay relatively high handpump maintenance costs.
63.   A Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Workshop was held in February, 1991 to
discuss a draft sector strategy and action plan. The workshop, and subsequently the
Government, adopted the proposed strategy, which includes: (a) community planning and
management of rural water supplies; (b) government promotion rather than provision of
services- (c) private sector provision of goods and services; (d) demand driven investment
for basic services based on communities paying part of the capital cost and all normal
operations, maintenance and repair costs; and (e) special focus on women as users,
planners, operators and managers of water schemes.
64.   Project Objectives. The primary objective of the project is the full-scale
demonstration of the proposed National Community Water and Sanitation Strategy. In so
doing, it would help achieve the objectives of the National CWS Program - that is to: (a)
provide basic water services to communities that will contribute towards the capital cost
and pay the normal operations, maintenance and repair costs of their facilities; (b) ensure
sustainability of these facilities through community management, private sector provision
of goods and services, and public sector promotion and support; and (c) maximize health
benefits by integrating water, sanitation and hygiene education interventions.
65.   Project Description. The project comprises three components: water supply and
sanitation for rural communities (34% of project costs), water supply and sanitation for
small towns (38%), and capacity building for the public and private sector (28%). Water
Siqpply facilities would be provided for rural communities, schools and health clinics in
four regions. In all some 1000 water points in 700 rural communities would be
constructed (about 2/3 hand dug wells and 1/3 boreholes) and 170 boreholes fitted with
handpumps would be rehabilitated. On a pilot basis, a combination of point sources and
piped systems for about 30 small towns would be provided in six regions in order to gain
experience in the community management of them. The process would be demand driven
where beneficiaries would apply for a construction grant, prepare a Facilities and
Management Plan with the assistance of a prequalified NGO of their choice, and collect



22
their share of the capital cost before a construction contract is let. Sanitation facilities for
households, schools and public places would be provided through a program in which
local artisans and small contractors are trained to promote and construct household and
public facilities. Hygiene Education would be integrated into the process of helping
communities and households to plan their water supply and sanitation systems and training
them to manage them. In addition, a teacher training program for hygiene would be
offered to schools that want improved water and sanitation facilities. The private sector
would be encouraged to take a lead role in planning, construction, maintenance, and
equipment distribution for water supply and sanitation facilities, and the ptublic sector
(GWSC's and District Assemblies) would be encouraged to facilitate communities' efforts
to plan and manage their water and sanitation facilities.
66.   Project Financing. The IDA credit would finance training and water and
sanitation facilities for rural communities in the Ashanti, Brong Ahafo, Northern and
Western Regions, and for small towns in these regions plus the Upper East and Upper
West Regions. The Government of Canada would finance training and technical
assistance for the small towns component in the Northern, Upper East and Upper West
Regions as part of its continuing assistance program there. The total project cost
including contingencies would be $27.0 million. IDA credit of $21.96 million would
finance 84% of project costs excluding duties and taxes. The project costs and financing
plans are given in Annex B. Procurement arrangements and disbursements are shown in
Annex C. Key processing steps are in Annex D. The status of Bank Group operations is
given in Annex A6. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 12406-GH dated March 21, 1994 is
being distributed separately.
67.   Project Implementation. At the community level the project would be promoted
by District Assembly Representatives as well as NGOs/companies that have been
prequalified as "Partner Organizations" to provide planning assistance to communities.
The process of obtaining an improved water supply begins when a community, school or
health clinic submits a "Construction Grant Application" to its District Assembly through
the District's Water and Sanitation Team (2 or 3 person group of community development,
water and sanitation specialists). The District would review the application and pass
acceptable ones on to a GWSC Regional Water and Sanitation Team which would confinn
that the application is authentic and inform the community, school or health clinic through
the District WJater and Sanitation Team that it may choose one of the qualified Partner
Organizations to assist it to plan its water supply system. The Partner Organization would
first go through a mobilization phase to make sure that women and minority groups in the
community are involved in the planning process and advise the community on the skill
requirements of a Water and Sanitation Committee that would be responsible for
representing the community in planning and managing its water supply system. The
Partner Organization would then work with the community to prepare a Facilities and
Management Plan that includes a preliminary design and a description of how the system
would be managed including operations, maintenance, repairs, revenue collection, and
accounting. The Plan would be vetted by the District Water and Sanitation Team, passed
on to GWSC's Regional Water and Sanitation Team to check for conformity with



23
Construction Grant Guidelines, and retumed to the District Assembly for final approval.
Latrines would be constructed by local artisans, hand dug wells by local contractors,
boreholes by drilling companies and piped systems by general civil works contractors.
Handpumps would be installed by private distributors who would also establish spare parts
supply system. Follow-up operations, maintenance, and management training would be
provided by the Partner Organization. Hygiene education would be integrated into the
planning process from mobilization through the follow-up period.
68.   The sanitation component would be the responsibility of individual districts. Those
districts that form Water and Sanitation Teams and make a serious effort to implement the
sanitation component would be given priority when new districts are selected to
participate in the water supply component. With training assistance from GWSC's
Regional Water and Sanitation Teams, artisans would be selected and trained to promote
and construct household latrines. They would seek applications for construction grants
from individual households and submit these to the District Water and Sanitation Team.
Through a District Water and Sanitation Fund, a 25% advance payment would be made to
the contractor with the final 25% payment made upon completion of the works. The
project would reimburse the district for successful works.
69.   A community Water and Sanitation Division in GWSC, financially independent of
GWSC's urban operations and directly under its Managing Director, would be responsible
for overall project implementation. Its Regional Water and Sanitation Teams would
manage the project at the regional level providing training and technical assistance to
participating districts, facilitating private sector participation, and supervising the
Construction Grants Program including management of planning and construction
contracts. The Training Network Center at the University of Science and Technology
would refine the training materials and methods and train trainers in GWSC's CWSD and
District Assemblies in each region. Local and international specialists in participatc-v
training, training materials preparation, water engineering and financial management, plus
others as required would be made available to the project through an international firm.
Key individuals would visit for short periods from time to time to advise/train project
personnel and to assist with monitoring and evaluation.
70.   Lessons Learned. This would be the first IDA supported rural water supply
project in Ghana. The experience of other donors and the UNDP/World Bank Water and
Sanitation Program in Ghana and elsewhere in Africa has led to the introduction of
community-based planning and management; community contribution towards the capital
cost and fiull payment of normal operations, maintenance and repair costs; private sector
provision of planning support for communities as well as distribution, installation and
repair services for pumps; and capacity building within GWSC to implement new projects.
The ongoing Water Sector Rehabilitation Project includes institutional development,
rehabilitation and expansion of water supply systems. Good progress has been made in
certain areas, including the preparation of planning and detailed designs for the 33 town
water supply systems covered under the project; the successful retrenchment of 1,500
GWSC staff; the improved finances of GWSC due primarily to regular tariff increases



24
during the past few years; and the completion of plans to improve operations and
maintenance and financial management. Nevertheless, more needs to be done, including
the installation of essential equipment already purchased, improved billing and collection,
reduced unaccounted for water, greater decentralization and local accountability, as well
as greater involvement of the private sector. Initiatives to address each of these are
ongoing; but during negotiations, agreement was reached on a more comprehensive action
plan leading to the restructuring of the water supply sector. This action plan will
comprise: (a) appointment of a steering committee; (b) selection of consultants (to be
financed under a Japanese grant) to assess the feasibility of restructuring options; (c)
workshop to review consultant report and recommend options; (d) decision by the
Minister of Works and Housing to adopt a restructuring option; (e) preparation of a
detailed implementation plan; and (f) implementation of the detailed plan.
71.   Rationale for IDA Involvement. The Bank's past interventions in the water
supply sector have been limited to urban areas. Although there has been significant
bilateral involvement in rural water supply, these efforts have not been sufficient to meet
the needs nor have they been developed within a strategic context designed to yield
self-sustaining investment. The Bank's involvement at this time would support a more
rapid development of rural water supply, and would provide further opportunities to
improve overall sector management. The Government, with its new sector policy in place,
would thus be able to direct and coordinate external assistance more effectively. This
operation is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy being presented to the Board
at this time. In particular, it is targeted to the poor, builds capacity in the public sector,
and increases the role of the private sector in the economy. It will also enhance health and
the quality of life by providing improved water and sanitation facilities, and it will support
an increasing role for women as beneficiaries and managers of rural water supply.
72.   Agreed Actions. GWSC has (a) adopted the Policies and Guidelines and
Institutional Plan for a National Community Water and Sanitation Program; (b) upgraded
its Rural Water Supply Department to a Community Water and Sanitation Division
(CWSD) whose director reports directly to the Managing Director; (c) increased
employee salary and benefit packages to be sufficiently competitive with the private sector
to attract and keep qualified personnel; and (d) established offices, procured essential
equipment, made good progress in recruiting staff, and approved the Implementation
Manual for the proposed Community Water and Sanitation Project. In addition the
Government has (a) signed a letter of Sector Policy acceptable to IDA; (b) entered into a
Performance Contract with GWSC which separates its urban and rural water supply
functions; and (c) agreed on an action plan to restructure the overall water sector. During
negotiations it was agreed that (a) communities would own and manage their water and
sanitation facilities, paying part of the capital cost and all normal recurrent costs; (b)
private contractors and artisans would construct all water and sanitation facilities and
assist communities to operate and maintain them; (c) GWSC would carry out the project
in accordance with the implementation manual; and (d) annual and mid-term reviews
would be conducted at which time progress would be compared to monitoring indicators;
the effectiveness of communities, districts, GWSC and private sector in carrying out their



25
responsibilities would be assessed; and the workplan, budget and implementation manual
would be updated and (e) as conditions of effectiveness the Borrower would appoint
auditors and initially deposit Cedis 150 million into the project account, depositing the
remaining part of its counterpart contributions in each year of the project quarterly in
advance, in the amounts determined by the Borrower and the Association. It was also
agreed that the restructuring plan for the overall water sector would be implemented.
73.   Environmental Impact. The environmental category is B. The project would
have a positive environmental impact by improving sanitation a"d hygiene within
communities and small towns. Potential negative environmental impacts and the measures
that will be taken to minimize them are as follows: (a) Increased sullage water can result in
ponded water and muddy areas around water outlets and along community pathways, and
the creation of potential guinea worm reservoirs and mosquito breeding grounds.
Provision of soakaway pits at water outlets and user training regarding the proper
management of water point surrounds would safeguard against such problems and would
be provided by the project. In addition, community training would include the operation
and maintenarce of water outlets; (b) Contamination of drinking water resulting from
latrines and soakaways being constructed too close to water points can be prevented by
maintaining appropriate distances between latrines and wells and properly constructing
wells and well aprons. These would be stipulated in the Construction Grants Guidelines
and would be required to be addressed in Facilities and Management Plans; (c) Water
quality can be a problem in coastal areas with regard to possible salt water intrusion of
more permeable aquifers and in some localized areas where iron and manganese
concentrations are high. Water quality testing will be carried out for all water sources and
alternative sources or treatment provided as required; (d) Hydrogeological investigations
would be conducted for higher yielding wells as well as spring fed and surface water
supplies to ensure that well yields are sustainable and that extractions do not adversely
affect downstream users; and (e) The project does not involve dams or resettlement.
74.   Poverty and Program Objective Categories. The project will (i) provide basic
water and sanitation infrastructure in communities, schools and health clinics; (ii) improve
health and the environment by improving drinking water quality, personal hygiene and
excreta disposal; (iii) help develop the private sector by supporting it to provide goods and
services needed for planning, construction and maintaining water and sanitation facilities;
(iv) facilitate public sector development by strengthening GWSC and District Assemblies;
and (v) support women in development by ensuring that they have a leading role in the
planning and managing of their facilities. The project targets the rural poor and improves
the quality of their life by providing convenient good quality water and sanitary latrines
plus management training and hygiene education. In so doing the project improves health,
decreases the amount of time and effort women must spend collecting water, and increases
income generating opportunities and food security. The project requires communities
(water supply facilities) and households (latrines) to apply for a construction grant, and
builds capacity within the community to plan and manage their facilities, enabling them to
extend these skills to other development activities.



26
75.   Project Benefits. With Ghana's economic recovery well underway and with a new
administration in place, the Government's agenda has placed more emphasis on social
equity issues and the high incidence of absolute poverty. In Ghana, as in most developing
countries, the rural population is substantially less well served by social infrastructure,
including access to health services and water supply, than is the urban population.
Improved water supply, in conjunctioi: with sanitation and hygiene education, would result
in improved health conditions and time saved in fetching water. The project would also be
a major step towards sustainability of the water sector by moving towards community
management of rural and small town water supplies, private sector provision of related
goods and services, and capacity building. This in turn would reduce the long term costs
to government and strengthen GWSC by allowing it to focus on facilitating provision of
new systems and operating its larger urbani systems. Use of mixed technologies and
community management of operations and maintenance would reduce capital and
recurrent costs by about 30%, compared to projects based on a single technology and
centralized maintenance.
76.   Project Sustainability and Risks. The project entails risk in scaling up (where
each community must first prepare a facilities and management plan) and in sustaining
investments (where communities must manage the operations and maintenance of their
facilities after construction). However, the alternative is "top down" planning, and
centrally maintained systems that experience has shown cannot be sustained. To scale up
and ensure sustainability, the project has been specifically designed to respond to demand
at the district and community levels, and to build capacity in the private sector to plan,
construct and maintain water and sanitation facilities. Throughout the project particular
attention would be given to the training of partner organizations, hand dug well
contractors and handpump distributors, as well as district and regional water and
sanitation teams to carry out their support role. To expedite implementation, project
arrangements including establishment of several regional and district offices, procurement
of essential equipment, and recruitment and initial training of key project personnel would
be completed during the PPF period. And to reduce risks and ensure sustainability, the
IDA financed project has been based on the National Community Water and Sanitation
Strategy. In this way training methods/materials and lesson learning can be shared
between regional projects, and the critical mass needed for successful private sector
participation can better be achieved. If the project is not undertaken, it is likely that the
sector would remain constrained by inadequate financing and human resources, and
continued use of varied regional projects that employ differing implementation strategies.
77.   Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President



- 27 -
Annex Al
Page I of 2
Ghana-Selected Indicators of
Bank Portfolio Performance and Management
Indicator                                        FY91            FY92            FY93            FY 94
thu Qt. II
Portfolio Performance
Number of projects under implementation          38              38              40              36
Average implementation period (years)'            3.29            3.46            3.41            3.88
Average ratings
Development objectivesb                    1.32            1.58            1.57            1.56
Overall statusc                            1.58            1.95            1.92            1.97
Percent of projects rated 3 or 4
Development objectives'                    5.3           10.5             7.5             8.3
Overall statusc                           7.9            18.4            12.5            13.9
Canceled during FY                                0.0             0.0             0.0             0.0
Disbursement ratio (O/)d                         16.8            14.3            17.0             5.6'
Meemorandum item: % completed projects
mated unsatisfactoryf                                                     21.0
Portfolio Management
Supervision resources (total staff-weeks)       453.0           601.0           631.3           340.4
Average supervision (staff-weeks/projects)       11.9            15.8            15.8             9.5'
Supervision resources by location (in %/o)      100.0           100.0           100.0           100.0
Percent Headquarters                     100.0            88.0            76.0            75.5
Percent Resident Mission                                  12.0            24.0            24.5
Supervision resources by rating category
(staff-weeks/project)
Projects rated I or 2                     11.5            12.7            14.6             8.5'
Projects rated 3 or 4                     23.5            29.5            23.8            17.1'
Memorandum item: date of last/next CPPR                                           6/93            6/94
'Average age of projects in the Bankls country portfolio.
b Extent to which the project will meet its development objectives (see OD 13.05, Annex D2).
'Assessment of overall performance of the project based on the ratings given to individual aspects of project implementation (e.g.,
management, availability of funds, compliance with legal covenants) and to development objectives (see OD 13.05, Annex D2). The
overall status is not given a better rating than that given to project development objectives.
d Ratio of disbursements duing the year to the undisbursed balance of the Bank's portfolio at the beginning of the year investment
projects only.
fCumulative rating from OED database as of December 1992.
g Represents disbursement ratio or supervision staflveeks as of December 1993.



- 28 -
Annex Al
Page 2 of 2
Projects with Unsatisfactory Completion Rating
Summary of Causes
Sector             Summary Causes for Unsatisfactory Completion
Agriculture        Projects implemented prior to Economic Recovery Period (ERP)
when there was steady decline in infrastructure and in Ghana's economy,
thus leading to disincentives to raise production.
Finance            Projects implemented prior to ERP. The political, economic, and financial
turnoil at that time created an atmosphere of uncertainty which reduced
demand for investments, resulted in business closures and inability to
service debt which adversely affected the financial performance of
development finance credits.
Telecommunication  Project completed only two years after start of ERP. Due to difficult
implementation climate, and delays in project execution, real benefits from
physical targets expected seven-and-a-half years behind schedule. Inability
to retain experienced and qualified staff also contributed to overall
unsatisfactory rating.
Multi-Sector       Export Rehabilitation Projects, although implemented beginning with the
second year of the ERP, were not as satisfactory as they could have been.
In an effort to support quick disbursements, projects were not adequately
prepared especially in respect of components involving onlending for sub-
projects. There was also little involvement of beneficiary agencies in the
design of projects.



- 29 -
Annex A2
Page I of 2
Gharta-Bank Group Fact Sheet, FY91-FY97
IBRD/IDA Lending Program, FY91-97
Past                  Current      Lending  Planned FY95-
Category                        FY91       FY92        FY93       FY94        FY91-94   97programa
Commitments (US$m)              319.5       288.9      354.4        100.7       1163.5    480-780
Sector (%/O)
Agriculture               12.1       38.2         6.3         27.0        20.3        11.0
Industry and Finance       0.0       34.6        11.6         13.0        16.2        10.0
Energy                     0.0        0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0        0.0
Power                      0.0        0.0        22.6          0.0         6.9        12.0
Public Sector
Management                 4.7        0.0         0.0          0.0          1.3       16.0
Infrastructure and urban
development               30.0        19.0       21.5         38.2        24.4        27.0
Human resources           13.1        6.2        31.1          0.0         15.1       24.0
Environment                0.0        0.0         5.1         21.8         3.4        0.0
Mining and other
extractive                 0.0        0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0        0.0
Multisector               40.1        2.0         1.8          0.0         12.2        0.0
TOTAL                100.0       100.0      100.0        100.0        100.0      100.0
Lending instrument (%)
Adjustment Loansb         40.1       64.4         1.8          0.0        33.1       20.0
Specific investment loans
and others                59.9       35.6        98.2        100.0        66.9       80.0
TOTAL                 100.0      100.0      100.0        100.0        100.0      100.0
Disbursements (US$m)             231.7       188.9      206.4        213.3        840.3      218.0
Adjustment loans         154.7       108.7       99.1         85.0       447.5       56.0
Specific investment loans
and others                77.0       80.2       107.3        128.3        392.8      162.0
Interest (US$m)                   17.9        18.4       19.4         21.1         76.8       25.2
a Planned sectoral breakdown is based on upper range of FY95-97 lending program.
b StructUral adjustment loans, sector adjustment loans and debt and debt service adjustment loans.



- 30 -
Annex A2
Page 2 of 2
Ghana-IFC and MIGA Program, FY91-FY94
Past                                 Current
C-ttegory                                        FY91            FY92             FY93              FY94
IFC Approvals (US$m)                               9.5             19.0             60.1               0.6
Sector (%/0)
Agribusiness                                                 -                I
Capital Markets                            34                -               20
Chemical/fertilizers                        9                                 -
Infrastructure                             44                -                -
Manufacturing                                -               5               13               100
Oil/mining                                 13               95               66
TOTAL                               100.0            100.0            100.0             100.0
Investment instrument (%)
Loans                                      72               91               95               100
Equity                                    28                9                5
Quasi.equityb                               -_               -                -                 -,
TOTAL                                100.0            100.0            100.0             100.0
MIGA Guarantees (US$m)                               -                               9.9
MIGA Commitments (US$m)
3 Tourism project.
b Includes quasi-equit types of both loan and equity instruments.



- 31 -
Annex A3
Page Iof 2
Ghina: Priority Poverty Indicators
Moil      Same regiow incomegroup   Neu
recent       Sub-                    higher
2S-30       15-20      4s:mate      Saharan       Low-        incom
Indicator                   Unit of measure    'ears aso   Yan ago       (mr)        Afica       .ncome        group
POVERTY
Upper Povcrty line                            loal cuwr.              ..          ..      32,9g1
Hedount index                                %ofpop.                 ..          ..          36
Lowerpoverty line                             localcozy.              ..          ..       16,491
Headcount index                               % pop.                 ..                       7
GNP per capita                                   USS                230          280         400          350         350         1,610
SHORT TERM INCOME INDICATORS
Unskilled uban wages                          locaS curr.             ...                       .
Urskilled na-Al vwages
Rwal teams oftn.ade
Consuterpriceindex                            1987-100                 ..                    266
Lower income                                                         ..          ..          ..
Food                                                                             ..         256
Urban
Rural
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public Expenditure on basic social services   % ofODP                  ..          6           7
Gross enroilment ratios
Prinmy                                     % schoolagepop.           69           71          75           70          113         100
Male                                                                82           80          g2          76          122          106
Female                                                              57          62           67          60          106           98
Morality                                   thou live births
Infant morlity                                                     120          104          23         104           70           40
Under 5 mortality                                                                ..         131         177           92           53
Immunization                                 % age group
Measls                                                               ..          ..          67          40           73           70
DPT                                                                  ..          ..          45          35           81           74
Child Malnrition                                                      ..           _          36
Lifeetancy
Total                                          yeas                 47           51          55           51          63           67
Femalesmales                                   ratio               1.07        1.07        1.07         1.06        0.95         1.08
Total fertility rate                       bits per woman            6.8         6.6          6.2         6.4          3.7          3.5
Matemal mortality raue                     100.000 live births         ..         ..        1,000
Populatio growth rate                         Infant moralfty rate                          Primay   eu           t
6+.@                                       250            Qb  ofhba )                     1204(
5                              ~~~~~~~200                                      100
4                                                                                         so
150
3                                                                                         60
2                                                                                          40
1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~020
011                                           0                                             0
u4d6&        id70.       ane                 m460B    auiO.           an.                 taid6O      midft       amm
F-q.m



- 32-
Annex A3
Page 2 of 2
Ghana: Resources and Expenditures
Most      Same regionlincome group   Next
recent       Sub.                    higher
25-30       15-20       estimate    Saharan       Low.       income
Indicator                    Unit of measure     years ago    years ago     (mrle)      Africa      income       group
HU'MAN RESOU'RCES,
Population (mre=1981)                          thousands             7.830       9.835       15.336     4811,932    3,127.265    773.203
.Age depedenicy ratio                             ratio               0.94        0.93         0.98         0.97        0.66         0.71
Urban                                          % of pop.              26.1        29.8         33.0        28.7         40.1         53.9
Population growth                               annual %               1.8          2.2         3.1          3.0         1.9          1.7
Urban                                                                 4.0         2.7          3.1          5.0         5.2          3.1
Labor force (1S-64)                            thousands             3.259       3.813        5,867     203.947    1.448,104     302.448
Agriclture                                   % of labor force           6 1         57            .
Indusury                                                                1 5         17            .
Female                                                                 43           42           40"         37           33          32
Female per 100 males
Urban                                          number                  .            ..
Rural                                                                                                                      
NATURAL R.ESOUTRCES
Area                                          thou. sq. kmn           239          239          239      23.066       38.828       23,990
Density                                      pop. per sq. km          33.0        41.0         60.0         20.0        77.0         31.0
Agricultural land                            % of land area           32.8         34.4        33.6         51.0        47.4         41.8
Ch,mge ins agricultural land                    annual %              -.09         -0A4         OA           0.0         0.0          0.0
Agri -..:ia land under irrigation                  %0.0                             0.1         0.1          5.5        13.7         12.6
Fores= dnd woodland                           thou. sq. kmn            98           9 1          8 1       6.651       9,197        5,396
Deforestation (net)                             antnual %             -0.7         .0.8        .0.9
E  CINC I E
Household income
Share of top 20% of households               % of incotne              .            .44
Share of bottom 40% of households                                       .           .19
Share of bottom 20% of households                                       ..                       7
EXPENDITURE
Food                                           % of GDP                  ..       39.3         40.1
Stasples                                                               ...                      .5
Meat, fish, milk, eggs...                                                                     19.9
Cereal imports                              thou, metric tons           82          85          337        7.838      36,008       44,4 18
Food aid in cereals                                                     ..33                     73        2,677       6.669        4.047
Food production per capita                    1979-81=100              112         132           98          94          122          101
Fertilizer consumption                           kg%h                  0.0         9.0          4.0         14.5        47.5         94.2
Shire of agriculture in GDP                    % of GDP               43.5        47.7         53.1         29.2        28.7
tiousing                                       % of GDP                  ..8.4                  5.5
Average household size                    persons per household          .            ..
Urban
Fixed investment housing                       % of GDP                  .            .0.4
Fuel and power                                 %,*of GDP                 .            .2.2
Energy consumption per capita                kg of oil equiv.          76          187           68         100          350        1,249
Households with electricity
Urban                                      % of households             .            ..
Rural
Transport and Comniwncation                     of GDP                  ..2.4                  3.5
Fixced investment: wtrasport equipment              '..                             1.8         2.1
Total road length                              thou. km                  .            ..
INVESTMENT IN KNMAN CAPITAL
Hecalth
Access to health care                           % of pop.                .                     65.0
Population pe physician                         persons             13.737      12.900       22,970
Population per nurse                                                 3,730         693        1,669
Population per hospital bed                                             ..         800         685         1.328       1.048         509
Ac,eia to safe Awatr                          % of pop.                 ..       35.0         56.0        36.7         70.6
L rban                                                                 ..        86.0         93.0        74.3         79.3
Rural                                                                  ..        14.0         39.0        24.2         62.8
Oral rehydration therapy (under-5)             % of casem..                                      2 1         35           32
Education
Gross enirollment ratio
Secondasry                                 % of school-age pop.         13          37           39          18           44          56
Female                                                                 7           28          31           14          37 
Pupil-teacher ratio. primary                pupils per teacher         32           30           29          39           39          25
Psupil.teacher ratio- secondary                                        20           23           19           ..20
Pupils reaching grade 4                        % of cohort              ..82                      ..69
Repeater rate: primary                       % of total enroll          2..
Iliteracy                                  %of pop. (age l5~)            .           .40                     51           39
Female                                    %of femn. (age 15+)           .           .49                     62           52
Newspape circulation                             thou.p,               29           51            ..5
Source. World Bank Intemnational Economics Depatunent. April 1993



- 33 -
Annex A4
Page lof 2
Ghana-Key Economic Indicators
Actual                            Projected
1989   1990   1991   1992   1993      1994   1995   1996   1997
National Accounts (% GDP at
current market prices)
Gross Domestic Product          100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture                     49.0   47.9   48.6   48.6   47.3       46.9   45.9   44.9   43.9
Industry                        16.7   15.9   16.0   16.2   16.0       16.2   16.2   16.4   16.6
Services                        34.3   36.3   35.4   35.3   36.7       36.9   37.9   38.7   39.5
Consumption                      94.4   94.0   92.2   98.0  101.5       98.6   96.0   95.1   93.8
Gross Investment                 13.2   14.4   15.9   12.8   13.9       15.1   16.3   16.7   17.4
Private Investment               5.5    7.6    8.1    4.3    3.5        2.9    4.1    4.5    4.9
Government Investment            7.8    6.8    7.7    8.5   10.4       12.2   12.2   12.2   12.5
Exports GNFS-                    16.7   16.0   16.0   16.1   19.3       26.8   26.7   27.0   27.6
Imports GNFS                     24.3   24.4   24.1   26.9   34.7       40.4   39.0   38.8   38.8
Gross national savings            7.2    7.4    9.3    4.2    1.0        4.4    6.9    8.4    9.9
Gross domestic savings            5.6    6.0    7.8    2.0   -1.5        1.4    4.0    4.9    6.2
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product (million
US$ at current prices)          5249   6157   6866   6885   6057      5146   5561   6024   6514
Gross domestic product per capita
(US$)                            374    428    465    455    390       323    340    359    378
Public Finance (% of GDP at
current market prices)
Current revenues                 13.6   11.8   13.8   11.1   15.9       19.9   19.7   19.9   19.6
Current expenditures             10.5    9.8   10.2   12.4   15.5       15.3   15.0   14.3   13.5
Enlarged surplus (+) or deficit (.)b    -5.3   -5.2   -4.6  -11.2  -11.1  -8.3   -8.2   -7.3   -6.9
Narrow surplus (+) or deficit (.)C  0.7    0.3    1.8   -4.8   -3.0      1.3    0.8    1.7    2.0
Capital expenditure               7.8    6.8    7.7    8.9   10.4       12.2   12.2   12.2   12.5
Foreign financing                 6.4    6.6    6.6    6.4    9.5       10.1    9.6    8.5    7.9
Real annual growth rates (%)
Grossdomesticproduct              5.1    3.3    5.3    3.9    5.0        5.0    5.1    5.1    5.3
Gross domestic income             3.4    2.3    5.7    3.5    3.7        5.3    5.3    5.1    5.2
Real annual per capital growth rates
(/0)
Gross domestic product            2.5    0.7    2.7    1.3    2.4        2.4    2.5    2.5    2.7
Total consumption                -1.5    0.9    1.0    3.8    1.0        0.2    1.0    1.8    1.6
Private consumption              -1.8    1.8    0.3    1.2    0.8        1.1    2.0    2.5    2.2
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                             17     14     13     17      ..        ..
Growth of M2 (%)                   27     18    20      53      ..        ..
Change in Private Sector Credit  105.0  120.6   -2.8   24.2     ..        ..    ..
Change in Total Credit (%)_



- 34 -
Annex A4
Page 2of 2
Ghana-Key Economic Indicators
Actual                           Projected
1989   1990   1991   1992   1993       1994   1995   1996   1997
Balance of Payments (US$m)
Exports (GNFS)                    879    982   1098   1112   1171       1377   1484   1627   1795
Merchandise (fo.b.)               808    897    998    986   1020       1206   1298   1426   1579
Imports (GNFS)                   1277   1505   1653   1852   2103       2081   2167   2335   2528
Merchandise (c.i.f)              1087   1290   1412   1558   1770       1750   1857   2012   2191
Resource balance                 -399   -523   -554   -740   -932       -703   -684   -708   -733
Net current transfers             422    416    422    471    497        494    490    510    529
Current account balance (excluding    -314   -432   -454   -592   -781  -549   -518   -500   -491
official transfers)
Private direct investment
(including divestiture)            1S     15    20       22    112       138     66      95    120
MLT loans (net)
official                         203    294    357    387    369        488    400    368    382
Private                           -3    38       -1   -16       0         0    -13    -13      20
Other capital (including errors and
omissions)                         19      -7    47   -141      78      -119      5       1     -7
Changes in reservesd             -48    -22   -229    187    -23       -116    -70    -33    -21
Memorandum items
Exports (% of GDP)               16.7   16.0   16.0   16.1   19.3      26.8   26.7   27.0   27.6
Imports (% of GDP)              24.3   24.4   24.1   26.9   34.7        40.4   39.0   38.8   38.8
Resource balance (% of GDP)      -7.6   -8.5   -8.1  -10.8  -15.4      -13.7  -12.3  -11.8  -11.2
Real annual growth rates
(1987 prices)
Merchandise experts               11.7    5.7    7.1    0.2   11.7       10.7    4.3    6.1    7.1
Merchandise imports                1.4   -2.3    9.8    5.6   18.8       -2.8    5.1    4.8    5.5
Price indices (1987=100)
Export price index                 80     84      87     86     79        85     88      91     94
Import price index                 99    117    116    120    124        126    127    132    136
Terms of trade index               80     72      75     71     63        68     69      69     69
Real exchange rate                109    102    101   11    134         168    168    168    168
Consumer price index
(% growth rate)                  25.2   37.2   18.0   10.1   24.3        22.0   15.0   10.0   10.0
Real interest rates
(three month deposits)          -12.5  -17.5   14.3   10.7       ..        ..
GDP deflator (% growth rate)     28.3   38.8   20.4   12.5       ..        ..
aGNFS = goods and nonfactor services.
b Total revenues less expenditures.
IExcluding capital expenditures financed through extnal project aid and the conresponding loans and gants. Includes program grants
d Includes use of IMF resources.
Maximum end period interest rates less the end period CPI.



- 35 -
Annex AS
Ghana-Key Exposure Indicators
Actual                             Projected
1989   1990   1991   1992   1993       1994   1995   1996      1997
Total debt outstanding and disbursed  3296   3761   4209   4397   4928   5324   5644   5918      6151
(TDO) (US$m)l
Net Disbursements (US$m)          215    184    455    204    444        289    308    252       213
Total debt service (TDS) (US$m)a  518    364    314    283    442         371    354    388      417
Debt and debt service indicators
TDOIXGSb                        375.1  382.8  383.2  395.5  420.8       386.5  380.5  363.8    342.6
TDO/GDP                          62.8   61.1   61.3   63.9   81.4       103.5  101.5   98.2      94.4
TDS/XGS                          59.0   37.0   28,6   25.5   37.7        26.9   23.8   23.9      23.2
ConcessionaVTDO                  10.4    9.4    9.8    8.0   10.5        10.8    9.1    8.4       8.1
IBRD exposure indicators ()Yo
IBRD DS/public DS                 3.7    5.4    6.5    7.3    4.2         4.7    4.6    3.6       3.3
IBRD DSIXGS                       2.2    2.0    1.9    1.9    1.6         1.3    1.1    0.9       0.8
IBRD Portfolio Share              0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1         0.1    0.1    0.0       0.0
Preferred creditor DS/public DS    43.1   46.4   44.6   48.1   32.4       44.9   55.4   56.3       63.9
IMfF repurchases/public DS         33.7   31.0   24.0   22.5   15.4       21.6   27.4   30.2      38.8
IFC (US$m)G
LoanSd                           50.7   70.0   45.4   11.2  177.0         6.5    n.a    n.a      na
Equity and quasi-equity'          1.8    3.0    1.0    1.4    0.8        n.a    n.a    n.a       n.a
MIGAC
MIGA guarantess (US$m)            n.a    n.a    n.a    n.a    9.9        n.a    n.a    n.a       n.a
Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed debt, use of IMF credits, and short-term capital.
b XGS = exports of goods and services.
' Projections for IFC and MIGA are not applicable.
d Loans for IFC in 1994 reflect actuals as of Februauy 15, 1994.
Includes quasi-equity t). .s of both loan and equity instruments.



- 36 -
THE STATUS OF BANK CROIUP OPERATIONS IN CHANA                                          Annex A6
STATEMENT OF IBWRD LOANS AND IDA CREDITS                                         Pre I of 3
(As or February 28, 1994)
AmountinUSSMillion               LAst ARPP
(less cancelation)         Supervision Ralinge
Loaw or
Credit           Fiscal                                                                                        Development    Overtal
Number            Year       Borrower              Purpose               Bank           IDA       Undisbumsed    Objectives    Status
10 toans and 50 credits fully disbursed                                 189.72       1224.98
Of which SALs and Program Loans'
Cr. 1393           83       Ghana        Recori. Impotts                               40.00             0.00
F-0090            84       Ohana        Export Rehab.                                 35.89             0.00
Cr. 1435           84        Ghana       Export Rehab.                                 40.10             0.00
Ct. 1573           S5        Ghana       Recons. Import                                60.00             0.00
A40030            86        Ghana       Recons. Import                                26.97             0.00
Cr. 1672           86        Ghana       Industrial Sector Adjust                      28.50             0.00
A-0t30            86       Ghana        Industrial Sector Adjust                      25.00             0.00
Cr. 1744           87       Ghana        Education Sector Adjust                       34.50             0.00
Cr. 1777           87        Ghana       SACI                                           34.00            0.00
Cr. 1778           87        Ohana       Struc. Adjust Inst Support                     10.80            0.00
A-0250            S7        Ghana       SAC I                                         81.00             0.00
A-0251            88        Ghana       SAC I                                          15.00            0.00
Cr. 1911           88       Ghana        Financial Sector A4iust                       100.00            0.00
Cr. 1911-1         89       Ghana        Financial Sector Adjust                         6.60            0.00
Cr. 2005           89       Ghana        SAC 11                                        120.00            0.00
Cr. 2005-1         90        Ghana       SAC [I                                          5.70            0.00
Cr. 2005-2         91        Ghana       SAC 11                                          8.30            0.00
Cr.223642          91        Ghana       Private Invest Promotion                      120.00            0.00
Cr.2236-1          92        Ghana       Pnvate Invest Promotion                        6.10             0.00
Cr.2236-2          93       Ghana        Private Invest Promotion                       6.54             0.00
Sub-Total                                                                             805.00             0.00
Cr. 1498           84        Ghana       Second Oil Palm                               25.00             2.26             1           2
Cr. 1801           87       Ghana        Agricultural Svcs. Rehab.                      17.00            0.53             1           2
Cr. 1819           87       Ghana        Petroleum Ref. & Dist                          15.00            5.19             1           2
Cr. 1847           88        Ghana       Public Enterprise TA                           10.50            4.72             2           2
Cr. 1854           88       Ghana        Cocoa Rehabilitation                          40.00            30.55            3            3
Cr. 1858          S8        Ghana        Transport Rehabilitation I                    60.00            13.88            2            2
Cr. 1921           88       Ghana        Mining Sector Rehab.                          40.00            13.47            2            2
Cr. 1946           89       Ghana        Telecomunications 11                           19.00            4.95            2            2
Cr. 1976    '      89        Ghana       Forest Res. Management                        39.40            18.73            2            3
Cr. 1996           89       Ghana        Ptivate StlE Dev.                             30.00             9.72            2            2
Cr. 2039           89       Ghana        Water Sector Rehab.                           25.00            16.28            3            3
Cr. 2040           89       Ghana        Rural Finance                                 20.00             0.59            2            2
Cr. 2061           90       Ghana        Fifth Power (ECO)                             40.00            18.84             1           2
Cr. 2109           90       Ghana        VRA/Sixth Power                               20.00            16.86             1           2
Cr. 2140           90       Ghana        Education Sector Adjust n                     50.00            14.85            2            2
Cr. 2157           90       Ghana        Urban!!                                       70.00            54.18             1           2
Cr. 2180           91       Gt.ana       Agric. Divetsification                         16.50           15.13            3            3
Cr. 2192           91       Ghana        Transport Rehabilitation II                   96.00            72.65             1           2
Cr. 2193           91       Ghana        Health & Population II                        27.00            22.03            2            3
Cr 2224            91       Ghana        Econ. Management Support                      15.00            10.10            2            2
Cr 2247            91       Ghana        National Agric. Research                      22.00            19.52            2            2
Cr. 2278           91       Ghana        Community Secordazy Schls.                    14.70             3.14            2            2
Cr. 2318    *      92       Ghana        Financial Sector AdjustL I                   100.00            42.26             1           2
Cr. 2319           92       Ghana        National Feeder Roads                         55.Co            52.43             1           2
Cr. 2345    *      92       Ghana        Agricultural Sector Adj.                      80.00            49.48             1           1
Cr. 2346           92       Ghana        Nat Agric. Exten.                             30.40            27.94             1           1
Cr. 2349           92       Ghana        LiL & Func. Skills                            17.40            13.32            2            3
Cr. 2426           93       Ghana        Environimental Resource MigL                  18.10            16.15            2            2
Cr. 242S           93       Ghana        Tertiary Education                            45.00            40.17            2            2
Cr. 2441           93       Ghana        National Livestock Sevicea                    22.45            20.01             1           2
Cr.2467     b      93       Ghana        National Electrfication                       80.00            76.73            1            2
Cr.2498     b      93       Ghana        Urban Transport                               76.20            76.45             1           1
Cr.2502            93       Ghana        Enterprise Developmnent                       41.00            41.14             1           1
Cr.250S            93       Ghana        Primary School Development                    65.10            65.19
Cr 2345-1          94       Ghana        Agricultural Sctor Inves.                      5.74             5.74
Cr.2555     b      94       Ghana        Agricultual Sector Invest.                    21.50            21.27             1           2
C2568-0            94       Ghana        Local Govemrnent Dev.                         38.50            38.50
TOTAL                                                   189.72       2633.47          954.95
ofwhichhas been repaid                                  135.11        20.93
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                           54.61       2612.54
Amnount sold            0.38
orwhIch repaid          0.38
TOTAL undhsbursed                                                                      954.95
a Approved dunrin or after FY8O.
b Not yet effoctua
c Based on a I to 4 tang in which I is the bed ud 4 the worst
* SAIJSFCAL or quick d sbuw component



- 37 -
Annex AC
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENIS IN GIIANA                         Page 2 of 3
(As of February 28, 1994)
Original Gross Commitments
Fiscal                                                          Amount in US$ million
Year        Obliftor                  Business                Loan    Elquity       Total
1984   Ashanti Goldfields Corp.     Mining                   55.0         -        55,0 1
1986   Keta Basin Oil Exploration   Oil                        -        4.5         4.5 V
1988   Canadian Bogosu Resources    Mining                     -        0.6         0.6
1989   Canadian Bogosu Resources II  Mining                    -        0.4         0.4
1989   Continental Acceptances Ltd.  Mcrchant Banking          -        0.9         0.9
1989   Wahome Steel Ltd.            Steel Mfg.                3.2         -         3.2
1989   Canadian Bogosu Resources III Mining                  47.5       0.5        48.0 31
1990   Ashanti Goldfields Corp. II  Mining                   70.0         -        70.0 4/
1990   Iduapriem                    Mining                      -       3.0         3.0
1991   Alugan (AEF)                 Aluminum                  0.3         -         03
1991   Plastic Laminates (AEF)      Plastics                  0.6         -         0.6
1991   Hotel Investments (Ghana) Ltd. Tourism                 4.2         -         4.2
1991   Dimples Inn (AEF)            Tourism                   0.2         -         0.2
1991   Canadian Bogosu Resources IV  Mining                   0.8       0.4         1.2
1991   Continental Acceptances II   Merchant Banking          3.0       0.0         3.0
1991   Ghanal                       Aluminium                  -        0.4         0.4
1991   Securities Discount House    Discount House              -       0.2         0.2
1991   Appiah-Menkah (AEF)          Soap Mfg.                 0.9         -         0.9
1991   Iduapriem II                 Mining                   36.5         -        36.5 si
1991   Packrite (AEF)               Cardboard Mfg.            0.6         -         0.6
1992   Hotel Investments (swap)     Tourism                   1.3         -         1.3
1992   Ashanti Goldfields (swap)    Mining                    6.4         -         6.4
1992   Achimota Brewery             Beer Mfg.                 3.5        1.0        4.5
1993   Wahome Steel I & II          Steel Mfg.                4.2       0.4         4.6
1993   Ecobank                      Merchant Bank             6.0       0.0         6.0
1993   Polytex (AEF)                Plastic Bags              0.4         -         0.4
1993   BMK-Primewood (AEF)          Particle Board            1.0         -         1.0
1993   Combined Farms (AEF)         Agribusiness              0.4         -         0.4
1993   Ashanti Goldfields (AMEP)    Mining                  165.0         -       165.0 6/
1993   Ghana Leasing                Capital Markets           5.0       0.8         5.8
1994   GHUMCO (AEF)                 Manufacturing             0.5         -         0.5
Total Gross Commitment                                          416.0       13.1      429.1
Less repayments, cancellations, and write-offs                  265.9        4.4      2703
Net Commitments Held by IFC                                     150.1       8.7       158.8
Total Undisbursed                                                28.6        1.5       30.1
Investments approved but unsigned as of Februaary 28, 1994
1993 Afariwa Farns                  Agriculture               0.4         -         0.4
1993 Kasoa Farms                    Agriculture               1.0         -         1.0
1993 Pharmplast                     Plastic Containers        0.2         -         0.2
1.6        -         1.6
V Includes a USS27.5 million participation.
2/ Amount fully written off.
3/ Includes a US$29.0 million participation.
4/Includes a US$35.0 million participation.
S/ Includes a US$30.0 million participation.
6/ Includes a USSI 10.0 million participation.



- 38 -
Annex A6
Page 3 of 3
GHANA - IMPLEMENTATION ISSUES
Ghana's overall project implementation performance continues to compare favorably with other
countries in the Region. An increased focus on implementation, complemented with actions to address
generic as well as project specific issues, resulted in disbursements increasing by over 30 percent in FY93
on investment lending. A Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) neld in June 1993 addressed
amongst others the issue of counterpart funds, lack of which is now beginning to have a serious impact on
our projects. Key actions taken following the CPPR include setting up of a task force to examine the
mechanism needed for centrally administering pooled project accounts instead of maintaining separate
project accounts, which has resulted in funds being tied up in some ministries even as other ministries
lacked funds. Implementation is expected to follow once the details of the new mechanism have been
agreed and approved. The other main focus at the CPPR was to examine ways to improve procurement
processing. A simplification of procurement procedures was also agreed; the number of steps for review
and approval have been reduced. To improve portfolio performance, the Resident Mission's supervision
capacity has been strengthened, and its portfolio monitoring activities have increased. Intensive
supervision and mid-term reviews are being used to redesign slow-moving projects. Total disbursements
as of end-February 1994 amount to $112.2 million, of which $68.4 million or about 61% represent
investnent lending. The five projects rated 3 in the FY93 Annual Review of Portfolio Performance, have
been reduced to four since the upgrading of the Agricultural Diversification Project in March 1994. Based
on implementation of agreed action plans, most of the remaining projects listed below are expected to be
upgraded before the end of FY94, except for the Literacy and Functional Skills Project which was recently
given a 3 rating.
Cocoa Rehabilitation (FY88). To address the administrative problems that had led to slow
implementation, project administration has been tightened, clear working relationships between
implementing agencies have been established, and mechanisms have been put in place to monitor
progress. IDA funds have been reallocated on the basis of the mid-term review. Problems causing delays
in implementing the roads component have been resolved, following a revision of the entire roads
component; all contracts have been awarded and construction has begun. Agreements have also been
reached with the Government on the extension program and related studies under the project. The project
is being reviewed for upgrading of ratings.
Forestry Resources Management (FY89). Project management and disbursement have improved
considerably during FY92 and FY93. The Govemment has agreed on a policy action plan, and its
implementation should lead to the release of the second tranche of the quick disbursing component
(US$7.5 million).
Water Sector Rehabilitation (FY90). An action plan has recently been agreed with the
Government to address project management, water tariffs and the execution of the debt/capital
restructuring agreement. After long delays, physical implementation of the project is now underway and
disbursements are expected to pick up as the rehabilitation process begins. Preparation of hydrological
and planning studies is complete for all 33 towns included in the project and detailed designs for 24 of
them are complete. In addition Project Management consultants have prepared an operations and
maintenance program currently being implemented in two pilot regions.
Health and Population II (FY91). Implementation of the action plan, agreed earlier, is
proceeding well. A joint mid-term review is scheduled for April 1994.
Literacy and Functional Skills Proiect (FY92). Problem areas under this project center around
weak project management and insufficient attention to the core project activities as well as weak financial
management. A Mid-Term Review is scheduled for mid-April 1994 to discuss and agree on an action
program to improve implementation.



- 39 -
Annex B
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANfTATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTAND FINANCING PLAN
Estimated Project Cost
Local    Foreign      Total
Component                           (US$ million)
Rural Water and Sanitation                    3.03        4.91       7.94
Small Towns Water and Sanitation              3.74        5.13       8.87
Capacity Building for Public and Private Sector  2.80     3.16       5.96
PPF                                            0.19       0.36       0.55
BASE COST                               9.76       13.56      23.32
Physical Contingencies                        0.55        0.72       1.27
Price Contingencies                            1.28       1.13       2.41
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     11.59       15.41      27.00
Financing Plan
Local   Foreign       Total
Sources of Funds                            (IJS$ milion)
Govemment of Ghana                            2.46       0.00       2.46
Communities                                   0.90       0.00       0.90
Government of Canada                          0.62       1.06       1.68
IDA                                           7.61      14.35      21.96
TOTAL SOURCES                          11.59     15.41      27.00
Note: Of the total amount US$0.94 million equivalent is for duties and taxes.



- 40 -
Annex C
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
PROCUREmENTARA4NGEMEN7SAND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Project Component            ICB       LCB       Other   TOTAL
Civil Works                      5.87       8.04       0.65      14.57
(5.52)    (7.00)     (0.36)    (12.87)
Equipment and Materials          0.91       2.51       0.20       3.62
(0.91)    (2.30)     (0.20)     (3.41)
Training & Consultant            0.00       0.00       6.10       6.10
Services                                             (4.16)     (4.16)
Operating Costs                  0.00       0.00       2.16       2.16
(0.97)     (0.97)
PPF                              0.00       0.00       0.55       0.55
(0.55)    (0.55)
TOTAL PROJECT               6.7      10.55      9.66      27.00
(6.4)    (930)      (6.24)    (21.96)



- 41 -
Annex C
Page 2 of 2
B. Disbursements by Category
Amount of
Credit Allocated
Category        (US$ million)        % of Expenditures to be Financed
Civil Works              12.42               100% foreign and 75% local
Equipment                 3.18               100% foreign and 75% local
Training & Consultants    3.87               100% foreign and 90% local
Operating Costs           0.97         75% until June 30, 1997 and 25% thereafter
PPF                       0.55
Unallocated               0.97
TOTAL              21.96
C. Estimated IDA Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
Annual         2.62   3.72   5.25   5.93   3.22   1.22
Cumulative     2.62   6.34  11.59  17.52  20.74  21.96



- 42 -
Annex D
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
TIMETABLE OFKEYPROJ.ECTPROCESSINGEvENh
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:    1 /2 years
(b)  Prepared by:                      Government with IDA assistance
(c)  First IDA Mission:                June 1992
(d)  Appraisal Mission':               June 1993
(e)  Date of Negotiations:             January 1994
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:    July 1994
..g)  Relevant PPARIPCR:               Water Supply and Sewerage Project (PPAR No.
1683)
Second Water Supply Project (PCR No. 4600)
1/ R. Roche (IMission Leader), E. Warner and M. Makanda (Financial Analysts), A. Brown
(Rural Water and Sanitation Specialist), G. Ewool (Infrastructure Engineer), P. Hawkins
(Institutional Specialist), and W. Van den Wall Bake (Rural Infrastructure Specialist).



