Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
cu-hS  .XA->r,'/---L71
Report No. 12406-Gl
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GHANA
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
MARCH 21, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12406 GH
Type: SAR
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department IV
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Cedis (C)
US$1          = 0835
1l            =  US$0.00120
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB        African Development Bank
Cfl)        Caicse Francaise de Developpement
CIDA        Canadian International Developpement Agency
CWS         Community water and sanitation
CWSD        Community Water and Sanitation Division
CWSP        Community Water and Sanitation Project
DA          District Assembly
DCD         Department of Community Development
DWST        District Water and Sanitation Team
ESA         External support agency
GOG         Government of Ghana
GTZ         Gesellschaft fuir Technisc!le Zusamrnenarbeit
GWSC        Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
HDW         Hand dug well
HE          Hygiene education
HP          Handpump
IAPSO       Inter-Agency Procurement Service Office
. 3      International Competitive Bidding
KfW         Kreditanstalt fur W-ederaufbau
KVIP        Kumasi ventilated improved pit
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
MFEP        Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MLG         Ministry of Local Government and Rutal Development
MOH         Ministry of Health
MWH         Ministry of Works and Housing
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
NORRIP    Northern Regional Rural Integrated Program
PAMSCAD  Program of Assistance to Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment
PO          Partner Organization
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
PTA         Parents and Teachers Association
RWS         Rural water supply
RWST        Regional Water and Sanitation Team
SA          Special Account
SBDU        Small Business Development Unit
SIP         Sector Investment Program
SOE         Statement of Expenditures
TNC         Training Network Center for Water and Waste Management
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
UNICEF    United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
UST         University of Science and Technology, Kumasi
VV          Village Volunteer
WATSAN   Water and Sanitation Committees
WHO         World Health Organization
WS RP       Water Sector Rehabilitation Project
WUA         Water User Association
WUG         Water User Group
WVI         World Vision International
FISCAL YEAR
January - December



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
I. THE SECTOR                             ...1............... 
A.  Country Background .................                                                    1
B.   Sector Organization ...................                                                3
C.      Sector Issues ...............                  ......................    7
D.      Service Coverage and Past Projects ........                   .........   11
E.      Lessons Learned in Past Water and Sanitation Projects ....             ........  12
F.      Bank/WDA Lending Experience ...........................   13
II. GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION   ...............                                  ...   14
A.      Responsibilities  ....................................   14
B.      Organization  ..........               ............................   14
C.      Management and Staffing  ............................    15
D.      Financial Perfonmance  ................................   16
E.      Condition of Facilities  ................................   19
F.      Operations and Maintenance  ............................   19
m. NATIONAL COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION STRATEGY ....... 20
A.      Objectives ........................................  20
B.      Overall Development Strategy  ...........................  20
C.      Definitions  ...........              ............................   21
D.      Sector Organizaton ..................................   21
E.      Sector Policies .........              ............................   24
F.      Sector Investment Plan ................................   26
Iv. THE PROJECT . ........................................... 27
A.      Objectives ........................................  27
B.      Preparation  ...........              ............................   27
C.      Project Description  ..................................   28
D.  Costs ......................... 33
E.  Financing .................  33
F.   Implementation Plan .................  34
G.      Implementation Cycle in Rural Communities and Small Towns ....               ...  38
H.      Environmental Aspects .........                .......................   41
I.   Procurement . ...................................... 41
J.      Disbursements  .                                .                                 45
K.      Accounting, Audit and Reporting ........               .....................  47
L.      Reporting and Supervision ..............................   47
M.      Monitoring and Evaluation  .............................   48
This rport is based on the fidings of World Bank peappraisal and appraisd missions that
visited Ghana in June 1992 and June 1993 respectively. These missions comprsed of
Messrs./Mmes. Robert Roche (Mission Leader), Eleanor Warner and Mark Makanda
(Financial Analysts), Ato Brown (Rural Water and Sanitation Specialist), Godfrey Ewool
(Infrastructure Engineer), Peter Hawkins (Institutional Specialist), and W. Van den Wall Bake
(Rural Infrastructure Specialist). Peer reviewers were Messrs. Richard Verspyck (AFlIN) and
Alain Locussol (EA31N). Ms. Eliabeth Novatny provided production support. Mr. James
Wright is the Division Chief and Mr. Edwin Lim the Director.
This document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
offlcial duties. Its contents may not othewise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ............              ...............  49
A.    Social Inpact .......................................  49
B.    Economic Evaluation .................................  49
C.    Risks ....                                                           51
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMiENDATION .................... .                         51
A.    Agreements with GOG and GWSC  ..........          ..............  51
B.  Recommendation ...............                                         52
Annexes
1-1    The Sector Investment Plan
1-2   Institutional Plan
1-3    Letter of Sector Policy
1-4    Action Plan for Water Sector Restructuring
2-1    Project Costs
2-2   Implementation Schedule
2-3    Procurement Arrangements
2-4    Disbursemnents
2-5    Monitoring and Evaluation
2-6    Supervision Plan
3-1    Hygiene Education
3-2    Sanitation
3-3    Schools Program
3-4    Private Sector Participation
3-5    Training Program
3-6    Technology Choice



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AN) PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Ghana
Beneficiaries:       Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation (GWSC), Participating District
Assemblies, and Participating conmnunities and households
Implementing Agency: Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
Poverty Category:    Program of Targeted Interventions
Credit Amount:       SDR 15.9 million (US$21.96 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard with 40 years maturity.
Onlending Terms:    Proceeds of the credit would be passed on by Government in grant form to
the Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation.
Project Objectives
and Description:     The main objective of the project is the full-scale demonstration of the
proposed National Community Water and Sanitation Strategy. In so doing, it
would help achieve the objectives of the National CWS Program - that is to
(a) provide basic water and sanitation services to commurities that would
contribute towards the capital cost and pay the normal operations,
maintenance and repair costs of their facilities; (b) ensure sustainability of
these facilities through, community management, private sector provision of
goods and services, and public sector promotion and support; and (c)
maximize health benefits by integrating water, sanitation and hygiene
education interventions. There are three main components: (i) provision of
water and sanitation facilities to rural communities; (ii) provision of water
and sanitation facilities to small towns on a pilot basis; and (iii) capacity
building for public and private sector. In all some 1,000 water points and 30
small town water supplies would be provided.
Project Benefits
and Risks:           The project would help address social equity issues and the high
incidence of absolute poverty in Ghana, providing improved water supplies in
conjunction with sanitation and hygiene education which would result in
improved health conditions and time saved in fetching water. The project
would also be a major step towards sustainability of the water sector by
moving towards community management of rural and small town water
supplies and private sector provision of related goods and services. This in
turn would strengthen GWSC by separating rural and urban activities and
allowing each division to focus on their areas of specialty. The project
entails risk in trying to scale up investment based on community management
of water supply and sanitation services. This risk involves the ability of
GWSC's new Community Water and Sanitation Division to build capacity
and the communities' ability to maintain their facilities. To reduce the risk,
project preparation has included start-up of the project in one region. Also,
use of a single implementation strategy in all regions would allow common
training materials to be used and lesson learning between regional projects.
If the project is not undertaken, future development of the sector would
remain constrained by inadequate financing and human resources, and
continued use of varied implementation strategies that result in water supply
systems that are not sustainable.



ii
Estimate Project Costs and Finandng Plan:
A. Estimated Project Cost
Local     Foreign      Total
Component                                     (US$ million)
Rural Water and Sanitation                      3.03        4.91       7.94
Small Towns Water and Sanitation                3.74        5.13       8.87
Capacity Building for Public and Private Sector  2.80       3.16        5.96
PPF                                             0.19        0.36       0.55
BASE COST                                9.76       13.56       23.32
Physical Coitingencies                          0.55        0.72        1.27
Price Contingencies                             1.28        1.13       2.41
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       11.59      15.41       27.00
B. Fiacing Plan
Local    Foreign       Total
Sources uf Funds                  (US$ million)
Government of Ghana                 2.46       0.00       2.46
Communities                         0.90       0.00       0.90
Govemment of Canada                 0.62       1.06        1.68
IDA                                 7.61      14.35      21.96
TOTAL SOURCES               11.59       15.41      27.00
Note: Of the total amount US$0.94 million equivalent is for duties and taxes.
Estimated IDA Disbursment Schediue
(US$ mllon)
FY        1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Annual         2.62   3.72   5.25   5.93   3.22   1.22
Cumulative     2.62   6.34  11.59  17.52  20.74  21.96
Econoinic Rate of Retum:    N/A



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNIT WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
I. TE SECTOR
A.    COUNTRY BACKGROUND
POPUIA77ON
1.1   The total population of Ghana is estimated to be 15 million, 10 million of whom  live
in rural communities of less than 5,000 people. Ninety percent of this rural population live in
about 15,000 communities with populations between 100 and 5,000; the remainder in some
40,000 smaller settlements. Between 1970 and 1984, the date of the last national census, the
popuiation growth rate in rural areas was about 2.2%; continuation at that rate would result in
a rural population of about 11.6 million in year 2000. The rural population is concentrated
along the coast, between Accra and Kumasi, and in the Upper East Region. The Northern
Region and northern half of Brong-Ahafo Region are the least populated areas.
RURAL ECONOMY
1.2   Economic activities in the rural areas are based on agriculture and livestock, with
cocoa production being the most important source of income. Traders, manufacturers and
craftsmen are part of the rural economy, as are such services as repair workshops, but they
account for a small share of total income. The poorest groups of the population are
concentrated in small communities and the savannah regions in the north of the country.
While half the total population lives in conmnunities with less than 1,500 people, two-thirds of
the poorest Ghanaians live in such communities. The concentration of poor people in the
savannah areas is even more marked, with 60% of the extremely poor found there. Poverty
displays important seasonal variations with a lean period prior to harvest, particularly in the
savannah zone, which has only one cropping season and a prolonged dry period. In some
areas shortages of food and cash occur just before harvest time.
DECENTRALATION
1.3   The Governments's decentralization program is designed to make local governments
more autonomous, more responsive to local needs and technically and financially capable of
providing services. The program is intended to end dependency on central Government and
"top down" planning. This is being achieved by giving the country's 110 district assemblies
primary responsibility for planning and adwrinistering their own development programs,
including collecting taxes. With the recent creation of 45 new districts, most are understaffed
and have minimal facilities. In this decentralized approach individual communities are
expected to take the lead in planning and implementing development projects based on their
particular needs, to pay part of the capital costs and all of the recurrent costs. They are to
receive support from district staff who in tum are supported by line ministries.
1.4    Conummnity organization is an integral part of the tradition and culture of Ghana. The
descending chain of authority and responsibility from the chief and elders to the people
constitutes the basic social structure of a comnmunity. Religious groups and various
organizations also provide channels for community action. Women have always had a
significant economic role in Ghana in cash crop production, processing and transportation.



2
Increasingly women have assumed responsibility for all aspects of water projects, including
payments of handpump tariffs to Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation (GWSC), and
maintenance of pumps where community management has been introduced. This reflects the
fact that not only are the lives of women more adversely affected by inadequate water
supplies, they are less likely than men to migrate and thus can provide more continuity to the
management of the water source. There is also an increasing number of female-headed
households, particularly where matrilineal customs prevail. About one household in three is
female-headed in the south, comnpared to about one in fourteen in the north.
HE4LTH
1.5    Health conditions are poor but improving, this is reflected in the infant mortality rate
falling from 120 to 90 per 1000 births between 1965 and 1988. In comparison, the infant
mortality rate in 1988 was 110 in West Africa, 50 in middle income countries and 10 in high
income countries. In Ghana the rate is about 25% higher in rural areas than in urban areas.
This mortality rate is in large measure attributable to child health care practices and is
associated with poor quality drinking water and inadequate sanitation facilities. Related
diseases include diarrhea, dysentery, typhoid, cholera, schistosomiasis, and guinea worm.
Dehydration caused by infant diarrhea is the main zause of death and could largely be avoided
by simple methods of oral rehydration. Mortality rates could also be lowered by broader
immunization coverage of children. Guinea worm is also prevalent in parts of the country,
particularly in the Northern Region a..d the lower Volta Region where about 5 % of the
population is infected. Only about 45% of communities in rural areas have ready access to
health facilities. While community health workers and medical assistants are available at the
district level, their ability to serve the rural population effectively is restricted by lack of
funds for allowances and transport.
WATER REJsouRcEs
1.6   The climnate of Ghana is tropical, with a wide variation of rainfall, that is heavily
influenced by the southwest monsoon. The mean rainfall varies from 2000 mm in the west
coastal area, te about 850 mrn in the east coastal area (Accra) and 1000 mm in the north.
The Volta Lake stretches some 300 km through the center of the country. The Volta River,
which has a total catchment area of 165,700 km2 within the country, drains the entire north,
center and east of the country. The remaining rivers, all in the south and southwest, drain
about one third of the country, but because of the high rainfall there, they account for more
than 50% of Ghana's internal run off. In the north, major rivers such as the Black and White
Volta and their main tributaries are perennial; the other rivers go dry during the dry season.
In the South, major rivers like the Pra, Offin and Ankobra flow throughout the year. Surface
water must be treated to meet WHO water quality guidelines for coliform and turbidity.
1.7    Most of the water for urban areas is supplied from rivers at dams and diversion
structures. Surface water resources would be sufficient to serve all identified urban needs for
the foreseeable future through a program of development and conservation, although new
impoundments and conveyance to some urban areas would be expensive. In rural areas
groundwater is the best option as it is usually available in sufficient quantities for household
uses within the community, is more reliable throughout the year and in periods of drought,
and does not require treatment.



3
1.8    Most of Ghana is underlain by crystalline and strongiy cemented sedimentary rocks
which have low primary porosity and permeability. Groundwater in small but exploitable
quantities is found in C-ie near surface secondary features such as joints, fractures and the zone
of weathering. Groundwater has always accounted for a significant portion of potable water
supplies in rural communities, particularly from shallow dug wells and springs. Some
groundwater can be found almost everywhere with static water levels generally less than lOin,
except in the western parts of the Northern and Brong-Ahafo Regions where they are more
often between 10 m and 20 m. In a few locations static water levels exceed 20 m. The
quality of groundwater is generally good except for the presence of iron and manganese in
some locations. Saline water is found in some areas along the coast and in the Upper Volta
Region, where chloride contents as high as 1,500 milligrams per liter have been encountered.
RrmAL VERSUS UR&AN WAThR SUPPLY
1.9   In Ghana, rural communities are generally considered to be those whose populations
are under 5,000, and urban is everything larger. There is a growing consensus among water
sector professionals that it is better to think in termns of community and utility managed
systems rather than rural and urban systems, with larger systems managed on a commercial
basis by GWSC and smaller systems managed by the communities themselves. The
community managed approach is a return to the management system employed in small towns
in Ghana before the Water Supply Division of the Public Works Department (GWSC's
predecessor) established in 1958. The move to community management of rural and small
town water supply systems would benefit both GWSC by allowing GWSC to focus on tht,
largest 50 to 75 systems in the country where utility-based operations are financially viable,
and would benefit communities by allowing the beneficiaries to manage their own systems.
B.    SECTOR t GANIZATION
MINIsTRY OF Wow AND HOUSiNG
1.10   The Ministry of Works and Housing (MWH) has primary responsibility for urban
development, sets urban and housing policy, and oversees the activities of various parastatal
agencies. Among these is GWSC, which was established in 1965 and is responsible for urban
and rural water supply as well as for piped sewerage. Its functions include sector planning
and policy formulation, external support agency and NGO coordination, construction and
operation and maintenance. In addition to the systems serving the four metropolitan areas,
GWSC operates some 200 other smaller systems which mainly serve urban areas, and for the
maintenance of about 7,500 drilled wells fitted with hand pumps that serve rural communities.
GWSC currently has a staff of over 4,000, about 150 of whom are involved in rural water
supply. More information about GWSC is provided in Section II.
MINISTRY OF LOcAL GOVERNMENT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
1.11   The Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (MLG) is responsible for
administering Ghana's decentralization program. As such it is responsible for developing
policies and legislation with respect to district assemblies (DAs) and assisting, supervising,
monitoring and auditing DAs as well as allocating financial transfers to them from Central
Government. DAs were created under PNDC Law No. 207 and are mandated to "plan,
initiate, coordinate, manage, and execute policies in respect of all matters affecting the people
within their areas with a view to ultimately achieving localization of those activities",



4
including rural water supply and sanitation  DAs have the ability to pass legislation, award
contracts, loan or borrow funds, and levy taxes. They are thus the key legislative and
administrative bodies havini hoth legal and executive authority over all development activities
in their area.
1.12   The Department of Cozera.unity Development (DCD) primarily provides technical
advice and assistance to minor self-help construction projects in rural communities, often
through support to the projects of other agencies. The DCD is the only govermnent agency
with staff below the district level, although the majority live in and work out of the district
centers. It has traditionally provided government financed infrastructure to rural
communities; cost recovery has not been given much consideration and it has made little use
of the private sector. The DCD suffers from a chronic shortage of trained technical officers,
inadequate transport and insufficient budget. This is due to the low government budgetary
input it receives and inadequate allowance for community support services made by other
agencies for their projects.
MINISTRY OF HEALT
1.13   The Ministry of Health (MOH) has three divisions that are involved in water and
sanitation: Environmental Health Services, Health Education Services and Epidemiology.
Owing to the scarcitv of public health engineers, all sanitary engineering and planning has for
miany years been centralized at its headquarters in Accra. The Environmental Health Services
Division assists local authorities with organization and operation of refuse and night-soil
collection and disposal and enforcement of public health regulations in homes, restaureats,
markets and other public places. The Division is also involved in a number of water supply
and sanitation projects and the Global 2000 campaign towards the eradication of guinea worm.
While it does not execute sanitation projects, its health inspectors are trained in saitation e
the MOH Schools of Hygiene before being posted to DAs. Emphasis is being shifted from
enforcement activities to the promotion of better sanitation practices. The Health Education
Division is responsible for the development of public health education programs, aimed at
improving public knowledge and understanding of the causes of diseases to help bring about
changes in attitudes and behavior with the objective of reducing illness. The Epidemiology
Division is involved in the planning, execution and evaluation of control measures against
communicable diseases of major public health importance e.g. malaria, measles, yaws,
bilharzia and guinea worm. Regionally based staff organize periodic health education and
immunization campaigns at community centers. These programs are not very effective due to
financial, personnel and transport constraints.
NGOs
1.14   There are about 30 NGOs involved in water supply in all regions of the country.
NGOs tend to work on a regional basis, although a few concentrate at the district level. The
most active are WaterAid through local NGOs, the Catholic Church, and World Vision
International. Recently NGOs have constructed more than 500 boreholes each year and a
smaller number of hand dug wells. This represents a sizable implementation capacity;
comparable to the bilaterally supported GWSC program.
1.15   The National Catholic Secretariat has had a long tradition of aiding parish
communities solve water problems. Its most noteworthy recent interventions have been the
Wenchi Village Water Project in the Brong-Ahafo Region and the Bole Parish Water Project



5
in the Northern Region. The former was initially managed by an expatriate missionary and
still has a team of local staff equippad with a drilling rig, vehicles and workshop facilities.
During the past five years about 1,000 boreholes equipped with India Mark II handpumps
have been installed by the Catholic Church. Apart from the Wenchi Parish, most dioceses
employ a drilling contractor and occasicnally call on GWSC's drilling unit. The approach
adopted by the projects in Wenchi and Bole begins with dialogue with communities, during
which the obligation of both parties are explained, an agreement reached and formally signed.
A contribution of C60,000 (US$72) per borehole which was later raised to 0200,000
(US$240) for construction must be collected by the community before drilling commences.
Community handpump caretakers inspect the pumps, organize upkeep of the pump surrounds
and report major faults to second-tier mechanics.
1. 16 The Ghana unit of World Vision International (WVI) derives most of its support from
its international affiliates, primarily in the United States. It is engaged in agriculture, pre-
school education and primary health care of which its water and sanitation program is part.
WVI has constructed about 1,000 boreholes the Northem, Volta, Central, Greater Accra,
Western and Easterm Regions. It too uses a community participatory approach and requires
the conununity to assume responsibility for long termn maintenance. Its first boreholes were
drilled by a drilling contractor, but it has since acquired its own drilling rig.
1.17 Water Aid, a charitable organization based in the United Kingdom and associated with
the water industry, supports a number of rural water projects in Ghana most of which are
implemented by local NGOs. The Presbyterian Church, Evangelical Presbyterian Church,
Baptist Church, Anglican Church, Peace Corps and Canadian University Se.vices
Organization (CUSO) also support water and sanitation activities in the country. Much
vahlable experience related to community management of maintenance has been obtained by
these NGOs. In particulai, Water Aid has led the move toward improved hand dug wells and
construction through the private sector.
EXTERNAL SUPPoRT AGENChES
1.18  The rural water supply project in the Upper Regions financed by Canada and the
3,000 Wells Project in the south financed by the Federal Republic of Germany together have
constructed about 6,000 boreholes providing water to about 1.5 million persons. Both began
20 years ago as drilling projects; since then, both have evolved good maintenance systems,
although revenues only cover a small part of the maintenance cost. Also, the Upper Regions
Project has developed a large scale health education program. In the next phase of their
support to the Upper and Northern Regions, Canada is planning to shift to community based
management by installing handpumps more suitable for community maintenance and training
the communities to maintain them. Kreditanstalt fuar Wiederaufbau (KfW) is currently
considering the privatization of the 3,000 Wells Maintenance Unit.
1.19 In the last few years, Japan has financed the construction of about 500 boreholes in
the Northern and Western Regions which GWSC is responsible for maintaining, and Caisse
Francase de Developpement (CfD) is currently implementing the first part of a two phase
project to install 900 water points in the Central Region where community based maintenance
in being empioyed; and Denmark is starting implementation of a community managed rural
water and sanitation project in the Volta Region. UNDP is financing small rural water supply
projects in the Volta and Eastem Regions with co-financing by The Netherlands. UNICEF is
supporting the construction of 560 hand-dug wells and the rehabilitation of 500 handpumps



6
systems; it is also supporting a latrine program. Table I .1 summarizes the support provided
by the main external support agencies (ESAs) active in the sector.
Table 1.1 ESA Sector Activity
ESA             Project                        Region           Facilities
Canada          Water Utilization Project      Upper ElW        2600 HP
NORRIP 11 Water Component      Northern        350 HP
CWS Maintenance Project        Northern        15 piped
Demnark         Water and Sanitation Project   Vo!ta            850 systems
France          Rural Water Project            Central          900 HP
Germany         3000 Wells Project             7 regions        3000 HP
Rehabilitation Project         Eastern         33 piped
Japan           Rural Water Project Phase I    Northern         159 HP
Rural Water Project Phase II   Westem B/A      320 HP
PAMSCAD         Dug Wells & Latrine Project    All regions      2000 HDW
UNDP-Nether    Rural WATSAN Project            Eastern          200 HP
UNDP            Decentralized Maint. of RWS    Volta            200 HDW
UNICEF          Borehole Rehabilitation Project    4 regions    500 HP
UNICEF          Small Com. WATSAN Project    All regions        560 HDW
World Vision    Rural Water Supply Project     Brong Ahafo,    500 HP
Ashanti, Eastern
HP    -  handpump
HDW  -  hand dug well
1.20 GWSC is primarily responsible for coordinating the activities of the ESAs working in
the water sector. In the past, the regionalization of projects and the lack of clear cut policies
on the financing and maintenance of rural water supply systems and on technology selection
have led each donor to make its own decisions based on its particular procurement and
scheduling constraints and the peculiarities in its project area. The 1991 Rural Water and
Sanitation Sector Strategy prepared by the UNDP/World Bank Regional Water and Sanitation
Group in West Africa, and the series of workshops related to preparation of the current
project are leading towards a national sector strategy that both the government and external
assistance conmnunity can support (Section III).



7
C.    SECTOR ISSUES
MANAGEMENT
1.21  In the past rural water supply in Ghana was primarily directed by ESAs and NGOs
with a view towards meeting project goals, where projects were not fitted into a national
implementation strategy. GWSC has essentially been a channel through which external
agencies have operated. While GWSC has established a capability of maintaining handpumps
in rural areas, it has gained little capacity to implement new projects.
1.22   The Rural Water Supply Department has been given little attention by senior
management and limited personnel and financial resources. This reflects the subsidiary role
that it has come to play in project management. Presently it is staffed by a director and three
professionals who were hired to manage a UNDP-financed, rural water supply project in the
Volta Region. The director is a contact person for externally financed projects through whom
govermnent approvals are obtained and assistance is sought to resolve problems requiring
government attention. The Rural Water Supply Department has done a good job in
encouraging dialogue between financing agencies; it has not, however, taken an active role in
redefining the sector strategy.
PLANNING
1.23   Past rural water supply projects can be characterized by their "top-down" nature,
where the type of technology and number of systems have been pre-determined, beneficiary
communities have been determined during project design or by project implementation
personnel, and borehole siting has been determined by hydrogeologists primarily concerned
with maximizing the chance of locating successful wells. The communities' involvement has
generally been limited to a yes/no decision regarding their participation. As a result water
supplies have been installed with little consideration for demand and subsequent sustainability.
Sector professionals are aware of this situation and have been moving towards a "bottom-up",
conmmity managed approach, as reflected in more recent project designs and the strategy
proposed in the National Community Water and Sanitation (CWS) Program.
1.24 In recent years nearly all of GWSC's efforts have gone into maintaining the existing
wells plus those constructed by NGOs/ESAs and turned over to GWSC to maintain.
Significant further expansion of services would require a shift in responsibilities, with
beneficiary communities taking tesponsibility for operations and maintenance and govermnent
becoming a facilitator - planning, mobilizing financial resources, and facilitating private
sector provision of goods and services.
1.25  The key to successful community managed systems is informed decision making and
training in operation, maintenance, revenue collection and accounting. Recent experience in
Ghana and elsewhere in West Africa has shown that the participatory planning and training
needed to establish community management requires special facilitators. These community
extension agents do not have to be highly educated, but they need to be dedicated people who
are good communicators and good problem solvers. They also need to receive financial
compensation commensurate with difficult environmental conditions and frequent travel and
overnight stays in the bush. Civil service personnel geneially lack the motivation,
compensation and logistical support needed for this type of work; much better success has
been had through NGOs.



8
FINANCING
1.26   CAPfrAL COSTS In 1986 water tariffs were introduced in rural communuities for the
first time, and only recently have some projects required that communities contribute towards
the capital cost of their systems. As a result systems were installed on the basis of perceived
need rather than real demand, tariff collection is low, and the sustainability of many systems
is in doubt. Most sector professionals now agree that sustainability requires commumity
financing of all normal recurrent costs, and that a 5 to 10 percent contribution towards the
capital cost is a practical measure of a community's commitment to maintaining the system
once it is installed. The cost of these systems (US$200 million for 85% rural coverage)
would necessitate continued external grants and concessionary loans over the next 15 years.
1.27   REcuRRENT CosTs The average annual maintenance cost of a borehole fitted with a
handpump is about US$200 per year in the Upper East Region, the 3,000 Wells Project area,
and the Wenchi Project area. While approved tariff levels are adequate to cover recurrent
costs, only about 25% of the tariff is collected. Revenue collection in rural communities is
problematic because of the distances involved and because most boreholes were originally
provided free of charge with no commitment made by the communities to maintain them.
Furthermore, communities often see no clear relationship between services rendered and
tariffs charged. Introduction of community based maintenance would avoid the near
impossible task of maintaining systems and collecting revenue in dispersed rural communities.
1.28   Approved tariffs for rural piped systems are roughly equal to recurrent costs and half
total costs including depreciation. As with rural systems, revenue collection is a fraction of
the amount required for full cost recovery. Failure to charge at the water point and to bill
customers for metered water delivered are at the root of the problem. Recent experience in
community based revenue collection in a Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ)
supported project in the Volta Region and in community management in a Canadian-
supported, small towns project in the north, suggest that communities would be willing and
able to manage their small piped systems.
1.29   Up to 1986, half of GWSC's operating expenses were regularly covered by
Government subventions. At that time the Government withdrew its support, requiring
GWSC to assume full responsibility for meeting its day-to-day operational costs.
Subsequently, tariffs were introduced for the first time in rural areas, and a five-fold increase
in the existing urban tariff was implemented. This has since increased at a rate of about 20%
per year. Operating surpluses from the three metropolitan areas, allow GWSC to now meet
all its operating costs, but revenues are not sufficient to cover depreciation and loan
repayment. GWSC should not be required to divert revenues generated from its urban
operations to finance the rural sector. Such requirements would prevent GWSC from fully
conmnercializing its urban operations and would result in a serious neglect of the rural sector.
Consequently, it is imperative that the Government of Ghana (GOG) fully finance the
operation of GWSC's proposed CWS Division and that financing and accounting for GWSC's
urban and community water sunply divisions be separated. Serious consideration should also
be given to establishing community managed water supplies in towns that are too small to be
operated on a financially independent basis by GWSC's Urban Water Supply Division.
Practical experience is needed to draw conclusions, but roughly towns with a population of
less than 15,000 would fall into this category.



9
TECHNOLOGY
1.30  In the past projects have focused on boreholes, hand dug wells, or small piped
systems. Conununities have not been offered a choice of technologies and service levels, as
project design has been based on what was considered to be the lowest cost option for a basic
level of service. In shifting to comunuity management and participatory planning, a choice
of technologies is essential (otherwise planming would consist only of a yes/no acceptance of
the technology being offered), and a community contribution towards the capital cost that is
proportional to the capital and recurrent costs must be introduced (otherwise distortions would
enter into the selection of technologies and comnunities may find that they do not have
financial resources needed for longer tem sustainability).
1.31   WEus The success rates of boreholes varies from region to region; with rates from
as high as 95 % to as low as 30%. The national success rate of drilling is approximately
70%. More systematic use of well siting techniques including, where appropriate, the use of
geophysical test equipment and test drnlling prior to dug well construcion, would increase the
average success rate. The service population of a drilled well, usually constrained by the
capacity of the pwup, is about 300 people, and the number of people that can be served by an
"engineered" dug well is usually constrained to about 200. Because the cost of a typical
drilled well fitted with a handpump ($10,000) is much higher than the cost of a dug well with
a bucket ($2,000) or a dug well with a handpump ($3,000), for a given investment, three to
five times more people can be served with a dug well than with a borehole.
1.32 In addition to being less expensive, hand dug wells can also provide employment for
local contractors and artisans and a substantial amount of self-help labor can go into their
construction. Traditional hand dug wells suffer from several deficiencies: (a) they often do
not provide a year round service due to insufficient penetration below the water table; (b) they
are subject to contamination, primarily because their well platform and apron are poorly
designed; and (c) they pose a risk of children faling into them. For this reason contractors
equipped to work below the water table should constnit wells and, particuarly in larger
communities, covered wells fitted with a handpump should be encouraged. Nonetheless,
properly designed open dug wells usually provide a substantial quality improvement over
existing sources.
1.33 HANDPUMPs For low-lift applications where the pumping lift is less than 15 meters
direct-action pumps (configured like tire pumps with T-bar handles) have been developed that
are less expensive than traditional lever pumps and are easy to repair. For higher lifts, pumps
must provide a mechanical advantage using either lever or hydraulic pnnciples. Several
pumps have been developed that employ non-ferrous below ground components. The
breakdown rate on these pumps is about the same as the earlier "unbreakable" pumps.
Handpump projects in Ghana, particularly those in the south, have encountered problems due
to the corrosivity of the groundwater. As a result the newer pumps have been introduced on
a test basis and several are now being installed in larger mmbers, including the Nira AF-85
direct-action pump, the Vergnet, and the Afridev. In addition, a pump has been developed
through the 3,000 Wells Project that uses the chain link pump rod connector and pumphead
configuration of the India Mark m but substitutes self-centering fulcrum bearings and thin-
walled stainless steel rising main.



10
1.34   From a community perspective the best pumps are those that are inexpensive, easy to
maintain, corrosion resistant and for which spare parts are assured in the future. The best
way to reduce prices and assure availability of spare parts is for communities to purchase
public-domain pumps that are made to international specifications. However, communities
cannot buy pumps until they are available at local retail outlets, and local retailers won't stock
them until a profitable market for them exists. To overcome this impasse, GWSC working
with ESAs could contract local companies to procure, distribute and install pumps, and to
establish repair services and spare parts outlets at selected locations for the pumps currently in
use in Ghana (para 1.33). While specific pumps might be selected through competitive
procurement and a minimum order guaranteed, any other manufacturer/distributor of pumps
authorized by GOG would be free to sell pumps locally and communities would be free to
purchase any one of the authorized pumps. Because handpumps are likely to be more
expensive than most communities can afford, a voucher system would need to be introduced
where govermnent would pay a set amount and communities would pay the balaiice.
1.35  MOTORIZED PnTS Other mechanized pumping systems have not been used much in
Ghana in recent years. As noted above (paras 1 23-1.25) community based planning requires
that a range of technologies be offered. On the basis of costs alone, there is good reason to
consider motorized pumping options. For example, the high cost of boreholes warrant use of
electric pumps, particularly in communities where more than one borehole is required,
provided the comnunities' boreholes are near the national power grid and yield sufficient
water for a motorized pump. Also, conmnunities that are not located near the electric grid but
have 1,000 to 2,500 people could best be served by a solar pump and larger communities may
find diesel-generator sets and electric pumps a good option. Similarly, small piped systems
have received scant attention in the last decade but are an option that many larger
communities (particularly the higher-density, commercial centers) might prefer. A Canadian
financed project in the north is having good success with a mixed technology approach, where
different user groups in a town choose the type of system that best meets their needs.
CONSTRUCTION
1.36  The boreholes for the Canadian financed RWS Project in the Upper Regions and the
German financed 3,000 Wells Project in the south were constructed by private contractors as
are the wells currently being constructed in the French financed RWS Project in the Central
Region. In all some 90% of all boreholes have been constructed by the private sector. The
policy of employing competitive procurement procedures for the construction of water
supplies would provide no role for GWSC's drilling unit. Government would need to
consider the future role and size of the drilling unit and whether or not all or part of it should
be privatized or sold to private contractors. Current employees of GWSC's drilling unit
should be encouraged to present an employees' buyout proposal.
1.37  To mininiize their potential deficiencies (para 1.32) hand dug wells should be
constructed to a standard design by a contractor who is trained and equipped to penetrate
several meters below the water table. The resulting "engineered" dug wells can provide as
good or better service than boreholes at a lower price since they can be operated without a
pump and can be cleaned at a fraction of the price of boreholes.



11
OPERATIONS AND MANTENANCE
1.38  The big Canadian and Gennan financed projects began as drilling projects but
thereafter shifted to maintenance programs through which centralized maintenance systems
were gradually made as efficient as possible. When spare parts, vehicles and operating hnds
are available, more than 80% of the pumps can be kept in operating order. The shift to
community based management would not result in substantial cost savings or much better
performance indicators than have been achieved in the centralized maintenance programs. It
would, however, allow government to shift its focus from the maintenance of existing systems
to the installation of new systems, and would extricate government from its current adversary
role with rural communities where it is seen as the agent of ever increasing tariffs that don't
seem commensurate with services delivered. While individual projects financed by ESAs
could be sustained as long as financial support continues, when that financing stops the
majority of systems would fall into disrepair. In addition, a growing number of pumps are
being installed by NGOs and there is a demand for many more, the maintenance of which
would require a comprehensive solution not linked to any one support agency.
1.39 The shift to community management would free government and support agencies to
focus more on new systems; nonetheless, Government would need to help pay for major
replacements and borehole maintenance until the economic position of mral people improves
considerably.
D.    SERVICE COVERAGE AND PASr PROJECTS
1.40 In 1990 the rural population was 9.4 million people of whom only 2.6 million (28%)
had access to improved water supplies. At the current rate of growth of about 2% per
annum, the rural population would reach about  1.6 million by the year 2000. Ninety percent
of the rural population live in about 15,000 communities with populations between 100 and
5,000; the remaining 10% live in some 40,000 smaller setdements. In the next 15 years the
rural population would increase to about 13.5 million; to reach 80% coverage by then an
additional 8 million people would need to be served (Annex 1-1). There are currently about
10,500 drilled wells in the country and over 40,000 hand dug wells. However, most dug
wells are not protected from contamination and many of them dry up during the dry season.
In total, about 30% of the rural population has received an improved water supply (handpump
or piped) during the last 20 years; however, about 30% of these systems are not operational,
reducing effective coverage to about 20%.
1.41   A survey conducted in 1988 indicated that about 60% of the rural population has
access to some form of public/communal sanitation facilities, usually trench latrines. About
1 % is equipped with flush toilets, 5% with bucket latrines, and the rest have no facilities. A
review of coverage reveals communal latrine usage to be over 50%, with the highest use
(95%) in the Central Region and the lowest (10%) in the Northern, Upper East and Upper
West Regions. Low use in these regions could be partly attributed to availability of "open
spaces" and to the dispersed nature of the communities. The Kumasi ventilated improved pit
(KVIP) latrine was chosen as an appropriate rural sanitation technology in 1982 and since
then some 500 have been constructed. It, however, has proved to be too expensive for most
rural households to afford, so less expensive models are gaining in popularity.



12
E.    LESSONS LEARNED iN PAsr WATER AND) SAmTATlON PROJECTS
1.42 The 1980s were characterized by innovations in technologies and management
systems, when new handpump technologies and lower cost household latrines were developed
and community based management was tested. Many of the lessons that have been learned
are described in the previous discussion. Some of the more important are:
(a)   It is better to organize municipal water supply on the basis of commnunity-
managed and utility-managed systems rather than rural and urban systems.
Under such an arrangement, rural communities and small towns (up to
perhaps 15,000 in population) would generally be better off maintaining their
own water supply systems, and GWSC would better off if its Urban Water
Supply Division served only larger towns and metropolitan areas where
operations can be commercialized.
(b)    Top-down planning needs to be replaced by bottom-up planning where
communities are the decision makers and have real choices between different
technologies at different prices.
(c)    External support agencies need to build capacity within GWSC's CWS
Division to plan and implement new projects. Local and international
consultants would be needed to train GWSC personnel, but only on an
intermittent basis.
(d)    Extension services to help communities plan their water supply systems and to
train communities to manage them requires special facilitators who are
dedicated, good communicators and adequately compensated. This has proved
to work much better through NGOs than civil service organizations.
(e)    To ensu.e that limited government funds are channeled to communities that
would maintain their systems, communities should: (i) pay part of the capital
cost for improved services, in proportion to construction and recurrent costs;
and (ii) all recurrent costs while communities can pay recurrent costs. Until
the economy improves considerably, govenunent would need to assist
communities by paying part of the cost of major replacements and borehole
maintenance.
(f)    Technology choice for water supplies should be expanded to include dug wells
and motorized pumps including those powered from the national power grid
and by solar and diesel power. Household latrines should include low-cost
options employing local building materials, slabs without vent pipes, and
single pit latrines that can be relocated (with and without reinforcing bars).
(g)    The move to community management of rural and small town systems is basic
to sustainabiity, as government has neither the capacity nor mandate to
maintain the some 25,000 point sources that would be needed to provide near
full coverage.



13
(h)    Maintenance systems linked to individual externally financed projects are
sustainable only as long as aid from that source continues, It is necessary to
move toward a more comprehensive solution that provides for all systems and
is not linked to individual ESAs. A maintenance system based on community
management, private local mechanics and spare parts distributors is proving
successful on Ghana and other parts of Africa.
F.    BANK/IDA LENDING EXPERIENCE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY
1.43   The Bank has financed four water supply and sewerage projects in Ghana. The first
project (US$3.5 million credit in 1969) which was completed in 1973, assisted in expanding
the water supply distribution network in Accra-Tema Metropolitan Area and constructing a
sewerage systemn in central Accra. The impact of the sewerage component was reduced by a
reluctance of potential beneficiaries to connect to the system. The second (US$10.4 million
credit in 1974) which was financed in parallel with Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA) and African Development Bank (AfDB), was intended to increase the
installed capacity of the Accra-Tema Metropolitan Authority water system to meet existing
and future needs for potable water. The entire project was completed in 1985 at 16% above
the appraisal estimate of US$44.7 million. This project met its objective of increasing
capacity, although some of the distribution system extensions were not constructed due to lack
of local funds. The third project (US$13.0 million credit in 1983) was designed to strengthen
the management of GWSC and rehabilitate one of the two major transmission pipelines
supplying the Accra-Tema area. The fourth project (US$20 million credit in 1989) is co-
f9nanced with Austria, Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of the United Kingdom,
Caisse Francaise de Developpement (CfD), and Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
(OECF) of Japan. This project which follows on from the third one, includes institutional
development, as well as rehabilitation and expansion of water supply systems. The project
became effective in 1990 and is due to be completed in seven years. Good progress has been
made in certain areas, including the preparation of planning and detailed designs for the 33
town water supply systems covered under the project; the successful retrenchment of 1,500
GWSC staff; the improved finances of GWSC due primarily to regular tariff increases during
the past few years; and the completion of plans to improve operations and maintenance and
financial management. Nevertheless, more needs to be done, including the installation of
essential equipment already purchased, improved billing and collection, reduced unaccounted
for water, and greater decentralization and local accountability.
RURAL WATh SUPPLY AND SANITATIoN
1.44   The Bank has not had any stand alone rural water supply projects, although there have
been hand dug well/borehole components as part of agriculture projects. In 1990, the Bank
assisted GOG with the preparation of a sector strategy and action plan. This was approved by
GOG in May 1991 and provides the basis for the proposed National CWS Strategy and the
design of this first IDA financed community water and sanitation project.



14
11. GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION
A.    RESPONSIBILrTEs
2.1    GWSC is responsible for urban and rural water supply as well as for piped sewerage.
In addition to the systems serving the four metropolitan areas, GWSC is responsible for the
operation of some 200 other smaller water supply systems which mainly serve urban and
semi-urban areas, and for the maintenance of about 7,500 drilled wells fitted with hand pumps
that serve rural conununities. To achieve near full water supply service coverage GWSC
would need to take responsibility for some 25,000 handpumps. 600 piped systems in small
towns, and 75 piped systems in larger towns and urban centers. GWSC currently has a staff
of over 4,000, about 150 of whom are involved in rural water supply. It has a head office in
Accra, 10 regional offices, 65 district offices, and drilling, construction and hand pump
maintenance units based in Kumasi.
GWSC's ROLE IN COMMUNZrY WATER AND SANfTATION
2.2   The single most important factor in the success of a national CWS program is the
Government's commitment to it and the executing agency. Assuming this commitment, the
above considerations weigh in favor of GWSC continuing to be responsible for rural water
supply - important factors being: (a) there is no good alternative to GWSC as an executing
agency or compelling reason to remove CWS from GWSC; (b) GWSC's ability to offer better
tenns of employment, attracting more capable personnel and requiring better performance,
than civil service agencies; (c) GWSC's ability to let contracts and make payments at the
regional level; (d) the maintenance of existing systems during the transition period; and (e)
use of existing personnel and facilities. In retaining responsibility for CWS, differences in
financing, technologies, community involvement, cost recovery, personnel skills and
management techniques between urban and community water supply operations, and
differences in financing would necessitate separate divisions and separate accounting systems,
2.3   The National Community Water and Sanitation (CWS) Program would strengthen
GWSC by separating its rural and urban operations and, over time, shifting the ownership and
management of rural (populations less than 5,000) and small town systems (populations
between 5,000 and 15,000) to individual communities. In the end GWSC would be
responsible for maintaining the 75-100 largest systems in the country on a commercial
(financially independent) basis and individual communities would be responsible for managing
some 40,000 point sources and 500 small piped systems. The proposed CWS Project would
build capacity within GWSC, districts and communities to provide community-managed water
supply service where the private sector would help communities plan and construct their water
supply systems, distribute spare parts supply, and provide maintenance/repair services. This
would help strengthen GWSC.
B.    ORGANIZATION
2.4    At the senior level two Deputy Managing Directors (Operations and Finance &
Administration) report to GWSC's Managing Director. The stmcture of GWSC at the
regional level is essentially the same as at headquarters with Regional Engineers and Regional



15
Finance Administrators reporting to Regional Directors. Rural water supply planning,
construction and maintenance is integrated into the Corporation at all levels; this does not
allow for the substantial differences in the nnmer in which the rural and urban sectors are
supported. The most senior managers (i.e. the Managing Director and the Regional
Directors) are good professionals. The problem is that there are few really competent middle
level managers, and, being engineers, even senior managers have had little experience with
running a commercial operation. In addition, there is not very good communication between
headquarters and the regions.
C.    MANAGEMENT AND STAFFING
2.5    GWSC has reduced staffing by 1,500 persons in the last three years which brings its
outal work force to some 3,500. About 650 of these are classified as management, technical
professionals, administrative professionals and supervisory personnel. The low proportion of
high and middle-level professional staff as well as skilled technicians, has acted as a hindrance
to GWSC's performance. This situation is especially acute outside the major metropolitan
areas and within senior management at headquarters partly due to a series of departures in
recent years. In addition, the Board of Directors has extended its tenure several years and
most members would like to be replaced.
2.6   In 1993 salaries of middle and senior level professionals in GWSC increased by
150%. They are now about two-thirds of current salaries of middle and senior level
professionals in the private sector. GWSC is currently quantifying the monetary value of the
non-cash benefits given its employees and intends to increase salaries whfile decreasing
benefits that employees can not easily quantify. GWSC has also tried to recruit a greater
number of higher level staff. In the last four years 90 professionals have been hired while 30
individuals left, leaving 25 vacancies for professional staff. While a salary increase would do
much to aac and keep professional staff, the recruitment process needs to be streamlined as
approval of new employees takes too long.
2.7    Decentralization of operations has, in principle, been accepted by GWSC for a
number of years. However, revenues above a specified level must be sent to headquarters for
its operations and for redistribution to regions that can not cover their operating costs. This
acts as a disincentive to Regional Directors and their staff, whether they are in a metropolitan
area where revenues exceed operational costs, or in more rural regions where revenues do not
cover operational costs. A similar problem arises on the operational side where, for example,
regional personnel are content to wait for long periods of tine for headquarters to procure a
critical part while a community goes without water - there is little accountability.
2.8    GWSC's management is amenable to considering privatization options. For example,
privatized billing and collection with CfD support in the Accra is being tested, and GWSC is
interested in learning more about approaches to reducing unaccounted-for-water through
private sector involvement. A more rigorous evaluation of privadzed options (drawing on
experience from around the world) and experimentation is needed. Involvement of a cross
section of GWSC personnel in this process as well as the planning of other issues affecting the
future of the Corporation, including Regional Directors, is essential to the success of such
operations; and, involvement of the external assistance community would better ensure that
the requisite financing is available.



16
D.    FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
PAST FINANcWA PERFORMANCE
2.9    Analysis of GWSC's audited financial statements for the years 1988 through 1992 reveals
that even though revenues from operations had been adequate to cover operating expenses, they
were insufficient to allow GWSC to generate a positive net income anmually. This has been due
largely to exchange losses which wiped out the operating ui:come in each year. Net losses were
incurred each year ranging from a low of C239 million in 1988 to a high of C5.9 billion in 1990,
and these results would have been worse if depreciation expense was correctly stated based on a
complete inventory of fixed assets and their revaluation. GWSC has accorded high priority to
registering and revaluing its assets and an ongoing exercise is expected to end by mid-1994.
TARLFS
2.10 The Govermnent's objectives in the sector are to provide water of acceptable quality at
tariffs which are affordable and sufficient to: (a) cover operation and maintenance costs; (b)
enable GWSC to repay loans; and (c) finance a significant portion of its investment program from
internally generated resources. This policy is consistent with the Act of 1965 under which GWSC
was established. GWSC's current tariff structure is presented in Table 2.1. Domestic consumers
are generally charged a minimum flat rate of 1,279 per month for house connections, while
standpipe users are charged C890 per month. GWSC's water tariff is graduated and a..._ws for
differential rates between high and low consumers. Currently, this graduated structure applies to
industrial and commercial consumers and urban domestic consumers who are billed according to
metered consumption.
2.11 The tariff is currently inadequate to cover full costs. However, merely increasing the
general level of tariffs would not address the issue of whether the design of the tariff structure is
the most economically efficient, whether it would maximize revenue and whether it is consistent
with other considerations, such as equity. An ongoing tariff study is examining the
appropriateness of the existing tanff structure, and would develop, as necessary, a tariff structure
which would enable GWSC to meet all its financial requirements and help to discourage waste
and excessive consumption, at the same time addressing the need for affordable water for the
poor.
CtMRREVT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
2.12 After years of delayed increases or no increase at all, GWSC succeeded in raising its
tariffs for two years in a row: an average of 55% in 1992 and 34% in 1993. GWSC is projected
to achieve a net operating surplus in 1993 as reflected in the summary table below:



17
Table 2.1 GWSC's Financial Perfornance - 1989-1993
(Cedis millions)
1989      1990       1991      1992       1993
Sales (billion gallons)             15.3       15.9       16.9      18.9       20.0
Average Tariff (Cedis 1000 gallons)  396.8    458.0      551.0     814.4    1,093.4
Revenues                          6,054.0    7,263.8    9,308.8  15,625.9   24,039.6
Operating Expenses                4,903.9    5,423.2    8,048.5  11,050.5   15,762.3
Operating Income (Loss)           1,150.1    1,840.5    1,260.3   4,575.4    8,276.2
Less:  Interest                    438.0      696.9      683.0   1,057.4    1,565.0
Depreciation               2,501.0    1,120.8    1,051.9   1,326.1    1,925.7
Exchange Loss              2,609.1    2,042.0    1,898.6   6,286.7    4,600.0
NET INCOME (LOSS)               (4,398.0)  (5,925.2)'  (2,373.2)  (4,094.8)   185.5
Operating Ratio (%)                  130        100        105        86         80
Cufrent Ratio                        0.6        0.4        0.5       0.8        1.7
Receivables (No. months' billings)   8.9        7.5       11.2       6.7        5.1
1) Included in the net income for 1990 is 3.906 million cedis for end of service benefits.
2.13   The anmnal operating surplus must be viewed with caution. Much work is needed and is
ongoing to clean up GWSC's financial records to allow the Corporation to produce unqualified
audited financial statements. As a result of its past weak accounting practices depreciation and
interest expense are not accurately reflected. Maintenance costs are underreported pending the
preparation and implementation of an adequate O&M program. A meaningful return on, at a
minimum, average net fixed assets cannot be determined until GWSC completes its inventory of
fixed assets and then revalues them. It is very likely that water tariff increases (in real terms)
would still be required over the medium term. These increases are projected to average 10%
over the four-year period 1994 to 1997, but these estimates would need to be refined upon
resolution of outstanding financial issues specified in para 2.9 above. At the same time, it is
expected that operation efficiency improvements under the Water Sector Rehabilitation Project
(WSRP), including selective metering and a program to reduce unaccounted-for-water would help
contain costs and mitigate the need for huge tariff increases. GWSC has also taken steps to
reduce its fuel expenses (diesel, lubricarns) by connecting some of its major water supply systems
to the national electricity grid. Assuning that planned revenue enhancement measures are
implemented and cost containment measures are fully effected, then GWSC could generate
sufficient internal funds to cover O&M costs, provide adequate debt service coverage for ongoing
projects and generate enough funds to contribute to the capital costs of future projects as
covenanted in the Project Agreement of July 28, 1989 for the WSRP.
FurE FINANCIAL PERORMANCE
2.14 Projections of GWSC's financial performance have been prepared assuming that GWSC
would introduce further amual water tariff increases; water production would increase from 40.8
billion gaUons in 1992 to 44.9 billion gallons by 1997 as a result of the physical rehabilitation
work under the WSRP and other ongoing schemes; water sales would increase from 18.9 billion
gallons in 1992 to 25.9 billion gallons in 1997; non-revenue water would drop from 54% to 42%



18
during the period. The metering program would be completed by 1994 and appropriate bills
would be sent out reflecting actual consumption which is assumed to increase revenues. Pending
the debt rationalization exercise currently underway, it has been assumed that interest expense
would increase over the next four years as GWSC begins to service WSRP loans from Austria,
Japan, France, U.K. and IDA. Depreciation expense is assumed to go up as construction in
progress gets capitalized and begins to be depreciated; clearly this is an interim measure pending
the outcome of the fixed assets registration and-revaluation exercise in mid-1994 which would
provide a reliable basis for calculating depreciation expense.
Table 2.2  GWSC's Projected Financial Performance - 1993 - 1997
(Cedis milions)
1993     1994      1995      1996     1997
Sales (billion gallons)                20.0      23.0     23.5      24.0      25.9
Average Tariff (Cedis 1000 gallons)  1,093.4   1,373.7   1,732.9   2,022.0   2,234.8
Revenues                           24,039.6  34,799.0  44,889.4  53,531.1  63,879.5
Operating Expenses                  15,762.3  18,736.4  20,610.0  21,640.5  22,961.0
Operating Income (Loss)             8,276.2  16,062.7  24,279.4  31,890.6  40,918.5
Less:  Interest                     1,565.0   2,911.4   3,669.4   4,003.6   3,960.1
Depreciation                  1,925.7   2,159.1   2,415.9   2,698.3   3,009.0
Exchange Loss                 4,600.0   5,290.0   5,819.0   6,110.0   6,415.4
NET INCOME (LOSS)                     185.5   5,702.2  12,384.2  19,078.7  27,533.9
Operating Ratio (%)                     80        70        60        50        50
Current Ratio                           1.7      2.3       5.2       5.5       6.7
Receivables (No. months' bfiings)      5.1       5.0      5.0       3.7       3.7
2.15   The financial projections indicate that GWSC's financial position could gradually improve
so that by 1997, GWSC would be able to contribute funds from internal sources to cover the local
costs of capital expenditures incurred and debt service. The current ratio would be maintained
well above adequate levels of 2.0, largely due to balances in the Special Account. Cash balances
are expected to dccumulate during the latter project years which would be required to support
GWSC's contribution to the capital cost of possible new operations. The operating ratio is
projected to decrease from 80% in 1993 to 50% by 1997, which is admittedly ambitious, and
could settle at 60% if depreciation expense were to increase at the end of the financial
management improvements currently underway as part of the WSRP. The receivables position
which has historically been high, peaking at 11.2 months of billings in 1991, is projected to
conservatively improve to about 4 months of billing by 1997, but is projected to further improve
to about 3 months of billing after 1997 when the benefits of the metering program would be felt,
customer accounts fully computerized, and the ongoing arrears reduction program would have led
to the write-off of uncollectibles.
2.16   Measures have been provided under the WSRP to help steer GWSC toward financial
viability, and progress is being made as follows. Project consultants have produced for
management action a report on Improvenent of Financial Management which has been reviewed



19
internally, and work plans have been prepared for selectively implementing its recommendations,
including a work plan for computerizing key financial activities of the corporation as follows: (a)
the PMC/PCMU MIS team is developing software for arrears reduction management, fixed assets
management and budget and debt management; and (b) software is being procured for
computerizing the project accounts department at headquarters and the revenue accounts in pilot
districts. An ongoing fixed assets registration and revaluation exercise would provide the
corporation the required tool for proper management, supervision and control of its assets.
2.17   Medium-term plans envisage the computerization of GWSC's entire accounting system; a
comprehensive training program for GWSC's finance and accounting staff; separate accounting
for urban and rural operations and consolidation at headquarters; hiring of qualified chartered
accountants in key senior finance/accounting positions (of the existing six accountants, three were
recruited within the last year, and further recruitment is ongoing); and privatization of billing and
collection.
E.    CONDmON OF FACITIES
2.18   GWSC is currently rehabilitating 33 of its larger systems at a cost of US$125 million
where co-financiers include IDA, Japan, Austria, France and the UK. Progress in the first two
years of the project was quite slow, primarily due to delays in procuring consultant services.
Orders have now been placed for the equipment required for the "immediate" action program and
it is expected to be installed by the mniddle of 1994. In addition, hydrologic studies and planning
reports have been completed for nearly all the systems and design work on most should be
completed. Including the Canadian financed GAP Project in the north and a German financed
project in the Eastern Region, about 65 systems would be rehabilitated. Nonetheless, even
amongst systems that are being rehabilitated, capacity would need to be doubled during the next
ten years to meet demand in many towns.
F.    OPERATIONS AND MAINEANCE
2.19   Operating personnel should be given credit for keeping old, worn out equipment running.
However, personnel are not equipped or resourced to do preventative maintenance, and have not
been trained to do so. Considerable effort would be required to move from a repair to a
preventative maintenance regime, and requisite budget must be set aside for it. The Water Sector
Rehabilitation Project includes technical assistance aimed at improving operations and maintenance
at the rehabilitated systems as well as generally in GWSC. At this time the organizational
structure, personnel requirements and equipment needs for a typical region have been agreed
upon. In fact, Japan has agreed to increase its contribution to the Water Sector Rehabilitation
Project to cover the cost of equipping maintenance units in all regions.



20
III. NATIONAL COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION STRATEGY
A.    OBECTIVS
3.1    The objectives of the National C-omnmunity Water and Sanitation Program are to:
(a)    provide basic water services to communities that would contribute towards the
capital cost and pay the normal operations, maintenance and repair costs of their
facilities;
(b)   ensure sustainability of these facilities through community ownership management
including active involvement of women, private sector provision of goods and
services, and public sector promotion and support; and
(c)    maximize health benefits by integrating water, sanitation and hygiene education
interventions.
3.    OVERALL DEvELoPENT STATEGY
3.2   The Government's Decentralizaion policy is intended: (a) to make districts more
autonomous, more responsive to local needs, and better able to assist communities to obtain
improved services; and (b) to make communities decision makers, owners, and managers of their
water supply facilities. This is being achieved generally by providing direct budget allocations to
the districts to help them support local communities, and specifically in the National CWS
Program by assisting communities to prepare Facilities and Management Plans and by having
them manage operations and maintenance.
3.3   The National CWS Program would be demand diven, as resources would be channeled to
individual districts and communities based on the denand for improved services by communities
and district performance in supporting them. As a condition for participating in the National
CWS Program, districts would be required to establish District Water and Sanitation Teams and
to establish a sanitation fund to pre-finance household latrines. The district would be reimbursed
for eligible works constructed to specification when project financing is available.
3.4   The private sector would be encouraged to provide all goods and services for community
water and sanitation. This would increase implementation capacity, lead to more widespread and
sustainable coverage and increased ew'ployment opportuities in rural areas. Procurement
procedures would be designed to encourage the private sector: (a) to help communities to prepare
their Water Supply Facilities and Management Plans; (b) to conduct hydrologic surveys and
design piped systems; (c) to construct latrines, dug wells, boreholes and piped systems; (d) to
help communities to operate and maintain their water supply facilities; and (e) to distribute
equipment and spare parts.
3.5   The public sector would play a facilitating role, where GWSC would be contracted by the
GOG through a performance contract and individual project financing agreements to manage the
National Community Water and Sanitation Program and to provide technical assistance to districts
and private sector participants. District Assemblies would promote the National CWS Program
amongst their constituent communities, and assist them to obtain construction grants.



21
C.    DEIIONS
3.6   The definitions of urban and community water supply, basic service, and recurrent costs
are important in clarifying roles and responsibilities of communities and the goverrnent.
(a)    Conmmunity: A community is a group of households that refer to their settlement
by the same name.
(b)    Urban and Commnity Water Supplies: Urban and community water supplies
would be differentiated on the basis of their management with larger #urban
systems" managed on a commercial basis by GWSC's Urban Division, and
smaller "community systems", requiring governmert subventions for the
foreseeable future, managed by the communities themselves. Community water
supply would include rural communities (less than 5,000 people) and small towns
(the upper limit to be determined).
(c)    Communty Management: Conmmunity management means that one or more
communities or parts thereof, own and manage their water supply facilities
including planning, operation and maintenance and collection of revenues to pay
recurrent costs. Communities may choose to contract operations, maintenance,
repairs and/or revenue collection functions to a private company or to GWSC's
urban water supply operations.
(d)    Water User Group: A Water User Group is a contiguous set of households that
collectively plan, own and manage their water supply facilities, more than one of
whom may join together to undertake these responsibilities for piped systems, in
which case Water User Groups would typically collect revenues and supervise use
of water facilities and drainage in their area (para 3.10).
(e)    Basic Service: Basic service for water supply means a protected, year-round
supply of 20 liters per capita per day, preferably within 250 to 500 meters of all
households and serving no more than 300 persons per outlet.
(f)    Recurrent Costs: Recurrent costs include operations, maintenance and normal
parts replacement, but not the replacement of major components that exceed the
community's financial means.
D.    SECTOR ORGANIZATION
3.7   The move to community management and private sector provision of goods and services
would improve service by allowing the beneficiaries to be directly responsible for the management
of their systems and would provide for sustainability by creating a market for spare parts,
replacement equipment and repair services. It would also benefit GWSC by transferring
management of water supplies in rural communuities and small towns over to the beneficiaries,
allowing it to focus on its operations in larger towns and urban centers that can be operated on a
commercial basis. This would mean that GWSC would end up being directly responsible for
about 75 of the largest systems in the country rather than some 25,000 handpumps, 500 rural
piped systems, and 250 small towns (if full coverage were to be achieved). The feasibility of any
organization anywhere in the world undertaking the latter is doubtful. Regional projects would be
encouraged to include small town water supply components, so that experience can be gained in
the process of establishing and supporting community management of such systems.



22
3.8   The move to community management and private sector provision of goods and services
would also require a redefinition of roles and responsibilities at the local, regional and national
levels. These are outlined below.
ComuNnITY LEVEL
3.9   The acquisition of an improved water supply would start with the application for financial
assistance filed by a community through its district. Before a grant is provided, a water and
sanitation committee would be formed (or its functions included in an existing group), a
specialized bank account under community control would be opened with an initial contribution to
the capital cost deposited, and other pre-project obligations met. During the planning,
construction and follow-up period the community would participate in hygiene education and
training and would be responsible for improving environmental sanitation. Communities would
also be fully responsible for the operation and maintenance of their water supplies, including
revenue collection.
3.10 The basic planning unit would be a Water User Group (WUG), that is a contiguous set of
households which collectively plan for and own its water supply facilities. Each would form a
Water and Sanitation Committee (or include its functions in an existing organization) to represent
it during the planning process, to manage the system, and to facilitate hygiene education within
the community. In the case of piped systems serving more than one WUG, a Water User
Association (WUA) would typically be formed to own and mnanage the system. In this case
WUGs would normally be responsible for revenue collection and supervision of facilities use and
drainage in their area and the WUA would be responsible for managing the system. Depending
on the size of the community and complexity of the technology, operations and maintenance and
service of major equipment may be contracted to private companies or GWSC's urban water
supply operations.
LOcAL LEvEL
3.11  The private sector has the greatest potential and flexibility to respond to community needs
for design and construction services, and operation and mainteniance support. The provision of
community support (extension services) has traditionally been a government sector activity,
however, this is usually only effective when the projects can improve staff motivation and
mobility by providing allowances and transport, making it essentially a contract activity. Outside
the public sector, NGOs in particular have shown themselves to be good at this type of work,
based on an informal approach and highly motivated staff, and both they and the commercial
private sector have already shown interest in taking on these activities in Ghana. This work
would be carried out under contract, with goverrnent playing a supervisory role.
3.12   A further element of institutional development is the establishment of a District Water and
Sanitation Team (DWST) in each district. This unit would consist of two or three persons
representing skills in community development, hygiene education, sanitation and water supply,
drawn from existing district personnel and locally-based, line-ministry staff. The team would
manage the sanitation component at we district level and act as a focal point for the water supply
component, providing information and coordinating the vetting of Construction Grants
Applications and Facilities and Management Plans. Over time, as DWSTs gain more experience,
individual districts could play a greater role in the water supply component by pre-financing and
managing planning contracts with Partner Organizations (POs), i.e. local NGOs, and construction
contracts with hand dug well contractors. They would be an integral part of the district



23
administration, reporting to the district chief executive and under the aegis of the infrastructure
subconmittee. The infrastructure subcommittee may also co-opt personnel from GWSC and the
decentralized line agencies and sit as a District Management Committee to ensure good
coordination with other related sector activities. The development of human resources for the
DWSTs and the establishment of financial capacity to invest in the water supply and sanitation
sector are critical elements in the development of the CWSP at district level. An organization
chart is presented in Annex 1-2.
3.13   Promotion and advocacy fall primarily to the district assemblymen, since politicians are
likely to be motivated to bring the services to their electorate and to act as advocates for the
communities that they represent. Assemblymen need also be involved as questions of
prioritization of communities are likely to arise, and their initiative and leadership would help to
establish a sense of ownership of the project by both the district and its people. However, NGOs
and other Partner Organizations should also be encouraged to help communuities bring forward
grant applications. This would allow the CWS project to complement other on-going
development activites in communities where they are active, and may also help to direct the
project at poorer communities, which are often prioritized by NGOs.
REGIONAL LEVEL
3.14 GWSC's Regional Water and Sanitation Teams (RWSTs) would be responsible for
implementation of the regional projects. They would assist participating districts to form DWSTs
and train them, facilitate the involvement of Partner Organizations and Hand Dug Well
Contractors including training and financial assistance, and manage the Construction Grants
Program in each region including the review and approval of Construction Grants Applications
and Facilities and Management Plans and management of planning and construction contracts.
Over time, as DWSTs gain experience and take greater responsibility for planning and
construction, RWSTs would focus more on monitoring and evaluation and the improvement and
consolidation of the strategy. More technically complex contracts for boreholes and piped
systems would remain the responsibility of regional teams. Training units made up of GWSC
personnel and individuals hired through the Training Network Center at the University of Science
and Technology and a Small Business Development Unit (national NGO) would refine the training
materials and methods and train tramers in each region. Additionally, specialist services would
generally be provided through a local firm. International specialists would be retained only if
persons with the requisite experience are not available locally. They would make periodic visits
advising on key issues affecting project implementation.
NATIONAL LEVEL
3.15  Just as the delivery of the local level activities is supported by the regional level, so the
delivery of regional activities would need support from the national level. While the RWSTs
would organize and run most of the training activities, they would need materials (training guides,
handbooks, manuals, flip charts, etc.), assistance from more experienced trainers and someone to
facilitate lesson learning in different regions. Ie would be the job of the national office of
GWSC's Community Water and Sanitation Divsion (CWSD) to coordinate the production of such
materials, in close collaboration with the Training Network Center for Water and Waste
Management (TNC) at the University of Science and Technology, the leading organization in
Ghana in this field. This would extend to the training of trainers (RWST and DWST staff) and
overseeing the support given to other training institutions.



24
3.16   A related area of activity which should also be seen in the national context is research and
development, including the continuous development of detailed project methodology, itself related
to monitoring and evaluation, where the national unit would act as a clearinghouse for collating
experience gathered in the field and organize the processing of this into improvements in the
strategy. In most cases these development activities would need to be closely linked to field
work, and they would be carried out by inter-regional specialist groups, as outlined above. The
improvements made would be formalized and promulgated in the form of training
materials/methods and standards and guidelines, building on those formulated during pre-project
activities financed by the Project Preparation Facility (PPF).
3.17   The other main area of national level activity is in planning, budgeting, finance and
regulation, tools which would keep the overall strategy on track. During the first years of
regional projects, the number of new systems that can be constructed would be limited by
implementation capacity. It is important during this period that fimancing not exceed delivery
capacity, in order to avoid the tendency to revert towards a top-down, supply-driven strategy to
meet unrealistic facilities quotas. Funds would be budgeted and administered on a region by
region basis, with each region estimating its requirements according to existing implementing
capacity, the realistic potential for increasing this, and the funds required for capacity building.
Each region would establish and manage an imprest account, accounting directly for the
operational and contract payments and reimbursement of approved expenditure pre-financed by
districts.
3.18   A demand driven approach is essential to ensuring that limited government funds are
channeled to communities that will maintain their new or improved water supply and sanitation
systems. Such a demand driven strategy would be based on individual communities first deciding
whether or not they want to participate in the program and then deciding the type of water supply
and sanitation system that they want and how to manage its maintenance. To support this, a
range of technical options would be available. Technical and management options would be
presented to each community with the aid of easily understandable visual aids so that communities
can make informed decisions after considering various alternatives. These extension services
would be provided through Partner Organizations (NGOs and private companies) which would be
contracted to help communities plan their systems and train them how to manage them, including
operation, maintenance, revenue collection, accounting and record keeping.
E.    SECTOR POLICS
FINANCING
3.19   The CWS Division of GWSC would be contracted by GOG to manage the National CWS
Program. Construction grants for communities, schools and health clinics would be channeled
through the CWS Division, but districts would be encouraged to pre-finance and let construction
contracts first for household and public latrines, and, later for planning and hand dug well
contracts, once District Water and Sanitation Teams gain experience and local contractors have
been fully pre-qualified. Although the Government would have the chief responsibility for
funding the National CWS Program, sustainability is based on community participation. In
financial terms this means that the beneficiaries would be required to pay part of the capital cost
of basic services (5 to 10%) and all of the recurrent costs of their water and sanitation facilities.
Higher levels of water and sanitation service are encouraged, but the beneficiaries would be
required to pay a substantial part of the added cost. Community contributions would be paid in
cash and in kind, where in-kind contributions correspond to the value of labor that is contributed



25
by the community. Community contributions would be collected in stages during the planning
process and to the extent possible kept in bank accounts controlled by them. A rehabilitation
fund, managed by GWSC's CWSD, would be established by the Government to which individual
communities could apply through their DWST. The fund would provide for cost sharing between
the Government and communities for expensive interventions such as when a borehole must be
flushed or water supply facilities need to be replaced or completely overhauled. To be eligible
for assistance, communities would be required to show records that annual preventive
maintenance had been carried out. Refer to the Policies and Guidelines Chapter in the
Im,plementaion Manual for more information on channeling funds, conununity contributions, and
grant eligible design criteria.
TECHNOLOGY CHOICE
3.20  In a demand driven program, individual communities first decide whether or not they
want to participate in the program and then decide the type of water supply and sanitation system
that they want, can afford, and can maintain. Different priced water supply options for both point
sources and piped systems and information materials, easily understood by community groups,
showing typical designs and costs (capital and recurrent) must be available. Technology options
would include dug wells with and without handpumps, boreholes with either direct-action or high-
lift handpumps, and small piped systems utilizing either groundwater or surface water with
appropriate pumping and treatment units. Latrines have been a problem because of their high
cost; it is therefore important that a range of different cost designs for improved sanitation be
promoted through the National CWS/S Program, both for household and public use.
Technologies would include the single pit VIP latrine, the sanplat and Mozambique type latrines
with and without a vent pipe, and in some cases the twin pit VIP latrine. Multiple pit VIP
latrines (privately operated) would be used at health centers, markets and other public places.
3.21  Groundwater has a number of advantages over surface water for the provision of water
supply and is recommended as the source of supply whenever possible: it is available within the
community, is more reliable throughout the year and in periods of drought, and generally does
not require treatment. Springs and hand dug wells are preferred sources of water because they
are relatively inexpensive and provide a good basic service. More expensive machine drilled
boreholes should not be encouraged if springs or hand dug wells are available. In all cases care
must be taken that the source provides a year round supply of water. Surface water treatment for
small piped systems should be based on slow sand filtration preceded by roughing filters and
should make use of hydraulic rather than electro-mechanical processes. Infiltration galleries can
provide even better and more reliable treatment at lower costs and should be used whenever
technically feasible.
CoNSmUcHON
3.22   Construction would be done by private companies and awarded through competitive
bidding, but would allow for in-kind community labor. For example, communities should be
given credit for the construction of hand dug wells and pipe trenches as part of their capital cost
contribution. Special assistance would be given to hand dug well contractors who could obtain
construction equipment through lease-purchase arrangements and management/technical support
from the Small Business Development Unit. The National Community Water and Sanitation
Strategy's reliance on the private sector for construction services, does not provide a role for
GWSC's maintenance unit, and its ongoing support results in unfair competition with private
dtillers. A review of GWSC's drilling unit would be made with a view toward privatization.



26
OPERATZONS AND MANIENANCE
3.23   Maintenance of point source water supply systems (wells and spring catchments) would be
the responsibility of individual communities with day-to-day management provided by their water
and sanitation comittees. The Water and Sanitation Committees would supervise use of the
pump, collect revenues for recurrent costs, keep accounts, and make repairs themselves or hire
the services of a private mechanic. Several water and sanitation committee members in each
community (normally women) would be trained to perform all normal maintenance and repairs,
and several local mechanics, including representatives of handpump suppliers, would be trained
to make all types of repairs. The way in which communities pay for maintenance services would
be changed from the current tariff system to a payment-for-services system throughout the
country. In those districts where GWSC's 3,000 Wells Maintenance Unit operates and
community based maintenance is being introduced, the way in which communities pay for
maintenance services would be changed from the current tariff system to payment-for-services-
rendered. An action plan for this transition is being prepared by GWSC with the support of
consultants financed by KfW and the participation of ESAs active in the sector. Maintenance of
piped water and sanitation systems would be the responsibility of the local municipality or Water
User Associations who normally would contract operation, maintenance az4 repair functions to a
private company or to GWSC's urban water supply operations. Water User Groups formed
around one or more standpipes would be billed by the Municipality or Water User Association on
the basis of metered water delivered to them. In the long ni the best way to ensure that
communities have access to replacement components and spare parts is for local retailers to sell
pumps, appurtenances and spare parts, and install, warranty and service them. To encourage this,
the direct importation of pumps and spare parts by government and international agencies would
be phased out.
F.    SECrOR INVESFMENT PLAN
ASSESSD NEED
3.24 A socioeconomic survey of northern and southern communities was carried out to estimate
the capacity of villages to pay for, and subsequently sustain, different water supply technologies.
The survey results provide some indicative data at the community level of the acceptability of a
particular service level as opposed to generating a mass of household statistical data. The survey
instrument was divided into three parts: (a) basic village information such as demographics,
housing characteristics, settlement patterns and occupations; (b) sustainability issues pertaining to
the capacity of villagers to operate and maintain their choice of technology; and (c) the ability and
willingness of comnnunities to pay for services. Communities' choice of technology was based on
their perception of what option would be reliable, affordable and enduring. The priority in most
conununities was an increase in the number of water points. Communities that had experience
with technological sophistication greater than the standard hand dug well were increasingly
prepared to opt for higher levels of service. This suggests that the demand for service may
increase incrementally over time. The majority of communities were comfortable with the
prospect of managing their ov-i systems, where the technology is within their experience, such as
hand dug wells which was in general the technology of choice. It was found that the typical rural
household currently spends in excess of six hours per day collecting water from a source that is
over one kilometer away in the dry season. An improved water supply can therefore reasonably
be expected to reduce this distance significantly which would result in significant time savings.



27
EsTMATED DEmAND
3.25  In 1990 2.6 million of 9.4 million rural inhabitants had access to improved water
supplies. In the next 15 years (2009) the rural population is expected to grow to 13.6 million.
To achieve 80% coverage, roughly the anticipated demand and the maximum investment expected
to be secured for the sector, an additional 8.4 million people would need to be served.
PLANNED INVESTMENTS (SIP)
3.26  To achieve 80% coverage, 15 years from now a total investmnent of some US$270 million
for the planning, design and construction of new water supply facilities would be required. This
would involve the construction of an estimated 25,000 dug wells, 7,500 boreholes fitted with
handpumps, 500 rural piped systems, and the rehabilitation of the 15,000 existing handpumps.
Other technical options such as spring catchments and small dams would be used, but only to a
limited extent. This would provide a basic level of water supply service to about 11 million
people at a cost of about US$25 per capita including planning, design and construction, and
would require an annual investment of about US$18 million. An overview of the sector
investment plan is given in Annex 1-1 and presented in more detail in the Implementation
Manual.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.    OBJEcTvEs
4.1   The project would demonstrate the proposed National Community Water and Sanitation
Strategy. In so doing, it would help achieve the objectives of the National CWS Program - that
is to: (a) provide basic water services to communities that would contribute towards the capital
cost and pay the normal operations, maintenance and repair costs of their facilities; (b) ensure
sustainability of these facilities through community management, private sector provision of goods
and services, and public sector promotion and support; and (c) maximnize health benefits by
integrating water, sanitation and hygiene education interventions.
B.    PREPARATION
4.2    A Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Workshop was held in February 1991 at Kokrobite
to discuss a draft sector strategy and action plan (prepared by the UNDP/World Bank Regional
Water and Sanitation Group in West Africa). The workshop, and subsequently the Government,
adopted the proposed principles, that is community management with cost sharing for capital and
full payment of recurrent costs, district focus, and independent CWS Division in GWSC. The
Policies and Guidelines and an institutional plan for a National CWS Program, based on these
principles, were then developed and refined through a series of national workshops involving
organizations and professionals active in the sector. Project preparation was done by MWH,
GWSC, Bank staff and consultants, including Co-Water International with financing from CIDA
Inc. During pre-appraisal in March 1993 policies and guidelines and project components were
agreed upon; and at appraisal in July 1993 implementation strategy was updated at a national
workshop, and project details and conditionalities were discussed with the Govermnient and
GWSC.



28
C.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
4.3   The project would form one of the elements of the 15-year Sector Investment Program
(Annex 1-1 and would be based on the National CWS Strategy (Section 11). It would be
implemented by GWSC through a new Commnity Water and Sanitation Division (CWSD). The
project would have three components: (a) water supply and sanitation in rural comnmunities; (b)
water supply and sanitation in small towns; and (c) public and private sector capacity building.
These components are summarized below and described in more detail in Annex 2-1.
WATER SUPPLY AND SANrrATioN IN RURAL COMMuNmES
4.4    WATER SUPPLY  Water supply facilities would be offered to rural communities, schools
and health clinics that are prepared to pay part of the capital cost and all of the normal operations,
maintenance and repair costs of their systems. In all some 350,000 people would be provided
with improved water supply facilities. Potential beneficiaries would be required to submit a
request for a construction grant through their District Assembly, and to prepare a Facilities and
Management Plan with the assistance of a qualified Partner Organization (NGO paid by project)
of its choice when its application is approved for funding. The Facilities and Management Plan
would include: (a) a preliminary design and costing of the preferred system in sufficient detail to
allow design drawings and specifications to be prepared and GWSC to check for conformance to
the Policies and Guidelines for the National CWS Program; and (b) a management plan describing
how it would be maintained and how revenues would be collected and accounted for.
4.5   Table 4.1 gives a breakdown of the numbers and types of systems expected to be
requested by the 700 rural communities to be served by the project; the actual numbers will
depend on demand and actual construction costs.
Table 4.1 Estimated Number of Rural Water Supply Facilities
to be Constructed by CWSP1
Borehole       Rural Piped
Region           Dug Wells        Boreholes      Rehabilitation     Systems
Ashanti             245               55               50               4
Brong-Ahafo         195              105               50               4
Northern             55               45               20               2
Western             245               55               50               4
TOTAL              740              260             170               14
1) Facilities for about 700 rural communities.



29
4.6    Responsibility for implementing the water supply component would be as follows:
(a)    Communities through their Water and Sanitation Committees (and Water User
Associations for small town piped systems) would plan, own and manage their
water and public latrine facilities.
(b)    Districts would promote the National CWS Program through their assemblymen,
existing departments and new District Water and Sanitation Teams (DWSTs). The
DWSTs would provide a focal point for information about water and sanitation,
manage the local sanitation, water and schools programs, support Partner
Organizations in their hygiene education efforts, vet Construction Grant
Applications and Facilities and Management Plans before passing them on to the
District Infrastructure Committee and GWSC's Regional Water and Sanitation
Teamns (RWSTs), and initially let household latrine contracts and later hand dug
well contracts.
(c)    RWSTs would be responsible for overall implementation of the project in each
region including provision of training and technical assistance to districts and the
management of planning and construction contracts.
(d)   Partner Organizations (POs) would assist rural communities to mobilize for
planning, prepare their Facilities and Management Plans and train them to manage
their systems and encourage them to use good hygiene practices.
(e)    A Small Business Development Unit (SBDU) would provide training and technical
assistance to Partner Organizations and hand dug well contractors, and prepare
and refine training materials and methods for them.
(f)    The Training Network Center for Water and Waste Management at UST would
help GWSC to prepare and refine training methods and materials, to train RWSTs
and DWSTs, and to monitor and evaluate implementation of the National CWS
Program.
4.7   SAN1TATION Sanitation facilities for households, schools and public places would be
provided under this component (Annex 3-2). DWSTs would have primary responsibility for
implementing the sanitation sub-component but would be assisted by RWSTs. DWSTs would: (a)
promote sanitation through local artisans, schools, assemblymen, and public organizations; (b)
identify artisans and small contractors interested in constructing household and public facilities
and organize training for them; and (c) manage the District Sanitation Fund. RWSTs would: (a)
train district personnel and latrine contractors; (b) supervise the construction grants program; and
(c) monitor and evaluate the component. Ten percent of the project construction budget is
earmarked for sanitation, but it could be raised or lowered (5% to 15%) depending on demand.
This will finance between 2,000 and 6,000 household latrines.
4.8   HYGENE EDUCATION Hygiene education would be integrated into the process of
mobilizing and training communities to manage their water supply and sanitation facilities in order
to better ensure that the health aspects of water and sanitation are given a high profile throughout
the project cycle. This means that all of those involved in community animation (DWSTs, POs,
and WATSAN Committee members), including both hardware and software specialists, would be



30
given training in hygiene education and would play a role in promoting and delivering hygiene
messages using participatory techniques. During PPF financed pre-project activities a set of
priority messages would be selected on the basis of their relevance to water and sanitation, what
is achievable by the target group, and what would have the greatest impact on health. Hygiene
education would be taken on by the community as one of its obligations in developing a water
supply, and would become a standard topic of discussion at WATSAN Committee meetings and
discussed within the community by Village Volunteers).
4.9   To encourage children to use good hygiene practices and become accustomed to using
latrines, a school hygiene education program would be offered along with improved sanitation and
water (if needed) facilities. Participation would be conditioned on: (a) local Parent Teacher
Associations requesting the facilities and agreeing to the financial and management arrangements
required of individual communities; and (b) several teachers participating in a hygiene education
workshop for the trainer of trainers. Materials and methods developed by the project would be
used to instruct children in benefits of good hygiene practices and the proper use of water and
sanitation facilities. DWSTs would coordinate the local program and RWSTs would train the
teachers.
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION IN SMALL TowNs
4.10   WATER SUPPLY  Water supply systems in about 30 small towns with populations
between 5,000 and 20,000, serving some 250,000 people, would benefit from the project.
Facilities for about 20 small towns in the three northern regions where a CIDA assisted small
towns project is already underway and facilities for about 10 small towns in the three southern
regions would be provided through IDA funding under this component. It is expected that a mix
of technologies would serve a small town, where, for example, a piped system might serve the
higher-density, higher-income central business district and individual wells would serve the
peripheral areas. To gain as much experience as possible, at least one town in each of the three
southern regions that has an existing system and would be prepared to take responsibility for
managing it, would be selected at the beginning of the project and management of the system
would be turned over to the community as quickly as possible.
4.11   Table 4.2 gives a breakdown of the numbers and types of systems expected to be
requested by the 30 small towns to be served by the project; the actual numbers will depend on
demand and actual construction costs.



31
Table 4.2 Estimated Number of Small Town Water Supply Facilities
to be Constructed by CWSP1
Small Town
Region            Dug Wells        Boreholes      Piped Systems
Southem      Ashanti                65               20               4
Regions
Brong-Ahafo           45               20                3
Western               55               15                3
Northern     Northemn               85               30                8
Regions
Upper East            65               20                6
Upper West            65               20                6
TOTAL                380              125               30
1) Facilities for about 30 small towns.
4.12   The planning process would be much the same as used in the rural component starting
with Construction Grants Applications by the towns, establishment of Water and Sanitation
(WATSAN) Committees, preparation of Facilities and Management Plans, collection of
community contributions for the capital cost, and construction. During the mobilization process
Water User Groups (WUGs) (that is, households that collectively plan a water supply in their
area, manage it, and collect revenue to maintain it) would be identified and WATSAN
Committees representing them would be formed. In the case of piped systems serving more than
one WUG, a Water User Association (WUA), made up of one or more representatives of each
WATSAN Committee, would be formed to manage the system including operations, maintenance,
revenue collection, accounting and record keeping, and repairs. WATSAN Committees, unless
otherwise specified in the town Facilities and Management Plan, would collect revenue from
individual households and promote improved environmental sanitation and personal hygiene
practices.
4.13   An experienced local planning and design firm (or joint venture) would assist small towns
to mobilize for planning, formulate their Facilities and Management Plans, prepare engineering
designs and specifications, supervise construction, and train the Water User Associations and
WATSAN Committees to manage their facilities. They would be supported and managed by a
small team within GWSC based in Kumasi serving Ashanti, Brong-Ahafo and Western Regions.
4.14 SANITATION Sanitation facilities for households, schools and public places would also be
provided under this component (Annex 3-2) in the three southern regions. Similar to the rural
component, local artisans and contractors would have key roles in promotion and construction.
The appropriate pre-financing mechanism and local personnel responsible for coordinating the
program would need to be decided on a case by case basis. About 10% of the construction
budget for small towns would be set aside for sanitation. This could be higher or lower (5% to
15%) depending on demand.



32
4.15   HYGENE EDUCATiON As in the mrual component hygiene education would be integrated
into the process of mobilizing and training communities to manage their water supply and
sanitation facilities. While good water use -"actices and latrine use would be encouraged in this
component, greater emphasis would be placed on solid waste and drainage in small towns than in
rural communities. A hygiene education program in some local schools would also be
introduced.
PUwc AD PRUVATE SECTOR CAPACiT BULDING
4.16 PRivATE SECToR The private sector would be encouraged to take the lead role in
planning, construction, maintenance, and eauipment distribution for water supply and sanitation
facilities (Annex 3 4). Private firms and artisans would be contracted to provide these services
and where necessary would be given practical training and fmancial assistance through hire-
purchase arrangements. As far as possible reliance would be placed on existing NGOs and
private companies. Specifically, the project would work through the private sector to assist
communities to plan their water supply systems; to construct piped systems, boreholes, hand dug
wells and latrines; to supply pumps and spare parts; and to provide maintenance and repair
services to communities (para 6.1). As planning assistance to communities by Partner
Organizations and construction of hand dug wells by local contractors are both essential to the
success of the project, a Small Business Development Unit (i.e. an NOO experienced with
working with communities and dug well contractors) would be hired to help identify potential
Partner Organizations and dug well contractors and to provide training and on-the-job support to
them.
4.17 PUBuC SECrOR Through this component of the project the public sector, specifically
GWSC, would shift from providing services to facilitating private sector provision of goods and
services and community management. GWSC's Community Water and Sanitation Division would
be charged with managing the National CWS Program, and district assemblies would be
responsible for directly supporting communites to obtain improved services. Training of decision
makers, project personnel at the district and regional levels, teachers and community members is
essential. The training program outlined in Annex 3-5 should ensure development of adequate
capacity for the implementation of the National CWS Program. Activities include the refinement
of the training materials and methods needed for the both the rural communities and small towns
and traning of trainers in each region.
4.18 Project manag-ment would be the responsibility of the CWSD within GWSC at the
regional and national levels, while management at the district level would be the responsibility of
individual districts and their DWSTs. The roles and responsibilities of GWSC and the district
assemblies are summarized in paras 3.11 to 3.18 and given in more detail in Annex 1-2. Suitable
consultants as required will be appointed by GWSC on terms and conditions agreeable to IDA to
assist with project implementation (para 6.1). Consultant services by international specialists
would be used only on a short term basis and for specific inputs. While the GOG would pay all
district and GWSC CWSD salaries and operational costs in the long run, IDA would finance a
part of these incremental costs on a declining basis in the CWS Project.



33
D.    Cosrs
4.19  The estimated total cost of the project is US$27.0 million (including taxes and physical
and price contingencies) with a foreign exchange component of US$15.4 million equivalent or
about 60% of the total project cost as summarized in Table 4.3 below. Detailed cost estimates
are provided in Annex 2-1. The project cost includes an estimated US$9.2 million for water
supply and sanitation facilities in rural communities (34%), US$10.3 million for water supply and
sanitation facilities in small towns (38 %), US$7.5 million for capacity building for the public and
private sectors (28%) of which US$0.55 million was for a project preparation advance. Base
costs are expressed in expected January 1994 prices. Import duties and taxes on project related
components are estimated at US$0.9 million equivalent. Physical contingencies have been set at
5%; while this is lower than normal, the number of water points to be constructed can be more or
less than the number estimated during project preparation depending on the mnix of technologies
selected by communities, the actual zost of each type of system and the available budget. Local
inflation rates used to estimate price contingencies are 22.2%, 17.5%, 12.5%, 10%, 10%, 10%,
and 10% for FY1994 through 2000 respectively and international inflation rates are 2.0%, 3.2%,
3.0%, 2.8%, 2.6%, 2.5%, and 2.5 %. Exchangc rates (cedis per US dollar) used are 810 (835
at negotiadons), 1025, 1120, 1390, 1280, 1375, and 1475 for FY1994 through 2000.
Table 4.3 Estimated Project Cost
Local     Foreign       Total
Component                                          (US$ million)
Rural Water and Sanitation                       3.03       4.91        7.94
Small Towns Water and Sanitation                 3.74       5.13        8.87
Capacity Building for Public and Private Sector  2.80        3.16       5.96
PPF                                              0.19       0.36        0.55
BASE COST (Jan. 1994)                     9.76       13.56       23.32
Physical Contingencies                          0.55        0.72        1.27
Price Contingencies                              1.28        1.13       2.41
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       11.59       15.41       27.00
E.    FINANCING
4.20  The IDA credit would finance training, technical assistance and rural water and sanitation
facilitie& in the Ashanti, Brong-Ahafo, Norhern and Western Regions, as well as small towns
water and sanitation facilities in Ashanti, Brong-Ahafo, Western, Northern, Upper East and
Upper West Regions. CT' ' would provide training and technical assistance for the small towns
component in the Northern, UJpper East and Upper West Regions as part of its continuing
assistance program there.



34
4.21 The financing plan is given in Table 4.4 below. It is proposed that US$21.96 million
(80% of total project costs net of taxes) would be financed from IDA funds. The Government of
Canada would finance US$1.68 million, and the Government of Ghana would finance US$2.46
million in equivalent local costs, and the communities would finance US$0.90 million in
equivalent local costs. The IDA loan would be made to the Republic of Ghana and would be
passed on to the implementing agency under the terms of a finacing agreement with GWSC.
The project would require amnual budgetay allocations from the Government of about 60
million in 1994, 245 million in 1995, 1520 million in 1996, 830 million in 1997, 800
million in 1998, C300 million in 1999 for a total of C2,755 million (US$2.46 million). Requisite
funds would be allocated for the Public Investment Program.
Table 4.4 Project Fbncing Plan
Local    Foreign      Total
Sources of Funds                          (US$ million)
Government of Ghana                 2.46       0.00       2.46
Comnmuities                         0.90       0.00       0.90
Govermnent of Canada                0.62       1.06       1.68
IDA                                 7.61      14.35      21.96
TOTAL SOURCES               11.59       15.41      27.00
COST RECOVERY
4.22  Communities, schools and health clinics would be required to pay about 5 to 10 percent
of the capital cost of a basic water supply and public sanitation facilities plus half the added cost
of higher levels of service, and individuals would be required to pay half the cost of household
latrines, plus the full added cost of higher levels of service (para 6.1). Conunities would also
be required to pay all recurrent costs for normal operations, maintenance and repairs. Specific
cost sharing figures are given in Annex 1-2 and the Implementation Manual. These would be
reviewed annually and modified as required.
F.    IPLEMENTATION PLAN
IMPLENnTNG AGENCY
4.23  The GOG has (a) signed a Letter of Sector Policy for rural water supply; (b) approved
Policies and Guidelines and an Institutional Plan for its new National Community Water and
Sanitation Program; (c) entered into a Performance Contract with GWSC to manage the Program,
including the IDA-financed Community Water and Sanitation Project (CWSP); (d) agreed to carry
out the IDA-financed project in accordance with the Implemention Manual and not to amend it
without IDA agreement; and will enter into a Financing Agreement with GWSC through which
the proceeds of the credit would be passed on by Government in grant form to GWSC (para 6.1).
A Community Water Supply Division (CWSD), separate from GWSC's Urban Water Supply



35
Division whose head reports directly to GWSC's Managing Director, has been established for this
purpose. In addition, an action plan for restructuring the overall water sector was agreed upon
during negotiations and is given in Annex 1-4. The Action Plan will comprise (a) appointmnent of
a steering committee; (b) selection of consultants (to be financed under a Japanese grant) to assess
the feasibility of restructuring options; (c) workshop to review consultant report and recommend
options; (d) decision by the Minister of Works and Housing to adopt a restructuring option; (e)
preparation of a detailed implementation plan; and (f) implementation of the detailed plan.
4.24   Contractual terms for personnel to be employed in GWSC's CWSD (including fixed term
contracts) that are as competitive as possible with the private sector have been approved by
GWSC's Board of Directors. This is linked with GWSC's current effort to restructure its salary
and benefit packages for all employees. Over a five year period some 100 professional and 200
support staff will be recruited for the CWSD, including the transfer of about 25 professional staff
currently involved in GWSC's rural operations. To prepare for the project GWSC has also
established offices for the CWSD in Accra, Kumasi and Sunyani; and District Water and
Sanitation Teams have been formed in two districts in Brong-Ahafo Region. Refer to Annex 1-2
of this report and the chapter on project management in the Implementation Manual for more
infornation regarding staffing and scheduling of project start-up and expansion.
4.25 RURAL CONMUNnTIES The water and sanitation component in rural communities would
be managed by Regional Water and Sanitation Teams within GWSC's CWSD, headed by a
Regional CWS Coordinator and made up of specialists in community development, health, water
and sanitation engineering, hydrogeology, accounting and contract management. Each team
would be fully responsible for implementing the National CWS Program within its region and
each would receive assistance from headquarters personnel and a zonal training team. The
training team would be made up of several CWSD personnel and several training specialists
contracted through the TNC. In this way the project can strengthen the TNC while best ensuring
that lessons being learned by their staff in other regions would be immediately shared with the
project. The training unit would be responsible for refining training materials and methods and
training trainers in each region. As part of this they would organize training for specialist groups
formed from personnel in each region who would meet regularly to draw on one another's
experience. In addition, a Small Business Development Unit (national NGO specializing in rural
water and sanitation) would be contracted to provide technical assistance to partner organizations
and hand dug well contractors.
4.26  In addition to the TNC and SBDU, local and international specialists in participatory
training, training materials preparation, water engineering and financial management, plus others
as required would be made available to the project through a firm experienced in commnunity
managed water supply. Key individuals would visit for short periods from time to time to
advise/train project p.ersonnel and to assist with monitoring and evaluation. A local person
employed by the international firm would liaise with the Technical and Training Coordinators at
GWSC's headquarters, TNC personnel, and would work closely with each of the Regional CWS
Coordinators. He/she would provide ongoing monitoring and evaluation, advise on project
implementation, and ar nge for short term consulting services from the local and international
specialists noted above.
4.27 SMALL TowNs The water and sanitation components in small towns would be managed
by Small Towns Units based in Tamale and Kumasi, serving the northern and southern three
regions respectively. The northern unit already exists under a Canadian assisted project; the
southern unit would be formed during first six months of project as part of GWSC's CWSD and



36
supported administratively by the RWST in Ashanti Region. The unit would be staffed by
specialists in community development, water and sanitation engineering, and hygiene education,
one of whom would be the team leader. The Unit would work closely with and be responsible to
GWSC Regional Directors and Regional CWS Coordinators. They would be assisted by the short
terms consultants hired internationally (para 4.25). Technical assistance would be contracted to a
local firm to help small towns mobilize for planning, develop facilities and managil-nent plans,
prepare designs and specifications, supervise construction, and train Water User Associations and
WATSAN Committees to manage their systems.
PROJECT START-UP
4.28   During the preparatory phase of the Project, the following actions were completed:
(a)    Policies and Guidelines, Institutional Plan and draft Letter of Sector Policy for the
National Community Water and Sanitation Program were prepared, approved by
GWSC's Board of Directors and submitted to the MWH and IDA.
(b)    The Letter of Sector Policy and GWSC's 1994 Performance Contract were signed.
(c)    A Conmnunity Water and Sanitation Division within GWSC was established that is
financially independent of its urban operations and whose head reports directly to
the Managing Director.
(d)   Contractual terms for personnel to be employed in GWSC's CWS Division, that
are as competitive as possible with the private sector, including fixed term
contracts, were formulated and approved by GWSC's Board of Directors.
(e)    Contracts were signed with the Training Network Center and Small Business
Development Unit for their assistance during the PPF-fmnanced phase.
(f)    CWS Division offices were established in Accra, Kumasi and Sunyani. Also key
personnel needed for the start-up phase of the Project were either assigned to the
Project from within GWSC or interviewed, shortlisted and invited to attend the
introductory workshop scheduled for April 1994, following which final selection
will be made. Key personnel include a headquarters technical coordinator (1),
headquarters accountant/procurement officer (1), regional accountant/contract
officer (1), regional community development and training officers (3), regional
water and sanitation engineers (3), and regional sanitary engineer (1).
(g)    Two District Water and Sanitation Teams were formed in Brong-Ahafo Region
and one Partner Organization was identified there.
4.29   During the start-up phase, project personnel will gain experience in going through the
project cycle (mobilization, planning, design and construction) with selected comnunities, and
initiating the district sanitation program. During this phase the initial participating districts in
Ashanti and Western Regions, and Partner Organizations and hand dug well contractors in all
three regions will be identified, small towns that would participate in the project would be
identified, and additional staff recruited. Additional information on project start-up is given in
Annex 2-2.
PROJZCT EXPANSION
4.30   The CWSP will start small and scale-up gradually, starting with two districts in Brong-
Ahafo Region during the start-up phase of the project (one year PPF-financed, pre-project phase
followed by the first six months after project effectiveness); expanding to the other three regions
after that (January 1995), adding about two new districts per region each year. In each



37
participating district about 10 communities per year would receive a water supply construction
grant allowing the construction typically of one or two water points each. This will require the
construction of about 1000 new water points and rehabilitation of about 170 existing handpumps
in the four regions during the project. Table 4.5 gives more detailed information about the
numbers of districts, commnunities and water supply systems expected to be involved in the project
each year. Planning activities will commence in all of the small towns in the first two years.
4.31   Prior to commencing activities in a region, a workshop would be held for regional and
district decision makers and organizations involved in the water sector. Thereafter, RWST
members would be available to address individual district assemblies to explain the CWS Program
to them and advise them on related opportunities and responsibilities. Districts can participate in
the project to varying degrees. In fact districts that want to participate fully would be required to
start by establishing a District Water and Sanitation Team including an offices and a budget for it,
setting up a district water and sanitation fund, and successfully implementing the household
sanitation component of the project. Thereafter, they would be given priority for participation in
the water supply and school components. During the six month period before a district begins
full participation in the project, a start-up workshop would be held to inform local decision
makers, line ministry staff and groups interested in becoming Partner Organizations about the
project, its design principles and their role in it. During this six month period a Small Business
Development Unit would identify potential Partner Organizations in the district and assist them to
make the best possible proposal to GWSC for their selection. When one has been selected the
SBDU would continue to provide management and technical advise to it for several years.
Table 4.5 Numbers of Districts, Communities and Water Supply Systems
Cumulative Totals
Year I  Year2   Year 3  Year4   YearS
Number of DWSTs (partial participaton)           0       3       6       9       10
Number of DWSTs (ful participation)              6       12     18      24       30
Number of rral communities with improved water supplies    35  IS0  300  550    700
Number of rural water points constructed        50     200     450      800    1000
Number of snall towns with planning complete     5      20      25      30       30
Number of small towns with construction complete  0      5      20      25       30
Number of household latrines constructed       200      600    1500    2500    4000
Number of schools participadng                   10     40      100    175      250
REVMWS
4.32   During negotations, the Government agreed that a mid-term project review will be
carried out involving IDA and relevant government agencies no later than December 1996 to
evaluate and assess: (i) overall progress made in project implementation with respect to key
monitoring indicators agreed with IDA; (ii) effectiveness of GWSC as the implementing
agency and districts as lead agencies at the local level; (iii) ability of communities to plan and
manage their water supply facilities including their record of payment of capital and normal
recurrent costs; (iv) effectiveness of Partner Organizations in assisting communities to plan
their water supply systems and training them to manage them and private contractors in
constructing water and sanitation facilities; and (v) effectiveness of sanitation and hygiene
education programs. GWSC will prepare, two montis ahead of time, the reports required for
a comprehensive mid-term review. In addition to the mid-term review, it was agreed that
anmual reviews will be completed no later than December 31st of each implementation year to



38
assess progress and evaluate performance during the past year and review and agree on the
work program and budgetary allocations for the following year with particular attention paid
to capacity building and the training program (para 6.1).
G.    IMPLEMIENTATION CYCLE IN RURAL COMMUNITIES AND SMALL TowNs
INFORUATION AND REQUEST
4.33   The CWSD would provide printed and other material for use by District Assembly
members, government and non-government field workers, schools and the National Literacy
Program. The media, district assemblymen, line agency personnel, NGOs and/or Partner
Organizations would disseminate inforrnation about the CWSP and help interested
communities to prepare an application for a construction grant. The DWST would visit the
community to verify and, if necessary, supplement the information given. All applications
would be reviewed by the DA sub-committee responsible for overseeing the CWSP, which
would endorse and forward them to the regional CWSD office. The CWSD would then
divide the applications into packages for assignment to POs.
MOBILIZ4TION AND PARTICIPATORY PROJECT PL4NNING
4.34   A project preparation contract would be drawn up for each community in a package,
and signed by the relevant PO, which would also receive an advance payment for each
contract. Copies of the contract would be forwarded to the DWST, which would make
regular visits to the communities concerned to supervise and support the PO activities, and
also promote coordination of this work with other related activities being carried out in the
same communities by other agencies. The POs would provide quarterly reports which the
DWST should forward, along with any other comments and observations, to the regional
CWSD office, which would be responsible for overall progress monitoring.
4.35   The second contract payment to the PO is conditional on community mobilization
criteria set out in the project preparation contracts being fulfilled. This would be assessed by
the DWST, with regional CWSD support. If the criteria are met, payment would be made
and the PO would continue with the participatory project planning phase. If the criteria are
not met and it can be shown that the extra work is required because of exceptional
circumstances, additional payment may be made for this work under an addendum to the
contract, and the PO would be authorized to carry out further mobilization work otherwise the
contract for that particular community would be terminated.
4.36   Management of the participatory planning phase would be the same as for
mobilization, except that the need may arise for specialized services such as hydraulic design
or hydrogeological investigations (prospecting for hand dug wells would be done POs using a
hand augur lent by the DWST). In these cases, the PO would make a request through the
DWST, which would pass it on to the regional CWSD for assignment to a consultant selected
through local competitive bidding. Under the terns of such contracts, the consultants would
be required to coordinate their activities with the PO, since they would often involve socially
sensitive work such as borehole siting, where the presence of the PO would be critical.
4.37   The final product of participatory planning is a Facilities and Management Plan setting
out the design of the water supply and any communal sanitation facilities, as well as details of
how the facilities are to be managed and financed and who is to undertake continuing hygiene



39
education. This would be checked by the DWST for completeness and any obvious errors,
and, if found satisfactory, forwarded to GWSC's regional CWSD office to check for
conformance to the CWSP Policies and Guidelines of the Ministry of Works and Housing. At
this tine the community would be required to show proof that its cash contribution to date
had been deposited in a bank account and in the case of piped systems in a signatory account
with the district assembly. Deposits would have been made in stages starting with a Z100 per
person application fee for all types of systems, plus a a5s0 per person fee if geophysical
surveying is required to site a borehole, plus a <1l,0O per person fee for piped system
design. In the case of hand dug wells no cash contribution beyond the application fee would
be required if the community uses self-help labor to dig down to the water table. In the case
of boreholes, a community may need to top up its contribution depending on the type of
handpump it purchases. And in the case of piped systems, a community would need to
deposit the balance to its contribution in a joint signatory account with the District Assembly
prior to a construction contract being let, part of this amnount could be set aside for operations
and maintenance if the conmumnity uses self-help labor to dig pipe trenches. Incomplete or
otherwise defective Facilities and Management Plans would be returned to the community/POs
for correction.
CONSTRUgHON
4.38 Approved Facilities and Management Plans would be packaged by CWSD and either
assigned to contractors previously selected or let to other contractors through local
competitive bidding. All construction contracts would require a pre-construction meeting at
the DWST office at which the contractor, community, Partner Organization and DWST would
be represented. A work schedule would be agreed upon and communities would reconfirm
their in-kind contributions.
4.39   During construction, the DWST would supervise and report on the progress of work
both by the contractor and the PO, whose project preparation contract continues with hygiene
education and community level capacity-building until a year after completion of the works.
When a borehole is drilled, the yield test may show a substantially greater or lesser yield than
that planned for, in which case further planning work with the community may be necessary.
This can be arranged under an addendum to the project preparation contract negotiated
between CWSD and the PO. On substantial completion of works, the CWSD would issue a
certificate of satisfactory completion, and pay the contractor any outstanding sums, excluding
the retention fee, which may be due. At a ceremony on site, the community would formally
take over the system and countersign the certificate of satisfactory completion.
FOLLOW-UP
4.40 During the first 12 months after completion of the works, whilst the community now
has full responsibility for the system, the contractor must make good any defects arising from
faulty workmanship or materials, and the PO must finalize its work, leaving the community
able to continue managing operations and maintenance and a continming hygiene education
program, having achieved the hygiene targets set during mobilization. Once the DWST
provides a satisfactory report, final payments would be made to the contractor and PO.
4.41 After the 12-month warranty period is over and the contractors and PO discharged,
the DWST would continue to monitor the project, focusing particularly on the length,
frequency and causes and remedies for interruptions in water supply, key factors which would
be needed for evaluating sustainability after five or ten years have passed.



40
Table 4.6 Community Level Project Cyde
Phase                                                Activities
Promotion        0 Publicity: Media, district assemblymen, line agencies, NGOs and other POs disseminate
information about the CWSP and promote community participation.
* Construction Grant Application: Community requests assistance through DA ' .r
financial assistance to improve its water supply facilities.
* Verifcation and review: Need and interest verified by DWST, endorsed by Di _. d
passed on to RWST.
Mobilization     * Project preparation contract: RWST contracts PO (local NGO) to provide training and
TA for communities. Assisted by SBDU PO fully qualified if initial contract completed
satisfactorily.
* Community mobilization: POs mobilize communities ensuring women and minority
group involvement in planning, strengthen/establish WATSAN Committees and facilitate
community needs assessment.
* Commitment fee: Community deposits C100 per person in WATSAN bank account.
* Action plan: Community takes action on improved hygiene and environmental sanitation
program it sets for itself.
* Mobilization assessment: DWST/RWST give approval to proceed with planning,
requires further mobilization or terminate support for community.
Participatory    * Preliminary design: Technical option and service level chosen by community with
Planning            technical assistance from PO/STPC.
3 Water source siting: After community shows proof of c500 per person deposit to
WATSAN bank account, CWSD authorizes local firm to confirm feasibility of proposed
water source and to site the proposed boreholes. No additional cash deposit required for
hand dug wells.
9 Continued mobilization: PO continues support to community hygiene/environmental
action program, strengthening WATSAN Committees and formation of WUAs for piped
systems.
* Facilites and Management Plan: With assistance of POs/STPCs community prepares
FMP giving proposed design, expected cost and managementlfmancing plan; submits it to
DWST including proof of deposit of cl,000 per person deposit to WATSAN bank
account for those wanting piped systems and full deposit of community cash contribution
for dug wells and boreholes.
* Appraisal of FMP: After endorsement of DA, FMP appraised by RWST. Dug wells
and boreholes approved for construction and piped systems approved for detailed design.
* Design: Piped systems designed.
Construction     * Community support: PO continues with hygiene training and strengthening of
POs/WUAs.
* Construction: Wells and boreholes assigned to construction contractors previously
selected, piped system works packaged for local tendering after community cash
contribution is paid in full.
* Certifhcation: WATSAN Committee, DWST and RWST sign certificate of completion
after system tested and commissioned.
Follow-up        * Warranty: Equipment suppliers, contractors and POs all on 12 month retention.
* Follow-up: PO consolidates WATSAN Committee and WUAs and supports
establishment of community management.
* Monitoring and Evaluation: PO, DWST and community carry out participatory
evaluation one year after woks are commissioned to check progress and sustainabdity.
DWST makes occasional visits to communities and always available to support them.
CWSD  Community Water and Sanitation Division    RWST      Regional Water and Sanitation Team
DA      District Assembly                        SBDU      Small Business Development Unit
DWST  District Water and Sanitation Team         STPC      Small Towns Planning Company
FMP    Facilities and Management Plan            WATSAN  Water and Sanitation
NGO    Non-governmental Organization             WUA       Water User Association
PO      Partner Organization



41
H.      ENVIRONMETAL ASPECIS
4.42    One of the principal objectives of this project is the improvement of enviromnental
health. It would, therefore, have a beneficial impact on the environment and the quality of
life. This primarily would be through improved sanitation and hygiene practices in the home
and around the community. There are some potentially negative impacts, however, which
must be considered during project implementation. The environmental category is B.
(a)   Improved water supplies bring more water for domestic use but also increase
sullage. Widwout proper drainage this results in ponded water and muddy areas
around water outlets (standpipes, yard taps, handpumps and wells) and along
conmmunity pathways, and the creation of potential guinea worm reservoirs and
mosquito breeding grounds. Provision of soakaway pits at water outlets and user
training regarding the proper management of water point surrounds would safeguard
against such problems and would be provided by the project. In addidon, the few
households that connect to a piped system and have multiple water fiues would be
required to install a septic tank and an adequately sized drain field.
(b)   Water wells are subject to contamination from surface water, livestock watering
troughs and latrines. Consequently, it is important that wells and well aprons are
designed to prevent contamination of the groundwater and that sources of
contamination are separated by minimum adequate distances. Both designs and
setback distances would be specified by the project.
(c)    Water quality can be a problem in coastal areas due to salt water intrsion of more
permeable aquifers and in some localized areas iron and manganese concentrations
are high. Water quality testing would be carried out for all water sources.
(d)   Water extrction in rural commnities is too small to affect groundwater resources
other than in the immediate surrounds of the well where the pumping capacity may
exceed the aquifer yield and result in damage to the pump, but not the environment.
Care would need be taken, particularly in small towns where higher yielding wells
are required, to ensure that well yields are sustainable and pumping rates do not
exceed yields. Similarly, spring fed and surface water supplies may not provide
sustainable supplies in both wet and dry seasons and in drought periods, and
extractions can adversely affect downstream users. In such cases a hydraulic study
would be made to assess the sustainability of the supply and potential impact on
downstream users. Actions would be taken as requited to mitigate these problems.
(e)    The project does not involve dams or resettlement.
1.      PROCUREMENT
4.43    The procurement methods for the items to be financed by IDA are summarized in
Table 4.7 and given in more detail in Amex2   The major types of procurement in the
project would be civil works, equipment and consultant services. Civil woriks would consist
prinarily of construction of small piped water supply systems, boreholes, hand dug wells and
latrines as well as for the rehabilitation of some existig boreholes. Equdpment would include
handpumps, electrical/mechanical equipment for piped water supply systems, vehicles and
office equipment. Consukals would be hired through five contracts: one with the Training
Network Center for Water and Waste Mamgement at the University of Science and
Technology, a second with a local Small Business Development Unit (NGO), a third with a
local planning/design firm experienced in participatory communication techniques, a fourth



42
with a geophysical survey company for well siting, and a fifth with a consulting firm to
provide local and international specialist services on an as need basis. Both project specific
and career related training would be provided.
4.44    Civil works valued at more than US$1.5 million per contract would be procured
through ICB, including one or two contracts for borehole construction with an estimated value
of US$6 million. All other civil works contracts would be let through LCB including some
thirty contracts for hand dug wells with an estimated value up to US$3 million, and six to
eight contracts for pipelines and storage tanks for piped water supply systems with an
estimated value up to US$5.5 million, giving an aggregate limit of US$8.5 million. In
addition some 2,000 contracts for household and public latrines with an aggregate limit of
US$1 million would be let through District Assemblies as intermediate financiers.
4.45    Goods valued at more than US$200,000 per contract would be procured through
ICB, including a single contract for 4-wheel vehicles valued at up to US$650,000 and another
for motorbikes valued at up to US$250,000. Goods valued at more than US$50,000 per
contract with an aggregate limit of US$200,000 would be procured through international
shopping. Goods of lesser value could be procured through local shopping based on at least
three quotations with an aggregate limit of US$100,000. The supply, installation and first
year servicing of handpumps (initial contract valued up to US$0.5 million and later direct
purchasing by beneficiaries under a voucher system up to a total value of US$1 million) and
electrical/mechanical equipment for piped water supply systems (six to eight contracts with an
aggregate value of up to US$1.5 million) would be procured through local competitive
bidding.
4.46    Procurement documentation and arrangements for each consultant contract valued at
US$25,000 or more would be subject to prior review by IDA. Contracts for works and
goods estimated to cost the equivalent if US$100,000 or more would also be subject to prior
review by IDA. Other contracts that tre below these limits but used repeatedly (including
dug wells, latrines and technical ass. ,tance for rural conununities) would also be subject to
prior review by IDA the first time they are employed in the project.
Table 4.7 Summary of Procrement Arrangements
(US$ millions Equivalent)
Project Component                 ICB        LCB        Other    TOTAL
Civil Works                         5.87       8.04        0.65       14.57
(5.52)     (7.00)     (0.36)     (12.87)
Equipment and Materials            0.91        2.51        0.20       3.62
(0.91)     (2.30)     (0.20)      (3.41)
Training & Consultant Services      0.00       0.00        6.10       6.10
(4.16)     (4.16)
Operating Costs                     0.00       0.00        2.16       2.16
(0.97)     (0.97)
PPF                                 0.00       0.00        0.55       0.55
(0.55)     (0.55)
TOTAL PROJECT                    6.7       10.55       9.66       27.00
(6.4)     (9.30)      (6.24)    (21.96)



43
4.47  Intenational competive bidding (ICB) would be used to hire the services of one or
two drilling companies to construct about 400 new boreholes. Procurement would be done
through a single tender procedure at the beginning of the project with work divided into two
lots along regional lines. A bidder could bid on either or both lots. Bids would be evaluated
on the price offered for a typical well geometry, but a bill of quantities valued by the bidder
would be used to price completed works. An annual price adjustment would be allowed.
ICB would also be used to purchase vehicles and motorbikes, each under a single contract but
with spaced delivery and price adjustment.
4.48 Local competitive bidding (LCB) would be used for hand dug wells, pipelines and
storage tanks for piped systems, electrical/mechanical equipment for piped systems, and
handpumps.
(a)    Hand dug wells: Some 1100 hand dug wells would be constructed under the
project. Potential contractors would have to go through a qualification
process: (i) meeting requirements for equipment and completion of civil
works; (ii) successfully completing an introductory training course; and (iii)
constructing about 40 wells under a first contract, starting with five during
which on the job training would be provided and then constructing additional
lots. Two companies per region would be contracted in the first year and at
least one additional one in each of the following two years. When there are at
least three filly qualified contractors in a region, wells would be packaged
and contracts let annually through local competitive bidding by either RWSTs
or District Assemblies. Districts would be required to pre-finance
construction but would be reimbursed by the project for eligible work
completed to specification.
(b)   Pipelines and Storage Tanks for Piped Systems: Civil works for piped
systems for about 16 rural communities and 30 small towns would be
packaged and let through one or more contracts each year.
(c)    Electrical/Mechanical Equipment for Piped Systems: Electrical/mechanical
equipment for piped systems for about 16 rural communities and 30 small
towns would be packaged and let through one or more contracts each year.
The contract would include equipment, installation, a one year warranty, and
a one year service contract renewable by the community for two additional
years at the quoted price.
(d)   Handpumps: The project would finance the purchase of about 850
handpunmps (250 high-lift and 600 low-lift) plus sufficient spare parts to fill
the distribution chain. At the beginning of the project about half of the total
number of pumps (125 high-lift and 300 low-lift) would be procured through
local competitive bidding procedures with delivery spaced over the first two
years. Suppliers could provide a low-lift (direct-action) handpump and/or a
high lift pmnp from a list of pumps that are currently used in Ghana and have
been approved by GWSC. These include the Ghana Modified India Mark H,
the Nira AF85 (or equivalent), the Afridev, and the Vergnet. Payment would
be such that the project would pay the national supplier 1/4 of the contract
price up front to facilitate purchase of the first pumps. Regional sales
representatives would then be paid up to the recommended sales price upon
installation (about 2/3 by the project through a voucher system and the balance
directly by the conmmunity). Additional pumps would be financed and



44
imported by the supplier. The bid price would include purchase, installation,
plus a one-year warranty and service contract, and require at least the
minimum after-sales maintenance and spare parts distribution services
specified in the bidding documents. The evaluated price would be based on
price (80%) and after sales maintenance and spare parts services (20%). Bid
prices would be quoted in US dollars with an annual price adjustment allowed
with the recommended sales price in Cedis adjusted accordingly.
4.49   Other tendering procedures would be used to contract consultant services, to
construct latrines, and to procure office equipment.
(a)    TNC and SBDU: Direct contracting would be used in the case of the TNC and
the SBDU, as both have unique qualifications. The TNC would provide the
services of one full time training specialist and other staff and associated
consultants to prepare and produce training materials needed by the project, to
train CWSD and DWST staff, and to monitor and evaluate key
implementation issues (Annex 3-5). Use of the TNC would help establish it
as a focal point in the country for rural water and sanitation training and
information. It would also ensure that lessons learned through similar
arrangements with projects in other regions would immediately be available to
the project and vice-versa. The SBDU would be contracted to provide
training and support to partner organizations and dug well contractors,
including preparation of relevant training materials (Annex 3-5). The NGO
scheduled to do this work has provided similar assistance to other local NGOs
in Ghana, and as such is uniquely qualified to do this type of work now.
(b)    Partner Organizations: At least four local NGOs in each participating region
would be selected and assigned a group of communities to help through the
planning cycle. Lump sum payments based on average times and costs for
each phase of the planning cycle (mobilization, planning and construction, and
follow-up) would be made. In cases where communities are not responding to
training, the DWST, RWST and Partner Organization would discuss the
situation and determine whether or not to invest more tine and effort with it.
To become fully qualified for future contracts a partner organization must
successfully assist 20 communities to get through the construction phase.
(c)    Small Towns Planning and Design: A consultant contract would be let to a
shortlisted local firm at the beginning of the project for mobilization, planning
including preparation of a facilities and management plan, design and
construction supervision of all small town systems in the southem three
regions (Brong-Ahafo, Ashanti and Western). Consultant selection would
follow the World Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants; and a short
list of qualified firms would be employed. CIDA has already made
arrangements for these services in the northern regions.
(d)    Household Latrines: Districts would pre-finance and let contracts for
household latrines (minimum 5 per contract) and the project would reimburse
them every three months for 50% of eligible costs (the other 50% would be
paid by the beneficiaries). DWSTs would pre-qualify local artisans annually
and arrange on-the-job training for them. Payment for household latrines
would be based on a lump sum basis, set by RWSTs each year in consultation
with experienced latrine artisans. Public facilities would be contracted



45
according to local tendering procedures for snall works and limited to pre-
qualified artisans and small contractors.
(f)    Specialist Services: A group of nat.onal and international specialists in
participatory training, training materials preparation, water engineering and
financial management, plus other skilled persons as required, would be
contracted through a shortlisted international finn following standard World
Bank hiring procedures for consultants. Key persons would make intermittent
visits to ensure continuity and shareholding in the project, but would not
assume management responsibilities.
(g)    Well Siting: A single well siting contract would be let at the beginning of the
project to a shortlisted local firm for all well siting required during the
project. An annual price adjustment would be allowed.
(h)   International shopping or the Inter-Agency Procurement Service Office
(IAPSO) would be used to procure most office equipment.
PROJECT PREPARATION FACILm  (PPF)
4.50  IDA has approved a PPF of US$550,000 equivalent to assist the Govenunent finance
early start-up of the project.
J.    DISBURSMENTS
4.51   The proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed over a 75 month period, from
September 1993 through December 1999, including the 9 month PPF fianced pre-project
phase from September 1993 through June 1994. The estimated disbursement schedule is
given in Annex 2-4. Table 4.8 gives the categories and proposed amounts to be financed out
of the IDA credit, and the percentage to be financed in each category.
Table 4.8 Disbursement of IIDA Creit
Amount of
Credit Allocated
Category                (US$ million)          % of Expendit-res to be Financed
Civil Works                12.42                 100% foreign and 75% local
Equipment                   3.18                 100% foreign and 75% local
Training & Consultants      3.87                 100% foreign and 90% local
Operating Costs             0.97          75% until June 30, 1997 and 25% thereafter
PPF                         0.55
Unallocated                 0.97
TOTAL               21.96
4.52   To facilitate disbursement, a Project Account in local currency would be opened with
an initial deposit by GOG of i150s million (estimated to finance three months' of GOG
eligible expenditures) as a condition of credit effeciveness (para 6.2). This would need to be
increased to about C300 million when the project is at maximum disbursement. Adequate
counterpart contributions acceptable to IDA will be allocated to cover the local counterpart



46
contribution for the project. The specific amount in local currency will be agreed with IDA
by October 31 each year and deposited into the Project Account on a quarterly basis (para 6.1
and Annex 2-4). All local counterpart funds and most IDA eligible expenditures paid in local
currency would be disbursed from the Project Account. IDA eligible expenditures disbursed
from the Project Account would be replenished from the Special Account as required.
4.53  In view of the large number of small works to be carried out under the project, an
imprest account would be opened in each participating region with an initial deposit of C25
million at the start of the project from the Project Account. The ceiling would be increased to
50 million in year three of the project to acconumodate the increased disbursements planned
for the second half of the project. The CWSD regional offices would have authority to make
payments for dug well and partner organization contracts, to replenish district Water and
Sanitation Accounts, and to maintain a petty cash account to cover their operational costs.
4.54   Applications for Replenishment of Regional Inprest Accounts would be prepared by
the RWSTs and processed according to the procedures given in Annex 2-4. Replenishment
requests would be accompanied by Statements of Expenditure and supporting documentation
including invoices, evidence of payments, and certification of works carried out and/or goods
supplied. Final payment of all construction contracts would include Certificates of
Completion and Acceptance signed by the community (advised by the Partner Organization
that is assisting them to plan their water supply facilities), the district and the RWST in the
case of water supply and public sanitation facilities, and by the household, district and RWST
in the case of household latrines.
4.55  Participating districts would be required to open Water and Sanitation Accounts in
local banks to which they would make an initial deposit to pre-finance latrines, and, later if
they choose, planning (Partner Organization) and hand dug well contracts. Eligible
expenditures for completed works would be reimbursed every quarter from Regional Imprest
Accounts on the basis of fully documented statements of expenditures and Certificates of
Completion and Acceptance signed by the community (advised by the Partner Organization
that is assisting them to plan their water supply facilities) and the district in the case of water
supply and public sanitation facilities, and by the household and district in the case of
household latrines. Participating communities would be required to open a bank account or
make other arrangements to secure their part of the capital cost. An initial deposit of
0O,000 per person would be required at the time that a community submits an application
for a construction grant (equal to their contribution for a single hand dug well), and the
community would be required to deposit the full amount of its share of the capital cost before
its facilities and management plan is approved and a construction contract is let.
4.56   A Special Account in foreign currency of up to US$1.0 million equivalent (estimated
to finance three months' IDA eligible expenditures) would be established in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Fifty percent of the authorized allocation
would be disbursed when the project becomes effective. The Special Account would be used
to replenish the Project Account for IDA eligible expenditures made in local currency and for
direct payment of IDA eligible expenditures made in dollars. In the rare case of a direct IDA-
payment to a third party, the amount should exceed $50,000. All direct IDA-payments must
be according to the procedures set out in The World Bank Disbursement Handbook (1992
edition). Punds in the Special Account cannot be mixed with other funds (such as counterpart
funds or funds from other donors).



47
4.57   Disbursements of the IDA credit would be fully documented except those of less than
US$100,000 equivalent for works, goods and services which may be disbursed against
Statements of ExperAitures. Supporting documents for the SOEs would be retained by
GWSC for review by auditors and IDA supervision missions. Disbursement and withdrawal
procedures are detailed in The World Bank Disbursement Handbook (1992 edition) and
outlined in Annex 24. All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the Development
Credit Agreement and the procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter.
K.    ACCOuNG, AUDrr AND REPORTING
4.58 The accounting for all Special Account transactions and for all other project-related
accounts would be maintained in accordance with international accounting standards. Training
of local staff in accounting procedures would be provided under the project as described in the
Inplementadon Manual. Independent auditors acceptable to IDA would be appointed as a
condition of project effectiveness (para 6.2). Annual financial statements of IDA-financed
compon,nts would be prepared and audited in accordance with international auditing
guidelines by suitably qualified independent auditors acceptable to IDA. By June 30th of
each year, the implementing agency would submit to IDA an auditor's report, management
report and audited financial statements for the Special Account, Project Accounts and SOEs
for the preceding calendar year, audited by an independent accountant acceptable to IDA, as
well as GWSC as a whole (para 6.1). Audits of the Water Sector Rehabilitation Project (Cr.
2039-OH) implemented by GWSC are current.
4.59 In addition to the annual auditing requirements specified in para 4.58, the CWSI)
would contract external auditors to audit the SOE statements and Special Account withdrawals
on a 6-monthly basis, and to assist headquarters and RWSTs to improve their accounting
practices. In particular, the auditors would examine if:
(a)   the procurement rules have been followed;
(b)   the withdrawals have taken place in accordance with project procedures;
(c)    SA funds have not been used to advance funds to beneficiaries;
(d)   no subprojects have been fimanced twice through other donor funds; and
(e)    SOE- fully document expenditures and include eligible expendit   only.
L.    REPoRTING AE SuPERVSON
4.60  Semi-annual progress reports covering all project components would be prepared by
each participating RWST, consolidated by GWSC, and sent to IDA within two months after
the end of each period. These reports would include: (a) progress against agreed
implementation and disbursement schedules and key performance indicators; and (b) work
programs and cost estimates for the coming year. The main purpose of the reports would be
to provide managers timely and updated information on implementation of project
components, highlighting issues and problem areas, recommending actions and commenting
on progress in resolving previous recommendations. Within six months of the project closing
date a Project Completion Report in accordance with IDA guidelines would be prepared by
the implementing agency and submitted to IDA. During negotiations, agreement was reached
on these reporting requirements.



48
4.61   A mid-tern project review would be carried out involving IDA and relevant
govermnent agencies not later than December 1996 to evaluate and assess: (a) overall progress
made in project implementation with respect to key monitoring indicators agreed with IDA
(Annex 2-5); (b) effectiveness of GWSC as the implementing agency and districts as lead
agencies at the local level; (c) ability of comnmunities to plan and manage their water supply
facilities including their record of payment of capital and normal recurrent costs; (d)
effectiveness of Partner Organizations in assisting communuities to plan their water supply
systems and training them to manage them and private contractors in constructing water and
sanitation facilities; and (e) effectiveness of sanitation and hygiene education programs.
GWSC would prepare, two months ahead of time, the reports required for a comprehensive
mid-term review. Based on the mid-term review, an Action Plan, acceptable to IDA would
be prepared by GWSC for the further implementation of the Project (para 6.1).
4.62  In addition to the mid-term review, annual reviews would be completed no later than
December 31st of each implementation year to assess progress and evaluate performance
during the past year and review and agree on the work progran and budgetary allocations for
the following year with particular attention paid to capacity building and the training programn
(para 6. 1).
M.   MONITORING AND EVALUATION
4.63   Monitoring and evaluation would be integrated into the everyday running of the
project at all levels and used to encourage innovation, team building, and local ownership of
the project, and getting all those associated with it to be active participants who feel their
ideas and initiatives are valued. To do this monitoring and evaluation must be participatoy,
drawing out people's ideas and encouraging them to be active partners in change. It must
also be structured, as issues and options need to be clearly defined and tested through
comparative studies between different regions, districts and communities. The big advantage
of this approach is that change and diversity can be introduced while avoiding the tendency of
developing different implementation strategies in each region at the whim of individual project
managers and advisors.
4.64   Everyone associated with the project would be involved in monitoring and evaluation
through either project or advisory groups. There would be two types of monitoring and
evaluation groups at each level: one project related (WATSAN, DWST, RWST, and CWSD),
and the other advisory (community, district, regional and national), each of whom would meet
at least once a year to discuss performance, policy and resources. The CWSD with the
assistance of the TNC would coordinate this effort and ensure that key issues are brought to
the attention of project staff and advisory groups and that the consensus emerging from
discussions at all levels is recorded and disseminated. Within the IDA-financed project
regions the zonal training team would take the lead in coordinating monitoring and evaluation
efforts.
4.65  Indicators for each project objective, associated targets, data collection methods and
monitoring groups for each are given in Annex 2-5.



49
V. PROJECT JUSIMCATION AND RISKS
A.    SOCAL IMPACT
HEALTH IMPACT
5.1    The project would help to improve the health status of rural residents by improving
hygiene through increasing the quantities of water consumed, and changing behavior through
hygiene education, by improving the quality of drinking water, and by improvements in
sanitation. All diarrhea related diseases transmitted by fecal-oral routes would be expected to
decline. Installation of handpumps and improved dug wells would also interrupt the
transmission of guinea worm.
POVERwY ALLEVlATON
5.2   The project targets the rural poor and improves the quality of their life by providing
convenient good quality water and sanitary latrines plus management training and hygiene
education. In doing so the project improves health, decreases the amount of time and effort
women must spend collecting water, and increases income generating opportunities and food
security. The project requires communities (water supply facilities) and households (latrines)
to apply for a construction grant, and builds capacity within the community to plan and
manage their facilities, enabling them to extend these skills to other development activities.
FAMiLY IMFACT
5.3    By providing water sources that are closer, more reliable and more plentiful, the
project would reduce the work burden of women and grls and make improved hygiene
possible for all members of the family. On the other hand, capital and recurrent contributions
towards improvements in water supply would impose and additional pressure on incomes.
Opportunities for women to participate at all levels of the project would help them develop
skills in decision-making, in management and other areas, which would be applicable to other
sectors.
B.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.4   The capital cost and resultant economic benefits of different technological options
were compared in a choice of technology analysis. For each technology, assumptions were
made about the demographic, economic, and community water use parameters of a typical
village. These were based to the extent possible, on the results of the field surveys. The two
parameters critcal to the quantification of water supply benefits, the value of time and the
price of water, were assumed to be inter-related such that the price of water was assumed
equal to the value of the time that was required to collect it (Rural Water Supply - The
Handpwnp Option, World Bank 1988). This assumption makes sense to the degree that a liter
of water collected from a source located close to the point of consumption is worth less than a
liter of water collected from a source further away from the point of consumption. However,
the health benefits that would likely result from an improved water supply were not
quantified, nor was value place on the water itself. The field surveys indicated that extensive



so
health education would be required to sensitize most people before the healft value of an
improved water supply is appreciated to the extent that communities would be prepared to
spend resources (time or money) to obtain this benefit.
5.5   For the four basic technology packages that were adopted for planning purposes, the
capital outlay per installation, and per capita, and annual (capital plus recurrent) costs per
installation and per cubic meter of water delivered were compared.
Table 5.1 Costs of Principle Technology Options
Capital Outlay      Annual Cost   Unit Cost
Technology            Total       Per Capita
(US$)        (US$)       (US$1yr)    (US$/m3)
Dug Well with Bucket         1,500         7.50           350         0.30
Dug Well with Handpump       2,300         11.50         525          0.45
Borehole with Handpump      10,000        33.00         2,500         0.95
Piped System (2500 pop.)    60,000        24.00        16,000         0.75
5.6   The consumer benefits in two ways from a closer water source: first, the price of the
original quantity consumed falls by the value of the time saved collecting it; and second, more
water is collected because of the reduced price. The total cost was subtracted from the total
benefits to enable the internal rate of return to be calculated over a 20 year period. The
following table presents the results of sensitivity analysis of the two parameters, value of time
and distance, for the four basic technology packages that were adopted for planning and
pricing purposes. From the results of the sensitivity testing, the technologies can be ranked,
based on their economic rates of return, in the order: dug well with bucket, dug well with
handpump, piped system (mains electric), and borehole with handpump - the same ranking as
suggested by the costs.
Table 5.2 Indicative Economic Rate of Return for Principal Technologies (%)
Distance (m)      Value of Time ($/hr.)
Pop.    Old      New      0.02     0.04      0.06
Dug Well with Bucket        200m   lOOOm    500m       20%      60%      135%
Dug Well with H/P           200m   1000m    500m        5%      25%       50%
Borehole with H/P           300m   lOOOm    500m    (5%)         5%       15%
Piped System               2500m   lOOOm    250m        5%      25%       45%
* Piped system connected to electric mains.
* Average per capita consumption 15 liters per day from a source 1000 meters from the
household, 20 liters at 500 meters, and 25 liters at 250 meters.
e Increasing old distance 50% (lSOOm) increases rate of return by a factor of 3.
Decreasing new distance 50% (SOOin) increases rate of return by a factor of 2.



51
C.    Ris
5.7   The project entails risk in trying to scale up investment based on community
management of water supply and sanitation services. This risk involves the ability of
GWSC's new Community Water and Sanitation Division to recruit qualified personnel and the
communities' ability to maintain their facilities. The effectiveness of Partner Organizations,
dug well contractors, and handpump distributors would have direct bearing on the success of
the project. To reduce the risk, implementation arrangements required the establishment of
regional offices, procurement of essential equipment and recruitmnent and training of key
personnel during the PPF period. Throughout the project particular attention would be paid
to the recruitment and training of CWSD and DWST personnel and private sector
participants. The National CWS Strategy upon which the IDA financed project is based on is
being used by other externally financed project. As a result training materials can be shared
and lesson learning between regions can result in improved implementation. If the project is
not undertaken, future development of the sector would remain constrained by inadequate
financing and human resources, and continued use of varied implementation strategies that
result in water supply systems that are not sustainable.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A.    AGREEmENTs Wi  GOG AND GWSC
6.1    During negotiations, confirmation and agreement was obtained from Government and
GWSC that:
(a)    The project would work through the private sector to assist communities to
plan their water supply systems; to construct piped systems, boreholes, hand
dug wells and latrines; to supply pumps and spare parts; and to provide
maintenance and repair services to communities (para 4.16).
(b)    Suitable consultants as required will be appointed by GWSC on terns and
conditions agreeable to IDA to assist with project implementation (para 4.18).
(c)    GWSC shall ensure that:
(i)   communities, schools and health clinics will pay part of the capital
cost for their water and sanitation facilities (para 4.22); and
(ii)   communities will own and manage their water and sanitation facilities
and will pay all normal operations, maintenance and repair costs (para
4.22).
(d)    The Borrower will enter into a performance contract with GWSC in which
performance indicators will be specified, and shall have a financing agreement
with GWSC under which the funds required for the project will be transferred
to GWSC (para 4.23).
(e)    GWSC will carry out the project in a( zordance with the Impleknentaon
Manual and shall not amend it without IDA's agreement (para 4.23).
(f)    GWSC will implement the agreed action plan (appended to the Minutes of
Negotiations) for improving the overall water sector in Ghana (para 4.23).



52
(g)    Adequate counterpart contributions acceptable to IDA will be allocated to
cover the local counterpart contribution for the project. The specific amount
in local currency will be agreed by October 31 each year with IDA and
deposited into the project account each quarter (para 4.52).
(h)    After credit effectiveness, by June 30 each year, GWSC will submit to the
IDA an auditor's report, management report and audited financial statements
of the Special Accounts, Project Accounts and SOEs for the preceding
calendar year, audited by an independent accountant acceptable to IDA, as
well as an audited report for the GWSC as a whole (para 4.58).
(i)    A mid-term project review will be carried out involving IDA and relevant
goveinment agencies not later than December 1996 to evaluate and assess: (i)
overall progress made in project implementation with respect to inter alia, key
monitoring indicators agreed with IDA; (ii) effectiveness of GWSC as the
implementing agency and districts as lead agencies at the local level; (iii)
ability of conununities to plan and manage their water supply facilities
including their record of payment of capital and normal recurrent costs; (iv)
effectiveness of Partner Organizations in assisting communities to plan their
water supply systems and training themn to manage them and private
contractors in constructing water and sanitation facilities; and (v) effectiveness
of sanitation and hygiene education programs. GWSC will prepare, two
months ahead of time, the reports required for a comprehensive mid-term
review. Based on the Mid-Term Review, an Action Plan, acceptable to IDA
will be prepared by GWSC for the further implementation of the project (para
4.61).
Oj)   In addition to the mid-term review, annual reviews will be held no later than
December 31st of each implementation year to assess progress and evaluate
performance during the past year and review and agree on the work program
and budgetary allocations for the following year with particular attention paid
to capacity building and the training program (para 4.62).
6.2    The following actions will be taken before effectiveness:
(a)    A Project Account in local currency will be opened with an initial deposit of
C150 million (para 4.52).
(b)    Auditors for the project will be appointed (para 4.58).
B.    RECOMMDATION
6.3    With the above agreements and actions, the proposed project would be suitable for an
IDA credit of SDR 15.9 million (US$21.96 million) equivalent to the Republic of Ghana.



53                           Asa 1-1
Page I of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
THE SECTOR INVESTMENT PLAN
A.    NATIONAL STRAEGY
1.    As part of the process of moving towards a national program for cormmunity water
supply and sanitation (CWS), and to establish the context for the first IDA supported project
in this sector, an overall itnp!ementation strategy was developed. Basic principles for the
program were agreed to by sector specialists and representatives of national and international
agencies involved in rural water supply in Ghana at the 1991 Kokrobite Workshop. These
included community management, district support for communities, and a Community Water
and Sanitation Division in GWSC headed by a deputy managing director. Workshop
recommendations were subsequently approved by the Minister of Works and Housing and the
Committee of Secretaries.
2.    As part of the preparation of the IDA financed CWS Project these principles were
elaborated on and refined through a series of national workshops. The outcome is the sector
investment plan, policies and guidelines, institutional plan, and letter of sector policy included
in Annexes 1-1 to 14. These are intended to form the basis for planning, implementatior.,
consultation with and coordination of ESAs, and long-term budgeting by CWSD and the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP). It is not in final form and is not
intended to ever be final, in the sense that the investment program, policies and guidelines,
and institutional arrangements will be reviewed continuously by individual projects and
updated annually during a national workshop.
B.    SIp
3.    Planning for many small, scattered, rural conmnunities requires flexibility, particularly
if communities are allowed to determine the type of system that they want. Projects that
identify in advance the communities and facilities to be provided can be implemented
relatively easily, but will not be sustainable, whereas plans that allow consumer choice and
provide financing to meet this demand are more likely to be sustained. While the sector
investment plan given here makes assumptions about the demand for different types of
facilities, these will need to be refmed as experience is gained, and the investment plan
updated annually.
4.    The SIP presents: (a) demographic information by community size and region;
(b) hand dug well potential by region; (c) anticipated demand for the various types of water
supply facilities by community size and region; (d) number of participating districts by year;
(e) expected implementation capacity and demand in terms of communities per district by
year; (f) number of new and rehabilitated systems by community size by region; (g) the
number of communities and population who would be served as a result; and ( h) the
estimated cost of the national program (planning, management, and construction) where
implementation capacity is limited first by human resources, then by financing, and later by
demand.



54                            Annex 1-1
Page 2 of 3
5.    The unit costs used for each type of facility are based on the work done in the choice
of technology analysis (SAR, Annex 3-7 and Implementation Manual, Chapter 12). Of the
more than 30 possible technology packages for which cost estimates were developed, four
'standard' packages were selected to be the basis for broader planning purposes. These are
hand dug wells without handpumps, hand dug wells with handpumps, boreholes with
handpumps, and small piped systems with electric powered pumps. The indication of
population served by each technology package are based on a consistent set of numbers which
relate well yields, pump capacities and per capita water use figures, to water use demands of
the population served from each facility.
C.    ANALYTICAL APPRoAcH
6.    The model uses demographic and existing coverage data as a baseline, and calculates a
potential implementation capacity and demand for new and rehabilitated systems.
Assumptions are provided in the tables for population projections by community size,
numbers of users per system, demand for hand dug wells, boreholes, and piped systems; and
implementation capacity in terms of numbers of communities per district per year served and
number of districts per region joining the national program each year. On this basis, the costs
and numbers of facilities required to fulfill any proportion of the total potential demand can be
calculated.
7.    At first human resources is likely to be the biggest constraint to increasing water
supply coverage. A scenario was therefore used where implementing capacity builds up as
individual districts are able to assist more communities each year and new districts join in the
national program. In each region, two districts start up in the first few years and three per
year thereafter until all districts in the region are covered. The assumptions and results are
shown in the following graph and tables.
D.    RsEuLTs
8.    Some of the results of this exercise are as follows:
(a)    a 15-year program entailing a capital outlay of about US$200 million
equivalent on new water supply facilities would meet the total potential
estimated demand until 2009, with about 11 million people served, or 80% of
the rural population;
(b)    with the expected mix of technologies, the approximate numbers of dug wells,
boreholes and piped systems installed would be 25,000, 7,500 and 500
respectively;
(c)   the software costs of delivering technical assistance, community mobilization,
hygiene education, participatory planning and follow-up would be around 15%
of the total cost; and
(d)   currently committed donor funds (including this IDA project) amount to
around US$50 million equivalent, and community contributions in the base
case scenario would amount to US$15 million equivalent. This leaves a
shortfall of around US$145 million equivalent, not including other investments
required for institutional strengthening, training development, etc.



55                              Annex 1-1
Page 3 of 3
Sector Investment Plan
300                                                                                       -100%
US$270 million investment over 15 years.
1      Con*tuction_ . 
4260                        Design                                                              80% 
-W~                    Plcnrdng _-{c
!200
ffi 2i~~~~O0verage i_-69 
~60%
1150
40% .a
4100
0                                                                                         0%
1995      1997       1999      2001       2003      2005       2007      2009
Year
Table 3.1  Strategic Investment Plan 1994-2009
Pomilation Senred 1990   Population Served 2009     Number of New Systems        Cost
Number      Rural     Nunber       Rural    Dug   Boreholes Boreholes Piped   US$
Of People   Coverage   of People   Coverage  Wells              Rehab.          (OOOs)
Region       (_COs)        )        (OOOS)       (
Ashanti        1,568         21%      2,284         84%    5,400    1,000      2,100    J30   46,800
Brong-Ahafo     920          23%       1,340        84%    2,600    1,100      1,300    70   31.800
Central         949          17%      1,383         77%    3,200      600      1,100    60   26.200
Eastern        1,405         18%      2,047         65%    3,800      900      1,500     70   34,100
reerAc=ra    282             4%         411         92%      700      600        100    40   13,500
Northern        987          22%       1,438        76%    2,200    1,300      1,300    60   33,100
Upper East      785         60%       1,144         84%    1,700      400      2,400    30   18,800
Upper West      456          88%        664         91%      600      200      2,000     10   10,400
Vota           1,124         23%       1,637        76%    3,400      800      1,500    70   31,400
WesOT           896          29%       1,305        82%    3,100      500      1,600    50   23,800
TOTAL          9,372         27%      13,653       79%   26,700    7,400    14,900    590  270,000



56                             Annex 1-2
Page 1 of 2
|  I                                                              II
I. 
4'                                                  X



57                                     Anneot 1-2
Page 2 of 2
Community Water and Sanitation Division
[ir ]  Headquarters CWSD
,  r 
Technical        MUrminirnng         Planning              Accounta           lntimal           Personnel
Cooritnator       Coordinator        Coorditnator        Procureme Omcer        Auditor            OHker
PFrlcng Offiee            ook-keeper                                     2 S t
2 Typists
3 Drivers
|   Regiona    Regional Water and Sanitation Teams
Coordiao 
|   F         u E       Scho& and         Training, ME           wterSuppy           Sanitation    MAccout iIS and
andLCD OffkwrJ      HE Of2r              CD OHker |Enginee                       Engineer      Centat= Officer|
Zonal Support Team (Cumas, Tamale and Acaa)                                                                   Support Staff.
Clerk
i    _1   gi TriningftE           Urban Water  ||] Training, &E      Urban SanTtason|
andCOOlicer          SupplyEngineer 1   and CDoficer         Engineer
Support Staff:
Seeretary
Typist
2 Drivers
District Management of Water and Sanitation
...........d  GWSC a  relevent irlin       atent
I        7  o~~~~istrict Che
l            ~~Executive 
Suonia       ond      Communitvr              iRral 
Hygiien Edualo        iDevelopment          WaerSupply 
Officer              01flcer            Technician 
* MNC also inciudes representaties of GWSC and reievent disMrc Une departrrets.



58                         Annex 1-3
Page I of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
L ET   oF SECrOR POLICY
January 12, 1994
Mr. Edward V. K. Jaycox
Vice President, Africa Region
The World Bank
WASHINGTON
Dear Mr. Jaycox,
Re: Letter of Sector Policy for Community Water and Sanitafion
The purpose of this letter is to describe the sector policies that we plan to follow
during implementation of the proposed Community Water and Sanitation Project (IDA).
Specific actions are included in the attached actiou plan.
Overall Development Strategy
The overall development strategy for community water supply is the decentralization
of planning and management of services. The Government's decentalization policy is
intended (i) to make districts more autonomous, more responsive to local needs, and better
able to assist communities to obtain improved services; and (ii) to make commnities decision
makers, owners, and managers of their water supply facilities. This is being achieved by
providing direct budget allocations to the districts to help them support local communities,
and by assisting commmnities to prepare Facilities and Management Plans, and by having
them manage operations and maintenance.
The National CWS Program will be demand driven, as resources will be channeled to
individual districts based on the demand for improved services by communities and district
performance in supporting them. As a condition for participating in the National CWS
Program, districts will be required to establish District Water and Sanitation Teams and to
establish revolving funds to help households, schools, clinics and communities to construct
latrines.
The private sector will be encouraged to provide all goods and services for
commnunity water and sanitation. This will increase implementation capacity, lead to more
widespread and sustainable coverage and increased employment opportunities in rural areas.
Procurement procedures will be designed to encourage the private sector (i) to help
communities to prepare their Water Supply Facilities and Management Plans; (ii) to conduct



Annex 1-3
Page 2 of 6
hydrologic surveys and design piped systems; (iii) to construct latrines, dug wells, boreholes
and piped systems; (iv) to help communities to operate and maintain their water supply
facilities; and (v) to distribute equipment and spare parts.
The public sector will play a facilitating role. On current institutional arrangement,
GWSC will be contracted by the GOG to manage the National Community Water and
Sanitation Construction Grant Program and to provide technical assistance to districts and
private sector participants. This arrangement will be reviewed in the first year of
implementation of the Project, in light of Government's proposed policy to commercialize the
urban operations of GWSC, and to bring the rural operations under the direct control of the
Ministry of Works and Housing. Districts will promote the National CWS Program amongst
their constituent communities, and assist them to obtain construction grants.
Sector Policy
We wish to increase access to water and sanitation for our people living in rural
communities and small towns. As indicated above, we intend to increase water supply
coverage and ensure sustainability through a combination of community management, private
sector provision of goods and services, and public sector promotion and support. We intend
to maximize health benefits by integrating water, sanitation and hygiene education
interventions. Individual communities will be directly responsible for the planning, operating
and maintaining their water supply systems and for collecting revenues to pay recurrent and
replacement costs. Communities may choose to contract operations, maintenance, repairs
and/or revenue collection functions to a private company or GWSC's Urban Water Supply
Division.
Urban and community water supplies would be differentiated on the basis of their
management with larger "urban systems" managed on a commercial basis by GWSC's Urban
Division, and smaller "community systems", requiring government subventions for the
foreseeable future, managed by the communities themselves. Community water supply would
include rural communities (less than 5,000 people) and small towns (the upper limit to be
determined). Regional projects will be encouraged to include small town water supply
components, so that experience can be gained in the process of establishing and supporting
community management of such systems.
Implementation The difference in approaches between urban and community water
supply necessitates that a Community Water and Sanitation Division be created in GWSC of
the Ministry of Works and Housing. This division will be managed by a Director and staffed
by a multi-disciplinary team of community development, health, water and sanitation
specialists at headquarters and regional offices within the RCC. These units in turn will work
to build capacity at the district level by helping interested district assemblies to form small
Water and Sanitation Teams and train them to take increasing responsibility for supporting
communities to obtain improved facilities. They will work within the Works Department of
the District Assemblies. Technical assistance to communities to help them plan and learn to
manage their systems in accordance with the Local Government law recently passed by
Parliament, will be contracted to local NGOs; construction will be done by private
contractors, with hand dug wells and household latrines employed wherever possible to
support small contractors and provide local employment opportunities; and repair and spare
parts services would be through private retailers and local mechanics.



60                          Annex 1-3
Page 3 of 6
Financing Although the Government will have the chief responsibility for funding the
National CWS Program, sustainability is based on community participation. In financial
terms this means that the beneficiaries would be required to pay part of the capital cost of
basic services and all of the recurrent costs of their water and sanitation facilities. Higher
levels of water and sanitation service are encouraged, but the beneficiaries would be required
to pay a substantial part of the added cost. Community contributions would be paid in cash
and in kind, where in-kind contributions correspond to the value of labor that is contributed
by the community. A rehabilitationfifnd, managed by GWSC's CWSD, would be established
by goverrnent to which individual conmmunities could apply through their DWST. The fund
would provide for cost sharing between the govenunent and communities for expensive
interventions su; h as when a borehole must be flushed or water supply facilities need to be
replaced or completely overhauled. To be eligible for assistance, communities would be
required to show records that annual preventive maintenance had been carried out.
Technolo2v Choice In a demand driven program individual communities first decide
whether or not they want to participate in the program and then decide the type of water
supply and sanitation system that they want, can afford, and can maintain. Different priced
water supply options for both point sources and piped systems and information materials,
easily understood by community groups, showing typical designs and costs (capital and
recurrent) must be available. Technology options will include dug wells with and without
handpumps, boreholes with either direct-action or high-lift handpumps, and small piped
systems utilizing either groundwater or surface water with appropriate pumping and treatment
units. Latrines have been a problem because of their high cost; it is therefore important that a
range of different cost designs for improved sanitation be promoted through the National
CWS/S Program, both for household and public use. Technologies would include the single
pit VIP latrine, the sanplat and Mozambique type latrines with and without a vent pipe, and in
some cases the twin pit VIP latrine. Multiple pit VIP latrines (privately operated) would be
used at health centers, markets and other public places.
Construction Construction will be done by private companies and awarded through
competitive bidding, but would allow for in-kind community labor. For example,
communities should be given credit for the construction of hand dug wells and pipe trenches
as part of their capital cost contribution. The National Community Water and Sanitation
Strategy's reliance on the private sector for construction services, does not provide a role for
GWSC's maintenance unit, and its ongoing support results in unfair competition with private
drillers. A review of GWSC's drilling unit will be made with a view toward privatization.
Operations and Maintenance Maintenance of point source water supply systems (wells
and spring catchments) would be the responsibility of individual communities with day-to-day
management provided by their water and sanitation committees. The Water and Sanitation
Committees would supervise use of the pump, collect revenues for recurrent costs, keep
accounts, and make repairs therselves or hire the services of a private mechanic. Several
water and sanitation committee members in each community (normally women) would be
trained to perform all normal maintenance and repairs, and several local mechanics, including
representatives of handpump suppliers, would be trained to make all types of repairs. The
way in which communities pay for maintenance services would be changed from the current
tariff system to a payment-for-services system throughout the country. Maintenance of piped
water and sanitation systems would be the responsibility of the local municipality or Water



61                            Ane  3
Page 4 of 6
User Associations who normally would contract operation, maintenance and repair functions
to a private company or to GWSC. Water User Groups formed around one or more
standpipes would be billed by the Municipality or Water User Association on the basis of
metered water delivered to them. In the long run the best way to ensure that communities
have access to replacement components and spare parts is for local retailers to sell pumps,
appurtenances and spare parts, and install, warranty and service them. To encourage this, the
direct importation of pumps and spare parts by goverrnent and international agencies will be
phased out.
Action Plan An action plan for the National Community Water and Sanitation
Program generally, and the IDA-finance Community Water and Sanitation Project in
particular is outlined in the following table. Important actions needed to establish the
Program and monitoring indicators to track progress are listed.
Yours Sincerely,
[C.M.K. Sowul
Minister
kIg. Sqn. Ldr. C.M.K. Sowu (Rtd) MP



62                           Annex 1-3
Page 5 of 6
ACTION PLAN
Staffing and Offices
*   Establish GWCS's CWS Division.                                 December '93
*   Establish Regional Water and Sanitation Teams and offices for  December '93
them at headquarters, Brong Ahafo Region and Ashanti Region.
*   Establish District Water and Sanitation Teams in two districts in  March '93
Brong Ahafo Region.
*   Recruit at least 75% of the personnel needed in GWSC's CWS     December '94
Division for the IDA financed CWS Project Division and
establish RWST offices in all participating regions.
*   Establish Regional Water and Sanitation Teams and offices for  December '95
them in all regions.
E Establish District Water and Sanitation Teams in at least half of  December '97
all districts in all regions.
Private Sector Support
*   Fully pre-qualify at least 4 dug well contractors (i.e. equip and  July '95
construct at least 10 dug wells to specification) in Brong Ahafo,
Western and Ashanti Regions.
*   Fully pre-qualify at least 4 dug well contractors (i.e. equip and  December '97
construct at least 10 dug wells to specification) in all regions.
*   Fully pre-qualify at least 4 Partner Organizations (i.e. equip and  July '95
successfully assist 10 communities to prepare Facilities and
Management Plans) in Brong Ahafo, Woestern and Ashanti
Regions.
*   Fully pre-qualify at least 4 Paner Organizations (i.e. equip and  December '97
successfully assist 10 communities to prepare Facilities and
Management Plans) in aU regions.
*   Establish regional equipment and spare pans oudets for         December '94
handpumps in Brong Ahafo, Western, Ashanti and Northern
Regions.
*   Establish regional equipment and spare parts outlets for       December '96
handpumps in all regions.
*   Privatize and/or make fully autonomous GWSC's Drilling Unit.      July '95



63                             Annex 1-3
Page 6 of 6
Policies and Guidelines
*   Prepare/update policies and guidelines for National CWS         Annually
Construction Grants Program.
*   Prepare annual monitoring and evaluation report including       Annually
assessment of targets set in GWSC's Performance Contract for
Community Water Supply, and preparation of an evaluation
report on key issues affecting implementation of the National
CWS Program as specified in annual workplan. Implementation
issues to include sustainability/performance of Community
WATSAN Units and Water User Associations, partner
organizations and hand dug well contractors;
suitability/effectiveness of training methods/materials for
communities and schools; and availability of spare padts and
performance of private handpump mechanics and operators of
small town water supply systems.
*   Update designs, specifications and sample bidding documents for  Annually
CWS.
* Update implementation manual.                                   Annually
Finanong
*   While GWSC's Urban Water Supply Division is to be financially  Annual budgeting
indepenlent, its Community Water and Sanitation Division must   Monthly replenishment
be fmanced through the Public Investment Program. Funds for
personnel, operation, and counterpart construction funds will be
budgeted for annually and GWSC's CWS Account will be
replenished monthly.
Management
*   Computerized Management Information System for the National     March '94
CWS Program will be established to inventory water resources
and water supply facilities, track contracts, and keep expenditure
accounts.
*   Conduct semi-annual review of regional project accounts and  Semi-annual reviews
status of planning and construction contracts as well as an official  Annual audit
annual audit.
Water and Sanitation Coverage
*   The IDA financed CWS Project will provide water supply       30% by July '96
facilities for about 700 rural communities (some 1000 point  100% by July '99
sources and 15 piped systems) and 10 small towns in Brong
Ahafo, Western, and Ashanti Regions. Plus, about 20 systems
for small towns in Northern, Upper East and Upper West
Regions as part of the CIDA-financed GAP Project.
*   Nationally, the existing 10,000 handpump-based systems will be  70% by January '98
converted to community management.                         100% by January '00
*   Rural water supply coverage.                                35% by January '98
50% by January '01
80% by January '04



64
Annex 14
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
AcTION  N  FOR WATER SECfOR RESTRucTURING
1.    The Ghanaian delegation reaffirmed the Government's intention to restructure the
institutional arrangements in the water supply and sewerage sector in order to improve
management and operation. The objectives would be to ensure an adequate and reliable water
supply in both urban and rural areas and to improve the efficiency, effectiveness and
replicability of water supply operations. Restructuring of the sector would be undertaken
within the Government's overall decentralization policy. Autonomy and financial viability of
the water utiity(ies) would be important means of achieving these objectives.
2.    The delegation confirned that the Government, through the Ministry of Works and
Housing, will carry out an Action Plan leading to the restructuring of the water supply and
sewerage sector. This action plan will comprise the following phases:
(a)    Appointment of a Steering Committee to oversee the restructuring process.
(b)    Selection of consultants (to be financed under a Japanese Grant) who would
work under the Steering Committee to assess the feasibility of restructuring
options; while the first step of reorganization has been indicated
(decentralizaton of ATMA), staffing, financing and logistical options would
still need to be considered as well as new management systems.
Organizational issues such as the most appropriate location for the present
rural water supply activity of GWSC and the possibility of improving
efficiency of some functions by introducing private sector participation could
also be considered.
(c)    Workshop attended by key water sector and other relevant participants to
discuss the Report of the Consultants and to make recommendations to the
Minister of Works and Housing.
(d)    Decision by the Minister of Works and Housing (the Government) to adopt a
recommended resrhucring option.
(e)    Preparation by MWH, with assistance of Consultants, of a detailed
implementation plan and an analysis of the resource needs and other financial
implications to implement the adopted restructuring option. At the same time,
consultants could begin to outline possible medium and longer-term
development options which could be considered at a later time.
(t)   Implementation of this detailed plan.



65                           Annex 1-4
Page 2 of 2
3.    The Steering Committee would have some 8-10 members, including representatives of
relevant ministries (MWH being chairman), GWSC (including a few Regional Directors),
consumers, chaamber of commerce, academia, etc. The Workshop would be attended by
representatives of relevant Government ministries and agencies, chamber of commerce,
consumers, academia, bilateral and multilateral aid agencies, etc. The Consultants would help
facilitate the Workshop.
4.    The Ghanaian delegation confirmed that the Government, through the Ministry of
Works and Housing, will undertake the following steps to implement the above-mentioned
action plan:
Action                           Completion Dates
1.   Preparation of TORs and appointment of Steering Committee and   March 1994
Consultants; Bank will send draft TOR to MWH for approval.
2.   Preparation of Report on analysis of selected restructuring options  June 1994
3.   Holding Workshop - Decision by the Government              July 1994
4.   Preparation of detailed implementation plan for adopted    August 1994
restructuring option
5.   Implementation                                             From 1/1/1995
5.    The Ghanaian delegation was informed that, to assist the Government in the water
sector restructuring exercise, the Bank has obtained Yen 20.1 Million (grant) from the
Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) Fund to finance consulting
services. The Bank will send an appropriate legal document for signing by the Government.



Communitly Wtew and Saniahon Proct
Table 1. Rural Waler Supply and Santton
Detailed Costs
ase Costs MRSS IOs)                                  Total Costs ( W `00s)                 Beakdown of Totas (11510OOO)
194    1995      1996     1997    1998       Totol    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998         htO   Foreign     Loc       TOes
1. NVETMECOSS
1. Hnd DuM Web
Handdugwelconstwucon                 28.2    84.5    140.8    197.1   112.6       5630     28.6    92.6   163.6   2379    139A4       6.2       270.1     359.0       33.1
Handpumpisppuyandsdlatlon             23.7    15.8       58      158      7.9       789     24.9    17.3    18.0    18.6       9.5      88.2      67.0       13.7       7.6
SutotdHandOugWels                       51.8   100.2    166.5    212.8   120D.       641.9    53.5   109.9   181.6   256.5    148.9    760.4       337.1      372.7      40.6
2. 9oreholes
Boehole conrIuction                   27.6    82.6    137.7    192.7   110.1       550.7    28.9    90.8   157.3   226.9   132.6       664       480.7      123.9      31.8
Hanpumsuppl yandlntan  loon           20.7    13.8      13.8     13.8     6.9       69.0    21.8    15.2    16.7    162        8.3      77.2      58.6       120        6.6
Sutotd80oreoles                         48.2    96A      151.5    206.5   117.0      619.7    50.7   105.9   173.1   243.1    140.9      7134      5394       135.9      38A
3. Piped Systerr
Borehole oorstructIon                  7.1    21A       35.6     49.9    28.5      142.6     7.5    23.6    40.7    58.7    34.3        Will    124.5        32.1       82
POeOeandstorogetar* cnrcttlon          6.0    18.0    30.1       42.1    24.1      120.3     6.2    19.8    34.8    60.5    29.6    140.8         71.5       622        7.0
Mech.&EBet.suppyaond      kiratlon     4A      13.3     22.2     31.1    17.7       88.7     4.7    14.6    25.3    36.5    21.3       1024       77.3       16A        8.7
Sutotal Pped Stems                      17.6    52.7      87.9    123.1    70.3      351.6    18.3    57.9   100.8   145.7    85.2       4.0       273.3      110.7      24.0
4. HaxdpuW    RQehtotlon
Boteholereleveloprmet                  2.5     7A       12.3     17.2     9.8       49.2     2.6     8.1    14.0    20.3      11.8      88        42.9      11.1        2.8
HandpuMV  upplyaondintlation          19.2    12.8      12.8     12.8     6A        64.1    20.2    14.1    14.6    15.1       7.7      7t.7      64S        11.1       6.1
Subtot1Hndp pRehabflltoJon              21.7    20.2      25.1     30.0    16.2      113.2    22.8    22.2    28.7    35.3      19.5      285       97.4       22.2       8.9
5.&Scnalton
LotTnecondstrucon                      4.3    12.9      21.6     30.1    17.2       85.9     4.      14.1    25.0    36.3    21.3      101.0      41.2       54.8       6.1
6.Pkarnn   (TAforcommunfltes)           10.5    41.9      734      62.9    21.0      209.6    10.6    46.0    85A      76.0    26.0      240        100.0     144.0       0.0
7.Wel Sthtna                             4.0    16.2      28.3     24.3     8.1       81.0     4.1    17.8    33.0     04       10.0      94        38.6      55.6        0.0
Subtotcl Aaii Region                       168.1   3406    544.2    689.7   370.3  2102.9   164A    373,8   627.5   8222    451.8'           9.8    1.426.9     895.9      117.0
1. Hand Dug Wels
Handdugwelconetucton                  21.9    65.8    109.7    153.6    87.8       439.0    22.3    72.2   127.6   185.5   108.7    516.3        210.6     279.9       25.8
Handpu     pjpplyard nstofond         19.2    12.8      12.8     12.8     6.4       64.1    20.2    14.1    14.6    15.1       7.7      75.7      54.6       11.1       6.1
SubtotaHCndDug Wels                     41.2    78.7    122.6    1656.     94.2    '.03.0    42.5    86.3   1422    200.6    116.4    588.0        265.1      291.0      31.9
2. Boreholes
Borehole construcio                   54.8   164.5    274.1    383.8   219.3    1,096.5    57.5   180.7   313.2   451.7   264.0  1,67.2          957.1     246.7       63.4
Handpump wpplyaondnstaltt on          41.4    27.6      27.6     27.6    13.8      138.0    43.5    30.3    31.5    324       16.6    15"        117.3      24.0       13.1
SubtotctBoreholes                       96.2   192.1    301.7    411.4   233.1    1.234.6   101.1   211.0   344.7   484.1    280.6   1A21 '6.074.4  -  270.7             76.5
3. Piped Sytem
Baeholeconstrucon                      7.1    214       35.6     49.9    28.5      142.6     7.5    23.5    40.7    58.7    34.3       1648      124.5      32.1        82
PtoeWnecndstoragetankcorsructlon       6.0    18.0    30.1       42.1    24.1      120.3     6.2    19.      34.8    50.5    29.6      140.8      71.5      622         7.0
Mech.& Elect. supply and ltallolion    44      13.3     22.2     31.1    17.7       88.7     4.7    14.6    25.3    36.S    21.3       1024       77.3      16A         8.7
Subtotal PpedSystem                     17.6    52.7      87.9    123.1    70.3      361.6    18.3    57.9   100.8   145.7    85.2    408.0        273.3      110.7      24.0        >
4. Hondpmnp Rehablltaflon
Borehole edeveopment                   2.5      7.4     12.3     17.2     9.8       49.2     2.6     8.1    14.0    20,3      11.8      56.8      42.9      11.1        2.8    9B
Hardpumpsupplvand ntldaon             19.2    12.8      12.8     12.8     6.4       64.1    20.2    14.1    14.6    15.1       7.7      71.7      64.5       11.1      6.1
Sbttadl anxupt   RehabltatIon          21.7    20.2      25.1     30.0    16.2      113.2    22.8    22.2    28.7    35.3      19.5    128.5       97A       22.2        89
S. SanitatIon
LaIn constucton                        5.5    16.5      27.4     384     21.9      109.7     5.6    18.1    31.9    46A       27.2    129.1       52.6      70.0        6.5     b.
6. Pkrng (TA for comunNitIes)            10.5    41.9     73.4     62.9    21.0      209.6    10.6    46.0    85.4    76.0    26.0    244.0        100.0      144.0       0.0
7. Wen 9SnO                              5.2    21.0      36.7     31.4    10.5      104.8     5.3    23.0    42.7    38.0    13.0    122.0         60.0      72D         0.0
Suboto WongAhafoReaon                      197.9   423.0    674.8    863.6   467.3    Z626.5   206.3   464A    776.3  1.026.1    567.9   3,041.1    1,912.7      980.6      1478



Community Water and Santatin Project
Table 1. Rural Water Supply and Sanitaon
Detailed Costs (confinued)
Base Costs MttSS OOOs)                               Total Cost M(US 'OS)                  Breakdown of Totals   000 )
1994    1995     1996     1997    1998       Totad    1994    1995    1996    1997     1998      Totia   Foreign     Locoi     Taxes
1. Hand Dug Wells
Handdug welconstructlon                6.0    17.9      29.8     41.8    23.9      119.3     6.1    19.6    34.7    50.4    29.5    1403          57.2       76.1       7.0
Handpump supply and isrtlallon         4.4     3.0       3.0      3.0     1.5       14.8     4.7     3.2      34      3.5      1.8      16.5      12.6       2.6        1.4
SubtotacandDug Wells                    10.4    20.9      32.8     44.7    25.3      134.1    10.7    22.9    38.0    53.9    31.3       1548       69.8       786        84
2. Boreholes
Borehole constlrutlon                 24.3    73.0    121.7    170.4    97.4       486.8    25.5    80.2   139.0   200.5    117.2    5626        424.9      109.5      28.1
Handpumpsupplyandlkstaclalon          17.7    11.8      11.8     11.8     5.9       59.1    18.7    13.0    13.5    13.9       7.1      66.2      50.3       103        5.6
Subtotaloreholes                        42.1    84.8    133.5    182.2   103.3       545.9    44.2    93.2   152.5   2144    124.3    628.7        475.2      119.8      33.8
3. Piped Systems
BoeholeconsLruclton                    4.4    13.3      22.1     31.0    17.7       88.5     4.6    14.6    25.3    36.5    21.3       1023       77.3       19.9       5.1
PlpelleOndstorge tankConstiuction      3.9    11.6      19.3     27.0    15.4       77.0     4.0    12.7    22.3    32.3      18.9      9Q1       45.8       39.8       4.5
Mech. & Elect. suppy and Instation     2.7     8.1      13.6     19.     10.8       54.2     2.9     8.9    1&5      22.3    13.0       626       47.2       10b        5.3
SubtotailpedSystems                     11.0    33.0      54.9     76.9    43.9      219.7    IIA      36.2    63.0    91.1     53.3    255.0       170.3      69.8      14.9
4. Handpump Rehabllltallon
Borehote redeveiopment                 1.0     3.0      4.9       6.9     3.9       19.7     1.0     3.2      5.6     8.1      4.7      27        17.2       4.4        1.1
Handpurmp suppty and instaoatIlon      7.4     4.9       4.9      4.9     2.5       24.6     7.8     54       5.6     5.8      3.0      22.6      20.9        4.3       2.3
Subtotai HandpumpRehabllltation          8.4      7.9      9.8     11.8     6A        44.3     8.8      8.7    112      13.9     7.7      50.3      38.1        8.7       3.5
5. SaoItation
Latr;ineconstructon                    2.4      7.2     11.9     16.7     9.5       47.7     2A       7.8    13.9    20.2     11.8     56&1       22.9       30.4       2.8
6. Pkwnnng (fAtorcommunltles)            3.6    14.3      25.0     21.4     7.1       71.4     3.6    15.7    29.1    25.9       8.9    8O.2        34.1       49.1       0.0
7.WellSting                              1.9      7.6     13.3     11.4     3.8       38.1     1.9     8.4    1S.5    13.8       4.7      4"4       18.2       26.2       0.0        o
Subtotal Northn Reogon                      79.7   175.6    281.4    365.2   199.4   1,101.3    83.2   192.8   323.3   433.2   242.0   1,2745          828.5     382.6       63.4        9
D, !elitn R5son
1. Hand iDug Welis
Hand dug wel constructIon             28.2    84.5    140.5    197.1   112.6       563.0    28.6    92.6   163.6   237.9    139.4    662.2       270.1      359.0      33.1
Handpump supply and Instoalction      23.7    15.8      15.8     15.8     7.9       78.9    24.9    17.3    18.0    18.5       9.5      88.2      67.0       13.7       7.5
SubtotalandDug Wels                     51.8   100.2    156.5    212.8   120.5       641.9    53.5   109.9   181.6   256.5   148.9    750.4        337.1      372.7      40.6
2. Boreholes
Borehole constructIon                 27.5    82.6    137.7    192.7   110.1       550.7    28.9    90.8   157.3   226.9    132.6      6.4       480.7      123.9      31.8
Handpump supply ond installation      20.7    13.8      13.8     13.8     6.9       69.0    21.8    15.2    15.7    16.2       8.3      772       58.6       12.0       6.6
Subtotaloreholes                        48.2    96.4    151.5    206.5   117.0       619.7    50.7   105.9   173.1   243.1    140.9    713.6       539.4      135.9      38.4
3. Piped Systems
Borehole construction                  7.1    21.4      35.6     49.9    28.5      142.6     7.5    23.5    40.7    58.7    34.3    164.8        124.5      32.1        8.2
Ploeline and storage tank construction  6.0    18.0     30.1     42.1    24.1      120.3     6.2    1S.8    34.8    505.    29.6    140.8         71.5      62.2        7.0
Mech.&Elect.supplyandinstallation      4.4    13.3      22.2     31.1    17.7       88.7     4.7    14.6    25.3    36.5    21.3       102A       77.3      16.4        8.7
SubtotllpedSystems                       17.6    52.7     87.9    123.1    70.3      351.6    18.3    57.9   100.8   145.7    85.2    408.0        273.3      110.7      24.0
4 Handpump Rehabllitotion
Boreholeredeveloprnent                 25      7.4      12.3     17.2     9.8       49.2     2.6     8.1    14.0    20.3      11.8      56.8      42.9      11.1        2.8     C
Handpumpsupplyand installation        192      12.8     12.8     12.8     6.4       64.1    20.2    14.1    14.6    15.1       7.7      71.7      54.5      11.1       6.1
Subtotalandpump RehbilitatIon           21.7    20.2      25.1     30.0    16.2      113.2    22.8    22.2    28.7    35.3    19.5       128.6      97.4       222        8.9    r 
5 Sanitalton
Latrine construction                   4.3    12.9      21.5     30.1    17.2       85.9     4.4    14.1    25.0    36.3      21.3    101.0       41 2      54.8        5.1 
6. Planning (TAfor communitos)          10.5    41.9      73.4     62.9    21.0      209.6    10.6    46.0    85.4    76.0    26.0    244.0        100.0      144.0       0.0
7. Wel Siting                            4.0    16.2      28.3     24.3     8.1       81.0     4.1    17.8    33.0    29.4    10.0        94.3      38.6      55.6        0.0     4
Subtotal Western regIon                    158.1   340.6    544.2    689.7   370.3   2,102.9   164.4   373.8   627.5   822.2   451.8   2,439.8    1426.9         895.       117.0
TOTALoriRUAL WMATER              593.8  1,279.7  2,044.5  2,608.2  1,407.4   7,933.6   618.3  1,404.9  2,354.6  3,103.7  1,713.6   9,19.1   5,595.1    3,155.0   445.1



Communy Water and Sanition Pojec
Table 2. Sinal Towns Water and Sanitaton
Detailed Costs
BaseCosts CUSSU))                                  Total Costsa CUNS0)                  Brekdadwn of Totals CUS MN(D)
1994    1995    1996     1997    1998      Totd    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998       TotS   Foreign     Local     Taxes
1. INVESTMEN COSTS
A. Nom tsdon
1. Hand Dug Wels
Handdugwellconstructlon              22A     67.3    112.1    157.0    89.7     448.5    22.8    73.8   130A    189.5   111.1    527.6       216.2     286.0      26.4
Handpumpsupplyond nstollaton         19.2    12.8    12.8      12.8     6.4      64.1    20.2    14.1    14.6    15.1      7.7      71.7      64.5      11.1      6.1
Subtotal Hand Dug Wetls                416    80.1    124.9    169.8    96.1      512.6    43.0    87.9   145.0   204.6   118.8    599.2       269.6     297.1      325
2. Boreholes
Boreholeconstruction                 21.6    64.9   108.2    151.4    86.5      432.7    22.7    71.3   123.6   178.3   104.2    600.1       377.7     97.4      25.0
Hdaypumpsupplymd nstdaflalon         16.3    10.8    10.8      10.8     54       54.2    17.1    11.9    12A      12.7     6.5     60.6       46.1      94        5.2
Subtotal Boreholes                     37.9    75.7    119.0    162.3    92.0     486.9    39.8    83.2   136.0   191.0   110.7    S60.7       423.8     106.8      30.2
3. PIped Systems
Borehole construction                40.8   122.4   204.1    285.7   163.2      816.2    42.8   134.5  233.1   336.3   196.5    943.3        712.5     183.6     47.2
Pethe oncd storoge tank construction  130.2   390.6   651.0    911.3   520.8   Z603.8   133.7   428.5   753.0  1,092.3   639.6   3,04J.0   1.548.0   1.346.7    152.3
Mech.&Elect.supplyandInstalklflon    30.8    92.4    154.0    215.6   123.2    616.1    32.4   101.6   175.7   253.3   148.0    711.0        536.6     114.1      604
SubtotolPipedSystems                  201.8   605.4  1.009.0  1.412.7   8072    4.036.2   208.9   664.6  1,161.9  1,681.8   984.1   4,701.3    Z797.0   1,644.4    260.0
4. Sanitation
LaWne constrctIon                     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
5. Plannr  desIgn and constnictlon swp  37.2   148.6   260.1    222.9    74.3     743.1    37.7   162.9   302.6   269.5    92.1      50        354.5     510.5      0.0
6. Wel Slttno                           2.9    11.4    20.0      17.1     6.7      57.2     2.9    12.5   23.3    20.7       7.1      66.5      27.3      39.3      0.0
SubtotW Notern Regons                     321.4   921.3  1,533.1  1,984.8  1.07653    5.835.9   332.3  1.011.2  1.768.7  2.367,7  1,312.8   6,27    3,872.1   2,598.0  2.6         O
1. Hand Dug Wels
HOandugweonconstruction              11.2    33.6    56.1      78.5    44.9     224.3    11.4   36.9   65.2    94.8    55.5    263M          107.6     143.0     13.2
Handpumpsuppplandylstataalton         8.9     5.9      5.9      5.9     3.0      29.6     9.3     6.5     6.7     6.9      3.6     33.1       25.1      5.1       2.8
Subtotd HandDug Wels                   20.1    39.6    62.0      84.4    47.8     253.8    20.7    43.4    71.9   101.7    59.1    291.8       132.7     148.1      160
2. Boreholes
Borehole construction                10.8    32.5    64.1      75.7    43.3     216.3    11A    35.7    61.8    89.1    52.1      20.0       188.8     48.7       12.5
HaFnv p supply and  sabtlon           7A      4.9      4.9      4.9     2.5      24.6     7.8     5A      5.6     5.8      3.0     27.6      20.9       4.3       2.3
Subtot Boreholes                       182    37A       59.0     80.6    45.7     241.0    19.1    41.1    67A     94.9    55.1    277.6       209.8      53.0      14.8
3. Plped System
BOrehole consrtuctlon                20A     61.2    102.0    142.8    81.6     408.1    21A    67.3   116.6   16.1    98.3    471.6        356.2      91.8      23.6
Ppsene and stoge tank construction   65.0   194.9   324.9    454.8   259.9   1,299.5    66.7   213.9   375.8   545.1   319.2   1,520.7       772.6     672.1     76.0
Mech. & Elect. supply and inroaton   15.3    45.8    76A    107.0    61.1       305.6    16.1    50.4    87.2   125.6    73.4    35.         266.1      56.6     30.0
Subtot ipedSystems                    100.7   302.0   503.3    704.6   402.6   Z013.2   104.2   331.5   579.5   838.9   490.9  2,3450    1.394.9         820.6     129.6
4. SanItaton
Latldneconsthuctlon                   6.2    18.6    31.0      43A     24.8     124.1     6.3    20.4   36.1    52.4    30.7    145.9        59.5       79.1      7.3
5.Panr*bg,desIgnandconstructtoonupeR~    18.6    74.3   130.0    111.5    37.2    371.5    18.9    81.5   151.3   134.8    46.1    43          177.2    255.3       0.0   O Q
6.WeIlStng                              1.4     5.7    10.0       8.6     2.9      28.6     1.5    6.3    11.6    10A        3.5      S"        13.6      19.6      0.0
Subtotci8outhewnReatcNs                   165.2   477.5   795.3  1,033.1   561.0   3,0322    170.7   524.1   917.9  1,233.1   6854    351        1,987.8   1,375.6    167.7
TOTAL 1  MALTOWS                 466.  11,396.5  2,328A   3,017.9  1436.3   6*68.    503.  11,36.2  2466.6  3,400.6  I,99.2  110,3=9    5,88.9   3,9736       490.3_



Cowinwly Waer and SanNabon Pr*ct
Tabe   Cqxcfty Biidkb    hI Publc and Pte Sectol
Detaied Costs
B-  costs C         -SS mm-s)                        Totd Costs CLS$ MQsM)                 OKcdown of Totas aS  WOs)
1994    1995     1996     1997    1998       Total    1994    1       1996    1997      1996     Tota   fo n         Locd  Tal   Tes
, rc omEum*f
1. Offmoe Renovation
CWSD                                  47.7     0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       47.7    50.8     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      50.8      22.4      26.0        2.6
DW.lb                                  8.      14.3     14.3     143      5.7       57.3     9.2    16.4    17A      18.1      7.4      68.6      28.3      36.8        3A
Sbtotad Office Renovation               56.3    14.3      14.3     14.3     5.7      105.0    60.0    16A      17A     18.1      7A      119.4      50.7       62.8       6.0
2. Offce Equipment
CWSD                                  63.8    21.3       0.0      0.0     0.0       85.0    68.0    23A       0.0     0.0      0.0      91A       91.4       0.0        0.0
DCrcts                                12.0    20.0      20.0     20.0     8.0       80.0    12.8    22.0    22.6    23.2       9.5      90.1      90.1       0.0        0.0
Owabl Trfot  Schoo_                    5.0     8.0      580       2.0     0.0       20.0     5.3     8.8      57      2.3      0.0      22.1      22.1        0.0       0.0
9 htk:e Ofce Equipment                  80.8    49.3      25.0     22.0     8.0      185.0    86.1    54.2    28.3    25.5       9.6     203.6     2036        0.0        0.0
3. Vehides
CWSD                                 450.0   150.0      0.0       0.0     0.0      600.0   502.9   172.8     0.0      0.0      0.0     6756      675.8       0.0        0.0
Dbsts                                 30.0    50.0      50.0     50.0    20.0      200.0    33.5    57.6    59.3    60.8      24.8    236.1      236.1        0.0       0.0
Subtotal Vehkles                       480.0   200.0      50.0     50.0    20.0      800.0   5364    230.4    59.3    60.8    24.8       911.8     911.8        0.0       0.0
ubtOtdaOfFices. Equlpmentawd Vehkles       617.1   2636      89.3      86.3    33.7    1.0900    682.6   301.1   106.0   104.4    41.7   1,234.8   1,166.1       628         6.0        ON
iNCconfract                             70.6   141.1    117.6      94.1    47.0      470.4    70.7   154.6   137.8   116.0    59.0    537.1        140A       396.7       0.0
S8CU contract                           49A     98.8    82.3       65.9    32.9      329.3    49.5   108.2    96.5    80.5    41.3       376.0      98.3      277.7       0.0
CWSD#tr)jftldenlvety                    56.4   112.9    94.1       75.3    37.6      376.3    66.5   123.7   110.3    92.0    47.2       429.7      112.4     317.3       0.0
SpeclatsteK%ces-s eoulnreglons         117.6   235.3    196.1    156.8    78A        784.2   123.0   268.4   224.4   185.1    94.7       885.7     674.1      211.6       0.0
Specotiseilces-noemnreglons            117.6   235.3    196.1    156.8    784        784.2   123.0   258A    2244    185.1      94.7     885.7     674.1      211.6       0.0
Staff developmenttrdrn*v                23.5    47.1      39.2     31.4    15.7      156.8    24.6    51.7    44.9    37.0      18.9      177,1     134.8      42.3       0.0
SpecisludIes(appledresearh)             21.6    43.2      36,0     28.8    14A       144.1    22.1    47.4    41.7    34.6    17.7       163.6      84.3       79.3       0.0
MsceIlneo                               10.8    21.6      18.0     14.4     7.2       72.0    11.1    23.7    20.9    17.3       8S9      81.8      42.1       39.7       0.0
SubtotdlTraOMnd C onlants                  467.6   935.2    779.3    623.5   311.7   3.117.4   480.6  1.026.2   900.9   746.6   382.5   3.536.7   1.960.6   1.576.1           0.0
DtallrwesInentCosts                        1.084.7  1,198.8    868.7    709.8   345.5   4,207.3  1.163.2  1,327.2  1,005.9   851.0   424.2   4,771.5   3,126.1    1.638,8 _6.
ECUuREW camu
Staff sotst (CWSD)                     117.9   235.8    294.7    363.7   176.8    1,178.9   120.8   270.2   366.5   461.1    237.1   1,455.6         0.0    1.455.6       0.0
OperatIo(CWSD)                          58.3   116.7    145.9    175.0    87.6       683.4    63.4   134.2   175.7   217.9    111.5    702.8       464.0      238.8       0.0
lRecuffentCosIs                              176.2   352.5    440.6   5628,7   264.4    1,762.4   1842   404.4   5422    6789    348.6   Z168.4          464.0   1,694.4       0.0
TOtAL to CAPACITY BUlLDING          1,260.9  151.2   1309.2   12.8   609.8   5,99.7  1,347A  1,731.7  1,548.1  1,529.9   772.8   6,929.9   3,907          3,332         6.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST                 2,141.3  4229.8   5681   8,8646   ,6515   22771.4  2,468.7  4671.8  6,9.4   824.   4486   26,44&9   15,04&7   1046t..              91.4 



70                          Annex 2-2
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
A.    PROJECT START-UP
I.    During the start-up phase of the project (one year PPF-flnanced, pre-project phase
plus the first six months following project effectiveness), the CWSD is being established,
staffed and equipped, and offices for it are being established in Accra (GWSC headquarters),
Kumasi (Ashanti Region) and Sunyani (Brong Ahafo Region). Project activities began first in
Brong Ahafo Region with a regional start-up workshop for local decision makers and
organizations involved in the rural water sector. Subsequently, the first two districts to
participate in the project were selected and offices for their District Water and Sanitation
Teams established.
2.    Key staff who later will be assigned to Ashanti, Northern and Western Regions are
either being recruited from outside GWSC or reassigned to the project. During the start-up
phase of the project implementation strategies and training materials will be under intensive
development, and will be refined through field work and a series of evaluation sessions. A
workplan for the start-up phase of the project is given in the following tables. It will be
updated each year and agreed to during each annual review.
B.    PROJECT EXPANSION
1.    Shortly after the project becomes effective regional workshops will be held in Ashanti,
Northern and Wester Regions for regional and district decision makers and organizations
involved in the water sector to discuss the project policies and the proposed implementation
strategy. Thereafter, RWST members would be available to address individual district
assemblies to explain the CWS Program to them and advise them on related opportunities and
responsibilities. Districts that want to participate fully in the project would be required to
start by establishing a District Water and Sanitation Team including an offices and a budget
for it, setting up a district water and sanitation fund, and successfully irnplementing the
household sanitation component of the project. Thereafter, they would be given priority for
full participation, that is participation in the sanitation, water supply and school components.
Six months before a district begins full participation in the project, a start-up workshop would
be held to inform local decision makers, line ministry staff and groups interested in becoming
Partner Organizations about the project, its design principles and their role in it. During this
six month period a Small Business Development Unit would identify potential Partner
Organizations in the district and assist them to make the best possible proposal to GWSC for
their selection. When one has been selected the SBDU would continue to provide management
and technical advise to it for several years. Each year two or three new districts are expected
to be invited to participate fully in the project.



____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___    ___W ORIKFLAN   -CW SP                                                 _  _  _  _         _  _  _  _  _
____________________________IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~1993                                                 -1994                                        A1995
~~~~~WHATL   WHO    Jul iAug,  !Oct Nov Dcc JanFb Mar ArM Jun Jul Aug'Sep iOct -Nov Dec Jan,Feb Mar,AprMyJm
PROJECrPREPARATION                              -----                                                                   __
Appraisal                                         WB __             _I- --   ~__
World Bank Board Presentation-                                                                         __
PO LICY__                                     _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _t__                                                              _  _  _
Draft LetteofSectoPolicy                                        -  -                                 t 
Drf rvsdPafonanwce Conact                        'owsc-
Draft sworpohicy & nstiutonalplafor CWSD                                --      it-p1                           -                                          _ _
Psepnam  i    ~n bwchura c                                               -      1
AprBowd approv
WMWHGOGreview                       _____                                                       ___I-w~___
Sw LeftteofSectorPoli                           NM
SignedPeribimanc Contrac                       'MWH,S5                                                   [L 
MONITRING AMD EVALUATIONf                                                                                                                               I
PrcpwcM&Ebackgimdpspcr                            u                                                                            
PrepareM&E straeg                                 WB~CWU)-                                                                          -D---~
Annare viwwwth selected cowmmuniie                ThCWSD
Annam  erview %wit distrct at regonal workdho     mccwm                                                     - -__
Annua ievmwwwith CWSD staff                       WDXK D-                                                      -
Awithnvwwithsvwy cnuunec----W
Regula DWST aod RWST wod,akpnig meetmpg           CWSDD         -       -T
Specwiaffetgainls                                 ThCCWSD--
WORKPLAN AND BUDGET-
Piupamo draft annmal wodkpln and budget           CW-                                   j -D 
Hold unual eviwwmeeang                            MWHMF,WB            I-                                                                 2i                 2
Subitannual worpan and bu$dg to MWH fr appoval   GAWSC- - -                                                           
SandapprOved umual vo4l= amnidbudget toIDA        GWSrMWH
Submit wnualaumiftto IDA                          GS
PROJECT EXPANSION____z-j---                                                                                                                     ____
!DzscuCWSP wztb =SwWOEMofcil                         _ __-                                                           -     
Agrean new peaWcipanwdistricts                    REOCWSD            -       - -4- -
~iscsCWPwuofficias inewlywp ypkang dAMtsMC%WS                --         1- - 
C~onduct wozicshp with each new district          flACWSD                --I
LSign Manomndum of Undertading                    IDA.CWSDI-                                                                                                      I
Establtsh DWST and recrtt staff                  inkI
[Coxhdtuctani  workshops for new DWSTs           IcvmwSDTC_ 1 i_



___  _    --__                              1199~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13   J1994                                               j1995
WATWHO    IJul lAugiSepiOc JNvD Jan FeblMar4pr~iMay JimnJul 'AugTSep Oct:Nov Dec Jan FeblMariApr :May Jun
rAFFING__                          __            -        .iA .iI                               L                     .- K           --
ppondlad pao for projetprepwataion-        G- --i__                                                      -----*                 I
ccrut stafffor CWSD                                                           11~j1                                                                            i
!Preparejob decitons and advert _CWSD                                                                                          -   .
Advseri positiot!s               G____          WSC        --
MFFCES AND EQUIPMENT                             _____ 
~x    offices at HQ, Kunisi &Swiyam             GS                 -                             - --            
entify offices at Takoradi       G_    _          WSC                                      h-                       -~
,cciify and arrange for rehabilitation work  --(WSC         -- - - --  -
chabliaIemstng GWSC facilities                  GW_ aC           (     -                              ... -         ... 
tn* Ofyf iceseat WY   Ci                        DAigitics14-...1 
aiiaefacilities                                DA_..___ ____.:~..         .~    .                                                  
'epare contrac docs for vehic-les & Geqipmen-t  I__  CWSD             -    -.                               I                  
rder veiudes & e-Wp4..-...nep..i.....7 
sssdistrict based POs tD Prep= PT"j                                                                        -IJ
RA1G NETWORK CNTER                                             ----------~ --.
wpare TOR and contrac                            _____1 
egouiatand letootrctu                            GWSCThCI 
rcruit stafflconsutants                                        --        -      -      --        -      -     --                             -..-1
'eparecm pnin oftraming materials                                                                                                    4.     2
'epare and refiebasicskiilsmodxxW   riig CWSD staff~ I.                - -- - -                          - - - -
wpam program infonnafion brochrem                                                                                            j: .
ypmwarendrfinmatenals for scol hygiene ducatiom                -- - - - -                                 ..-- -                                              ,t-
W       and refimeainbdimdl~riigWT   VE- - -                                       -                  -- - - ..                2. 4 handpump mechanic mo&k let.t annDM imr-- -      -   --- - --.
evLmand refin  DWST imlmnainmua u2i, t          raiin   7         -- 
esign and ntaiai CWSP MIS and accountng sytem  lAcr. Futm                                                                             7 I
ram CWSD and distaict parsoma to use MIS *syst  JACT. FIM M 



A,mex2-2
73                Page 4ofS
-I-- -         I--
-
VVFF    _   7II{
+      _               I
II    - -
- K 
F.8 ILl                          jt               --  -
- 
-- --
P                          I
I.jIKIIIIj       -I                    -------I-    -I
- ---   I   I
jI                      I
liii   -
Ii
iii
'V Ii ---
I
-'LII
I       I                     ___  _I
tI 
t                  I          8
j           II       I        a..

I   : *       3'            ii                    I III



-~~~_ _ _ _   I     I      ~~~~~~1993                                   1994                         j            995
WAUT                            WHO                  ~                                       LJlAgSpOct Nov.Dec ~Jan Feb Mar'Apr My Ju
[DWCONTRACTORS__Kt <                                                                                                        .        ...
repare samplbiddingdocumerts forHDWs         --L v                            P. ..                                                                                       
wentyHDW entqCSD_me                                                              -him
idvertise for potential contractors                                       I 
______                                                                           -...-onduct wnrokcor W~ for interested contracor   ~CWSD, SBDU
end bidding documets tosiorlitd  co~ae       ___  Ry~            .-L                                 ..    ....-.A
valuate tenders and select contmactor(s)                                                              .-iV-r. . .
Tegotiat and Id contracts)          --RjWST                     'I
oistruct Mrmo"p dug wells                           fAClR           -               - - -         .
MALL TOWNS CIVL WORKS CONTRACTORS                               L        .                  .                            
repare samnple bidding doctuments and spcfcain     CMD-j                                        j        FI
MLALL TOWNS CIVIL WORKS CONTRACTORS I                                               --                                   ______________
repame sample bidding documents and specificatioLns                                K 
LANDPUMPMAINTENANCE_-                                                                                                  --.
onn steeri%4ngcomittee                             GWSC         .    .     .                          __-
.eview and finalizeTOR                                   SC.4.~v--
Lold intial seincmteecnuttoisop                    SC. CCN                                               
repare plan for conversion to commuX-nitymanagmet  CONS L!!~--
tecrig committee to review and advise on draft plan   -SC   --1[_______ 
IANDPUMP SUPPLY                                   r._ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Advertise for oetasupesCms                                                                 T _
'onduct kintrouctory workshop for intieresed uppiers  ~CWSD1                                                                -
endbidding documents to shoTtlisted suppliers    ___   SD-...
valuate tenders and select suplers)CSD__j +.                                                                                    -
[egotiate and let contract(s)                      OS                                                                    __________________
RILLING UNIT___ 
lentfy brvtzton option for Diln   ntL~.
lbtain conceptual apprval from Board &gov't        CWSD_____________
%IPLEMENTAT [ON MANUAL                                      . -LL                                
olicies           -__-----                                                                                                                   .    .-
rojeatManaement and tmplementation Mcliods        !P           .K. 4                                    4                .
tivate Sector Support       _____                   PT                                           ~-
mocumement, Disbursemet; Accounting and Auditing   ri-                                                                   --
Wnkiorinand EvaluationProject Supervision    __     _ __
echuicalAssistance and Con~1anU                     ___ _             -
eview andrefineiiplMeiktation manual               CWSDWB 
repar CWSD procodurm and authrity Imtits           oWBc                                                                                                       T
lo,ksbop torefineimpletnentation maual            'CW3AM          --                                         . .- - - - -___________________ 



COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
Dstalls of ProctumentAMangments
Base Costs (US$ OOOs)                               Total Costs (lS$'000e)               BreakdocndoJ of T Uas (05)O00sl
1994    1996    1996    1997       t 1998    To     1994    199681996         1         9      Total  Foretgn     ol   Taas
RURAL COMPONENT
1. Haid Og Weds
Haiduagweanslnjdo                    84.2   252.6   421.1    589.5   336.9  1,684.3    85.7   277.0   489.5   711.8   417.1  1.981.0   808.0  1,073.9    93.1
Hmw4mp suppyand  slasIon             71.0    47.3    473       47.3    23.7   236.6    74.7    52.0    54.0    55.6    28A    264.6   201.1    41.1    22.5
Borehole onbjton                    1342    402.7   6712    939.6   536.9  2,684.6   140.8   442.4   766.9  1,106.0   646.5  3,102.6  2,343.5   604.0   156.1
H*uVsupplys     s and  ason         10D.5    67.0    67.0    67.0    33.5   *3352    105.8    73.7    76.5    78.7    40,3   374.9   284.8    58.2    31.9
3. PWed Syems
Bobeholnsluclon                      25.8    77A    129.1   180.7   103.3   516.3    27.1    85.1   147.5   212.7   124.3    56.7   450.7   1162               29.8
PstIPeendslbkto agetm* ntrauc6       21.9    65.7   109.5   153.3    87.6   438.0    22.5    72.1   126.7   183.7   107.6   51Z5    260.4   226.5    25.6
Medt.&EBeas plaid4hsiton             16.0    48.1    80.1   112.1    64.1   320.4    16.8    52.8    91A    131.7    77.0   369.7   2790               59.3    31A
4. HwoWRoWdn
Borehole fede eopment                 8.4    25.1    41.8    58.5    33.4   1672          8.8    27.6    47.8    68.9    40.3   1932    145.9    37.6           9.7
Hwunvsppl,anidisw                    65.1    43A      43.4    43.       21.7   216.9    68.4    47.7    49.5    50.9    26.1   242.6   184.3    37.7    20.6
5. Salbhln
treconsbucon                         18.5    49.4     83    115.2    65.8   3292         16.7    542       95.7   139.1    81.5   3872    157.9   209.9    194
6. PW#ft (TAfbrncomntnle.)             35.0   140.0   246.1   210.1    70.0   7002          35.    1535    2852    254.0    868    815.1    334Q    481.1          0.0
7. We SIlg                             1.52     61.0   106.7    91.5    30.5   304.8    15.5    66.    1242    110.6    37.8   354.9   146A    209A               0.0
SLntaRuaCarponent                   593.8  1,279.7  2044.5  2,608.2  1,407.4  7,933.6   618.3  1,404.9  2354.6  3,103.7  1,713.6  9,195.1  6,595.1  3,156.0   445.1
SMAL TNS COMPONENT
1. HWDOugWeIS
Hamdaiwelootlud                      33.6   1O9    1682    235.5   134.6   6728         34.2   110.7   195.5   284.3   166.6   7913    322.8   429.0    39.6
Hmpaupp  AJlDMestda8n                28.1    18.7    18.7    18.7        9.4    93.6    29.6    20.6    21A         22.0    11.3   104.       79.6    16.3      8.9
Z BElrhole
Baehole  csbundon                    32.      97A    162.3   2272    129.8   849.0    34.1   107.0   185.4   267A    1563    750.1    5665    146.0    37.5
Hmsimpsupplyaidt2don                 23.7    15.8    1S.8    15.8        7.9    78.9    24.9    17.3    18.0    18.5         9.5    882       67.0    13.7      7.5
3. Pped Systems
Bmholeosjicon                        612    183.8   306.1   428.5   244.9  1224.3    642    201.8   349.7   504.4   294.8  1,414.9  1.068.7   275.5    70.7
Poef e andsto    tank corsuction    1952    585.5   975.8  1,366.2   780.7  3,903.4   200A    642.4  1,128.8  1,637.4   968.8  4,567.7  2,320.6  2,018.7   22BA
Meda.&Eleas pplandsbIrallon          48.1   138.3   230A    322.6   184.3   921.7    48.5   1519    26,9   378.9   221.5  1,083.7   s026    170.7    90A
4. Saralon
LI,bVeobusn                           6.2    18.6    31.0    43A        24.8   124.1      6.3    204       36.1    52A      30.7   145.9    59.5    79.1        73
5. Plrrg, dep end ont. sup.
Noem RePm (CIDA)                     372    148.6   260.1   222.9    74.3   743.1    37.7   162.9   302.6   269.5    92.1   865.0   354.5   510.5               0.0
Scuemtw Regions                      18.6    74.3   130.0   111.5    372    371.5    18.9    81.5   151.3   134.8    46.1   432.5   177.2   255.3               0.0
6. We SiV
Nashwe  Rego  (CIDA)                  2.9    114      20.0    17.1       5.7    572       z9      12.5    23.3    20.7       7.1    66.5    27.3    39.3        0.0
Soulhem Rglons                        1.4      5.7    10.0      8.6      2.9    28.6      15       6.3    11.6    10.4       3.5    333       1.6    19.6       0.0
Subtowl SalToens Comporetd          486.5  1,396.8  Z328.4  3,017.9  1,636.3  8,868.0   503.0  1,5352   2,6.6 5 3,600.s  1,998.2  10,3239   ,869.9  3,973.6   490.3
CAPAaTYBULWDINGCOMPONENT
1. OfkleReraon                         563      143      143     143       5.7   105.0    60.0    16A        174      18.1     7.4   119A       50.7    62.8      6.0
Z Ofl,o Eqpmt                         80.8    49.3    25.0    22.0        ao    185.0    86.1      542      28.3    25.5       95    203.6   203.6       0o      0.0
3 Vehicles                            480.0   200.0    50.0    50.0    20.0  s80.0   5364    2304            59.3    60.8    24.8   911.8   911.8         0.0     0.0
4. TNC contre                          70.6   141.1    117.6    94.1    47.0   470A         70.7   154.6   137.8   115.0    59.0   537.1   140.4   396.7          0.0               -a
S  S   centread                        49.4    96.8    823       66.9    32.9   329.3    49.5   1082         96.5     e.5    41.3   376.0    983    277.7         0.0                 L
6. CWSDbi*"gdery                        K4A   1129       94.1    753      37.8   376.3    565    123.7   11o          92.0    472    429.7   11Z4    317.3        0.0
7. Speld3sf servies
N7.  wn Room (CtDA)                 117.8   235.3   196.    151i8       78.4   7842    123.0   258A    224A    186.1    94.7  S867    674.1   211.6             0.0                  4
Soen RegIots                        117.6   23.3   196.1   156.8    78A    7842    123.0   258.4   224.4   185.1    94.7   885.    674.1   211.6                0.0
8, SWldevelopmrt*t                     23.5    47.1      392     31A      15.7   156.8    24.6    51.7    44.9    37.0    18.9   177.1    134.8    423            0.0
9. Spedalohde (appbdresesda)           21.6    432       36.0    28.8    144    144.1    221        47.4    41.7    34.6    17.7   1636         843      793      0.0
10. llsoe _leous                        10.8    21.6    18.0    14.4        72      72.0    11.1    23.7    20.9    17.3        8.9    81.8    42.1    39.7        0.0
11. SIWI SWAN(CWSD)                    117.9   236.8   294.7   353.7   178.8  1,178.9   120.8   2702    386.    461.1    237.1  1,465.            0.0  1,456.6     0.0
12. Ope dN sIcvv)                       5S3    116.7   1469    176.0    87.5   564          63A    1342    175.7   217.9   111.5   7028    464.0   238.8           0O
SuoIUCw Sm"VCwlvwt                1,260.9  1,561.2   1,3092   1,238.5  MA9  8,969.7  1,347.4  1,731.7  1,5481   1,628.9   772.8  8,99.9  3,590.7  3,3332       6.0
PRO.JECTTOTAL                     2,341.3  4229.8  ,862.1  6,84.6  3,663.5  22,771A  2466.7  4,671.8  6,SB9.4  8,234A   4,1464.  23,448.  1S,045.7  10,461.8    9f1.4



COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
Summary of Procurement Arangements
Proc.                          Total Costs (US$ '000.)                              Breakdown of Tolas
Method         1994       1995        1996       1997T      19S        Total    Foreign      Local      Taxes
Civil Works
Dug wen construction               LCB           119.9      387.7      685.0       996.1      583.6    2,772.3    1,130.8    1,502.9       138.6
Borehole nenatruction              ICa           268.2      836.3     1,449.5    2,090.5     1,221.9    5,864.3    4,429A     1,141.7      293.2
Borehole redevelopment             LCB             8.8       27.6       47.8       68.9        40.3      193.2      145.9       37.6         9.7
Pipeiine and storage tank construction  LCB      222.8      714.5    1,255.4    1,821.1     1,066.3    5,080.2    2,580.9    2,245.2       254.0
Latrine construction              FIN-INT         23.1       74.6      131.7       191.5      112.2      533.1      217.5      289.0        26.7
Office renovation                                 60.0       16.4       17.4        18.1        7.4      119.4       50.7        62.8        6.0
Subtotal                                         700.8    2,057.0    3,588.9    5,186.2    3,031.8   14,562.6    8,555.2    5,279.3        728.1
Equipment
pandpump supply and instalafton   LCB           303.3      211.2      219.3       225.8      115.5    1,075.1      816.8      166.9        91.4
Mech. & Elet. supply and installaton  LCB         65.3      204.7      364.3       510.7      298.4    1,433.4    1,081.6      230.0       121.8
Office equipment                 INT-SHP          86.1       54.2       28.3        25.5        9.5      203.6      203.6        0.0         0.0
Vehicles                           ICB           538.4      230.4       59.3       80.8        24.8      911.8      911.8        0.0         0.0
Subtotal                                         991.2      700.6      661.2       822.8      448.2    3,624.0    3,013.8      396.8       213.2
Training and Coulotnts
TNC contract                       CON            70.7      154.6      137.8       115.0       59.0      537.1      140.4       396.7        0.0
SBDU contract                      CON            49.5      108.2       96.5        80.5       41.3      376.0       98.3       277.7        0.0
Speciaiist services
Northem Regbns (CIDA)            CON            123.0      258.4      224.4      185.1       94.7       885.7      674.1      211.6        0.0
Southem Regions                  CON            123.0      258.4      224.4      185.1       94.7       886.7      674.1      211.6        0.0
Planning (PO assistance to rural communi   CON    35.5      163.5      285.2       254.0       86.8      815.1      334.0      461.1         0.0
Planning, design and const sup. (small to
Noithern Regions (CIDA)           OTH           37.7       162.9      302.6      269.5       92.1       865.0      354.5      510.5        0.0
Southem Regions                   CON            18.9       81.5      151.3      134.8       46.1       432.5      177.2      255.3        0.0
WeD siting
Norherm Regions (CIDA)            OTH            2.9        12.5       23.3       20.7        7.1       66.5        27.3       39.3        0.0
Southem Regions                  CON             16.9       73.1      135.8      120.9       41.3       388.1      159.1      229.1        0.0
CWSD trainig detlvery              OTH            56.5      123.7      110.3        92.0       47.2      429.7      112.4      317.3         0.0
Staff development trainin          OTH            24.6       51.7       44.9        37.0       18.9      177.1      134.8       42.3         0.0
Special stuties (appRed research)  OTH            22.1       47.4       41.7        34.6       17.7      163.6       84.3       79.3         0.0
Miscelaneous                       OTH            11.1       23.7       20.9        17.3        8.9       81.8       42.1       39.7        0.0-   ^,
Subtotal                                         592.5    1,509.8    1,799.1     1,546.5      665.9    6,103.9    3,012.7    3,091.2         0.0
Project Managment
Staff salaries (CWSD)              OTH           120.8      270.2      366.5       461.1      237.1     1,455.6       0.0    1,455.6        0.0
Operations (CWSD)                  OTH            63.4      134.2      175.7       217.9      111.5      702.8      464.0       238.8        0.0
Subtotal                                         184.2      404.4      542.2       678.9      348.6    2,158.4      464.0    1,694.4         0.0
Project Total                                   2,468.7    4,671.8    6,589.4    8,234.4    4,484.6   26,448.9    15,045.7    10,461.8     9414



77                          Annex 2-4
Page I of I
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT
Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements by Calendar Year (Cedis million)
1994   1995    1996   1997   1998   1999   2000  TOTAL
The Govenunent       72    235      473    837    857    619        0    3,094
Conununities         17     78      190    324    308    213        0    1,132
Disbursements by Fiscal Year (July-June) (US$ '000s)
1994   1995    1996   1997   1998   1999   2000  TOTAL
The Government        0    145      290    530    825    470    200    2,460
Conmunities           0     35      110    220    305    160       70       900
IDA                 550  2,070   3,720  5,250  5,930  3,220  1,220   21,960
CIDA                  0    150      380    500    440    150       60    1,680
TOTAL        550  2,400   4,500  6,500  7,500  4,000   1,550   27,000
IDA Disbursements by Semester
Disbursements (US$ '000s)
Fiscal IDA Semester In Semester Cumulative  Cumulative
Year     Ending                             as % of Loan
FY95    Dec-94         1,310       1,310         6%
Jun-95         1,310      2,620        12%
FY96    Dec-95         1,860       4,480        20%
Jun-96        1,860       6,340        29%
FY97    Dec-96         2,625       8,965        41%
Jun-97        2,625      11,590        53%
FY98    Dec-97         2,965      14,555        66%
Jun-98        2,965      17,520        80%
FY99    Dec-98         1,610      19,130        87%
Jun-99        1,610      20,740        94%
FY03    Dec-99         1,220      21,960       100%



78                        Annex 2-5
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATON
A.    PRINCUIES
1.    Monitoring and evaluation woulu be integrated into the everyday runining of the
project at all levels and used to encourage innovation, team building, and local ownership of
the project, and getting all those associated with it to be active participants who feel their
ideas and initiatives are valued. To do this monitoring and evaluation must be pwliipatory,
drawing out people's ideas and encouraging them to be active partners in change. It should
also be strucured; this is because issues and options need to be clearly defined and tested
through comparative studies between different regions, districts and communities, particularly
if a National Community Water a.a -t'anitation Progran is to be achieved. The advantage of
this approach is that change and di rsity can be introduced while avoiding the development
of different implementation strategies in different regions at the whim of individual project
managers and advisors. Communities and districts should be encouraged to identify important
issues in terms that are as clear as possible, brainstorm to come up with different options for
addressing them, and then try them out. Similarly regions and national planners/advisors
should identify issues and options and design experiments to see what works best.
2.    Performance at all levels (community, local, regional and national in both the public
and private sectors), options (policy and implementation), and resources (numbers of facilities
and water quality/quantity) need to be monitored. Each requires a different approach.
Performance must be internalized, as top down assessments lead to reports but not change;
here participation and self assessment are most important. Options work both ways - new
ideas/approaches should be encouraged from the bottom-up but there is nced for comparative
assessments from the top-down. Monitoring resources is essentially a counting exercise, with
data aggregated from districts, to regions, to the national level.
B.    AcroRs
3.    All sets of stakeholders in the project should be actors in the monitoring and
evaluation exercise. This is important because individuals representing different interests need
to be involved if the project is to be successfully scaled up and sustained. Individuals that
should be involved in the project, and hence in monitoring and evaluation, are listed in the
following table. Practically, they can be divided into two groups at each level: project and
advisory. Both groups would deal with performance, policy/implementation options, and
resources, but from somewhat different perspectives - project groups from the point of view
of a contractor, and advisory groups as clients. Project groups would include WATSAN
committees at the community level, Water and Sanitation Teams at the district and regional
levels, and zonal training teams and GWSC's headquarters based CWSD personnel at the
national level. Advisory groups would include government officials, community
representatives and private sector participants.



79                       Annke 2-5
Page 2 of 5
Monitoring and Evaluation Adors
Level        Stakeholders                       Groups
Community   Women, men, children, households;    Community Advisory Committee
chiefs, elders and leaders;        WATSAN Committee
women's and minority groups;
WATSAN committees and village
volunteers.
District     District assemblymen,              District Advisory Committee
district infrastmcture committee,  DWST
program management committee,
departnent heads, line ministry staff,
partner organizations,
latrine artisans and pump mechanics.
Regional     Regional Minister, departnent heads,   Regional Advisory Committee
NGOs involved in water sector;     RWST
partner organizations, dug well
contractors and equipment suppliers;
Regional Water and Sanitation Team.
Zonal        RWSTs, Zonal Training Team,        Zonal Training Team
CWSD lead advisors,
consultants, World Bank
National     Government ministries including    National Advisory Comiittee
Finance, Works and Housing, Local    CWSD
Government and Health;
NGOs involved in the water sector;
private sector water association, and
CWSD
4.    The monitoring of performn ce, options, and resources requires different approaches
and different groups of evaluators at each level. The monitoring of performance should go on
at all levels in the form of self evaluation and training, rather than traditional external
criticism. For this purpose WATSAN Committees, DWSTs, RWSTs and CWSD personnel at
headquarters would each hold regular meetings to evaluate their performance and identify
ways of overcoming problems and improving the way they do things. Often facilitators and
resource persons from higher levels would join in the discussion and share ideas. Policy and
implementation options would generally be discussed by these same groups but there would be
need for a more coordinated effort to synthesize ideas, agree on options, set up a testing
program and track results. While DWSTs and RWSTs would be encouraged to discuss these
issues and try out new ideas, the issues would be taken up more formally at district, regional
and national workshops held every year to assess progress and improve performance.
Resource monitoring, that is the tracking of coverage and facilities constucted, would be a
joint effort of DWSTs, RWSTs, and CWSD headquarters. Data would be collected and
recorded in the MIS system starting at the district level and aggregated at the regional and
national levels. Checking would be done by both the RWSTs and CWSD headquarters.



80                            Annex 2-5
Page 3 of 5
5.     In summary then there would be two types of monitoring and evaluation groups at
each level: one project related (WATSAN, DWST, RWST and CWSD), and the other
advisory (community, district, regional and national). Project groups would meet regldarly
with monitoring and evaluation being an integral part of work planning. Advisory groups
would meet at least once a year to discuss performance, policy and resources. The CWSD
with the assistance of the TNC and other consultants would coordinate this effort and ensure
that key issues are brought to the attention of project staff and advisory group, and that the
consensus emerging from discussions at all levels is recorded and disseminated. Within the
IDA-finced project, the zonal training team would take the lead in coordinating monitoring
and evaluation efforts.
C.    INDICATORS, TARGETS AND METHODS
6.     As noted above two important principles in monitoring and evaluation would be
followed in the project: participatory evaluation and structured leaming. Participatory
evaluation encourages bottom-up dialogue while structured learming facilitates systematic
definition of options and field testing. Next, one needs to decide what to monitor. It makes
sense to track project objectives, but for that measurable indicators that relate to them and
data collection methods for each need to be identified. Indicators and corresponding targets,
data collection methods and monitoring groups for each project objective are listed in the
following table.
Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators and Targets
Objective 1: Provision of Water and Sanitation Fadlities
to Rural Communities and Sinal Towns
Indicator                                         Target             Methods    Morlog
Group
Cumulative Totals
Yr I Yr2  Yr 3 Yr4  Yr 5
No. rural water points constructed          50  200  450  800 1000   MIS         DWST RWST
No. rural communities with improved water supplies   35  150  300  550  700   Records    CWSD DAC
No. small towns with planning complete       5   20   25   30   30                RAC NAC
No. small towns with construction complete   0    5   20   25   30
No. household latrines constnuted          200  600 1500 2500 4000
No. schools participating                   10   40  100  175  250
CAC   Community Advisory Committee         DWST   District Water and Santation Team
DAC   District Advisory Committee          RWST   Regional Water and Sanitation Team
RAC   Regional Advisory Committee          ZTT    Zonal Training Team
NAC   National Advisory Committee          CWSD   Community Water and Sanitation Division
PO     Partner Organization



81                              Annaex2-5
Page 4 of 5
Objective 2a: Sstainailit  through Community Management
of Water and Sanitation Facilities
Indicator                                      Target                        Methods        Monitoring
Ga dp
Use of water supply facilities   100% of new water supplies in good operating  Inspection    DWST RWST
condition with proper sullage control.
Use of sanitation facilities  100% of household latrines being used and kept   Inspection     PO, DWST
clean.                                            Observation
Affordability and wDlingness to Communities are willing and able to pay 5-10% of  Discussions    DWST RWST
pay for water and sanitation    the construction cost of their water supply facilities  Interviews  CWSD
faciities.                  in cash and kind (with the cash contribution equal to  Case study    CAC DAC RAC
or greater than the normal recurrent costs).                        NAC
Households can pay at least half the capital cost in
cash and kind and all of the maintenance costs of
their latrines.
Community management.        Commuanity, including women and minority groups,  Discussions    DWST RWST
decide the type of system they want and how to   Interviews        CWSD
manage it.                                        Case study    CAC DAC RAC
NAC
Community group can effectively operate, maintain,
repair, collect revenue, keep records and accounts,
evaluate and resolve problems, and can arange for
assistance as required.
Objective 2b: Sustinability and Replicability through
Private Sector Provision of Goods and Services
Indicator                                      Target                        Methods       Monitoring
Group
Planning                     Eight qualified partner organizations per region.  Discussions    DWST RWST
Two POs added each year.                          Observation    RAC NAC
Construction                 Four qualified dug well contractors per region.   Discussions    DWST RWST
One contractor added each year.                   Observation    RAC NAC
Four qualified latrine artisans per district by the
end of year two of a district's participation.
Operations and maintenance    Two qualified handpump mechanics per district by  Discussions    DWST RWST
the end of year two of a districts participation.  Observation     CWSD
DAC RAC NAC
Handpumps avaitable at regional centers and fast
moving parts at district centers.
Qualified companies available to provide O&M
services for piped systems in all regions.
Manufacturers' representatives of motorized pumps
and power supplies available to provide after sales
service in all regions.



82                             Anner 2-5
Page 5 of 5
Objective 2c: Sustainability and Replicability through
Public Sector Promotion and Support
Indicator                                      Target                        Methods        Monitoring
Group
Cumulative Totals
Yrl      Yr2      Yr3       Yr4      YrS
Number of DWSTs
(partial participation)      0        3         6        9       10
(full participation)         6       12        18       24       30
CWSD and DWSTs               Personnel knowledgeable about the CWSP and their  Discussions    RWST CWSD
area of specialty.                               Interviews       MWH WB
CWSD and DWSTs relatively autonomous and fuly     MIS records  DAC RAC NAC
accountable.                                      Case studies
Leadership visionary, participative, and builds   Reports
individual initiative and capacity.
Procedures for self-evaluation, problem solving and
flexible work planning used regularly.
Permanent institutional framework and budget
security.
Clear administrative and iniplementation procedures.
1. Partial participation includes training of DWST and household sanitation component.
2. Full participation includes water supply and schools components.
Objective 3: Improved Health through Integrated Water,
Sanitation and Hygiene Education
Indicator                                      Target                        Methods        Monioring
Group
Water quantity and quality   All individuals in the community use improved     Observation  PO DWST ftWST
sources. Measure water use by season including    Measure           ZTI
sources, quantity and time required to collect it.  Interview  CAC DAC RAC
Check water quality by season including color,    Discussion        NAC
taste, odor, turbidity, and level of protection.
Numbers and characteristics of users an non-users.
Hygiene                      AR persons in community use good water hygiene    Observation  PO DWST RWSI
practices. Check water use practices between source    Measure      NT
and mouth including drawing, carrying, storage and  Interview  CAC DAC RAC
use. Also, check hand washing before cooking and  Discusson         NAC
eating and after defecation.
Environmental sanitadon      Improved excreta disposal in household, including  Observation  PO DWST RWST
handling of infant feces.                         Measure           21T
of slid  asteand rainge  Iterview   CAC DAC RAC
Improved management of solid waste and drainage   Discussion        NAC
in community.
Proper water use at outlets, including keeping
surrounds clean and drainage preventing muddy
areas and ponded water.
Distances between water supplies and latrines
sufficient to prevent contamination.



83                          Anna 26
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.    Because of the innovative nature of the project and the potential for lesson learning
and extending experiences to other World Bank finced projects in Africa, supervision
requirements will be relatively high during the first two years of the project, when it is
intended that most implementation constraints will be identified and corrected. A concerted
effort will be made at the beginning of the project to set up an effective lesson learning
process and mechanism for modifying the project design. After the mid-term review
supervision requirements would be more typical of other Bank financed projects.
2.    Throughout the project a special link will be maintained with the Informal Institutions
Unit in the Water and Sanitation Division of the Transportation, Water and Urban
Development Department to gain from and contribute to their structured learning efforts. In
addition to the specialist services outlined in the foilowing table, it is expected that funds
equivalent to about 8 staff weeks per year would be provided to pay the services of a national
to furnish day to day support to the project and to facilitate interactions between GWSC, the
Ministry of Works and Housing, and external assistance agencies active in the sector to
support and refine the National Community Water and Sanitation Program. This person
would be administered by the UNDP/World Bank Water and Sanitation Program and would
work closely with staff at the resident mission in Ghana involved in infrastructure related
projects.
Approximate                  Activity                  Expected Skill           Staff
Dates                                               Requirements            Weels
4/94     Introductory workshop for project staff with    Task manager        8
special emphasis on project design concepts,   Engineer
workplanning, and participatory          Training specialist
communications.
7/94     Second workshop for project personnel with    Task manager          12
special emphasis on the establishment of the    Engineer
monitoring and evaluation component. Other   Inst. specialist
focus areas will include the community project  M&E specialists
cycle, the household sanitation component, and  Financial analyst
accounting and procurement procedures.
11/94    First annual review workshop to assess    Task manager              10
progress, refine the Policies and Guidelines,    Engineer
Institutional Plan and Implementation Strategy, M&E specialists
and set the '95 workplan and budget.
Workplanning for the small towns component
would receive special attention.



84                        Annexr2-
Page 2 of 2
Approximate                   Activity                  Expected Skill           Staff
Dates                                               Requirements            Weeks
3/95     Supervision mission with special emphasis on   Task manager          10
partner organizations and dug well contractors, Engineer
and the management information system,    Institutional specialist
particularly accounting and procurement.  MIS specialist
Disbursement spec.
Financial Analyst
7/95     Supervision mission with special emphasis on   Task manager          8
District and Regional Water and Sanitation  Engineer
Teams, the Training Network Center, and   Institutional specialist
Small Business Development Unit.          Local gov't specialist
11/95    Second annual review with normal assessment  Task manager             8
of progress, policies and strategies, and setting  Engineer
of '96 workplan and budget. Special emphasis  Institutional specialist
would be placed on an assessment of the
suitability of GWSC as the implementing
agency._ _
5/96     Supervision mission with special emphasis on   Task marnager         8
communities' role in planning and management Community participation
of their water and sanitation facilides as well as specialist
their ability to meet their financial
commitments towards capital and recurrent
costs.
11/96    Midterm review to assess progress against  Task manager              16
monitoring indicators for the rural and small   Engineer
towns components; the performance of the  Institutional specialist
CWS Division and DWSTs; the ability of    NOO specialist
communities to carry out their responsibilides;
the effectiveness of POs, TNC, SBDU small
towns consultants and specialist services; and
effectiveness of the sanitation, hygiene and
schools components.
5/97     Supervision mission with special emphasis on   Task manager, Engineer,  8
areas of weakness identified in mid-term  and relevant specialists
review.
11/97    Fourth annual review.                     Task manager, Engineer,    10
and relevant specialists
5/98     Supervision Mission.                      Task manager, Engineer,    8
and relevant specialists
11/98    Fifth annual review.                      Task manager, Engineer,    10
and relevant specialists
5/99     Supervision mission.                      Task manager, Engineer,    8
and relevant specialists
11/99    Final review.                             Task manager, Engineer,     8
and relevant specialists



85                         Annex 3-1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY WATER AN SANITATION PROJECT
HYGIENE EDUCATION
A.    PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
1.    Hygiene education (HE) is defined as all activities aimed at encouraging behavior and
conditions which help to prevent water and sanitation-related diseases. Improved water
supply and sanitation facilities are necessary, but not on their own sufficient, to produce
substantial health benefits. They need to be combined with hygiene educaton. Hygiene
education can help motivate people to improve and sustain their water supply and sanitation
facilities, encourage them to use the new facilities in a safe way, and promote inproved
hygiene practices. Hygiene education is needed at all phases of the CWSP in order to make
people more pro-active in improving their health. In the past, projects have suffered from an
overabundance of messages, often poorly chosen, and in some cases conflicting with those
promoted by different agencies. In the CWSP a limited set of priority messages will be
selected on the basis of their relevance to water and sanitation, what is achievable by the
target group, and what would have the greatest impact on health standards. Specific messages
would be introduced at each phase of the project cycle - eg. information about the links
between hygiene and water supply would be presented and discussed in the earlier phases
before construction is complete.
2.    Integrated Approach Hygiene education needs to be closely integrated into the
overall approach of developing community ownership and mnwagement. Its effective
integration with the comnnunity mobilization and support work would ensure that the health
aspects of water and sanitation are given a high profile throughout the project cycle. In
practice this would mean that all of those involved in community animation - the District
Water and Sanitation Teams, the POs and the WATSAN Committee members themselves -
would need skill training in HE and play a role in promoting hygiene messages. The use of
volunteers as hygiene educators has had considerable success in water projects in Ghana.
Village Hygiene Volunteers (VHVs) selected to conduct HE at the village level would be
drawn from WATSAN Committee members. There would be a team of about three resident
community volunteers - two women and one man, selected for their interest and willingness to
take on this responsibility. They would receive on-the-job and specific training to work as a
team in various educational sessions targeted to key groups in their community.
3.    Eucadon Methods and Materals The project would make a break with the didactic,
lecture-based approach, which treats villagers as passive objects for one-way information
transfer and is largely ineffective for bringing about behavioral change. Instead the project
would adopt the participatory techniques of modern adult education, which are much more
effective in inducing behavioral change. This approach emphasizes learning through doing,
discussion, peer group interaction, demonstration, and visual reinforcement. Villagers would
be encouraged to identity and analyze health problems and look for solutions and ways to
meet goals. As much as possible, VHVs would be encouraged to persuade through example
and using simple visual materials, rather than through mere talk. The District Health
Management Team and the Environmental Health Department of the District Assembly (the
most decentralized of the government extension services) would be encouraged to become



86                          Annex 3-1
Page 2 of 2
collaborators in the HE programn after receiving training in participatory methods and would
support the VHVs. In addition, the radio would be used as a means of reinforcement and a
way of legitimizing the HE messages.
4.    Target Audiences An important target for the HE program would be members of the
WATSAN Committee: by persuaa,ag them about hygiene, one would have the support and
influence of a powerful local group to help mobilize the community to adopt new habits.
Womnen in the village would also be a primary target; they are responsible for all of the
hygiene related domestic activities, including the fetching and storing of water, cooking, and
care of children (including cleaning after defecation).
B.    PRQJECT CYCLE
5.    Hygiene education would be integrated into the process of helping the community
plan, construct and maintain its water supply and sanitation facilities. In the initial phase, the
WATSAN Committee members would be briefed on the development and implementation of
the hygiene education program. They would be required to make a commitment to
implementing HE as part of their input to developing the water supply and sanitation services,
and be asked to select three volunteers to receive specialized training and take the lead on this
activity. The community would have to set targets for the HE program over time. Once the
facilities are constructed, the main program of hygiene education would be initiated. The aim
would be to keep the water clean from the well/pump to the point of consumption and to
develop other hygiene practices to reduce the disease transmission. Topic areas would
include: (a) water management at the source and in the household; (b) latrine use and hand
washing; and (c) personal hygiene. Indicators of behavioral change and self assessment
activities would be incorporated into monitoring activities.
C.    DEVELOPMENT OF THE PROGRAM
6.    A three step approach would be followed. The initial step would be to set up a small
working group under the TNC for overall strategy design and development of guidelines,
specific message design, materials production, and trainer training. This group would consist
(apart from TNC staff) of one or two staff from each of the National Office of the CWSD,
the Health Education Unit (MO/Accra), and the Health Education Center (Kumasi). The
second step would be to develop specific messages for each project phase, a process which
would be "front loaded" but would also respond to M&E data. Once the initial messages are
defined, they would be reviewed and endorsed by agencies in a workshop. The third step
would be to develop new materials or adapt existing ones. Materials produced would cover:
(a) aims and objectives of the HE component; (b) training of WATSAN Committee members,
VHVs and Environmental Health field workers; and (c) monitoring and evaluation. Materials
would be tested in the field. Field testing would include both the testing of pictures (a major
part of the materials) and the testing of methods and educationa processes (eg. the
effectiveness of the questions).



87                         Anner3?
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
SANITATION
A.    PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
1.    The Rural and Small Town Sanitation Components would support the provision of
various types of household and public latrines for rural and urban communities, schools and
health clinics. The two components would be implemented in a similar fashion with two
major differences. The small towns component would include construction of public facilities
and the use of more sophisticated building designs and materials. Although several thousand
latrines would be built under these components, they are essentially demonstration activities,
designed to provide a limited number of units in each of a large number of communities.
These will serve to introduce the different type of latrines to rural and urban comnmnities
where they are little known or used, and to create contacts between communities, households
or groups and qualified latrine builders. The ultimate objective is to establish a market for
latrines, with buyers and suppliers acting independently of any continued public sector
support.
2.    A budget allocation has been made for the constzuction of about 100 household
latrines per district per year for the rural component, which would result in the construction
of about 7,000 latrines in the 4 regions (30 districts) participating in the rural water and
sanitation component. However, funds could be transferred to or from other budget lines such
that the allocation for sanitation can be halved or doubled depending on demand. The
following table shows the expected number of latrines to be constructed in a region during the
project. The number of systems installed for the small towns component would, like the rural
component, also be budget limited and allow for the same flexibility in terms of responding to
demand.
3.    The CWSP will promote latrine construction through direct marketing by latrine
artisans, POs and DWSTs, as well as through the school water, sanitation and hygiene
education program. It is expected that private sector capacity to respond to the resulting
demand by training individual artisans will be established. The strategy would be for DWST
members to obtain recommendations from villages around the district for candidates tD
become fully qualified latrine artisans, authorized to prepare contracts with individual
households for latrines paid in part by a government grant. Starting with about 40 candidates
it is expected that five will eventually be fully qualified by the DA and authorized to obtain
applications for household units and submit these to the DWST for co-financing. A total of
about 150 artisans would eventaly be licensed in the four project regions.
4.    Technology choice by the users is fundamental, and householders and community
groups will be encouraged to choose from a number of options. Designs would include: (i) a
basic pit latrine using traditional building materials; (ii) a mozambique style latrine (i.e. non-
reinforced concrete slab) with - and without a vent pipe; (iii) a san-plat style latrine (i.e.



88                          Annex 3-2
Page 2 of 2
reinforced concrete slab) with - and without a vent pipe and; the multiple (10-unit) KVIP, a
tried and tested public facility in Ghana.
5.    Public school and health center latrines would be as follows: public facilities would
only be supported by the CWSP in heavily used public places such as markets, lorry parks,
etc. Their management requires special attention, and as far as possible, would be undertaken
as a commercial enterprise by a contractor charging controlled user fees. Proposals for the
nzanagement of public facilities will be rigorously examined before granting any subsidy.
Schools and health centers will benefit from the project an arrangement where they provide
labor and materials such as bricks only. The schools and health centers may serve as
demonstration projects, and ertry points for hygiene education and community action.
B.    SANITATION DELIVERY
6.    Whilst water supply is a community-wide activity, household latrines involve only
individual householders. Even in a highly mobilized community, complete sanitation
coverage is likely to take a number of years to achieve, whilst in other communities this may
take several decades. Thus, whilst the promotion of latrines can and should be undertaken
continuously at community level, it will only be viable to provide latrine building capacity at
the district or sub-district level. For this reason, the DWSTs will be the main focus of
activity for the sanitation component of the CWSP and the DWST will have direct
responsibility. Even before becoming involved in the CWSP, District Assemblies would be
encouraged to form Water and Sanitation Teams and to begin implementation of the sanitation
component. In keeping with the demand driven nature of the CWSP, such positive action
would be an important consideration in the selection of districts for full participation in the
water supply component of the project.
7.    The initial step would be the training of the DWST and District Management
Committee, which would include formal sessions run by the Regional CWSD, and visits to
other regions where similar programs exist. The training course would include information
on the project cycle, financing arrangements and accounting, selection and training of
artisans, marketing techniques, latrine technology and construction, and monitoring and
evaluation. POs, VWVs and other field workers (both government and non-governmental)
would be involved as trainees or trainers. The latrine builders trained would then be trained to
provide services based on clearly defined procedures for financing and construction. Finally,
mass media such as leaflets, posters and local radio would be used for promotion and
informadon dissemination purposes. The approach should not rely entirely on the hygiene
education rationale, but should rather emphasize social marketing messages such as status,
ownership, privacy and convenience, to reinforce the health and hygiene messages
disseminated at community level. The development of the social marketing campaign will be
undertaken by the hygiene education working group.
8.    Monitoring and evaluation of the components would be established right from the
start, with the close involvement of the District Management Committee, and would include
not only quality control of latrines constructed, but also the effectiveness of user education,
and the identification of any problems or innovations emerging at field level, which would be
shared with the RWST.



89                        Annex 3-3
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
SCHOOLS PROGRAM
A.    OVERVIEW
1.    There would be an initial demonstration phase under the CWSP in which about 10
,.chools per district would improve their latrines. This adds up to 250 schools in the 24
districts of the 3 target regions. Another 100 or so schools (mostly from this samne group)
would improve their water supplies, generally by installation of a single well or borehole. As
for the community water supply and sanitation components, hygiene education is an essential
complementary activity, but the nature of schools as educational institutions, and their young
communities of pupils, demand a slightly different approach.
B.    DEscIRIoN OF AcTIvpm
2.    A detailed survey of existing school sanitation facilities and the content of hygiene
promotion in the school curriculum would be reviewed. The survey would be carried out by
the DWST and other local extension agents who would also use this opportunity to promote
the CWS program. PTAs would make applications on standard forms very similar to those
used for community Construction Grant Applications, with an additional undertaking to
provide all labor and superstructure materials (principally sun-dried bricks) for the latrines.
Information given would be confamed by the DWST, and the applications would be endorsed
by the District Assembly and passed to the Regional CWSD for action.
3.    Based on the application from the Parents and Teachers Association (PTA), selected
schools in the targeted District Assembly areas would have their existing facilities
rehabilitated or new unproved latrines constructed. The units would be of comparable designs
to those used in homes, augmented by handwashing basins and urinals. Usually, a battery of 5
home latrines per school would be provided on the basis of 2 units each for boys and girls
and 1 unit for the teachers. A commitment to excavating the pit, and more importantly,
molding of sufficient sun-dried bricks for the superstructure (about 30% of the cost), as well
as the formation of a health education club in the school would be criteria for qualifying for a
latrine grant from the project.
4.    Funding would be available initially for 10 schools in each district, although this may
be increased if demand is high. Management and financing would be specified in much the
same way as for water supplies in the Facilities and Management Plans. These would be
drawn up for the latrines and (if required) the water supply, and submitted through the DWST
to the District Assembly and the Regional CWSD office, where the appropriate contracts
would be prepared and let. School contributions for water supplies would be calculated on
the same basis as for communities, whilst contributions for latrines would be limited to in-
kind inputs, inchlding excavation and superstructure materials. Latrine construction contracts
would be let directly by the CWSD to licensed artisans, or, in the early phases of the project,
may be used as training exercises for the artisans.



90                        Annex 3-3
Page 2 of 2
C.    TRAING STRATEGY
5.      Train1ng and support would be provided directly by the Regional CWSD. with
assistance from the hygiene education working group coordinated by the TNC. If any Partner
Organizations are working in the area served by the school, they would be asked to attend
relevant planning sessions for the school project, so as to coordinate activities and enlist the
help of teachers in reinforcing community hygiene education and latrine promotion.
6.    Specialized training materials would be required for the schools program, and their
development and production would be coordinated by CWSD's Regional schools and hygiene
education officers, with support from the zonal training officer and the hygiene education
working group. Development, pre-testing and production of appropriate teaching/training
materials as well as the establishment of a collaborating framework between PTAs and the
District Assemblies would be carried out to ensure sustainability of the program.
7.    Training of facilitators (teachers and health education extension workers) would be
carried out as part of this component activity. Each school would select four teachers for
hygiene education training, which would be provided in workshops of about one weeks'
duration for groups of up to 40, during holiday periods, where they would also be provided
with reference manuals and teaching resource materials. During the first subsequent school
term, the main activities would be focsed on gaining an understanding of water and
sanitation related disease and its importance, particularly diarrhoea, intestinal parasites and, if
relevant, guinea worm. This would be coupled with some basic epidemiology about how
small quantities of faecat matter are transmitted through the environment, and how this can be
reduced by containment of faeces in latrines, protection of water sources and improved
personal and domestic hygiene.
8.    Children can be a highly effective means of introducing messages to adult household
members, and are particularly sensitive to peer pressure; they may thus be an important
element in persuading their parents to construct household latrines, or to support a water
supply project. Once the improved facilities have been constructed, the accent would be on
adopting improved hygiene practices, such as handwashing, cleaning and maintenance of
water points and latrines, including a clearly-defined schedule and responsibilities for the
latter.



91                         Amexn34
Page I of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
PRUVATE SECTOR PARTICIPATION
A.    INTRODUCTION
1.    The project has been designed to encourage private sector involvement in p!anning,
design, construction, maintenance and spare parts distribution for water supply and sanitation
facilities. Private firms would be contracted to provide these services and where necessary
would be given financial support as well as technical and management training. Specifically,
the project would work through the private sector to assist communities to plan their water
supply systems; to construct boreholes, hand dug wells, piped systems and household latrines;
to supply pumps and spare parts; and to provide maintenance and repair services.
B.    HAND DUG WELL CONSTRUCTON
2.    Over 30,000 communities with populations under 1000 are scattet.-d over rural
Ghana. Where hydrogeological conditions permit (about 2/3 of cases), hand dug wells are the
most economical way of providing safe water to these small communities as about four can be
constructed for the price of a single borehole.
If a contractor produces hand dug wells only, the optimum number of wells is between 50 to
80 per year. The capital cost for the basic equipment needed to construct this number of
wells is ab(-ut CZ10,000,000 (US$16,500). Construction companies with other activities could
operate on smalk-: numbers. This means that in every region about 3 to 5 private con.ractors
can make a living, when the National Community Water and Sanitation Program is at full
scale. In the first year of the IDA-financed CWS Project two dug well contractors will be
selected through LCB following pre-qualification. Two or three additional contractors per
region will be added in the remaining years of the project, probably one per year.
3.    The CWSP would generally work through existing construction companies that have a
track record of successful civil works and sound management (both financial and
organizational) and basic equipment. Potential hand dug well contractors would have to go
through a qualification process: (i) first meeting requirements for equipment and completion
of civil works; (ii) then successfully completing an introductory training course; and (iii)
constructing about 40 wells under a first contract, starting with five during which on the job
training would be provided and then constructing additional lots. When there are at least
three fully qualified contractors in a region, wells would be packaged and contracts let
annually through local competitive bidding procedures. Pre-qualification and training would
be provided by SBDU personnel. All training materials and teaching aids are readily
available.
4.    The CWSP would also assist contractors by providing credits for basic equipment
(refer to the implementation manual for details) under lease-purchase arrangements with
repayment made through contract work. After a contractor has proven capable of doing the



92                           Annex
Page 2 of 4
work he would be eligible to receive additional financing for the optional equipment included
on the list. Vehicles would be excluded from the assistance package as the use of existing
traport capacity will be required. In addition, a large stock of equipment is available in the
country from former projects such as PAMSCAD. This equipment could be made available
to the private sector under similar hire-purchase arrangements, and NGOs already operating
would be encouraged to commercialize their operations.
C.    DISFR m oN OF EQUIPMENT AND SPARE PARTS
5.    There is not enough money to be made in spare parts supply to attract legitimate
equipment suppliers. Consequently, contracts will be let for a packag_i of services including
equipment sales, spare parts supply, and installation and maintenance services. Responsive
bids must demonstrate that pumps and all spare parts are available at specified regional
centers (about 2 per region) and that service representatives in each participating district
(about 30 total m four regions) are selected and trained to install and make all types of
repairs. The CWSD would prepare a list of reconmnended spare parts sales prices for all the
standardized pumps. This list would be reviewed and agreed on annually together with the
pre-qualified suppliers/manufacturers. The price list would be published as reconmmended
prices so that the communities would know what the spare parts cost.
6.     It is not possible to prescribe a definite way how these would be achieved.
However, the distribution network could have the following appearance.
(a)    The national supplier manufactures/imports the pumps as well as the spare
parts required. He keeps fully comprehensive stocks of the spares in his
central store.
(b)   In each region sales representatives would keep adequate stocks of pumps and
spare parts at strategically located towns, usually two per region. In the case
that the components would not be in stock with the regional dealer, he should
be able to order the parts within one week from the national supplier. The
regional dealer would sell the spare parts either directly to communities or
through service representatives (associated area mechanics) and would have a
margin of about 30% on all spares. The bulk of the spare parts sales would
be parts that are to be replaced during the preventive maintenance inspection.
This would allow the regional dealer to plan fairly closely the annual turn
over on spares.
(c)    The area mechanics are the principal outlets for spare part sales at the district
level. They would also try to establish service contracts with individual
communities and do annual preventive maintenance inspections during which
the fast wearing parts of the handpumps are replaced. The area mechanics
would have a margin of about 20% on all spares. They would typically stock
only fast moving parts such as those replaced during the annual preventive
maintenance inspection and R few pump rod and rising main sections. Other
parts would have to be ordered from a regional sales representative.
7.    The IDA financed CWS Project would facilitate the supply of a high-lift and low-lift
pump through the private sector by purchasing half the requirements for the project through



Annex 3-4
Page 3 of 4
local competitive bidding where responsive bids would have to offer one or more of the four
handpumps currently commonly used in Ghana and approved by GWSC, and offer at least the
minimum after-sales maintenance and spare parts distribution services specified in the bidding
documents. Nonetheless, commnunities would be free to purchase one of the four
recommended handpumps from any supplier that offers at least the minimum after-sales
maintenance and spare parts distribution services specified in the bidding documents. Other
ESAs would be encouraged to similarly support the distribution and sale of one or more of
the recommended pumps through the private sector.
8.    More specifically the project would finance the purchase of about 850 handpumps
(250 high-lift and 600 low-lift) plus sufficient spare parts to fill the distribution chain. At the
beginning of the project about half of the total number of pumps (125 high-lift and 300 low-
lift) would be procured through local competitive bidding procedures with delivery spaced
over the first two years. Suppliers could provide a low-lift (direct-action) handpump and/or a
high lift pump from a list of pumps that are currently used in Ghana and have been approved
by GWSC. These include the Ghana Modified India Mark II, the Nira AF85 (or equivalent),
the Afridev, and the Vergnet. Payment would be as described in para 4.47.
9.    It would be necessary to establish quality control procedures which ensure that the
pumps produced in Ghana as well as imported pumps are made to specification. This would
be done through indeperndent third party quality assurance where the pumps purchased under
CWSP would be checked for conformity to specifications at the manufacturer's premises. In
addition, local suppliers would be trained to check that the pumps they procure are made to
specification.
D.    HANDPUMP MANUFAcMU1RE
10.   It is estimated that the market for handpumps in Ghana will be 2,500 to 3,000 per
year. Local manufacturers could supply about half of this market, i.e. about 1,500 pumps
per annum. The investments required for equipment and tooling as well as substantiai
demand for working capital constrain the choice of companies. Small scale and cottage
industries would financially not be able to undertake such a venture and would not have the
managerial ability for sustained successful production. Economic conditions in Ghana have
considerably improved over the last 4-5 years. Under the Ghana Investment Code it is
possible to obtain quite favorable relaxations on import restrictions and tax and duty
exemptions. However, it is still very difficult for local industries trying to compete against
imnported products. Constraints that affect the local production include: (i) Ghana does not
have a traditional manufacturing industry, because of this there is a deficiency in managerial
skills and trained personnel; (ii) confidence in the future of Ghana's economy is lacking so
most companies do not have access to venture capital and are not willing to invest if they do
not have immediate returns; (iii) it is difficult to obtain foreign currency; (iv) manufacturers
have to pay for raw material through Letters of Credit, they pay import duties on raw
material as exemptions are troublesome to obtain; (v) procurement is done by international
competitive bidding for equipment only; and (vi) handpumps can be imported duty free, and
(for instance) manufacturers in India profit from export subsidies
11.   Realistically, local manufacture is not always feasible, some countries iust do not
represent a big enough market. In Ghana, two and possibly three local manufacturers could
enter the market. Their first offering should probably be a direct action pump since that is



94                         Annex 3-4
Page 4 of 4
the niche where locally made pumps can now compete with offshore offerings. The
production of high lift pumps might materialize if a particular pump proves to be popular with
consumers. To facilitate the local manufacture of a direct action handpump the project would
purchase up to 100 pumps from a local manufacturer with the requisite metal fabrication
equipment and financial resources to enter the market. Procurement would be staged starting
with 10 prototypes and then increasing the order to 50 and 100 pumps if subsequent batches
are made to specification. Technical assistance would be provided to the local manufacturer
to ensure good in-house quality control procedures.
E.    MAINTEANCE AND REPAIR SERVICES
12.   A number of maintenance options were considered but the two that appeared the most
viable were either a very small or a very large enterprise. The small option would be typified
by an area mechanic equipped with a bicycle who services about 50 pumps; and the large
would be an organization such as the 3000 Wells M.aintenance Unit that provides
comprehensive services including spare parts and borehole flushing for several thousand
pumps in a number of regions. A combination is also possible where the 3000 Wells
Maintenance Unit would provide borehole flushing services, back-up repair services to
associated area mechanics (local service representatives), distribute equipment and spare
parts, and install pumps. With the exception of borehole flushing, this would be essentially
the same sei . es as proposed for national handpump distributors. The CWSP will pursue
both approaches. It will finance the establishment of a national handpump distributor and
associated regional sales and district service representatives, and will support efforts to
privatize GWSC's 3000 Wells Maintenance Unit so that it can undertake similar activities.
Communities could choose to purchase pumps and after sales services from either. Over the
course of the project the most viable sales and service system will become apparent.
13.   In the short run the GWSC Maintenance Unit is particularly important, as existing
handpump communities rely on them for mnaintenance services during the transition to
community management. The Unit could also have an important long term role as a private
company. A study financed by KfW will be undertaken in the first half of 1994. Ways will
be sought to ensure sustainability of existing pumps during the transition period and to
evaluate privatization options. A preliminary fmancial analysis made during preparation of
the ID-financed CWS Project showed that the Unit, if only maintaining and repairing
handpumps, would not be conunercially viable. Additional activities with a higher economic
return would need to be performed, while unprofitable ones such as day to day maintenance
and annual inspections delegated to local service representatives. KfW would likely provide
technical and financial assistance in making this shift to a privatized operation.
14.   To obtain a construction grant for an improved water supply system comnunities
would be required to agree to have their facilities inspected by a CWSD approved mechanic
on an regular basis (handpumps once a year, piped systems according to the technical
requirements) and encouraged to enter into service contracts with local service representatives.
During inspection the fast wearing parts would be exchanged and other repairs made to ensure
trouble free operation. The communities will have to pay for this service to the mechanic.
An inspection report will be prepared in duplicate (copies for the community and DWST).
Any other repairs and additional spare parts which become necessary between the inspections
would also have to be paid by the communities. In order to perform the preventive
maintenance inspections area mechanics would need to be certified by CWSD.



95                         Annex 3-5
Page I of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
TRAINING PROGRM
A.    TRANING APPROACH
1.    Community-managed water supply and sanitation is a relatively new concept and
activity in Ghana. An important aspect of the CWSP is therefore the establishment of a new
institutional structure for the sector to enable meaningful conununity participation. Existing
sector personnel and those to be newly recruited will need preparation for their new roles and
responsibilities, and the new institutions themselves will require support as they develop
within the new institutional structure. Additionally, the interactive nature of the program
means that the methods used for project implementation must evolve continuously in response
to field experience, incorporating feedback from fieldworkers and participating communities.
The training program must therefore be seen not as an isolated component of the CWSP, but
rather as a major tool in project management and implementation, continuously involving
personnel at all levels from communities to senior management.
2.    Fundamental to this approach is training as a two-way process. It will communicate
the CWSP approach and guidelines and impart the skills, confidence, and awareness needed
by project implementors at various phases of the project cycle; at the same time it will serve
as the means through which fieldworkers, and, through them, communmties, can raise the
practical problems and concerns of trying to implement the CWSP in the field, and give their
ideas on how to make it work. Training workshops will bring these two perspectives together
and provide an opportunity for joint learning, evaluation, problem-solving, and planning.
3.    This two-way partnership has implications for the way in which training is conducted:
it will need to adopt a highly participatory, interactive, and problem-solving form, in which
participants are treated as responsible and capable of critical analysis, creative thinking,
problem-solving, and action planning, and not mere objects of skill and infonnation transfer.
By giving trainees a role in defining solutions to practical problems in project implementation,
evaluating their own performance, and shaping the strategies used in project planning and
implementation, an effective and realistic system can be created, ensuring a greater sense of
commitment and ownership from the CWSD's partners in the program, the POs and
communities. Through this two-way process and bottom-up feedback, the training workshops
will contribute to the evolutionary development of the CWSP methodology.
4.    In addition to the establishment of appropriate methods for the training program,
effective two-way communication within the CWSP requires that all those concerned acquire a
set of basic skills and knowledge that will enable them to work together in making a fully
integrated package of technology, hygiene education and management accessible to the target
communities. Thus, technical personnel need to develop the attitudes and listening skills
needed to appreciate the ideas, aspirations, concerns and problems of communities and field
workers, and the ability to present technical information in a way that can be understood; they
have specialized knowledge, but this is only one element of the solution in any given



96                            Annex 35
Page 2 of 4
situation, which they alone can not prescribe. Similarly, community animators and h1ygiene
educators need to understand the technical possibilities for, and the constraints to, providing
improved water supply and sanitation facilities. Such a basis of shared knowledge and
attitudes is an essential prerequisite for effective teamwork at all levels in the CWSP.
5.     A list of the training techniques that would be used include: action/reentry planning,
action-refl.ction cycle, mix of prescriptive training and problem-based learning, simple
teaching methods used uniformly, keeping the content simple, participatory, learner-centered
approaches, learning in small groups, modeling, every trainer a trainee, team buiiding and
network building. A description of each of these techniques is provided in the
Implementation Manual.
B.    TRAING STRUCTURE
6.     Training for the CWSP will be provided for all those involved in implementation of
the project. At the zonal level (regions paiticipating in the IDA-financed CWSP) the training
of trainers will be the responsibility of a zonal training team (ZTT) and small business
development unit (SBDU). The zonal training team, composed of personnel from the
GWSC's CWSD and the Training Network Center at the University of Science and
Technology, wi!l develop and produce training materials for RWSTs, schools, latrine artisans
and handpump mechanics; the training of RWSTs; and the monitoring and evaluation of key
factors affecting project implementation and sustainability. A Small Business Development
Unit, experienced in working with local NGOs to implement community based water supply
projects, will train and support Partner Organizations and hand dug well contractors and
prepare training materials for them. RWSTs will provide general operational support the to
DWSTs and assist them to implement the latrine, schools, hygiene education and handpump
maintenance components; and Partner Organizations will train individual communities. A
diagram showing thtis training support structure is given in the following chart.
.................................... ............... ...............................
CORE GROUP CWSD
RESOURCE I  aLgTC              .WATER
..N    PERSONNEL IUTRAINPS                                       AID
BUILDERS  MECHS  PROrRAMSBDU
I CONTR | CONSLILTANTS | [ ~~DISTRICT ASSI;;1 mrDUWEMLL |l
DWSTS                        COTATRS
LATFtM~~~ SCOL                          mm
BULDR          N1            PROGRAM



97                       Annex 3-5
Page 3 of 4
C.    TRAING AUDIENCES
7.    Regional CWSD and DWST Staff  New regional and district staff will need a
combination of classroom instruction and field experience. Classroom instruction will be
provided at the Owabi Training School and field experience will be provided in operational
regions. Each part of the training will last about one month and graduates will receive a
certificate in CWS. Follow-up training will be provided by the core training team (who will
help to plan and run the course at Owabi).
8.    Partner Orgazation Staff Partner Organization staff (community development,
RWS technology, hygiene education and sanitation specialists who constitute the POs) will
also be trained at the Owabi Training School. Field and classroom training activities will last
about two months and graduates will receive a CWS certificate. Follow-up training and
supervision will be provided by the regional CWS team.
9.    Handpump Mechanics Many regions already have trained handpump mechanics
who are employed by GWSC. In addition, local vehicle and bicycle mechanics etc. would be
encouraged to take on handpump maintenance as a sideline. These mechanics would be
offered training on repairing new types of pumps and, more inportantly, learning to operate a
private business. This training would be provided by the equipment and spare parts
contractor.
10.   Hand Dug Well Contractors Existing and new contractors interested in this business
will need fmancing and training. This training will be provided by a group made up from the
regional CWSD teams to develop hand dug well construction technology and capacity.
Follow-up construction inspection and training will be provided by regional CWSD and
DWST staff.
11.   Latine Artisans Latrine artisans will need several weeks of initial instruction and
follow-up supervision. Instruction will include not only technical aspects of construction but
also promotional and business aspects, as they will need to generate business for themselves
through personal contacts with individual households in their area. Initial training will be
given at district centers by the regional sanitation specialists and follow-up supervision will be
made by district sanitation specialists.
12.   WATSAN Committees and VHVs Although most education and training for these
cadres will be provided in the community by the POs, they will also be brought together in
larger groups at zollal level for direct training on short courses with the participation of the
DWST.
13.   District Assembly and Line Agency Staff These personnel will be given an overview
of the project so that they can coordinate it with their other activities. In addition, specialized
training will be provided for the relevant workers, in hygiene education, fmancial
management and administration. It is relevant to note in this connection that the EC
micro-projects program, operating throughout almost all of the project area, is also providing
institutional strengthening in administration and management to the District Assemblies.
District Assembly Members will also receive orientation on the project at district workshops
facilitated by the regional CWSD and DWST.



98                          Annex 3-5
Page 4 of 4
D.    TRAiNG MATERALs
14.   The development of training materials, training methods, and training courses would
go hand in hand with the implementation of pre-project activities in Brong-Ahafo Region, and
their refinement would be an integral part of the full-scale CWSP. The CWSD, TNC and
SBDU should work closely together on these tasks. Generally, the TNC would focus on
training modules directed at the RWSTs, DWSTs and the groups, whilst the SBDU(s) would
focus on materials for the Partner Organizations and hand dug well contractors.
15.   In order to standardize training to the greatest extent possible, common curricula and
training materials of four basic types should be deveioped for use in the training program: (i)
Trainers' Guides, providing more detailed background information than can be included in a
field handbook; (ii) resource materials for use in training; (iii) handbooks or guidelines for
the trainees, covering the major topics of the training courses and serving as on-the-job
reference tools; and brochures providing information on the CWSP for selected target groups.
16.   Detailed descriptions of tihe training mnodules to be prepared, indicating responsibility
for their preparation, target groups, format and content are given in the following taole.
Their development involves three main blocks of activity: (i) collation of existing materials;
(ii) development of the materials through an iterative process of drafting, field testing and
rcview; and (iii) training materials review workshops where a wider group can provide inputs
to improving the quality, methodology and consistency of the materials and training methods.
Table 1. Training Modules and Target Groups
Module Content                            Material Type '
Target Group                       B    H    R    T    Prepared by
Basic Skills2
RWSTs, DWSTs, SBDUs, POs                *    0    0         TNC
Program Information
Decision Makers                    *                        TNC
Beneficiaries and Service Providers                         TNC
Community Support and Hygiene Education
WATSAN Committees & Volunteers          0    0              SBDU
Partner Organizations                   *    0    *         SBDU
School Teachers                         0    0    *         TNC
Technical Services
Hand Dug Well Contractors               0          *        SBDU
Latrine Builders                        *          *        TNC
Handpump Mechanics                      *          0        TNC
Management
CWSD (Implementation Manual)             0                 CWSD
DWST (Implementation Manual)             0         0        TNC
1)    B: Brochure, H: Handbook, R: Resource materials, T: Trainers' Guide
2)    Basic skills includes modules on project information, health and hygiene,
participatory communications, teamwork, and management.



99                         Annex 3-6
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
TECHNOLOGY CHoicE
A.    WATER SUPPLY TECHNOLOGY
1.    It is important that communities are able to choose the technology that will give them
the highest service level that they want, Cal afford, and can maintain. To be acceptable to
consumers and sustainable, -. hlir level of serv.ce should accompany any increase in costs
where service level is deter -nined by a number of factors, including the quantity and quality
of the water, the amount of time needed to collect water, and the reliability of the system.
Technologies supported bv the project would include hand dug wells ar.d bereholes; latrines;
handpumps; electric, diesel and solar pumps; and small piped d- ,tribution networks. Further
information about each is provided in the Implementation Manual. For each the CWSD
Technical Unit would prepare and maintain (a) specifications inciuding technical drawings,
bills of quantities, and construction and quality control procedures; (b) sample bidding
documents and model contracts; (c) acceptance inspection procedures including acceptance
criteria; (d) pre-qualification and licensing procedures; and (e) guidelines for O&M.
2.    Groundwater has a number of advantages over surface water for the provision of
water supply and should be used as the source of supply whenever possible: it is available
within the community, is more reliable throughout the year and in periods of drought, and
generally does not require treatmnent. Springs and hand dug wells are preferred sources of
water because they are relatively inexpensive and provide a good basic service. More
expensive machine drilled boreholes should be used only if springs or hand dug wells are not
suitable. In all cases care must be taken that the source provides a year round supply of
water. Where required, surface water treatment for small piped systems should be based on
slow sand filtration preceded by roughing filters and should make use of hydraulic rather than
electro-mechanical processes. Infiltration galleries can provide even better and more reliable
treatment at lower costs and should be used whenever technically feasible.
3.    Different priced water supply options for both point sources and piped systems and
information materials, easily understood by community groups, showing typical designs and
costs (capital and recurrent) should be available. The technologies described in the
Inplementation Manual would be the typical options. They include dug wells with and
without handpumps, boreholes with either direct-action or high-lift handpumps, and small
piped systems utilizing either groundwater or surface water with appropriate pumping and
treatment units. Pumping options would include electric submersible pumps powered by the
electric grid, photovoltaic cells or diesel generating units. Lower cost surface-mounted, gas-
powered centrifugal pumps with locally made storage tanks would also be an option.
Generally, hand dug wells would be the least cost option, regardless of the community size.
Where hand dug wells are not feasible due t) hydrogeological constraints or a community
wants a piped system, the least cost technology would depend on the population size, well
yield, and proximity of the water wells to the national electric grid. Typical capital outlays
and annual costs for each basic technology options are given in Table 1. Costs, however,
vary with the size of the community and the type of pumping system employed. This is
illustrated in Table 2 where systems are ranked in terms of their capital cost.



100                         Annex 3-6
Page 2 of 2
Table 1: Costs of Principle Technology Options
Capital Cost    Annual Cost   Unit Cost
Technology                  Total  Per Capita
(US$)    (US$)        (US$/yr)  (US$/m3)
Dug Well with Bucket       2,000       10.00         350        0.30
Dug Well with Handpump     3,000       '5.00         525        0.45
Borehole with Handpump    11,000       36.50        2,500       0.95
Piped System (2500 pop.)    80,000     32.00       16,000       0.75
Table 2: Ranking of Water Supply Options by Capital Cost'
Commnity Size and Pumping Lift
Small size    Medium size     Large size
Type of System     < 500 people   1500 people    > 2000 people
Low lift     Medium lift      High lift
< lOm lift     20m lift       > 40m lift
Hand Dug Well'               1              1              1
Borehole + Handpump3         2              5              5
Borehole + Grid45            3              2              2
Borehole + Solar5           4               3              4
Borehole + Diesel'           5              4              3
Notes: 1) 1 denotes the least cost option and 5 the highest.
2) Hand dug wells have capacity to serve up to 200 people.
3) The dynamic pumping level is less than 45 meters.
4) The water wells are in close proximity to the electric grid.
5) A single well has sufficient capacity to serve the community.
B.    SAnON TECNOLOGY
4.    The demand for latrines has in the past been a problem because of the high cost;
it is therefore important that a range of different cost designs for improved household and
public sanitation be promoted through the National CWS Program to allow communities
and individuals to choose the options most appropriate to their particular needs and
resources. Technologies would include the single pit VIP latrine, the sanplat and
Mozambique type latrines with and without a vent pipe, and in some cases the twin pit
VIP latrine. Multiple pit VIP latrines (privately operated) would be used at health
centers, markets and other public places. Standard designs and technical specifications
will be prepared for each including drawings, bills of quantities, construction and quality
control procedures, and sample bidding documents and contracts.



