Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:    21785
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26040)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.9 MILLION (US$ 21.96 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR THE COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
January 31, 2001
Water and Urban II
Country Department 10
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 25, 2000)
Currency Unit = Cedi (GHC)
GHC 1 = US$ .006800
US$ 1 = GHC 6,800.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAS           -       Beneficiary Assessment Survey
CAS           -       Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA          -       Canadian International Development Agency
CWS           -       Community Water and Sanitation
CWSA          -       Community Water and Sanitation Agency
CWSD          -       Community Water and Sanitation Division
CWSP-1        -       First Community Water and Sanitation Project
CWSP-2        -       Second Community Water and Sanitation Project
DA            -       District Assembly
DDA           -       Demand Driven Approach
ERR           -       Economic Rate of Retum
ESA           -       Extemal Support Agency
GoG           -       Government of Ghana
GWSC          -       Government Water and Sewerage Corporation
HO            -       Head Office
IDA           -       Intemational Development Association
ILM           -       Intensive Leaming Model
KfW           -       German Cooperation
M&E           -       Monitoring and Evaluation
MOU           -       Memorandum of Understanding
NCWSP         -       National Community Water and Sanitation Project
NCWSS         -       National Community Water and Sanitation Strategy
NGOs          -       Non Govermment Organizations
O&M           -       Operation and Maintenance
POs           -       Partner Organizations
PPF           -       Project Preparation Facility
RFA           -       Rapid Field Assessment
RWSTs         -       Regional Water and Sanitation Teams
SAR           -       Strategic Assessment Report
SBDUs         -       Small Business Development Units
UNDP          -       United Nations Development Program
WATSAN        -       Water and Sanitation Committees
WSDBs         -       Water Sector Development Boards
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:    Peter C. Harrold
Sector Manager:    Letitia A. Obeng
Task Team Leader:   Jennifer J. Sara



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION AND COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   10
6. Sustainability                                                                       10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      14
9. Partner Comments                                                                     15
10. Additional Information                                                              16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   27
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                     28
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                   33
Annex 10. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report                                  41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000924                                       Project Name: COMMUNITY WATER &
SANITATION
Team Leader: Jennifer J. Sara                             TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR           Report Date: January 31, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: COMMUNITY WATER & SANITATION                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-26040
Country/Department: GHANA                                                Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: WR - Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/14/91                                Effective: 04/14/94            12/15/94
Appraisal:  01/24/94                                  MTR:  11/17/97             11/17/97
Approval:  04/14/94                                Closing: 12/31/99             08/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF GHANA/Community Water and Sanitation Agency
Other Partners: CIDA, KfW
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                         E.V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Peter C. Harrold                           Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:      Letitia A. Obeng                           James 0. Wright
Team Leader at ICR:   Jennifer J. Sara                          Robert J. Roche
ICR Primary Author:   Wendy E. Wakeman; Tracy Hart;
Peer Reviewer: Alexander
Bakalian
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Inmpact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Tinte: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of the First Community Water and Sanitation (CWSP-1) project was the full-scale
demonstration of the proposed National Community Water and Sanitation Strategy (NCWSS). The project
was designed to help achieve the objectives of the National Community Water and Sanitation Program
(NCWSP), i.e., to (a) provide basic water and sanitation services to communities that will contribute
towards the capital cost and pay the normal operations, maintenance, and repair costs of their facilities; (b)
ensure sustainability of these facilities through community management, including involvement of women,
private sector provision of goods and services, and public sector promotion and support; and (c) maximize
health benefits by integrating water, sanitation, and hygiene education interventions. The project was
implemented in four regions: Ashanti, Brong Ahafo, Northem and Westem, with small town work also
undertaken in Upper East and Upper West regions.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no revised project objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
The project had three components:
(i) provide water and sanitation services to rural communities (US $7.94 million);
(ii) provide water and sanitation services to small towns on a pilot basis (US $8.87 million); and
(iii) capacity building for public and private sector (US $5.96 million).
3.4 Revised Components:
Although there were no major revisions of the project components, the following two changes were
introduced during project implementation:
1. In the interest of meeting the national program objective of transferring govemment-managed
waterpoints to community ownership and management throughout the country, an agreement was
reached in 1996 with the Govemment of Ghana (GoG), German Cooperation (KfW), and the
Intemational Development Association (IDA). IDA would shift some of the project funds that had
been allocated to hardware to support community organization and training for the "conversion" of
about 2,500 existing handpumps to community management. In tum, KfW would finance the
construction of 270 of the targeted boreholes, the rehabilitation of 860 additional boreholes (about 350
of which are in CWSP-1 regions), the supply and distribution of handpumps, the establishment of an
associated maintenance system and international consulting services.
2. In 1999, IDA agreed to a government request for the reallocation of a portion of project funds to cover
the cost of the retrenchment of about 170 Central Maintenance Unit staff. Since the autonomous
Community Water and Sanitation Agency (CWSA) was established and community ownership and
management was adopted nationwide, these staff were no longer required in the public sector.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Preparation of the project followed a lengthy policy dialogue involving the Government of Ghana, multiple
External Support Agencies (ESAs), and the World Bank. A Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Workshop
held in 1991 resulted in a draft sector strategy which would become a precursor to the NCWSS. The Bank
undertook an active role, vis-A-vis other ESAs in the sector in stepping in to demonstrate the proposed
strategy, thereby hoping to prompt other ESAs to follow suit.
This was the World Bank's first stand-alone rural water and sanitation project in Ghana, although the Bank
had previously financed four urban water supply and sewerage projects. The Country Assistance Strategy
- 2 -



(CAS) of 1994, which was presented to the Board at the same time the CWSP-1 Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) was finalized, recognized urban and rural water supply delivery and institutional reform as central
to a broader poverty alleviation agenda.
Project design was commended at the time of board presentation as being very innovative. It involved
implementing a new strategy for the sector and designing interventions in areas where little was known
(community managed small towns and integration of water, sanitation and hygiene activities). Quality of
entry on the part of the Bank is considered to be satisfactory.
Quality of entry on the part of the borrower was satisfactory. The Government provided strong support to
the NCWSP, of which this IDA-financed project was a part. GWSC moved quickly to create a separate
Community Water and Sanitation Division (CWSD) within its structure. The Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning provided timely project start-up funds, and the Ministry of Works and Housing
initiated three workshops to introduce the National Program and its intent to take the lead in monitoring and
evaluating the quality of the Program.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The primary development objective of the project was to provide a full-scale demonstration of the proposed
National Community Water and Sanitation Strategy. The project was designed to be a major step towards
sustainability by moving away from a government-driven approach towards community management.
The key elements of the reform included:
(i) resources channeled to communities and districts based on their expressed demand;
(ii) district-level involvement and the establishment of a District Water and Sanitation Team (DWST);
(iii) the use of the private sector in the provision of goods and services;
(iv) public sector facilitation, where the GoG would sign a performance contract with GWSC;
(v)  community ownership and management of services;
(vi) the involvement of women; and
(vii) the integration of water, sanitation, and hygiene education.
Accordingly, during the first two years of the project emphasis was on institution building and training,
with most physical targets back-loaded into the project life span.
With regards to institutional structure, the National Strategy was implemented by GWSC through
CWSD. Regional Water and Sanitation Teams (RWSTs) of CWSD were responsible for overall
implementation of the project in each region. The RWSTs assisted district govemments in establishing
District Water and Sanitation Teams (DWSTs). These DWSTs then promoted the project by providing
communities with information about water and sanitation and vetting Construction Grant Applications and
Facilities Management Plans (FMPs). The RWSTs were also responsible for building up the capacity of
the local private sector. Small Business Development Units (SBDUs) were hired to help establish and train
district-based Partner Organizations (POs), who assisted rural communities in planning and preparing their
FMPs, training them to manage their systems and encouraging them to use good hygiene practices. The
RWSTs and SBDUs also trained hand-dug well contractors and latrine artisans, and prepared training
materials and methods for them. Procurement of borehole siting, construction and supervision; small towns
consultants and contractors; and handpumps was undertaken by CWSD Head Office. The RWSTs
managed the contracts for the POs and hand-dug wells, while the districts managed the funds for the latrine
component. Each RWST handled an imprest account and CWSA Head Office was responsible for overall
- 3-



financial management and reporting.
Monitoring and evaluation indicators and targets for each of the three specific objectives were developed
in the SAR and were slightly modified during the mid-term review, when the project was retro-fitted to
adopt a log frame (included in Annex 1).  Several qualitative and quantitative assessments were
implemented by CWSA through the life of the project, including the Mid-term Review, an Impact
Assessment used for the design of the follow-on IDA-funded project, CWSP-2, and as part of this Intensive
Learning ICR, a Rapid Field Assessment (RFA) followed by a Beneficiary Assessment Survey (BAS).
Periodic national and regional stakeholders' workshops also provided substantial self-assessment of roles
and responsibilities of individual stakeholders.
Development Objective: overall, the project substantially achieved its development objective. In
addition to meeting most physical and institution-building targets, the project had an important spill-over
effect in the sector. CWSP-1 served as a powerful vehicle for GoG to seek concurrence, convince donors
and all agencies working in the sector in order to operationalize of the national policy throughout the
country.
Specific Objective 1 of "providing basic water and sanitation services to communities that will contribute
towards the capital cost and pay the normal operations, maintenance, and repair costs of their facilities," is
rated with a highly satisfactory outcome. The objective was achieved through meeting all physical targets
for communities and small towns, as well as all related community-based deliverables (hygiene training,
caretaker training, WATSAN training, etc.). BAS results find 89 percent of CWSP-1 beneficiaries
surveyed currently contributing to operations and maintenance funds.
Specific Objective 2 of "ensuring sustainability of these facilities through community management,
including involvement of women, private sector provision of goods and services, and public sector
promotion and support," to-date is rated satisfactory. Women form at least 40 percent of WATSAN
members in sampled communities in all the four CWSP-1 regions, and hold executive positions regularly
across all CWSP-I regions. CWSP-1 has been successful in stimulating private sector provision of goods
and services, and small community national stakeholder participants have consistently rated it one of the
key principles most successfully applied. However, BAS interviews with private sector individuals also
show that they are concerned about the weak demand for private sector services that may occur once
investment subsidies provided by external projects are removed. Public sector support for ensuring
sustainability cuts across central (CWSA), regional (RWST), and district (DA, DWST) levels.
Approximately 93 percent of the rural water facilities surveyed (all of which were at least two years old)
are adequately functioning at the time of project close.
Specific Objective 3 of "maximizing health benefits by integrating water, sanitation, and hygiene
education interventions," the project's outcome was partially satisfactory. Most participants in the small
communities national workshop rated the integration of water, sanitation, and hygiene education as one of
the key underlying principles of the NCWSP that was not as successfully applied. The objective was to
integrate water, sanitation, and hygiene, yet sanitation was dealt with separately from the other two
sub-components (see Section 4.2). However, at the community level, and through the efforts of the POs, the
integration between water and hygiene was achieved. The RFA and BAS in-depth interviews with
WATSAN committees underscored that they were very satisfied with the level of hygiene education
provided to them by DWSTs as well as POs and believed hygiene education to be an integral component of
improved water supply delivery.
4.2 Owtputs by conmponents:
-4 -



Rural Water and Sanitation
At project inception, water supply facilities were to be offered to rural communities in four regions on a
demand-driven basis, with an estimated 700 rural communities and 350,000 people being served by 1,000
water points. Sanitation facilities for households, schools, and public places were also to be provided
under this component, with 10 percent of the component's construction budget earmarked for sanitation.
The component also included hygiene education and a schools program. Hygiene education was to be
front-loaded into the process of mobilizing and training communities to manage their water supply and
sanitation facilities in order to better ensure that the health aspects of water and sanitation were captured as
fully as possible. The schools hygiene education program coupled the construction of sanitation facilities
with the training of teachers in good hygiene practices. Finally, the handpump conversion program was
added to the project and is expected to reach a target of 2,500 conversions, thereby more than doubling the
final number of communities owning and managing their facilities.
Table 1                                  Target                       Achieved
No. of rural water points    1000 (730 IDA + 270 KFW)       563 hand-dug wells, 725
constructed                                                boreholes
No. of handpump conversions    2500                        2610 (350 rehabilitated KFW)
No. of household latrines    4000                          6000
No. of communities with water   700 communities            826 new facilities
facilities, WATSANs and hygiene                            1154 conversions
education
No. of schools participating  250                          140 schools, 70 with latrines
Table 2: Regional distribution of    Ashanti    Brong  Western   Northern
completed facilities                       Ahafo
No. of rural water points            323       334       403         228
No. of household latrines          2,323     2,126       841         641
Table 1 indicates that all but one of the targets were not only met but were also exceeded. The
implementing arrangements at the community level were sound, with each community expressing its
demand, selecting its service level, forming and training a representative WATSAN Committee, preparing a
facilities management plan and developing an action plan for hygiene education. These actions laid the
foundation for community ownership and management of the facilities. On the other hand, the school
sub-component was the only one that did not fully achieve its physical targets of facilities constructed, with
140 schools out of the expected 250 participating. However, the sub-component was able to deliver on
supporting the establishment of a National School Health Education Program and developing a school
hygiene curriculum and associated training materials.
As noted above, the integration of water, sanitation and hygiene was a weaker element of the project. The
project design called for communities to enter separate applications for improved water supplies and latrine
facilities. The school component was never fully integrated into the community-level work and was
managed by separate staff within CWSA. From this experience, CWSA has leamed that the provision of
water and sanitation facilities in schools should be integrated into the overall community process, especially
since most schools are located within the communities and mechanisms have to be in place to ensure the
- 5 -



sustainability of the facilities throughout the year.
The household sanitation component was designed with a "demonstration effect" in mind. However, the
strategy of subsidizing demonstration latrines did not achieve its intended success. Demand for latrines was
high by certain members of the community when there was a subsidy; however, it seemed non-existent
without one. An initial subsidy was provided to interested households in order to stimulate demand.
Latrine artisans were trained, and were then responsible for marketing a finite number of latrines at a
subsidized rate. Results show the households benefiting from the latrines constructed were often the well
off and were spatially concentrated in few communities where the latrine artisans lived. In addition, neither
the project nor the latrine artisans actively marketed non-subsidized latrines, or developed a range of
technology options that could have been more affordable. Despite these flawed design assumptions about
the expected replicator effect, the household sanitation component was able to exceed its physical target of
4,000 latrines and was able to construct a total of 6,000 latrines, and provided many lessons for the design
of CWSP-2.
Despite these apparent design shortcomings, health and hygiene knowledge of beneficiaries of rural water
points, as measured by RFA household surveys, were high. When posed with an open-ended question, 95
percent of respondents could name a general health risk associated with drinking polluted water and 33
percent could name a specific water-bome disease. More than 90 percent of RFA household members
surveyed could describe how to identify safe drinking water. Seventy five percent of beneficiaries could
provide proper health and hygiene-related reasons for using a latrine. Project households adopted the
following hygiene practices, as recorded in the BAS: 84 percent store water in clean containers, 63 percent
have water containers with a lid/cover, 50 percent use separate cups for scooping water and drinking, 82
percent wash hands after visiting latrines, and 81 percent wash hands before cooking. Annex 8 provides
more details.
The RWSTs performed extremely well in the implementation of this component, especially on assuming
their responsibility for contracting the POs, the hand-dug well contractors and managing the handpump
conversion program. On the other hand, the contracts for borehole drilling and handpump supply and
installation, handled centrally by HO, frequently did not deliver in a timely manner. Despite these
shortcomings, the rural water and sanitation component was able to deliver its physical facilities and
community development activities ahead of project schedule.
Overall, the rural water and sanitation component met and exceeded its physical targets, and
successfully achieved its intermediate objectives of capacity building for private sector involvement and
local-level public sector participation. The component is rated as highly satisfactory.
Small Towns Water and Sanitation
The small towns water and sanitation component had the objective of achieving sustainable water provision
by establishing comnmunity ownership and management, through representative Water and Sanitation
Development Boards (WSDBs). In terms of its physical targets, 30 small towns, with populations between
5000 and 20,000, were to have gone through the planning and design process with WSDBs elected and
trained, and civil works completed. In the northem regions, IDA was to finance the investment costs of 20
small towns systems through a parallel funding arrangement with CIDA, who would be responsible for
design, supervision and community development. The southem small towns were designed as a pilot, to
test and strengthen the capacity of CWSA and the local private sector to work in this field.
- 6 -



Small towns strategy: The component was designed to be implemented using a demand-responsive
approach and firmly rooted in the concept of comrnunity ownership and management, including a 5 percent
community contribution to capital costs, selection of technology and service options based on willingness to
pay, and full responsibility for O&M through tariff revenue collection. The technology options included
handpumps on boreholes, small-piped systems (consisting usually of a mechanized borehole, a storage
tank, distribution network, and metered public and/or house connections), or a combination of the two.
Community selection for the southern small towns was to be routed through District Assemblies with
RWSTs to provide backstopping support in implementation. CWSA Head Office was to take on the role of
facilitator in planning, mobilizing financial resources, and facilitating private sector provision of goods and
services. The community was to be responsible for operations, maintenance and repair of their facilities,
and revenue collection. Basic management would consist of a voluntary water board, accountable to the
community.
Implementation results: The small towns component of the project presented the greatest challenge for
implementation. The considerable learning-by-doing and revision of the component during implementation
led to major delays. It was extremely difficult in some cases to collect the 5 percent community
contribution in the given time frame, as many towns took on a "wait and see" attitude to see if in fact they
would actually have to pay, or if a government agency would bail them out. CWSA, often against much
political pressure, firmly enforced the policy. However, it was later discovered that the District Assemblies
assisted many of the communities in raising the 5 percent on a loan basis.
By the close of project, the following targets were met:
*   Facility Management Plans were prepared in 38 towns (target was 30)
*   WSDBs were formed and trained in 38 towns (target was 30)
*   Two towns opted for and received only handpumps, based on their contributions
-   Twenty-nine towns had water systems completed (target was 30) (Ashanti - 5, Brong Ahafo - 4,
Western - 6, Northern - 5, Upper East - 4, Upper West - 5)
*   Five additional towns had water systems completed, however, these were pre-financed under CWSP-2
*   Two towns have partially completed water systems (the remaining works will be re-bid under
CWSP-2)
The following are modifications made to the strategy and implementation results:
3   Towns were supposed to be selected competitively based on demand. However, once the town was
included in the list, it was politically difficult to have it removed even if the community members did
not show true demand for the project.
*   A mix of technologies was never really implemented and handpumps have been provided only as
backup for piped systems. Households have, however, been able to choose between house connection
and public standposts.
* All selected small towns should have been connected to the national electricity grid within a period of
one year. However, at project close, eight are yet to be connected. Temporary alternative arrangements
include solar systems, generators, and the use of single-phase pumps.
*   The sanitation sub-component for the small towns never materialized.
*   Poorly defined roles of CWSA HO versus regional staff have had an adverse effect in activities, such
as construction and training supervision.
* Two construction contracts in the northern regions were transferred to CWSP-2 for funding, through a
pre-fmancing agreement between CWSA and the contractors. The delay in effectiveness of CWSP-2
caused major concerns, with one of the contractors demobilizing.
Despite these drawbacks, by far the greatest institutional capacity building has been achieved in
- 7 -



communities through the WSDBs. Starting with no knowledge in water supply and sanitation services
delivery, the initial capacity of WSDBs has been built to make informed choices of service levels, and
manage the operations and maintenance of piped water supply systems. The building of social capital has
been very good as community members have become involved in all processes of water supply delivery, in
particular concerning the need to pay for water in order to keep the water supply system operational.
Given that the small towns component was to be a pilot effort, both for CWSA and for the Bank, and that
the physical targets were by and large achieved, its rating as a component is satisfactory. Although its
implementation lagged behind that of the rural water and sanitation component, the eight-month project
extension ensured that the component would be able to complete its civil works and WSDB training. Its
implementation resulted in a considerable spill-over effect: it demonstrated a strategy that has influenced
other donors to implement similar projects across the country.
Public and Private Sector Capacity Building
Through this component of the project, the public sector, specifically GWSC, was supposed to shift from
providing services to facilitating private sector provision of goods and services and community
management. The private sector was to be encouraged to take the lead role in planning, construction,
maintenance, and equipment distribution for water supply and sanitation facilities.
In terms of the public sector, the greatest achievement was the creation by an act of Parliament of an
autonomous agency, CWSA, charged with facilitating community water and sanitation provision across the
country. By virtue of this act, the central government has eliminated its role of directly providing and
managing services, and has transferred these responsibilities to the local government and communities.
Within the CWSP-1 project period, CWSA opened and staffed offices in its ten regions, and trained many
of its staff. With project support, CWSA also developed its accounting, procurement, disbursement,
administrative and auditing procedures. As a new agency, CWSA is still improving upon its computerized
management information system for financial management, monitoring and evaluation. Finally, CWSA has
established itself as the sector leader in the country, hosting periodic regional stakeholder reviews, including
annual software and technical policy reviews, bi-monthly donors' meeting and a donors' conference.
As part of CWSP-1, CWSA was expected to transfer primary implementation responsibilities to
RWSTs and District Assemblies (DAs). Although the RWSTs have proven that they can handle
increasing responsibility, implementation responsibility was never transferred to the DAs. Under CWSP-1,
all contracts were signed and managed by CWSA at the regional or national level. The greatest challenge
now facing CWSA is successfully dealing with the change required to become a true facilitator rather than
project implementor. CWSP-2 is designed so that all investment funds for subprojects will be directly
managed by the communities and districts, leaving CWSA as a facilitator.
At the District level, the project succeeded in getting water and sanitation on the agenda of the
participating DAs. In all of these districts, water and sanitation teams (DWSTs) were formed. DWST staff
were trained by the project and provided with equipment and logistical support. Most DWST staff showed
high levels of commitment and a good knowledge of their communities. However, the support provided by
the DAs to the DWSTs often left much to be desired. In addition, there was frequent turn-over of the
DWST staff who could be transferred by their line ministries at any time.
Strengths of the private sector, cited at the end of CWSP- I at the stakeholders' national workshop include
improved technical skills and high levels of cooperation at the local level among communities and the
- 8 -



private and public sectors. The national strategy of hiring a private Small Business Development Unit
(SBDU) in each region proved to be a successful initial approach to capacity building. At the start of the
project few Partner Organizations existed and by the close of the project, a number of POs were
functioning in all four regions, also serving the needs of other projects. Through the project, other small
enterprises that did not previously exist in the country were formed and trained, including hand-dug well
contractors, small towns consultant firms and local small town civil works contractors. In terms of the
small towns, the local consulting firms recruited to undertake community mobilization and training, water
system design and construction supervision have built capacities in these activities.
The public and private sector capacity-building component of CWSP-1 has been the force for
institutional change in the rural water supply and sanitation sector in Ghana. To the extent that both
private and public sectors have continually met development objectives during CWSP- I and are continuing
to transition through CWSP-2, this component's outcome is rated as successful.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR generated an indicative economic rate of return (ERR) for four principal technologies to be
offered to communities on a demand-driven basis (listed based on their rates of retum, highest to lowest):
hand-dug well with bucket, hand-dug well with hand pump, piped system, and borehole with hand pump.
Sensitivity analysis was conducted, varying the value of time and the distance walked to unimproved source
relative to improved source. Given lack of available information about the validity, the source, and the
base year of the original data on value of time, as well as its relationship to the shadow value of labor, no
attempt has been made to recalculate the indicative ERRs at the end of the project. See Annex 3 for a
more thorough treatment of economic costs and benefits.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial rate of return was not calculated in the SAR. There is a brief discussion of the unfeasibility
of a centralized system for rural tariff collection. The national sector strategy is that a 5 to 10 percent
contribution towards the capital cost is a practical measure of a community or small town's commitment to
maintaining the system  once it is operational.  The SAR states that the community/small town's
contributions can be paid in cash and in kind, corresponding to the value of labor that is contributed by the
community/small town, but implementation of this kept contributions to a cash-only deposit. Despite an
overwhelming demand for CWSP-1 services relative to delivery rates, there was no reevaluation of the 5
percent threshold within the CWSP-1 project period. CSWP-2 has raised the contributions to a 10 percent
mix, with 5 percent contributed from the small town or community and 5 percent from the District
Assembly. In addition, the DA will cover DWST operating costs, which they began to provide under
CWSP-1.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project has been substantial. CWSD did not exist before this
project, and is now a separate agency (CWSA), with trained staff at head office and in regional offices. It
provides leadership and coordination for the sector, and promotes adherence to and lesson-sharing on the
national sector strategy. The Government now includes, in the annual budget of the Ministry of Housing,
an allocation to cover the core costs of CWSA, thereby ensuring agency sustainability.
DWSTs have been created in all 26 project districts. While DA support to DWSTs is not always at the
desired level, these units are now seen as a regular part of district assembly structures and it is being
increasingly recognized that they have an important role to play.
Capacity building under the project significantly strengthened the local private sector. This is particularly
-9-



true in the case of POs, several of which have expanded into other sectors or districts. Despite the progress
made in starting-up many new companies, all stakeholders voice concern for long-term sustainability of the
private sector once CWSA, supported by external interventions, is no longer a primary client.
The project has promoted increased collaboration between stakeholders through project review meetings
and sector fora focusing on technical and software issues. These activities have helped to increase
understanding of the national strategy and encouraged joint discussion of issues raised during the
implementation of the strategy. The concept of community management is well established and all donors
are following the national strategy.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implemenlting agency:
Difficulties in finding adequate groundwater resources delayed implementation, especially in the small
towns, and reduced the production capacities of some systems. The drop in the water table has also
affected the yield of hand-dug wells.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Delays in payment of counterpart financing caused problems with the implementation of the small towns
component for about eight months. This delay was especially critical as it came late in the project
implementation period, thereby requiring a project extension. Similar problems with counterpart funding
also affected the rural water component, and thus during some dry seasons (when drilling is done)
communities and contractors were ready but drilling could not commence on time.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The small town component was delayed from the start of the project. This problem was compounded by
the subsequent lack of counterpart funds and the centralization of procurement at the national level. In
addition, inadequate co-financing arrangements between the Government, World Bank and CIDA resulted
in a lack of understanding of clear roles and responsibilities in the northern regions.
Centralized procurement of handpumps also affected the pace of project implementation. Handpump
procurement and distribution was delayed, in some cases for more than one year, due to the slowness of the
one handpump supplier, who had a monopoly, in meeting his obligations.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
See Annex 2, which also includes a reference to co-financing provided by CIDA and KFW.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Rural Water and Sanitation
Project sustainability is rated by the ICR team as likely. Participants at the national stakeholders
workshop also rated sustainability of the rural water and sanitation activities as likely. Of the systems
constructed under the project, 92 percent are still functioning (based on communities sampled in the BAS).
There is a strong, supportive policy environment. A comprehensive national strategy which promotes
sustainability has been in place since 1994 and is widely accepted. Government decentralization reforms
support increasing roles for communities and districts, thus supporting local management of systems.
Sustainability at the community level can be assessed in terms of financial, institutional and technical
factors as well as consumer satisfaction with services. The BAS provides evidence of financial
- 10 -



sustainability. Results indicate that the principle of paying for improved water is well accepted by rural
communities. The percentage of households that contributed towards capital costs was 92 percent and
those paying for O&M were 85 percent. Communities will continue to be monitored to assess whether they
are putting aside enough funds for O&M and are able to fund major repairs.
The water and sanitation committees are the most important institutional factor at the community level
and the BAS found that they are functioning adequately. WATSANs are meeting regularly and about 91
percent of WATSANs meet with their communities at least four times a year to discuss the status of water
systems. Ninety-four percent of WATSANs have bank accounts. Most WATSANs keep minutes, except
in the Northern region, where literacy rates are low. As women are the main collectors and managers of
water in the household, they have a strong incentive to keep improved, nearby water sources functioning.
In the communities sampled by the BAS, 44 percent of WATSAN members are female (target was 30-40
percent). Furthermore, 28 percent of WATSAN vice chairpersons are women (with 69 percent in Brong
Ahafo Region), as are 69 percent of treasurers and 47 percent of caretakers.
Technically, the quality of construction is good in most communities, facilities are functioning adequately
and community caretakers are trained and knowledgeable (the BAS found that 92 percent of facilities
surveyed were adequately constructed and the same percentage were adequately functioning). BAS results
show that beneficiary households in all districts are satisfied with the location of the water system, water
quantity and quality, and the arrangements for fetching water.
At the district level there are many concerns with the DWSTs. Many of the DWSTs no longer have
functioning motorbikes, thus greatly diminishing their ability to visit communities for follow-up support.
In the subsequent project, funds are available for district support, and these can be used to purchase or
repair DWST motorbikes; however, in the long-run, the district will have to include the full costs of the
DWSTs in its budget. Spare parts outlets exist in a majority of districts sampled in the BAS, although the
availability of spare parts in the outlets varies from 22 percent in Western to 50 percent in Northern and 88
percent in Ashanti. One reason for the lack of spare parts is that as demand is still fairly low, merchants do
not get much profit from stocking them. This should change as facilities age and more spare parts are
needed. For the moment, with support from DANIDA and KfW, CWSA is establishing a bonded
warehouse that will stock spare parts in Accra with retail outlets in Kumasi and Tamale, thereby ensuring
that an ample supply is available in the country. A high proportion of WATSANs (92 percent of those
surveyed in the BAS) indicated they have access to area mechanics, which is an important element of
sustainability.
Small Towns Water and Sanitation
Sustainability for the small towns component is rated by the ICR team as likely (this is a preliminary
assessment, as the systems have just been completed). Participants at the national stakeholders workshop
also rated sustainability of the small towns activities as likely. There is a general willingness to pay for
water and so long-term financial sustainability is probable, provided that water boards (WSDBs) maintain
adequate tariffs and implement an acceptable level of financial management. Community members are
very much aware of their responsibilities regarding their water supply projects and understand the need to
pay for water to generate adequate funds to keep systems operational.
Facilities Management Plans (FMPs) were prepared in each town to document the process of selecting the
appropriate improved water supply system, establish capacity requirements, per capita cost, and overall
financial plan, including community contribution to capital cost, and initial tariff. Overall average unit
investment cost of the small towns component of CWSP-1 was $27 per capita. WSDBs used FMP-based
- 1 1 -



exercises to calculate initial break-even tariffs, which are based on the annual volume of water sold. These
incorporated annual O&M costs and included an allowance for bad debts. Within the O&M costs are
included: energy, personnel and labor, maintenance, and repair costs, including depreciation. Sample
break-even tariffs ranged from 113-435 cedi/m3 ($0.1/m3 at 1999 exchange rate). WSDBs were instructed
to set initial tariffs at least 5-10 percent above break-even point to provide some margin of safety.
Although WSDBs seemed to understand the basis for setting the tariff, sustainability will be based on their
ability to calculate and implement changes in tariffs as prices increase.
At the time of the small towns rapid assessment (several months prior to project closing), although most
WSDBs showed enthusiasm and demonstrated knowledge of their responsibilities, many still needed to
have more training before having adequate capacity to manage their systems. Further training took place
before the closing of the project, with a focus on operations, maintenance, and financial management
practices, including tariff setting, procedures, and customer management. Female membership of WSDB
ranges from about 18 percent to 56 percent, with an average of 34 percent. CWSA also continues to
explore private sector options for managing small town water systems, to be hired on a contractual basis by
the WSDBs.
As small town systems were completed towards the end of the project, it was premature to assess
consumer satisfaction with services, although community members seemed enthusiastic about their water
systems. CWSA and the district assemblies will need to monitor the small towns closely as they gain initial
experience with managing their systems, to ensure that WSDBs are operating properly and receiving any
needed technical or managerial guidance. Provisions have been made under CWSP-2 to continue with the
training and monitoring, as required.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As noted above, WATSANs have been functioning satisfactorily in most rural communities. However, as
the physical works and final WSDB training for the small towns component were completed towards the
end of the project, it is recommended that the Bank conduct further monitoring of this component, in
combination with a CWSP-2 supervision mission. FurthermoTe, CWSA has developed a list of
standardized monitoring indicators which each RWST will be required to track. Progress on this
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system will be monitored under the follow-on project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.] Lending:
Preparation of the project by the initial task tearn leader was an extension of a larger effort to develop
and implement a National Community Water and Sanitation Strategy. As such, it was a pioneering effort
in the region. Several other similar 'first-generation' demand-driven rural water and sanitation projects
were being developed in parallel in other regions; the quality of the preparation of this project is high and
similar to those of that vintage. Use of PPF funds to open the RWST office and launch two DWSTs in
Brong-Ahafo region was noted as a clever 'mini-piloting' of that component. Thus efforts of the Bank with
regards to lending is rated as satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
Quality of task management over the life of the project was highly satisfactory, with only two task team
leaders presiding, and considerable effort made to provide overlap by retaining key task team members
throughout most of the period of the credit. The overall quality of the skills mix of supervision teams was
good, although the small towns component of the project seems to have received less attention in terms of
supervision input in the earlier stages of the project cycle. The task team leaders met service standards for
- 12 -



submitting back-to-office reports and completing Project Status Reports. Senior management attention to
the project, including that of the Country Director, was unusually attentive, and well received.
Bank supervision faltered in a few minor areas: duing the June 1997 supervision mission, the objectives,
outputs, and monitoring indicators for the project were reviewed, updated, and placed in a logical
framework. This 'retrofitting' was not sufficiently woven into the latter half of the project, and a solid
computerized monitoring and evaluation program was never fully implemented. Also, both Bank and
borrower reported various issues with procurement, resulting in part from the extensive use of centralized
procurement processes for implementing small works scattered across the country.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was judged to be satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
At the time of the preparation of the draft National CWS Strategy, the Rural Water Supply Department,
located within GWSC, was staffed by a director and three professionals, who were hired to manage several
projects throughout the country. This office was the precursor to CWSD, now CWSA. Significant
ownership of CWSP- 1 was held by this department as well as by key players in the Ministry of Works and
Housing. Given the significant lack of human resources available to provide input to CWSP-1 project
preparation, the borrower nonetheless showed commitment in terms of working openly with the Bank to
prepare a project that, in turn, would undertake significant institutional change as one of its components.
The borrower's performance at preparation is thus rated as sadsfactory.
7.5 Government implementation perfornmance:
Government commitment at the level of the Ministry of Works and Housing at the time of CWSP-1
start-up was to create CWSD in GWSC, which it did. The Ministry also fulfilled its obligation to pursue
further national policy reform during the period of CWSP-1 implementation by creating CWSA and by
establishing a Board of Directors for CWSA. With the exception of a delay in payment of counterpart
funding in early 1999, the Government was also able to allocate counterpart contributions in a timely
manner. Given the primary responsibilities as outlined above, government commitment can be
characterized as satisfactory.
7.6 ImplementingAgency:
CWSA, as the implementing agency, performed admirably, given a task to help facilitate a large
infrastructure project in a decentralized manner while initially developing, and later, fully transforming its
role as an institution. While CWSA exceeded all CWSP-1 physical targets, the level of decentralized
facilitation of the rural community component to the District Assembly, as outlined in the CWSP-1
Implementation Manual, never fully occurred during most of the time-span of CWSP-1.
At project start, CWSA had insufficient capacity to implement the sum of individual components of
CWSP-I. Capacity has been built at both HO and RWST levels during the course of project
implementation. CWSA performance through the course of CWSP-1 has been highly sadsfactory, due
to the considerable and consistent efforts of CWSA management and staff. CWSA HO could have also
benefited from more training in financial management, procurement, and small towns water and sanitation.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Government of Ghana performance was sadisfactory, given the ambitious nature of CWSP-1.
The Ministry of Works and Housing met its obligations and was actively involved in the supervision and
monitoring of the project. CWSA staff have been extremely committed to seeing the success of the national
- 13-



strategy, the project and their own agency. Overall, the borrower has a very keen, introspective sense as to
how it performed well and poorly in CWSP-1, and these insights have been shared at length with Bank
staff.
8. Lessons Learned
The project was intended to demonstrate the national strategy, and it did indeed provide evidence that the
main elements of the strategy can be effective. The lessons from CWSP-1 are being used to refine the
national strategy and were incorporated into the design of CWSP-2. The lessons also have broader
applicability to other rural water and sanitation projects supported by the World Bank.
*   Demand driven approach: the experience of the project illustrates that communities are capable of
demanding and maintaining services and making their contributions to capital costs and O&M. The
demand-driven approach also requires an adequate information campaign open to all communities,
which outlines various technical options and associated costs along with the effective implementation of
project rules in order for the financial policy to provide the right incentives for communities to select
the levels of service which they are committed to sustain.
* District role: There is an important role for districts in ensuring sustainability under the demand driven
approach, and so district strengthening and support deserves an important emphasis. Review of the
first year of the project concluded that DWST staff needed to be selected more on the basis of their
communication and management skills than technical proficiency alone. In addition, districts should
also be selected in response to their demand for participation in the program, as assessed against their
other development priorities. Under CWSP-2, districts will compete to participate and will have to
meet strict eligibility criteria.
Procurement:  Community and district-level contracting is important in the long-term  since it
establishes a commercial link and greater accountability between the community and the providers of
goods and services, and allows the community to develop its capacity for procuring materials and
managing contracts. This shows the importance of not only transferring decision-making, but also
resources, if true decentralization and local accountability are to be achieved. Some of the small town
contractors did not have adequate credit arrangements nor capacity for procurement planning, and
should have either been more closely vetted, had smaller lots or received technical assistance,
recognizing the pilot nature of the work.
* Sanitation and Hygiene: Great attention needs to be paid to marketing and promoting a range of
latrines, from the traditional to more expensive ones, in order for sanitation interventions to have a
significant demonstration effect and influence demand. Recent studies indicate that unless 60 percent of
households in a community have latrines, the health benefits will not be obtained. As a result, under
CWSP-2, a subsidy will be provided (but less than that provided under CWSP-1), but only to
communities where 50 percent or more of all households agree to obtain latrines. In order to fully
integrate sanitation, hygiene and water activities, water must be integrated into the school latrine
programs, so that children can wash their hands after using school latrines. The role of the government
Education Service in school water and sanitation activities also needs to be clear.
* Gender: With a strong emphasis and training on gender issues, it was possible for the project to
promote significant inclusion of women in community management, along with men. The BAS
indicated that most WATSANs have a good gender-balanced membership. Women regularly attend
WATSAN meetings and are active participants. There is some regional variation in the extent of the
- 14 -



roles women play on WATSANs, which can be due to cultural differences as well as the capacity of
the PO in reaching out to all members of the community. CWSP-2 will continue to follow up on
gender issues, to ensure that women's participation includes full involvement in WATSAN
decision-making and positions of authority.
*   Training and extension activities: The strategy of using SBDUs to train existing POs and promote the
growth of new ones worked well. Careful screening is needed when selecting POs for work with
communities, to make sure that they are viable organizations and not ones that consist of part-time staff
who also have regular, salaried jobs elsewhere. It is recommended that some training materials be
prepared during project preparation and then adjusted immediately after implementation starts, to take
into account local conditions.
*   Stakeholder consultation and coordination: CWSA has done a very good job at promoting
consultation across the various stakeholders (the private sector, communities, districts, NGOs, donors,
etc.) in order to evaluate the strategy and identify lessons. However, donor coordination is also
extremely hard to achieve, even when there is a national program, since most donors prefer to have
their own self-standing project, often tied to a given region. Despite CWSA's attempts at establishing
an unified financial management and M&E system, many donors continue to manage their funds on a
project basis, usually with a separate team of technical advisors. This truly is a challenge for CWSA,
who must balance the reporting requirements of each donor with those of the Government.
*   Support to Community Management: Although WATSANs and WSDBs seem to be adequately
managing the facilities on behalf of the community, they do need access to long-term support. In
particular, financial management training of the WSDBs has to be reinforced on a continuous basis. In
addition, CWSA and the districts must be in a position to provide guidance on tariff setting, and
service upgrading to house connections and/or additional point source facilities. WSDBs, and to a
lesser extent WATSANs, must also be encouraged to enter into contracts with the private sector to help
in the management and operations of the water systems, as well as eventual system expansion.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
CWSA completed its own evaluation report which is attached as Annex 10, and contributed to the
Beneficiary Assessment and Stakeholder Workshop processes. In addition, CWSA provided comments on
earlier drafts of this ICR.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Commentsfrom CIDA:
Under CWSP1, GAP Phase H was a collaborative project between the World Bank and CIDA involving
the rehabilitation of 20 small town systems with training and Community Development in the three
Northem regions of Ghana. Overall the project was a big success. CIDA was proud to be associated with
this collaborative effort. This was the first joint project between the World Bank and CIDA in the
Northern regions of Ghana, many lessons were learnt from this exercise which should be used in future
collaboration to strengthen partnership in order to meet the needs of the communities in a cost effective,
sustainable manner.
CIDA supports and is prepared to consider co-ordinated, collaborative approaches, and partnerships for
delivering projects in the Northem regions of Ghana to meet the development needs of the recipient country.
Being part of CWSP 1 was an excellent experience for CIDA.
- 15 -



Comments from KJW:
KfW has equally undertaken an assessment of project implementation for the German financial contribution
to CWSP1 (FC project Rural Water and Sanitation Programme II). Overall, main findings, conclusions and
lessons leamt are very much in line with the IDA report. However, the assessment of sustainable O&M has
to be preliminary due to the lack of long-term experience with the VLOM-concept under comparable
conditions. First results on institutional, technical and financial aspects (refer to the full reports of the BAS
and stakeholder workshops) are mixed, partly promising, partly requiring further action, such as
capacity-building, post-implementation monitoring and evaluation, on all levels: communities, districts,
private sector, CWSA, government and ESA. Project impact and sustainability should be therefore
analyzed once more in a few years, as systematically done in German FC through ex post evaluations,
when O&M comes to a critical stage with increasing technical and financial requirements for repair and
replacement depending on the efficiency of day-to-day operation and preventive maintenance. As a result,
KfW fully supports the transition arrangement to regular operations (ICR 6.2) and provisions made under
CWSP-2 to continue IDA support for training, monitoring etc.. However, these provisions still need
further discussion and coordination to be implemented. Further, it is recommended to concentrate donor and
sector coordination on sustainability issues and to launch an intensive learning process.
In addition to this summary, KfW has included more detailed comments and forward-looking actions to
monitor and support sustainability issues. These comments are available in the World Bank and CWSA
files.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
The BAS results indicate that both the poor and non-poor have access to improved water services under the
Demand Responsive Approach used by the project. In the communities surveyed by the BAS, 88 percent of
the poor households contributed to the capital costs (as compared to 96 percent of non-poor households)
and 85 percent of poor households were paying O&M (versus 89 percent of non-poor households).
Ninety-six percent of poor households surveyed were using improved water compared to 98 percent of
non-poor households. Seventy-three percent of poor households found the O&M rate to be acceptable, as
compared to 79 percent of non-poor households. Ninety-one percent of poor and non-poor households felt
that paying for water was a good principle, and 81 percent of poor households and 82 percent of non-poor
households said they would continue to pay for water. Thus poverty does not seem to be a significant
factor affecting access to and sustainability of water facilities.
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Summary               Key Performance Indicators                     Actual
DEVELOPMENT                (At Appraisal)                      Targets NOT achieved are in
OBJECTIVES                                                     italics
Improved living conditions   >   450,000 people have           >    320,000 rural inhabitants have
in rural communities and    improved, sustainable water        access to new water points
small towns through        facilities in 500 rural communities  >    120,000 residents have
sustainable water and      and 30 small towns by June 1999.   improved water in 29 towns
sanitation facilities                                          >    about 780,000 rural users
manage their water point
(conversion)
>     20,000 people have            >    6000 household latrines have
improved household sanitation      been constructed, serving about
facilities in villages and small towns    36,000 people
by June 1999.
PROJECT
OBJECTIVES AND
OUTPUTS
1. Communities
effectively plan, manage
and use their water and
sanitation facilities
Communities demand         >     Communities pay 5% of the    BAS survey shows:
facilities and prepare     capital cost before construction and  >    92% of households paid their
Facilities Management      all O&M costs.                     share of capital cost
Plans                      >     Communities decide the type   >    85% of households are paying
of system they want and how to     their share of O&M
manage it.                          >    62% of rural communities
>     Women are actively involved   initiated project in highly
in all stages of planning and      participatory manner
managing their facilities.          >    44% of WATSAN members
and 34% of WSDBs are female
(target was 30-40%)
>    100% of rural and small towns
have selected how to manage
facilities
Communities manage         >     Communities establish        BAS survey shows:
their facilities           WATSANs and WSDBs.                 >    54% of WATSANs meeting
>     Communities manage their     >    94% have bank accounts
water supply facilities - i.e., operate,   >   72% keep written financial
maintain, collect revenues, keep   records
records and accounts, evaluate and  >    92% of rural facilities are
resolve problems, and enter into   adequately functioning
service contracts.
-17 -



Improved health and        >      Improved water facilities are    BAS survey shows:
hygiene practices          operational and used by everyone     >    92% of CWSP-l rural
throughout the year.                community source points are
>     Water outlets are kept clean    adequately functioning and 92%
with no ponded water.               were adequately constructed.
>     Latrines are used, kept clean    >    96% of poor and 98% of
and adequately separated from water   non-poor use improved water source
sources.                            >    84% store water in clean
>     All individuals in the        containers, 64% of storage
community use better hygiene and    containers have a lid, 50% use
water use practices.                separate cups for scooping water and
drinking
>    83% wash hands after visiting
2. Private sector
provides goods and
services.
Partner Organizations                                           CWSA data show:
(POs) and local            >      I qualified PO per district.  >    32 POs in 26 participating
consultants assist         >      I qualified small towns       districts
communities to plan and    consulting firm per region -         >    I consultant in each of 3
manage their facilities    >      4 firms provide borehole      southern regions
siting and construction supervision  >    3 sitingfirms used
services.
Contractors construct      >      6 qualified hand dug well     >    32 qualified HDW contractors
facilities                 contractors per region (24 total)    >    4 drillers working
>      I drilling rig per region (4  >    481 latrine artisans trained in
total)                              26 districts
>      10 qualified latrine artisans
per district.
Equipment distribution     >      800 hand pumps supplied,      >    1050 handpumps supplied,
and maintenance services    installed and warrantied by local  installed with warranty
established.               distributor with spare parts outlets  >    65 mechanics trained
available in all districts.         >   No private piped-systems
>     2-3 hand pump mechanics       operators are yetfunctioning
per district trained and equipped.
>     2 private piped-system
operators per region.
3. Public sector
facilitation
District Assemblies        >      District water and sanitation    >    26 district programs in
provide support to         programs established in all regions  CWSP-1 regions and 82/110
communities through        >      DA members knowledgeable   nationwide
District Water and         about their water and sanitation     >    all DAs knowledgeable,
Sanitation Programs        program                             confirmed through supervision visits
>     Permanent institutional       >    26/26 DAs with active DWSTs
framework (DWST) and budget
security.
>     DWST members competent
in their area of specialty
- 18 -



Government facilitates the   >   An autonomous national       >    CWSA has been established
process through a National   community water and sanitation  through Act of Parliament
Community Water and       organization established with       >   Offices are operational and
Sanitation Program        multidisciplinary teams in all      fully staffed in all regions
regions.                           >   CWSA Board appointed, with
>     CWS Organization governed   representative stakeholder board
by stakeholder board and able to   >   Partial management fee is
attract external financing for services   being pilot tested by IDA under
provided.                          CWSP-2
)-    Policies and guidelines as   >   Policy in place and adopted by
well as a sector investment program  all donors, NGOs and other
supported by all stakeholders.     stakeholders
>     Monitoring and evaluation    >   M&Eproceduresfor CWSA
framework developed to improve the   still beingfinalized.
National CWS Program.
PROJECT
COMPONENTS
Water supply in rural     >      1000 new water points        >    1288 new water points
communities and small     installed.                          installed
towns                     >      2500 existing hand pumps     >    2610 conversions completed
shifted to community management    >   29 systems completed under
>     30 small town systems        CWSP-2
installed
Household and             >      4000 household and 250       >   6000 household latrines
institutional latrines in  school and health facility latrines  >    70 school and health facility
rural communities and     constructed                         latrines constructed
small towns               >      Teachers from 250 schools    >   Teachers from 140 schools
trained in health and hygiene      trained in health and hygiene
Capacity building         >      All stakeholders are         >   All stakeholders are fully
sufficiently informed of the National   informed of NCWSP and participate
CWS Program                        in regional and national fora
>     All stakeholders at          organized by CWSA
community, district, regional and  >    Annual NGO conference and
national levels trained and equipped.   donors conference have been
>     All stakeholders performing    institutionalized
their defined roles effectively    >    Strategy has been replicated by
>     All stakeholders working     all donors and NGOs across all 10
together as partners               regions, using same roles for private
and public sector actors.
- 19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Apprais l  Actua lLatest Perce sa le o
0     :Xj:f! ;;:f0\; ;;C00^0:000 0: : ;;: 0:;S :0 EsS0timat0-e:  Esimt t :d .:f:0 i00Appraisal
Project Cost B' Compon ,t               U $m:illion    US$ million
Rural Water and Sanitation                              7.94            8.35            105
Small Towns Water and Sanitation                        8.87            4.45             50
Capacity Building for Public and Private Sector         5.96           12.07            203
(Actual costs include Training & Consultants, Operating
Costs,Community Development and Staff Retrenchment)
PPFlUnallocated                                         0.55            0.18             33
Total Baseline Cost                                    23.32           25.05
Physical Contingencies                                 1.27
Price Contingencies                                    2.41
Total Project Costs              27.00           25.05
Total Financing Required               27.00           25.05
IDA-FINANCING
Category Description     Allocation (US$     Disbursed Amount
million)          (US$ million
as of January 24, 2001
Civil Works                       8.55                 7.93
Goods and Equipment               3.18                 3.08
Training and Consultants          7.73                 7.40
Operating Costs                   1.66                 1.78
Refinancing PPF                   0.18                 0.18
Staff Retrenchment                0.42                 0.28
Categories 1-4                                         0.00
Unallocated                       0.22                 0.00
Total                            21.96                20.66
* There were savings at the very end of the project, especially in the small towns civil works due to the
devaluation of the cedi.
Co-financing
* CIDA: US$1.7 million cost sharing was included in the original financing plan of the project (Project
Cost Table) to cover the costs for the design, construction supervision and community development of
20 small towns in the northern regions. These funds were managed directly by CIDA and are not
included in the actual costs. Actual expenditures are estimated to be US$2.6 million.
* KfW: US$3.1 million of parallel funding was provided by KfW for the rural water and sanitation
component of the project, through an agreement signed after the project had become effective. These
- 20 -



funds were jointly managed by KfW and CWSA through a different project account than that used for
the IDA funds. KfW funds were used for the construction of 270 boreholes equipped with handpumps,
and the rehabilitation of 861 boreholes (350 of which were in CWSP-1 regions) as well as support to
setting up a maintenance system. Actual disbursements were $2.31 million, and the additional funds are
still available for further borehole development in areas of water quality problems.
Government and Comnmunity
These contributions to the project are estimated at $3.9 million, about $600,000 more than anticipated at
appraisal.
-21 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic analysis conducted at appraisal for CWSP- 1 used an "indicative economic rate of return" rate of
return methodology, which used a combination of capital cost outlay, recurrent cost outlay, time savings,
and the value of time to four principal technologies: hand-dug well with bucket, hand-dug well with pump,
borehole with pump, and piped system.
Economic analysis conducted in preparation for CWSP-2 switched to a cost-benefit analysis methodology,
retaining similar capital and recurrent cost, time saving, and value of time variables. This analysis added
an element of a discount rate, and was able to ascribe values to technologies, so that at the time of CWSP-2
appraisal in 1999 the net present value of a borehole was $758 and that of a hand-dug well was $1,602.
The economic rate of return for CWSP-2 was estimated at 18-35%. As CWSP-2 does not differ
significantly in terms of the Facilities Management Plan cost breakdown (technologies explained to
communities, etc.) than that which was in effect at the end of CWSP-1, it can be argued that this estimate
of ERR for CWSP-2 might also be an estimate of ERR for CWSP-1.
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count      Specialty                       Progress         Objective
Identification/Preparation
02/1991                      1   1 TL/FNA
05/1991                      4   1 TL/FNA, 1 SE, 2 CON
12/1991                      1   1 T1/FNA
03/1992                      1   1 TL/FNA
10/1992                      1   1 TL/FNA
02/1993                      2   1 SE, 1 FNA
Appraisal/Negotiation
03/1993                      1   1 TL/SE
06/1993                      5   1 TL/SE, I FNA, 1 WSS, 2
CON
Supervision
10/1993                      2  1 TL/SE, 1 FNA                       S                 S
04/1994                       4  1 TL/SE, 1 WSS, 2 CON               S                 S
07/1994                       5  1 TL/SE, 1 FNA, 1 UFNA, 1           S                 S
WSS, 1 CON/TRG
12/1994                      4  1 TL/SE, 2 WSS, 1 CON/TRG            S                 S
07/1995                      3   1 TL/SE, 1 WSS, 1 CON/TRG           S                 S
11/1995                      4  1 TL/SE, 2 CDS, 1 ENG                S                S
04/1996                       7  1 TL/SE, 1 ENG, 1 WSS, 1            S                 S
HYDR,2 IS, 1 CON/TRG
11/1996                      4  1 TL/SE, 1 ENG, 1 WSS, 1             S                S
NGO
06/1997                      4  1 TL/SE, 1 G&PS, 1 ENG, 1 SE         S                 S
11/1997                      6  1 TL/SE, I SE, I G&PS, 1 NGO,        S                S
1 WSS, I ENG
03/1998                       3  1 TL/SE, 2 WSS                      S                 S
08/1998                      6  1 TL/SE, I G&PS, I SE, 1 NGO,        S                 S
1 SPS, 1 WSS
11/1998                     12   1 TL/SE, 1 NGO, I G&PS, 1           S                S
lHES, 2 WSS, I CON, I PROC, I
FMS, 1 INST, I ENG, I SM
03/1999                      3   1 TL/SE, 1 WSS, 1 TA/FMIS           S                 S
07/1999                      5  1 TL/SE, 1 INST, 1 G&PS, 1           S                 S
WSS, I PA
10/1999                      5  1 TL/SE, 1 WSS, 1 INST, 1            S                S
PROC, 1 FMS, 1 FIELD
06/2000                      4  1 TL/SE, 1WSS, ENG, PROC             S                 S
ICR
02/2000                      5   1 ECN, 1 G&PS, 1 WSS, 1             S                 S
PA, 1 CON/CAP
09/2000                      4   1 G&PS, I ECN, 2WSS,                S                S
-23 -



TL - Team Leader; SE - Sanitary Engineer; FNA - Financial Analyst; ENG - Engineer; WSS - Water &
Sanitation Specialist; G&PS - Gender & Participation Specialist; INST - Institutional Specialist; ECN -
Economist; FMS - Financial Management Specialist; HES - Hygiene Education Specialist; SM - Sector
Manager; PROC - Procurement Specialist; NGO - NGO Specialist; TRG - Training Specialist; UFNA -
Urban Financial Analyst; TA - Team Assistant; FMIS - Financial Management Information Specialist; PA
- Program Assistant; FIELD - Field Staff; SPS - Social Protection Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation               48                        125
Appraisal/Negotiation                    49                        125
Supervision                             160                        540
ICR                                      23                         70
Total                                   280                        860
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                         * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Financial                                O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development               O H  * SU O M  O N  0 NA
Z Environmental                           OH   OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
V Poverty Reduction                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Gender                           OH *SUOM ON ONA
M Other (Please specify)           0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Hygiene
* Private sector development              0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
* Public sector management                0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  O NA
O Other (Please specify)                  0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
- 25-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
61 Bank performance                                  Rating
Z Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
M Supervision                                        * HS O S   OU  OHU
[Z Overall                                           OHS OS   OU  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
Z Preparation                                        OHS OS   O  U  O HU
M Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  OHS O S   0 U  0 HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report
Back to Office Reports, Aide Memoires, and Project Status Reports
CWSP-1 Implementation Manual
Mid-Term Review of CWSP-1
Impact Assessment of Community Water and Sanitation Projects in periphery of CWSP-1 area
Joint World Bank/CWSA Rapid Field Assessment
Beneficiary Assessment Survey
CWSP- 1 Western, Ashanti, Brong-Ahafo, and Northern Regional ICR Workshop Reports
CWSP- 1 Small Communities National ICR Workshop Reports
CWSP- 1 Small Towns National ICR Workshop Reports
CWSA ICR
CWSP-2 Implementation Manual and Preparation Studies
CIDA correspondence, including more detailed comments on the ICR
KfW correspondence, including more detailed comments on the ICR
-27 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
This annex was prepared jointly by CWSA and the World Bank.
In accordance with the Intensive Leaming Model (ILM) version of the Implementation Completion Report,
a Beneficiary Assessment Survey (BAS) was conducted at the end of the CWSP-1 project. This was an
exercise which was designed by a joint WB/CWSA ICR team, which also co-wrote the terms of reference
by which the exercise was conducted by a private sector consulting firm resident in Ghana. The joint team
completed a pre-test of the hypotheses and the questionnaires to be used in the beneficiary assessment in an
exercise known as the Rapid Field Assessment, took place during the period March 2-10, 2000. The Rapid
Field Assessment was pre-tested in 28 communities and 88 households. A consultant was then hired to
refine the questionnaires and carry out the BAS field work in order to prepare the BAS findings for the
regional and national stakeholders workshops, which was held at the end of August, 2000. This allowed
the stakeholders an opportunity to agree or disagree with any of the technically or regionally specific
characterizations given within the BAS report. The BAS sampled a total of 66 communities, 42 of those
CWSP-1 beneficiaries and 24 non-participants in CWSP-1, and 318 households.
It should be highlighted that the beneficiary assessment chose to selectively assess the rural-community
CWSP-1 participants, and thus did not interview small-town beneficiaries. As completion of the small
town component was late relative to the rural communities component, assessing the benefits of CWSP- 1 to
small-town residents was deemed to be premature.
The beneficiary assessment limited its initial sample selection within CWSP-1 to districts who had been
deriving benefits from improved water sources for more than two years. From this sample, two districts
were randomly chosen per region, and from within each district, beneficiary communities were randomly
selected to represent 20 percent of total number of beneficiary communities in that district. Communities
which applied for an improved water source, but which were not selected, and communities which did not
apply at all, were both sampled as control groups in the study.
Three categories of hypotheses were tested in the beneficiary assessment survey: poor versus non-poor
differential access to improved water sources; sustainability (institutional, financial, technical factors, etc.),
and improved hygiene knowledge and practices. The consultant used a variety of survey instruments to
capture information, including focus group discussions, data sheets, checklists, coded questionnaires, and
an abbreviated version of the Ghana Living Standards Survey (GLSS) to determine poor and non-poor
households. These GLSS indicators related to levels of education, usage of health care providers, level of
employment, and types of household assets and amenities.
Specific data from the BAS appear in the main text of the ICR where possible in order to provide
quantitative detail. However, this annex provides an overview of the results from the BAS in order to gain
knowledge from the exercise and represent the compiled views of the stakeholders as best possible in this
survey format. The main results of this study include:
* Most generally speaking, BAS survey results substantiated initial findings from the Rapid Field
Assessment.
*   There also seems to be little, e.g., statistically significant, variations in answers to questions on any of
the three main hypothesis (poverty, sustainability, hygiene), across the four regions of CWSP- 1.
*   There seems to be little if any differential access to improved sources of water for poor versus
non-poor households.
- 28 -



Use of Water by Poor and Non Poor
Poor                Non Poor
Access to Improved Water                  96                     98
Access to Borehole                        90                     73
Access to HDW                             12                     26
Drink Improved Water                      86                     95
Wash with Improved Water                  92                     96
Bath with Improved Water                  93                     97
Cook with Improved Water                  90                     95
0 Similarly, there are little differences between poor and non-poor in terms of their ability to contribute to
capital costs and operations and maintenance costs (O&M). 88% of the CWSP-1 beneficiaries
determined to be "poor" contributed to capital costs and 85% are paying for O&M. As for the
CWSP- I determined to be "non-poor", 96% contributed to capital costs and 89% are paying for O&M.
Poor and Non Poor Payment for Water
Payment/Assessment                           Poor        Non Poor
% Yes        % Yes
Paid Capital Cost                             88            96
Pay O&M                                       85            89
Is O&M Affordable?                            73            79
Is Payment Good Idea?                         91            91
Will You Continue to Pay?                     81            82
*   Poverty did not seem to be the primary determinant for not having been selected as a CWSP-1
beneficiary community, or not having submitted an application. Demand for facilities was high, and
several non-beneficiary communities interviewed were not informed of the program in time to prepare
applications.
* Rural communities are consistently demanding boreholes rather than hand-dug wells as sources of
improved water.
*   Some CWSP-1 community members are continuing to use unimproved sources of water (but not for
drinking).
- 29 -



Use of Improved Water
Use (Percent)
Region                Drinking          Washing           Bathing           Cooking
Western                  97                95                95               87
Ashanti                  97                99                99               97
Brong-Ahafo              92                93                93               91
Northern                 100               88                97               100
*  All CWSP- I districts surveyed are showing high likelihood for financial and institutional sustainability.
These likelihood indices are based on the following factors: percentage of community contributing to
capital cost, percentage of community contributing to O&M, operational bank accounts and accounting
systems, well-functioning WATSAN committees, regularly scheduled committee meetings, gender
parity in WATSAN committees, and regularly kept committee meeting notes.
Percent of WATSAN with Account and Account Balance
Region              % With Account       Amount in Account ()
Western                   89                   124,000.00
Ashanti                  100                  912,300.00
Brong Ahafo              100                  241,600.00
Northern                  83                  346,250.00
WATSANs Keeping Records on Money
Region                 % Keeping Record
Western                           100
Ashanti                           100
Brong-Ahafo                       92
Northern                          67
*   All -CWSP- I districts surveyed are also showing high consumer satisfaction, as based on the following
factors: water location, quantity and quality of water, and arrangements for fetching water.
- 30 -



Proportion Satisfied with Facility Attributes
Indicators/Percent Satisfied
District          Water Location    Water Quantity    Water Quality      Fetching
Arrangement
Wassa Amenfi              93                93                71                97
Aowin Suaman             91                 91                49                100
Amansie West             100               100                100               81
Sekyere East              82                97                100               51
Asunafo                   80                96                86                93
Wenchi                    97                63                98                90
Bole                     100                75                63                94
Gushiegu/Karaga          100               100                100               100
*   CWSP- 1 participating communities have medium to high levels of hygiene knowledge, and some level
of improved hygiene practices. This includes households storing water in clear containers, water
containers having lids/covers, households using separate cups for scooping water and for drinking,
washing hands after visiting latrine, and women washing hands before cooking.
*   Of all the improved hygiene practices, keeping separate cups for scooping water and for drinking has
made the least impact.
Improved       Percent
Practice       Adopting
Water in Clean Container with    Cups for     Wash Hands   Wash Hands
District         Container          Lid       Scooping and   after Latrine  before Cooking
Drinking
Wassa Amenfi         84             51             36             87              71
Aowin Suaman         94             68             61             91              91
Amansie West        100             83             50             78             92
Sekyere East         69             41             23             79             90
Asunafo              76             63             75             90              86
Wenchi               81             63             33             68             72
Bole                100             100            81             81              94
Gushiegu/Karag       88             81             50             81             56
a
*   The latrine component of the program was comparatively not well marketed. Awareness of the
program ranged from 19% in Bole district to 92% in Sekyere East.
- 31 -



Proportion Aware of Latrine Component
District           Percent Aware       Percent With
Latrine
Wassa Amenfi                    54                  18
Aowin Suaman                    82                 42
Amansie West                    81                  19
Sekyere East                    92                  10
Asunafo                         73                  16
Wenchi                          40                  12
Bole                            19                  19
Gushie/Karaga                   88                 23
* Withdrawal of subsidies for the latrines also affected interest in acquiring improved household latrines,
with few households in all districts choosing to acquire facilities once the initial campaign was
concluded.
Reasons for Not Acquiring HH Latrine
Reasons    (Percent          Responding               Yes)
District                    Poverty    Inadequate         Adequate Comm           Single
Land             Facility
Wassa Amenfi                   33              8                    31                   0
Aowin Suaman                  46              54                   61                    0
Amansie West                   33              0                   50                    2
Sekyere East                  64               8                   36                    3
Asunafo                        58              7                    1                    1
Wenchi                         72              7                    11                   0
Bole                           69              6                    6                    0
Gushie/Karaga                 25               0                    0                    0
- 32 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
This annex was jointly prepared by CWSA and the World Bank.
Four regional and two national workshops were held to satisfy the Intensive Learning Model requirements
of the Implementation Completion Report. The four regional workshops were held in the regional capitals
of the four regions participating in CWSP-1 as follows: Kumasi/Ashanti (August 22-23, 2000),
Takoradi/Westem (August 23-24, 2000), Sunyani (August 24-25, 2000), and Tamale/Northern (August
29-30, 2000). These four regional workshops were attended by an average of 40 participants each, and
tended to center on the rural-community part of CWSP-1 rather than the small towns component. The
participants were a blend of WATSAN committee members, District Assembly staff, RWST staff,
Regional Coordinating Council members, POs, SBDUs, local NGOs, DWSTs, School Health Committee
members, private sector representatives, most notably area mechanics and latrine artisans, etc.
Each regional workshop was asked to break down into groups according to constituency, with each group
(i.e. a group of WATSAN committee members, NGOs, etc.) discussing their main successes, challenges,
recommendations, and overall rating of CWSP-1. Each focus group then presented its findings to the
plenary. The plenary was then presented with the overall results of the beneficiary assessment survey,
which usually generally a lively discussion. Feedback of the group from the survey was channeled back
into a second, 'mixed' focus group discussion, where larger groups tried to take the earlier lists of
successes, challenges, recommendations, and ratings, and synthesize them into three main successes,
challenges, and recommendations generated from CWSP-1 which represent experiences across work
groups.
Two national stakeholder workshops were then held: one on rural communities (September 4-5, 2000) and
one on the small towns component (September 6-7, 2000), both in Kumasi, Ghana. The focus of these
workshops was to bring the experiences of regions together into one voice as well as to discuss more fully
the capacity-building, sectoral strategy, policy aspects of CWSP-1 and other parallel project interventions.
The small conmmunities workshop built upon presentations of results from each of the regional
stakeholders' workshops. Seven issues were identified as being common across CWSP-1 regions:
inadequate support from DAs, demand for facilities outstripping supply, use of school latrine facilities by
communities, lack of skilled manpower at the DAs, political interference during community selection,
latrine subsidy removal, and CWSA/RWST/DWST staff retention.
Group work was undertaken according to roles (WATSAN committee, DWST, private sector, etc.) to
assess their performance in the context of their roles and responsibilities, to identify their strengths and
weaknesses in the implementation of CWSP-1, and to list areas where they can improve their efficiency.
Groups were then 'shuffled' to discuss four components (water supply, sanitation, hygiene education, and
training) as well as the issue of poor communities.
These "mixed groups" were to take the key underlying principles of the National CWS Strategy and, for
that component, identify two principles that had been successfully applied and two that had not been as
successfully applied, as well as to list challenges, lessons, and recommendations for that component. The
key underlying principles of "demand-responsiveness" and "use of the private sectoT in the provision of
goods and services" were identified as successfully applied in three components. Across all four
components used in the exercise, the key underlying principles of "integration of water, sanitation, and
hygiene education" and "district involvement" were identified as not as successfully applied.
- 33 -



The "poor communities" ad-hoc group was tasked to review the 5 percent community contribution and its
impact on the poor. The ad-hoc group, as well as the plenary, was unable to come to any consensus
regarding alternatives to the current system, other than suggesting that DAs provide short-term loans to
conmiunities or otherwise allow poorer communities to pay capital cost contributions on an installment
basis. There was a similar view concerning a continuing need for subsidies for latrine construction.
Recommendations that came out of the final sessions of the small communities national stakeholders'
workshop built upon the seven issues first identified as spanning across the regional workshops' reports,
and can be found in the annex on CWSA Small Communities National Stakeholders' Workshop. Critical
issues revolve around District Assembly involvement and funding, matching community demand for
facilities with CWSA ability to supply such facilities, and better integration of water supply, sanitation and
hygiene education.
The small towns national workshop was conducted in a framework similar to that of the small communities
national stakeholders' workshop. One exception was that there were no regional small towns workshops
which preceded the national workshop. Instead, each region gave a status report to the plenary of the
national stakeholders' workshop, with an accounting of the small towns included in CWSP-I and the water
systems selected and installed in each.
The workshop then split into 'specialized' groups according to stakeholders, with participants grouping
according to their role in CWSP-1 (i.e. consultants, contractors, Water Board representatives, etc.). These
groups assessed the extent to which their group had been able to perform the roles and responsibilities
expected of them within the context of CWSP-1, and identified constraints that kept them from functioning
at a fully proficient level. These groups then reported back to the plenary. Constraints identified across
several of the specialized groups included: delay in mobilization of the 5 percent capital cost community
contribution, problems attributable to pre-financing, and the inadequate skills of staff in CWSA and in the
private sector at the time of project start.
The groups then mixed again in a more random order, and discussed the different elements of the national
strategy as they pertained to the small towns component of CWSP-1. The two elements of private sector
participation and involvement of women were selected as highly successful within the small towns
component, most of the other elements were rated as successful, and the integration of water, sanitation,
and hygiene was rated as unsuccessfully applied within the small towns component. The overall
performance of the small towns component was rated as successful by workshop participants, with
sustainability rated as likely by 80% of the participants.
There were also several recommendations brought forth at the end of the workshop. Most of these
concerned a lack of clear definition of roles in the development of small towns works during construction.
Participants also felt that house connections with meters should be promoted, that meters for standpipes
should be provided for in contracts, that DAs should be more closely involved, that small towns should not
be dependent on the common fund, as it is not reliable, and that the 5 percent capital cost contribution
threshold should be reviewed. The small communities and small towns national stakeholders workshops
organizing team consisted of a moderator and a facilitator, who, as part of their contract, provided a more
detailed report of both workshops. They are cited in Annex 7 and are available upon request. Two tables
from the report are given below.
- 34 -



National Stakeholder Workshop on CWSPI
Workshop Findings
Table A: Analysis of Issues from Mixed-Group Discussions for Small Communities
Project                                     Points for Discussion
Components
Successful Principles not as Successful Challenges Lessons/Recommendations
Sanitation          Demand responsiveness
* Use of private sector in the provision of goods and services
Integration of water, sanitation, and hygiene education
* District involvement
Demand outstripped supply
Poverty
Delay in subsidy payment
Nature of underlying rock?
Non retention of latrine artisans
Most communities have either sanitation facilities or water, not both
Public use of school KVIPs
* Inadequate logistical support
Limited funds hinder provision of sanitation facilities
DA to solicit funds
* Criteria for implementing water/sanitation facilities must be followed
* Water and sanitation facilities should be provided together
Community education
Funds must be available before project takes off
* DAs must be oriented
Hygiene             Use of Private sector in provision of goods and services
Education           Women involvement
* Integration of water, sanitation, and hygiene education
District involvement
* Non-payment of latrine subsidy
Inadequate support to DWST
Behavioral change takes time
* Hygiene education should be continuous
- Hygiene education should be fully integrated into school curricula
Water Supply        Demand driven/Responsiveness
* Use of private sector in provision of goods and services
* District involvement
* Integration of water, sanitation and hygiene education
Poor communities not paying 5% and O&M
* DAs support to DWSTs
* Ability to sustain comm. contributions towards O&M
* Demand outstrips supply
Technical teams to collaborate with communities in siting facilities
* Technology options should be less rigid(there should be increased variety)
- 35 -



Table A Contd.
Project                                      Points for Discussion
Components
Successful Principles not as Successful Challenges Lessons/Recommendations
Training             Demand driven
- Public sector facilitation
- District involvement
* Integration of water, sanitation, and hygiene education
Lack of total commitment by DAs
Lack of sufficient funds by some DAs to support water and sanitation
Lack of adequate funds to meet demand for sanitation facilities
- Effective sensitization strategy for sanitation and hygiene practices
Attaching value to comm. is a necessary move for sustainability
Employ effective sensitization and marketing strategies
Provide adequate funding: DAs and project
DAs to accept and perform their roles
Need to strengthen the MOU between CWSA and DAs and to apply sanctions for
non-performance
Poor               Selection criteria
Communities        Mode of Payment
ContributionAssistance
Willingness to participate
Commnitment to pay
High level of response
* Adopt previous experience in similar projects
- Strategic planning for contribution Installments 2.5% of investment cost as against
5%Provision of loans to be paid during 'good times'
Recurrent Issues    - Demand-responsive approach
Use of private sector
* Integration of water, sanitation, and hygiene education
District involvement
DA support
Funding
Support for poor communities
Summary of key issues stressed in the Regional Wrap up reports
This session was very informal. Participants reported on the status of the soft and hard ware component of the
CWSP1 for small towns. After that, discussions on some of the issues were made. The presence of the Director
(Water) Mr. S. A. Darkwa from the Ministry of Works and Housing to give further clarification on some of the
issues raised was very much appreciated.
- 36 -



Table B: Mixed Group Discussions for Small Towns
Components of      Outcome of group Discussions
Discussions
National Strategy Institutional Development Water Supply Sanitation & Hygiene Education
Community Education and Training
Assessment         Rated successful overall in light of the following;
Highly successful: Private sector participation; Women involvement
Successful: Demand driven, District involvement, public sector participation, Community
ownership and Management, Physical targets
* Unsuccessful: Integration of Water, Sanitation & Hygiene education
For CWSA: Some substantial degree of experience. Staff capacity has been built via
implementation of CWSP1, small towns component
* DAS: Capacity development is limited to enable them plan, promote and facilitate small
towns water supply systems
Comm-Based Organizations:
- WSDBs have reasonable level of capacity to manage systems, for now
Training is on-going, but there is need to follow up thereafter
* Private Sector: Private sector capacity has been reasonably developed to handle future small
towns water projects
Rated overall performance as successful in light of the following;
Comms. Involved right from initial stages
Conmm. Exposed to technological options who made informed decisions
O&M cost implications were made clear
Comm. Layout for systems were known
5% cost contribution made known
Detail design
* Competent consulting services procured for detailed designs
Procurement of works and services
* Mode of selection is competitive, based on laid down guidelines
Construction and Supervision
Supervision by competent consultants
- Good construction, although there were cash flow problems - Moderately successful
Component judged as successful because...
* Comm. orientation went on well
Comm. mobilization and organization was properly done
Comms. were mobilized to pay 5% capital cost
All WSDBs have received training in O&M
Only Hygiene education was unsuccessfully carried out
- 37 -



Lessonsl             Sense of ownership realized
Experiences          Demand outstrips supply
* DAs had to support distressed comms to meet project schedules
Private sector contribution was immense
Good partnership
* Communities' enthusiasm and capacity exposed
Interest of other comms. heightened
Potentials of women unearthed
Greater emphasis laid on water and sanitation
* Small towns water supply is quite a specialized field. Therefore the need to build capacities
at all levels
Private sector needs to stock-pile essential materials and parts
There is the need to install pumps before pipe laying and related works
Contract award not to coincide with rainy season
Source of water must be secured before 5% contributions
Delay in construction after comm. mobilization led to frustrations.
- Lack of incentives for WSDB/DWST members
Construction works did not flow naturally
Choice of technology not suitable for some areas due to soil nature
Shallow holes due to rocky nature of soils
Holes turning into wells due to water infiltration
Caving in of holes due to loose top-soil
* Difficulty in getting sand and aggregates thereby increasing cost of construction
Delays in disbursement of funds by CWSA and DAs
5% capital contribution did not deter communities from choosing highest service level
Exclusion of Hygiene and sanitation in any water supply project would not lead to a
realization of the desired health benefits
- 38 -



Challenges          Payment was slow and difficult to raise
IConstraints        Low capacity of staff
- Financial constraints
Retention of the private sector and own staff
Provision of adequate logistics
Sustaining facility through the meeting of O&M costs
Ensuring timely delivery of services
* How to get many more women involved
How to source funds for sanitation component
Political interference in formation of boards
How to sustain membership of boards
Recruiting qualified staff at DA level for small town water supply monitoring and follow-up
Ready availability of labor at comm. level at all times
Availability of special fittings on local market
Speeding up processing of payment certificates of contractors and consultants. Mobilization
of 55 capital cost
Obtaining competent DWST/WSDB members
How to sustain comm./WSDB enthusiasm where construction has not taken place due to
hold ups
Falsification of documents by bidders
Price fluctuations of construction and O&M materials
Weakness in animation by DWSTs
* Inadequate supply of water relegated the hygiene and sanitation components to the
background
More emphasis placed on the provision of water to the detriment of hygiene and sanitation
Price fluctuations affected the cost of construction
Slow response in convincing cormmunities
Package was not attractive to artisans
Attitudinal manifestations
Difficulty in getting commnunity to accept or change their attitudes from getting facilities
free to paying for them
* Conflicts between and among comms. over water systems affect smooth implementation of
projects
-39 -



Recommendations             Capital to be reduced to 2.5%*
Extension period of payment
Community to be involved in provision of labor and materials
DAs to recruit high caliber of staff
make adequate budgetary allocation for WATSAN activities
Private sector to be supported to remain in business
Motivation of staff, including upgrading of skills
Provision of adequate logistics
More orientation required
Periodic review of tariffs
Procurement procedures should be streamlined
Encouragement through education and workshops
Make Funds available for sanitation component
* No basis was provided for this percentage
Recruit dedicated and committed people into WSDB
Shortlist specialists in small towns water supply at regional and district level for
comms. to easily access
Train core staff of DAs to assist WSDBs to manage systems
Pre-qualify workshops or repair points for DA, WSDBs
CWSA to facilitate hire purchase of plants and equipment
Training and skill development
Identify agents to locally supply pipe fittings
Conditions of contracts should include price adjustments
Set up an incentive package for WSDB
Proper assessment of bidders' competence (financial, technological, personnel,
equipment etc)
DAs should encourage communities to remunerate WSDBs/DWSTs
Quotations for certain foreign goods should be based on a fairly stable currency,
otherwise provisions should be made for price fluctuations
Consultants' work plans for execution of works should be adhered to
DAs should collaborate effectively with other stakeholders
POs to be mandated to animate small towns
Latrine pits should be lined
Timely release of reimbursement funds to DAs and beneficiaries
Technology should vary in relation to soil nature
Cost of construction should be realistic or dynamic to reflect current trends
Hygiene and sanitation should be promoted as separate projects or treated with
equal prominence
General awareness should be translated into practice
Hygiene and sanitation, which are essential components of Ghana's development
process should have their bye-laws strictly enforced
DAs should supply sand and aggregates at vantage points for communities
Proper planning for waste disposal points
In future contracts provision should be made for apprenticeship training for O&M
as part of contractors' responsibilities
Current comm. animation techniques, applied only to point sources, should be
improved upon to suit larger communities
Conflict management should be given more emphasis in modules for commn.
training.
-40 -



Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report
This official and final version of CWSA's Implementation Completion Report for the First Community
Water and Sanitation Project (CWSPI) captures the comments of all the Agency's senior professional
staff at the head office and the four beneficiary regions of Northern, Brong Ahafo, Ashanti and
Western.
- 41 -



CWSA's IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOR THE FIRST COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
1       Project Data
Name: FIRST COMMUNITY WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT (CWSP 1)
Country/Department: GHANA
Sector/sub sector: WATER/RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
LIC Number: 26040
Region: AFRICA REGIONAL OFFICE
Key dates
Orieinal                  Revised/Actual
PCD                                                          14th May 1991
Effectiveness                                                14th April 1994           15th December 1994
MTR                                                          17th November 1996        17th Nov 1997
Appraisal                                                    24th January 1994
Closing                                                      31 st December 1999       31 st August 2000
Approval                                                     14th April 1994
Borrower:                 GOVERNMENT OF GHANA
Implementing Agency:               CWSA (CWSD)
Other Partners                     KfW  & CIDA
Staff                               Current                          At Appraisal
Chief Executive                    Kofi Asamoah                       P.O. Sackey
Director of Technical Services     R. D. Van-Ess                      R. D. Van Ess
Director of Planning  /Investment  Benedict Kubabom                   Kofi Asamoah
Director of Finance                William Nunoo
Minister of Works and Housing      Adjei Mensah                       Sqn Leader (rtd) Sowu
Authorized Rep GWSC                Charles Adjei (MD)                 Nana Effa Appenteng
Team Leader of ICR                 Benedict Kubabom
2        Principal Performance Rating
(HS-Highly Satisfactory. S- Satisfactory. U= Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlkdely, HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU = Highly Unsatisfactory,
H-High, SU-Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome:                           S
Sustainability:                    L
Institutional Development
Impact:                            SU
Bank Performance:                  S
Borrower Performance               S
Quality at Entry                   S
Project Risk at any time           N
3        Assessment of Development Objective, Design and of Quality at Entry
3.1     Project objectives
The objectives as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report were
I.      Main objective:
*       To demonstrate the proposed National Community Water and Sanitation Strategy.
-42 -



II.    Project Objective
a.     Provide basic water and sanitation services to communities that would contribute towards the capital
cost and pay the normal operation, maintenance and repair costs of their facilities;
b.     Ensure sustainability of these facilities through community ownership and management including
active involvement of women, private sector provision of goods and services and public sector promotion and
support; and
c.     Maximize health benefit by integrating water, sanitation and hygiene education interventions.
3.1.1   Assessment of objectives
The objectives as stated were clear, realistic and relevant to the national development priorities and the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The objectives address the Government development priorities of restoring
macro-economic stability, promoting higher private sector participation, decentralization, ensuring broad based
social and rural development and implementing direct poverty reduction measures. These measures aimed at
improving the lives of Ghanaians were in line with the CAS and the project objectives.
The objectives were relevant to the then prevailing situation which was revealed in a study conducted in 1990
that only 28% of the rural population had access to potable water. An earlier study in 1988 indicated that about
60% of the rural population had access to some form of communal latrines.
The project (objectives) being innovative was challenging and entailed some risks. These include:
-      Community participation and DA involvement
Community participation and the involvement of the DAs in facilitating the delivery of water and sanitation
services were quite new and required concerted efforts at the initial stages to win support of these partners.
*      Political rhetoric
At community level, people thought initially that community sensitization that preceded construction was the
usual political rhetoric. This perception led to the loss of interest by some communities, particularly in those
where the construction delayed.
Some DAs' interest mostly was focused on the physical facilities and for that matter did not give adequate
logistical and financial support to the DWSTs who are responsible for monitoring and follow-up activities of
the Project.
*      Conformity to national strategy
Convincing NGOs, DAs and other Donors to adopt a uniform strategy in the delivery of water and sanitation
equally involved series of meeting and fora before acceptance.
*      Demand outstripping supply
The dissemination of project information to the entire district raised high expectation and excess demand that
could not be met. This led to the disappointment of non-beneficiary communities and their subsequent loss of
confidence in the project.
3.2    Project components
The project had three main components
I.     Provision of water and sanitation facilities to rural communities
II.    Provision of water and sanitation facilities to small towns on pilot bases
III.    Capacity building for public institutions and private sector firms.
These components (assistance) were targeted at three groups.
I.     Rural communities of up to 5000 population
II.    Small town of between 5000 and 15000 population
III.    Rural Institutions, principally schools and health centres and clinics
-43 -



Targets set under the components are:
I.     Improved water supply
a.     Water points: 1000
b.     Number of rural communities: 700
c.     Small Town Piped systems      : 30
i.     Improved sanitation
1.     Household latrines: 4000
2.     Schools and Institutional latrines: 250
ii.    Capacity Building
PO             -      I per district
SBDU           -      1 per region
AMs            -      2-3 per district
LAs            -      10 per district
PPDs           -      1 per district
DWSTs          -      1 per district
WATSAN         -      700
HDWC           -      6 per region
3.2.1   Assessment of project components
The project components as outlined, were reasonably related to achieving the objectives of the project, a
significant part of which is to derive maximum health benefit. The latter is ensured through the integration of
Hygiene Education with improved water supply and sanitation.
The capacity building component, aimed at providing training and support for private/public sector and
beneficiary communities, will ensure sustainability of facilities provided.
3.3    Quality at Entry
The performance rating for quality of entry is satisfactory. The following actions were taken at the preparatory
stages and this facilitated the smooth take-off of project implementation:
*      Formulation of a national policy with active participation of all stakeholders both private and public.
Institutional plans and draft letter of sector policy were prepared and approved by GWSC Board of Directors
and submitted to Ministry of Works and Housing and IDA.
*      CWSD (now CWSA) was established with a Deputy Managing Director and multi-disciplinary
professional staff appointed at national and regional offices
*      Contracts were signed with TREND and SBDUs for training assistance.
*      The setting up of Regional and District Water and Sanitation Teams (RWST and DWST) in the four
IDA regions
*      Orientation workshops were organized for key staff and DAs.
*      The Government's decentralization policy was far advanced in its implementation stage especially
with the establishment of the necessary structures at the regional and district levels.
4      Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
4.1    Outcome/achievement of objective
This was highly satisfactory. There was a high sense of demand for water and sanitation facilities with over
-44 -



95% of project communities contributing their 5% capital cost in full. Decisions to join the programme were
based on communities' own initiatives.
Women actively participated in all stages of their water project, including training and community education
and were significantly represented on WATSAN committees.
Capacity at all levels (DA, Community, Public and the Private Sector) was successfully built through training
and provision of logistics and technical support.
A deep sense of ownership has been instilled in beneficiary communities judging from the value they attached
to their facilities and the conscious efforts demonstrated to contribute towards the maintenance of the facilities.
Project targets (physical and capacity building) were achieved and in most cases exceeded.
With these successes not withstanding, there were few problems encountered in the application of the project
concepts. Prominent among them was the high expectation and demand raised for facilities, through the
demand responsive approach, not all of which could be met due to inadequate funds. Whereas rural
communities demanding point sources were successful in raising their 5% contributions, difficulties were
experienced in the Small Towns. In some cases, the DAs had to top-up these communities' contributions as
loans.
District Ownership and Management (DOM) concept of the programme succeeded with the establishment of
DWSTs and budget to support their operational cost. In most cases the DAs were assisted financially to prepare
their District Water and Sanitation Plans (DWSP).
DA support to contractors, consultants and communities was, however, limited by the low caliber of staff
particularly in the monitoring of Small Towns pipe system construction.
The concept of integration of water and sanitation was introduced successfully at District levels. However, the
implementation was not successful as originally planned because not all households in beneficiary communities
who were provided with potable water went in for the VIP latrines.
-45-



4.2     Outputs by component
Below is a summary of project achievement as against target set.
TARGET AND ACHIEVEMENT OUTPUT
N               ITEM               SAR TARGET   ACHIEVEMENT AS AT 30' AUGUST
0                                                 2000
ABSOLUTE FIGURE  _
I  NO of rural Water points           1000              1288'                128
constructed
2   No of rural communities with       700               896                 128
improved water supply
3   No of Small Town with              30                 35                 117
construction completed
4   No of household latrines          4000               5931                148
completed                            _
5  No of schools participating         250               140                 56
CAPACITY BUILDING
6   PO                            I per district          29                -NA -
7   SBDU                          I per region            4                 - NA -
8   AREA MECHANICS                2-3 per district        114               - NA -
9   LATRINE ARTISANS              10 per district         514               - NA -
10  DWSTs                         I per district          50                - NA -
11  HDWC                          6 per region            32                - NA -
11  WATSAN                        700                    1809               -NA -
12  PPD                           I/ district             14                - NA -
1180 out of 1288 water points are equipped with hand pumps
5       Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
Factors outside the control of government
*      There was a delay in the procurement of project vehicles for the regions. This delay coupled with the
inadequate number of vehicles greatly affected the initial performance of the staff.
-       Credit facilities promised initially for some of the Small Towns water supply contractors could not be
fulfilled. The contractors had to rely solely on invoice payments of their contract sum, which accounted for the
delay in the construction of Small Town water supply in Brong Ahafo and Ashanti regions.
*       Late decision on the arrangement for hand pump procurement and delays in supplier's performance.
Factors generally subject to government control
*      There were delays and inadequate release of Government share of the counterpart funding during the
later part of 1998, which affected the implementation schedule.
*      Late establishment of CWSA Board of Directors delayed the signing of the Small Town contracts for
construction.
*      Administrative delays in the processing of Invoices by CWSA, and payments by the Bank of Ghana
equally accounted for the delays in the Small Town Component.
*      - A reasonable number of staff appointed initially, abandoned the programme due to poor remuneration
and inadequate motivation.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
*      Appointment of full complement of professional staff was delayed in most regions.
- 46 -



*      Appointment of an SBDU in Westem Region delayed for a year, thus delaying the selection and
training of POs.
*      Inadequacy of vehicles and their untimely supply affected the monitoring and support of the program.
*      There was no Logical Framework developed until 1997 and this affected monitoring and evaluation
particularly on clear national indicators for monitoring the programme.
*      Changes in the cost and design of institutional latrines, coupled with delays and inadequate funding
resulted in the construction of few latrines far below the initial target of 250 per district.
6      Sustainability
Sustainability of the facilities is rated as likely.
Government's commitment and interest in the programme reign high on its development agenda. By
Govermment policy District Assemblies are encouraged to provide and budget for water and sanitation in
their development plans. Parliament approved the establishment of CWSA by the promulgation of Act
564 in December 1998 and the subsequent appointment of Board of Directors for the Agency by the
Government
The continued support and the promotion of private sector participation has created a favorable
environment for competition and continued provision of goods and services beyond construction phase
(post delivery management).
The impact of the programme (facilities provided and the capacity built) has fostered unity within the
beneficiary communities. It has promoted closer relationship and consultation between the participating
district assemblies and the beneficiary communities.
Participation in the decision to join the programme, mobilization of funds, selection and appointment of
committees and all trainings and educational programs permeated all sections of the communities (the
poor, marginalized, women, interest groups and even settlers). These are indications of effective
mobilization and positive signs of sustaining the facilities.
Other indicators that facilities provided under the project are likely to be sustained include:
e      High sense of ownership
e      Consumer satisfaction
*      Encouraging level of contributions towards O&M
Nevertheless, there are certain conditions that could pose as threats to these positive changes:
There is a clear evidence of high attrition rate of trained LAs, and some DWSTs and PO staff. The ability
to retain trained staff by DAs, Area Mechanics, WATSANs, Pump Caretakers, POs and LAs is still
suspect.
There is also fear that new Donors may not adopt the established strategies including the support to
DWSTs, POs, and AMs. Again within the transitional period of the withdrawal of the project support, the
total commitment (or the lack of it) of the DAs to provide the necessary follow-up to the existing
institutions like the WATSANs, DWSTs, AMs is still not assured. DA support to DWSTs, for instance, is
generally low. There is also a weak link between the DWSTs and WSDBs, in the case of Small Towns.
7      Bank and Borrower's Performance
7.1    Bank Performance
On the whole the Bank's performance is rated Satisfactory.
7.1.1   Project Identification
The project as identified was consistent with the Government development objective of restoring
-47 -



macro-economic stability, promoting higher private sector investment and ensuring broad base social
and rural development all aimed at reducing poverty and improving the lives of Ghanaians. This
strategy of promoting rural development by investing in rural infrastructure of which water and
sanitation is part was consistent with the CAS for alleviating poverty.
7.1.2   Project Preparation
The Bank's staff participated actively in the development and approval of the overall national policies
and the implementation strategy in a series of workshops at the National and Regional levels
7.1.3   Project Appraisal
Two appraisal missions from the Bank visited the country in March 1992 and July 1993. Robert Roche
led both missions.
The Appraisal Missions covered the following;
I.     Government, Implementing Agency and the Beneficiary commitment to the project.
II.    Borrower and Implementing Agency's capacity (procurement and financial management).
III.    The availability of incentives for participants to sustain the programme and
IV.    Project complexity and design.
The missions' findings and recommendation finally led to the Project Implementation Approval.
7.1.4   Bank' Supervision Mission
The Bank provided high supervision support to identify some of the implementation constraints and to
provide the necessary corrections and effective learning process.
The Bank supervision mission assisted in orientation workshops for project staff, and the establishment
of the monitoring and evaluation indicators. They also participated in semi-annual and annual review
meetings and assessed progress, policies, institutional and implementation strategies.
Other areas that the missions offered support were contractors, consultants and DA staff. They also
participated fully in the mid-term evaluation. In all the visits, Aide Memoires were issued and discussed
for action and improvement.
7.2    Borrower's Performance
The Borrower's performance is rated Satisfactory.
7.2.1   Government Implementation Performance
Government quick response in promulgating the necessary statutes for the establishment and recognition
of the then Division and the subsequent appointment of key staff demonstrated its commitment to the
success of the programme.
The close link and support from the Sector Ministry equally enhanced the performance of the project.
However a major set back suffered by the project was the inadequate and untimely release of its
counterpart funding particularly in 1998.
Efforts to regularize the appointment of the DWSTs and integrate them into the DA structure did not
receive the much-needed attention from MLGRD. The proposed Works departments to handle technical
works, which include water and headed by engineers are yet to materialize. Similarly the establishment of
byelaws to give legal backing to WATSAN committees has not been done by DAs.
7.2.2  Implementing Agency
7.2.2.1 Staffing and Office Accommodation
The Agency with time successfully appointed the full complement of a multi-disciplinary professional
-48 -



and auxiliary staff at the National and Regional Offices. Office accommodation was readily provided
in all the regions and at the National level to ensure brisk take off of the programme.
The Head Office and three regions, Brong Ahafo, Western and Ashanti do not have permanent offices.
However, the Ashanti region is in the process of obtaining a permanent office accommodation through
funding received under CWSPI.
7.2.2.2 National and Regional Launching
The programme was launched with active participation of Decision-makers and other partners at the
National, Regional and District Levels.
7.2.2.3  Institutional Development
The Institutional Development package of the programme was successfully implemented to benefit
both the public and the private sectors. All participating institutions were adequately trained and
supported with the necessary logistics to enhance their performance at all levels.
7.2.2.4 Planning and Budgeting
Planning and Budgeting process adopted was participatory. The process starts from the regional level
and aggregated at the National Level. This promoted realistic planning, work plans and fair
distribution of the limited resources to cover the various components of the programnme.
7.2.2.5 Community Contribution
The Agency through its consultants succeeded in sensitizing all participating communities to pay all
financial contribution to the Programme (5% capital cost contribution and tariff arrears in conversion
communities) and to generate revenue to maintain their water facilities. Similarly communities were
effectively mobilized to establish WSDB and WATSAN committees.
7.2.2.6  Compliance with Project Norms
All reporting and auditing requirements under the programme were successfully met by the Agency.
Semi-annual reports covering all components were prepared by the Agency. These include progress on
activities, Work Programme and Cost Estimates for each coming year's disbursement schedule and
key performance indicators.
All financial statements covering all components of the project were prepared. These statements were
audited by External Auditors and submitted in the Auditor's Report in June each year. Similarly the
Management report and Audited Financial statement for the Special Accounts and SOEs audited by
Internal and External Auditors were submitted in June each year
Procurement rules were strictly followed in contracting for goods and services. All withdrawals took
place in accordance with project procedures.
7.2.2.7 Periodic Studies and their implementation
Series of project related studies were conducted to address challenges and new developments in the
course of the project implementation. Notable among them were the DAs system study that looked at
ways to improve project ownership and management at the district level. The study resulted in the
development of DWST Training and Reference Manuals and forms used in the management of water
and sanitation component. This study also recommended the establishment of the relevant
Sub-committee of the DA (District Water Sanitation Management Committee) to take key decisions
affecting the programme at the district level.
Similar studies like KABP, Time Saving, Mid Term Evaluations were also conducted during the
period and recommendations implemented.
-49 -



8      Lessons Learned
8.1    The Demand Driven Concept
Two important issues have emerged from the application of this concept. First, the community's
selection of a particular type of water facility could be practically based on their ability to pay the
stipulated capital cost, without necessarily referring to the population. There were situations where
communities with a population of about 150 opted for a borehole even though a hand dug well could
have equally served them. Second, the practice of the concept of demand driven has encouraged an
ever-increasing demand for new facilities by communities. Presently demand has outstripped supply.
Capital cost contribution
In the Point Source communities, about 95% of them were able to pay the 5% of capital cost in full
within the construction and pump installation period. However in the case of the Small Towns, DAs
had intervened to top-up the 5% contribution. This experience defeats the underlining principle of the
demand driven concept.
8.2    Community Ownership and Management
This concept is firmly established with democratically selected WATSAN committees, significantly
represented by women (about 40%). The concept allowed the respective committees to adopt a
management system that was applicable to their situation. This situation reinforces decentralization and
good conmmunity govemance, thereby helping communities to effectively mobilize all available local
resources for development.
There is still the need for community sensitization in gender balance and equity in planning, designing
construction and post delivery management of water and sanitation services.
Most of the WATSAN committees and WSDBs are functional with high level of enthusiasm. Sustaining
this level of enthusiasm depends on factors within and without the WATSAN and WSDB administrative
system. Some of these factors include the continuous supply of goods and services by the private sector
and technical back stopping by the DAs.
8.3    Private sector
The potential of the private sector to deliver has been unearthed as evident in their performance in
training, education, and construction of physical facilities and pump maintenance.
Greater collaboration between the CWSA and the private sector has fostered partnership, which is
reflected in the quality of services provided. Experiences gained by participating organizations have
become one of the pillars to sustain the programme beyond the project duration. Also the capacity built
in the private sector has armed them with requisite skills and experiences to be more effective in broad
positive transformation of the country.
However a few challenges in the use of the private sector are their inability to retain trained staff (LAs,
HDWC and POs).
The business environment is slow and not lucrative to encourage sustained participation of private sector
in the supply of pump parts.
8.4    Small Towns
Some contractors on the Small Town project were not conversant with the building of the concrete
tanks. This calls for a stricter technical evaluation criteria to be used in future projects.
Packaging of Drilling Contract (Point Sources and Small towns) together affected the timely delivery
and construction in some small towns as experienced in the Western Region. Separate contracts
therefore need to be awarded to avoid delay in drilling.
- 50 -



Regular meetings between consultants and CWSA should be encouraged at the project preparation
stages to address some of the problems early enough.
8.5    District Assemblies
There should be full participation of DAs in the implementation of the project in order to ensure a high
sense of ownership (by the DA) and greater control over the contractors.
8.6    CWSA
There is the need to ensure that CWSA and other delivery channels have the resource capacity in place
to provide effective and timely support so that the demand-driven concept could be more meaningful to
the communities.
It is important to shorten the interval between mobilization/planning and construction so as to minimize
community frustration and to foster trust between the delivery agents and the beneficiary communities.
9      Conclusion
Generally, the First Community Water and Sanitation Project (CWSP 1) has been successfully executed.
All physical targets have been exceeded; the necessary structures have been established and trained at all
levels; and beneficiary communities have full ownership and management of facilities provided. CWSA
itself is experienced enough to manage the national program and has a deep conviction to ensure the
sustainability of the facilities constructed.
-51 -



Annex 1: Rating of Achievement of Objective/Output by Components
Objectives/Outputs    Highly       Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   Highly       Not
Satisfactory                             Unsatisfactory   Applicable
Macro Policies                          x
Sector Policies                         x
Physical                   x
Financial                               x
Institutional              x
Development
Environmental                           x
Social                                  x                      __ _X
Poverty reduction                       x
Gender                     x       ______X____X
Private Sector             x
Development
Public sector                           x
management
Annex 2: Rating of Bank and Borrower Performance
Highly            Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    Highly
satisfactory                                        Unsatisfactory
Bank Performance:
Lending                                       x
Supervision                 x
Overall                                      x
Borrower
Performance:
Preparation                                   x
Government
Implementation                               X
Performance
Implementation                               X
Agency
Overall              _                       X x     T
-52 -



