Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2604 GH
                       Development Credit Agreement
                 (Community Water and Sanitation Project)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated June 17, 1994
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2604 GH
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 17, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Borrower has stated in a letter, dated January 12, 1994, its
policies and objectives designed to implement its National Community Water
and Sanitation Program (the Policy Letter);
      (C)   by agreement dated September 11, 1989 (the CIDA Grant
Agreement), the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) has agreed
to make a grant (the CIDA Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to Canadian $27 million, a portion of which (equivalent
to $1.68 million) is to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in the CIDA Grant Agreement; and
      (D)   the Project will be carried out by Ghana Water and Sewerage
Corporation (GWSC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to GWSC the proceeds of the
Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even
date herewith between the Association and GWSC;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions), constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "c or cedis" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (b)   "District Assembly" means a district assembly, established in
accordance with Local Government Act 462 of 1993 of the laws of the Republic
of Ghana;
      (c)   "Facilities and Management Plan" means each facility and
management plan prepared by a community with the assistance of a Partner
Organization and approved by a District Assembly and on the recommendation
of GWSC's Community Water and Sanitation Division, specifying the facilities
to be constructed and the management and financing thereof by the community;
      (d)   "Financing Agreement" means the agreement entered into between
the Borrower and GWSC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Financing Agreement;
      (e)   "GWSC" means the Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
established by the Water and Sewerage Act of 1965 of the laws of the
Borrower;
      (f)   "Implementation Manual" means the manual relating to
implementation of the Project, adopted by GWSC;
      (g)   "Partner Organization" means a nongovernmental organiza- tion
or other organization participating in the Project with the prior approval
of the Association;
      (h)   "Performance Contract" means each annual contract entered into
by March 31 of each year between the Borrower and GWSC, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to each
Performance Contract;
      (i)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation (GWSC), of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (j)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange
of letters dated January 27, 1993 and February 24, 1993 between the Borrower
and the Association; and
      (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
Page  3
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million
nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,900,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in the
name of GWSC in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each February 1 and August 1, commencing August 1,
2004 and ending February 1, 2034. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on February 1, 2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
Page  4
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. GWSC is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause GWSC to
perform, in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and,
without limitation, each Performance Contract, all the obligations of GWSC
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable GWSC to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall pass on the proceeds of the Credit to GWSC,
under the Financing Agreement under such terms and conditions as shall have
been approved by the Association, including, but not limited to, a provision
to the following effect, namely, that GWSC shall carry out its obligations
under the Financing Agreement with due diligence and efficiency, and shall
promptly inform the Borrower and the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by GWSC of
its obligations arising under this Agreement, the Project Agreement, the
Financing Agreement or each Performance Contract.
      (c)   The Borrower shall: (i) enter into, by March 31 in each fiscal
year of the Project, a Performance Contract with GWSC for the carrying out
of the Project in such fiscal year; and (ii) exercise its rights under the
Financing Agreement and each Performance Contract in such a manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Financing
Agreement or any Performance Contract, or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation upon any of its obligations under
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) in each year of
implementation of the Project, provide in its budget amounts sufficient to
cover its counterpart contributions to the costs of the Project; (ii) open
Page  5
and maintain in cedis in a commercial bank a project account (the Project
Account) in the name of GWSC to be used exclusively for purposes of the
Project; and (iii) deposit into the Project Account (A) an initial amount
of c150,000,000 in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.01 (a), and
(B) the remaining part of its counterpart contributions in each year of the
Project, quarterly in advance, in the amounts determined by the Borrower and
the Association.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) shall be carried out by GWSC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall carry out, by no later than December
31 in each year, with GWSC and the Association, the annual review of the
Project to assess progress and evaluate performance during the preceding
year in accordance with Section 2.07 (b) of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall transmit to the Association, by
no later than November 30, 1996, any preliminary comments it may have on the
report prepared by GWSC in accordance with GWSC's obligation under Section
2.08 (a) of the Project Agreement.
      (b)   By no later than December 31, 1996, the Borrower shall carry
out, jointly with the Association and GWSC, a midterm review of the progress
made in carrying out the Project. This review shall evaluate and assess,
amongst other things:
            (i)   the overall progress of Project implementation with
                  respect to the key monitoring indicators agreed with the
                  Association;
           (ii)   GWSC's ability and effectiveness as implementing agency
                  and the performance of District Assemblies in carrying
                  out the Project;
          (iii)   the ability of communities to plan and manage their water
                  supply facilities including each community's record of
                  payment of capital and recurrent costs;
           (iv)   the effectiveness of Partner Organizations in assisting
                  communities in planning water supply systems and in
                  providing training to communities to manage water supply
                  systems and oversee construction of water and sanitation
                  facilities; and
            (v)   the impact and results of the sanitation and hygiene
                  education programs carried out under the Project.
      (c)   Based on such review, the Borrower shall prepare, jointly with
GWSC, an action plan, acceptable to the Association, for the further
implementation of the Project.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall implement its water sector action
plan, as agreed between the Borrower and the Association, to improve the
Borrower's overall water sector.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  sound accounting practices, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
Page  6
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures are retained until at least one year after
                  the Association has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made; and
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                  have reasonably requested, including a separate opinion
                  by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   GWSC shall have failed to perform any of its material
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that GWSC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Policy Letter, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
      (d)   Water and Sewerage Act, 1965 of the laws of the Borrower shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of GWSC to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of GWSC or for
the suspension of its operations.
      (f)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                        of the CIDA Grant for the financing of the Project
                        shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
                        in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof;
                        or
                  (B)   the CIDA Grant shall have become due and payable
                        prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
Page  7
           (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                  Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
                  Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
                  termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure
                  of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                  the CIDA Grant Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                  Project are available to the Borrower from other sources
                  on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations
                  of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      (g)   The Implementation Manual, or any provision thereof, shall have
been altered, amended or disregarded without the prior consent of the
Association.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (f) and (g) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower shall have established the Project Account referred
to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement and shall have deposited therein
c150,000,000; and
      (b)   auditors satisfactory to the Association have been appointed to
audit the records and accounts referred to in Article IV of this Agreement
and Article IV of the Project Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
      (a)   the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
GWSC, and is legally binding upon GWSC in accordance with its terms; and
      (b)   the Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified,
as the case may be, by the Borrower and GWSC, and is legally binding upon
the Borrower and GWSC in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement,
the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box M40
            Accra, Ghana
Page  8
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  ECONOMICON                2205 MIFAEP
                  Accra
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                        By /s/ Nana Effah-Appenteng
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Credit Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                      SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)     Civil works                9,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures and
                                                    75% of local
                                                    expenditures
(2)     Goods and                  2,300,000        100% of foreign
    equipment                                       expenditures and
                                                    75% of local
                                                    expenditures
(3)     Training and               2,800,000        100% of foreign
    consultants'                                    expenditures and
    services                                        90% of local
                                                    expenditures
(4)     Operating                    700,000        75% of expen-
Page  9
    costs                                           ditures until
                                                    June 30, 1997,
                                                    and 25% of
                                                    expenditures
                                                    thereafter
(5)     Refunding of                 400,000        Amounts due
    Project                                         pursuant to
    Preparation                                     Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                         of this Agreement
(6)     Unallocated                  700,000
                                  __________
        TOTAL                     15,900,000
                                  ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower; and
    (c)   the term "operating costs" means the expenditures incurred by GWSC
for the purposes of carrying out the Project in respect of vehicle operation
and maintenance, travel, office supplies and material and salaries of
incremental staff hired by GWSC on a fixed-term contract basis.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under
contracts for goods and services and under contracts for works not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the
implementation of its proposed National Community Water and Sanitation
Program. The Project will (a) provide basic water and sanitation services
to communities, schools and health clinics; (b) ensure sustainability of
these facilities through community management of maintenance, private sector
provision of goods and services, and public sector promotion and support;
and (c) maximize health benefits by integrating water, sanitation and
hygiene education interventions.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:         Rural Water and Sanitation Facilities
1.        Provision of water and sanitation facilities for rural
communities, schools and health clinics by GWSC or District Assemblies, or
both, as appropriate.
2.        Provision of basic sanitation facilities for individual households
by GWSC or District Assemblies, or both, as appropriate.
3.        Provision of hygiene education to communities by Partner
Organizations and district water and sanitation teams during the process of
establishing community management.
Part B:         Small Town Water and Sanitation Facilities
Page  10
1.        Provision of water and sanitation facilities for small towns,
schools and health clinics by GWSC or District Assemblies, or both, as
appropriate.
2.        Provision of basic sanitation facilities for individual households
by GWSC, by District Assemblies, or both, as appropriate.
3.        Provision of hygiene education training to communities by Partner
Organizations and district water and sanitation teams during the process of
establishing community management.
Part C:         Public and Private Sector Capacity Building
1.        Provision of training and technical assistance to:
    (a)   GWSC's Community Water and Sanitation Division by specialists in
rural water supply, community development, training and accounting;
    (b)   District Assemblies by GWSC's Community Water and Sanitation
Division;
    (c)   Partner Organizations and hand-dug well contractors by a Small
Business Development Unit under contract to GWSC's Community Water and
Sanitation Division; and
    (d)   rural communities by Partner Organizations under contract to
GWSC's Community Water and Sanitation Division or District Assemblies.
2.  Provision of hygiene education training to school teachers by District
Assemblies' water and sanitation teams and GWSC's Community Water and
Sanitation Division.
3.  Provision of technical and marketing training to local latrine artisans
by District Assemblies' water and sanitation teams and GWSC's Community
Water and Sanitation Division.
4.  Refinement of training materials and methods for both rural communities
and small towns as well as private sector participants.
                              *      *      *
    The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
Page  11
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request, or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
Page  12
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
