CREDIT NUMBER 2604 GB
Project Agreement
(Connunity Water and Sanitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION
Dated      L&A   17  , 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2604 GH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1994, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and GHANA
WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION (GWSC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Ghana (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen
million   nine    hundred   thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 15,900,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that GWSC agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
(B)   by a Financing Agreement entered into between the
Borrower and GWSC, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to GWSC on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Financing Agreement; and
WHEREAS GWSC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. GWSC declares its comitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering, water and sanitation
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as


﻿- 2 -
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Parts A, B and C of the Project, and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. GWSC shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and   schedules,  records  and   reports,  maintenance   and  land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) GWSC     shall, at the request     of  the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this A6reement, the Financing Agreement and each Performance
Contract and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   GWSC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by GWSC of its obligations under this
Agreement, the Financing Agreement and each Performance Contract.
(c)   Without limitation upon the provision of Section 2.01 of
this Agreement, GWSC shall: (i) enter into, by March 31 in each
fiscal year of the Project, a Performance Contract with GWSC for the
carrying out of the Project during each fiscal year; and (ii)
exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
Financing Agreement and each Performance Contract in such manner as
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, GWSC shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Financing Agreement or any Performance
Contract or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 2.01 of this Agreement and except as the Association and
GWSC shall otherwise agree, GWSC shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Manual; and (b) except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, GWSC shall not amend, abrogate,
waive or vary any provision of the Implementation Manual, in such a


﻿manner as to materially or substantially affect the carrying out of
the Project or the achievement of its objectives.
Section 2.06. Without limitation to its obligations under
Section 2.01 and Section 2.05 of this Agreement, GWSC shall carry
out, or shall cause District Assemblies to carry out, Parts A and B
of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Manual, and
shall ensure that communities, schools, health clinics and
households, as the case may be, participating under Parts A and B of
the Project shall: (a) pay part of the capital cost and all
recurrent costs of water and sanitation facilities as specified in
the Implementation Manual; (b) own and manage their water and
sanitation facilities; and (c) put in place their proposed
Facilities and Management Plans and financial arrangements in
accordance with the Implementation Manual.
Section 2.07. GWSC shall:
(a)   prepare and furnish to the Association, by no later than
October 31 in each year of the Project, an action plan, to include,
without limitation, a work program and budgetary allocations, for
the implementation of the Project in the following year;
(b)   conduct, by no later than December 31 in each year of
the Project, an annual review of the Project, together with the
Borrower and the Association, to assess progress and evaluate
performance during the preceding year;
(c)   revise, by no later than January 31 in each year of the
Project, the action plan prepared in accordance with paragraph (a)
above after the review conducted in accordance with paragraph (b)
above, taking into account the Association's comments and
recommendations in a manner satisfactory to the Association; and
(d)   implement the revised action plan during the course of
the following year in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.08. (a) By October 31, 1996, GWSC shall have
prepared and submitted to the Borrower and the Association adequate
reports, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association,
describing, inter alia, the status of progress regarding the items
listed in Section 3.06 of the Development Credit Agreement, for the
carrying out of a midterm review.


﻿-4-
(b)   By no later than December 31, 1996, GWSC shall carry out
jointly with the Borrower and the Association a midterm review of
the Project required under Section 3.06 of the Development Credit
Agreement.
(c)   Based on such review, GWSC shall prepare, jointly with
the Borrower, an action plan acceptable to the Association for the
further implementation of the Project and shall thereafter implement
such action plan.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of GWSC
Section 3.01. GWSC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
water and sanitation practices under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. GWSC shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial
practices.
Section 3.03. GWSC shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) GWSC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices,
its operations and financial condition.
(b)   GWSC shall:
(i)    have  its   records,  accounts  and   financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal   year  audited,   in  accordance   with


﻿- 5 -
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)    furnish  to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records, accounts
and financial statements, as well as the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of GWSC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
(i)    the  date  on  which  the  Development  Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(it)    the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify GWSC of
this event.


﻿- 6 -
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding aiy cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For GWSC:
P.O. Box M194
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:                 Telex:
DIRWAT ACCRA              2006 WATSEW


﻿Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of GWSC, or by GWSC on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by
the Managing Director or such other person or persons as the
Managing Director shall designate in writing, and GWSC shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                                 Lox V
Regional7ce President
Africa
GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION
By                      t hrzr            ve


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof: (i) contracts for goods
(other than contracts for hand pumps and electrical/mechanical
equipment for pipe systems) estimated to cost more than $200,000
equivalent, and (ii) contracts for works estimated to cost more than
$1,500,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines).
(a)   For  fixed-price contracts, the invitation     to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, GWSC shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, GWSC shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally   recognized  standard   forms  agreed  with   the
Association.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.


﻿- 9 -
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, GWSC may grant a margin of preference to
domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for works estimated to cost less than $1,500,000, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $8,500,000, and contracts for
hand pumps and electrical/mechanical equipment for pipe systems may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding,   advertised  locally,  in  accordance   with  procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per
contract and more than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers from at least three different
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.    Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for works or goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall


﻿- 10 -
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for the purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist GWSC in carrying out the Project, GWSC
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
2.    For complex, time-based assignments, GWSC shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, GWSC shall
use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than


﻿- 11 -
$25,000  equivalent   each. However,   this  exception   to  prior
Association review or approval requirements shall not apply to the
terms of reference for such contracts nor to the employment of
individuals, to single-source selection of firms, to assignments of
a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Association or to
amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $25,000
equivalent or above.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPM ENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archie of' the International
Bank for Reconstruction ,nd Development and the
International Development Association.
F(R SECRE7ARY


﻿le k,nddak  il
P U Ä MMM
i LM   MiMMM
IM I mmmmmM      MMM
AW   U1    W*..r 1
IME 1MM J F MEM
- T
1       .wi
11  '1*
RIM M-    MM!
Ii|                      11R-|  E T.
Ii  av inQ            1   iI
uRa        WUU.aV1   1
1  1AQ A


