Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15937-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO MASS TRANSIT PROJECT
December 2, 1997
Infrastructure and Urban Development Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Brazilian Reais (RS)
US$1 = .83 to 1.03 R$
(July 1996-July 1997)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMTU-RJ - Metropoiitan Urban Transport Agency - Rio   Flumitrens - Rio  de  Janeiro  Suburban  Train
de Janeiro (Agencia Metropolitana  de                 Company (Companhia Fluminense de
Transporte Urbano)                                    Trens Urbanos)
ASEP-RJ    State   Regulatory   Agency   (Agdncia   ICa         - International Competitive Bidding
Regu/adora   de   Servigos   Publicos   IERR       - Internal Economic Rate of Return
Concedidos)                              I/M       - Inspection and Maintenance System
ATC       - Automatic Train Control                   LRT       - Light Rail Transport
BNDES   - National    Economic    and    Social   MR            - Metropolitan Region
Development Bank (Banco Nac/onal de    NCe         - National Competitive Bidding
Desenvolvimento Econ6mico e Social)      NOx       - Nitrogen Oxide
CBTU     - Brazilian    Urban    Train    Company    PAR        - Performance Audit Report
(Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos)  PCR       - Project Completion Report
CCO      - Operations Control Center                  PIU       - Project Implementation Unit
CG       - General Coordination Committee             PMIG      - Project Management Implementation
CIF      - Cost, Insurance, Freight                               Group
CO       - Carbon Monoxide                            ppP       - Polluter Pay Principle
CODERTE- Parking garage and terminals company    PTM            - Mass Transportation Plan
(Companhia    de      Desenvolvimento    RJM       - Rio de Janeiro Municipality
Rodoviario e Terminais)                  RJMR      - Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region
COFIEX   - Commission for External Financing          RTCC      - Regional  Transport  Coordination
CONERJ  - Rio de Janeiro ferry service company                    Commission
(Compeanhia de Navegacao do Estado do    SEAIN    - Secretary  of  Planning  for  the
Rio de Janeiro)                                       Federative Republic of Brazil
CTC/SERVE - Rio de Janeiro bus service (Companhia   SECPLAN - Planning Secretariat of the State of
de    Transportes    ColetivosiEmpresa                Rio de Janeiro (Secretana de Planos
Estadual de Wacao)                                    do Estado do Rio de Janeiro)
DETRAN-RJ    Department of Transit of the State of   SECTRAN - Transport Secretariat of the State of
Rio de Janeiro (Departamento de Transito              Rio  de  Janeiro  (Secretaria  de
do Estado do Pio de Janeiro)                          Transportes do Estado do Rio de
DETRO       Department of Transportation for the State            Janeiro)
of Rio De Janeiro  (Departamento  de    SOE        - Statement of Expenses
Transportes Rodoviarios do Estado do Rio   SRE     - State Regulatory Entity
de Janeiro)                              SRJ       - State of Rio de Janeiro
DER-RJ      State of Rio de Janeiro Roads Department   VOC      - Volatile Organic Compound
(Departmento de Estradas de Rodagem do
Estado do Rio de Janeiro)
EBTU     - Brazilian  Urban  Transport  Company
(Empresa   Brasiieira  de   Transportes
Urbanos)
EMU      - Electric Multiple Unit
FEEMA   - State Pollution Control Agency of Rio de
Janeiro (Fundo Especial de Controle Meio
Ambiental)
Vice President:             Shahid Javed Burki
Director, CMU:              Gobind T. Nankani
Director, SMU:              Asif Faiz
Task Manager:               Jorge Rebelo



BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO MASS TRANSIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...........................................................1
I. URBAN TRANSPORT IN THE RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN REGION .........................2
A. Background ............................................................2
B. Urban  Transport in the  RJMR: An  Overview  ........................................................... 2
C. Institutional Responsibilities for Urban  Transport in the  RJMR ....................................4
D. Key Sectoral Issues ...........................................................4
E. Lessons from   Experience  in the  Sector ...........................................................6
F. The  Bank's Strategy  for the  RJMR ...........................................................7
II. THE PROJECT ...........................................................8
A. Project Background ...........................................................8
B. Rationale  for Bank  Involvement ...........................................................8
C. Project Objectives ...........................................................8
D. Project Description ...........................................................8
E. Project Cost and  Financing ..........................................................                                               10
F. Project Benefits and  Risks ..........................................................                                               12
G. Tariff Setting  and  Affordability  by Low-Income  Users ............................................... 12
H. Project Economic Evaluation ..........................................................                                               13
I. Project Financial Evaluation ..........................................................                                              14
J. Environmental Impact of the  Project ..........................................................                                      15
K. Private  Sector Participation ..........................................................                                             16
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..........................................................                                                               18
A. Institutional Responsibilities ..........................................................                                            18
B. Contractual Arrangements ..........................................                                                                   18
C. Implementation Schedule ..........................................                                                                   18
D. Implementation Arrangements ..........................................                                                               18
E. Concession Process ..........................................                                                                        19
F. Procurement ..........................................                                                                                20
G. Disbursement and Special Account ..........................................                                                          22
H. Auditing ..........................................                                                                                  22
I. Monitoring and Reporting ..........................................                                                                  23
J. Project Supervision ..........................................                                                                       23
IV. PROJECT AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ..........................................                                                                  25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Brazil during September 1996. The mission
comprised Messrs. Jorge Rebelo (Task Manager and Principal Transport Specialist, LA11U), Jose Baigorria (Sr. Railway
Engineer, LATSO), Moazzam M6kan (Financial Analyst, LA1 IU), Alberto Ninio (Counsel, LEGLA), Jose Ricardo de Marca
(Transport Economist, Consultant), Jos6 Carlos Fernandes (Project Cost Analyst, Consultant), Kenneth Knight (Infrastructure
Consultant), Harold Ledsham (Signaling and Telecom Consultant), Allan Wright (Rolling Stock Consultant). Messrs. John
Flora (TWUTD), Lou Thompson (TWUTD), Ken Gwilliam (TWUTD) were the Peer Reviewers. Mr. Craig Leisher edited the
report, and Ms. Allison Tumer helped prepare the report. Messrs. Asif Faiz, Orville Grimes, Gobind T. Nankani and Shahid
Javed Burki were respectively the managing Division Chief, Projects Adviser, Department Director, and Vice President for the
operation.



Paae No.
ANNEXES
1.         Bank Assistance to  the  Urban  Transport Sector in  Brazil and  Lessons  Learned ..................... 27
2.         Project Coordination  and  Executing  Agencies ....................................................................                             34
3.          Urban Transport Metropolitan Agency ....................................................................                                   38
4.          Private Sector Participation  in the RJMR  Urban Transport Sector ............................................. 43
5.         Infrastructure and  Equipment Component ....................................................................                                50
6.          Environmental and Safety Component ..................................................................... 59
7.          Institutional Development and  Policy Studies ....................................................................                           60
8.         Detailed  Project Costs, Procurement and  Disbursement Arrangements ..................................... 62
9.          Economic Evaluation ....................................................................                                                   68
10.        Financial Evaluation ....................................................................                                                   86
11.         Project Implementation Schedule, Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision  Plan ...................... 107
12.    Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region: Social, Economic and Urban Transport Characteristics ... 123
13.        Selected  Documents Available in the Project File ....... ........................................................... 129
MAP
IBRD No. 28254
-Vice President:                    Shahid Javed Build
Director, CMU:                     Gobind T. Nankani
Director, SMU:                     Asif Faiz
Task Manager:                      Jorge Rebelo



- i -
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO MASS TRANSIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          State of Rio de Janeiro
Guarantor:         Federative Republic of Brazil.
Implementing       Secretaria de Transportes do Estado do Rio de Janeiro (SECTRAN) and
Agency:            Companhia Fluminense de Trens Urbanos (Flumitrens).
Beneficiaries:     Residents of the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region, particularly low-income
households who are major users of public transport.
Poverty:           Not applicable.
Amount:            US$186 million equivalent (including up to US$18.6 million in retroactive
financing).
Terms:             Repayment in 15 years, including a grace period of three years, at the Bank's
fixed interest rate for single currency loans in US$.
Commitment Fee:   0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver.
Onlending Terms:  Not applicable.
Financing Plan:    See para. 2.18.
Rate of Return:    62 percent for the infrastructure and equipment component which represents 94
percent of the total cost of the project.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 15937-BR
Map:               IBRD No. 28254
Project ID:        BR-PA-43421






I. URBAN TRANSPORT IN THE RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN REGION
A. Background
1.1          This project has its origins in two major developments at the federal and state level: (a)
the decentralization of the Rio de Janeiro Urban Trains from the Federal Government to the State of Rio
de Janeiro which took place in December 1994 (as part of an ongoing Bank loan 3633-BR); and (b) the
decision of the new State administration which took office in January 1995 to achieve a more effective
integration, of all modes in the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region (RJMR), with an aim of reducing
subsidies/to urban transport agencies and substantially increasing the participation of the private sector
in the operation and investment of the sector.
1.2          The State decided to embark on a program of staff rationalization and restructuring of its
urban transportation agencies as part of a State Reform Project. To consolidate the gains made in the
decentralization project and substantially increase private sector participation in its metropolitan rail
agency (Flumitrens), the State requested the assistance of the Bank to complete the rehabilitation of
Flumitrens and the integration with other modes. The identification mission took place in November
1995, and based on its findings, the Bank agreed to proceed with the evaluation of the project provided
the State of Rio de Janeiro (SRJ) would incorporate into its urban transport strategy the following two
elements: (a) effective coordination between the state and municipal governments of the Rio de Janeiro
Metropolitan Region (RJMR); and (b) a formal financing mechanisms considered crucial to create an
enabling environment for the long-term financial sustainability of the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan
Region's urban transport systems; and (c) concession, sale or liquidation of all its urban transport
agencies. The SRJ moved swiftly and diligently to include these elements in its strategy.
B. Urban Transport in the RJMR: An Overview
1.3          The Rio de Janeiro  Metropolitan
Region, with 546,865 hectares and  9.8 million       Figure 1.1: PJMR Daily Trips (Work Day)
inhabitants spread  irregularly over 18 individual      Modal Spilt Motorized Transport
municipalities is dominated by the Rio de Janeiro
Municipality (RJM) with 5.7 million inhabitants. The               FerryBoat1.0%
RJMR concentrates roughly 76 percent of the SRJ's  Car(prvate,tax)145%    Other O.5%
population on just 15 percent of its terrmtory. RJM   (    t    5     h
alone has 56 percent of the population of the state .     .0l
and 77 percent of the income of RJMR. RJM           Trai 4.0%
generates roughly 85 percent of the SRJ's income and   Subway 3.0%
4,500,000 jobs. Each day 13 million person trips take
place in the RJMR, of which forty percent are home-                            Bus 77.0%
to-work trips. Of the total trips, 67 percent are by
public transport, 11 percent by auto, 20 percent by
foot, and the remaining 2 percent by other modes. Of      Total Daily Trips = 13.18 m.I1ion
the public transport trips, 77 percent are by bus
(mostly private operators), 14.5 percent by auto (taxis, kombis), 4 percent by suburban train (Flumitrens),
3 percent by subway (Metro), 1 percent by ferry (CONERJ), and .5 percent by other modes. Of the 8.7
million trips by public modes, about half use more than one mode, requiring some sort of modal transfer:
37 percent of all Metro trips, 47 percent of all train trips, and 41 percent of all bus trips require one or
more transfers to be completed.
1.4          This level of urban transport activity, dominated by the road-based motorized modes,
has significant impacts on the RJMR's environment. Despite an existing 264-km rail network, the lack of
integration between the Metro (only 23 km) and the Flumitrens discourages more rail trips, in favor of
buses and the automobile, creating heavy congestion during peak hours and significantly increasing
home-to-work trip time. Rio's geography and topography with its hills and tunnels is prone to traffic
congestion, especially when accidents occur and/or cars break down. There is limited space for fully
segregated busways. It is estimated that each "carioca" (citizen of RJ) wastes 10-15 days a year more



- 2 -
than it should due to high traffic congestion. The main users of the public transport system are from the
Baixada Fluminense (a poor section of Rio) and bear the brunt of the system's problems: (a) shortage of
capacity at peak hours, resulting in overcrowded (>10 passlm2), (b) long work joumeys (2.5-4.0
hours/day for a round trip) from the metropolitan periphery to thie urban centers, with often more than two
modal transfers; and (c) paying over a fourth of their income towards fares. Lack of coordination between
the three levels of government responsible for urban transport, particularly between the SRJ and the
RJM, has led to poor tariff and modal integration, lack of prioritization in urban transport investments,
and no common policy on pricing and subsidies.
1.5          A Bank-financed Mass Transportation Plan (PTM, see Annex 13, Ref. 1) was completed
in 1995 and selected the main urban transport corridors of the RJMR as the area most in need of
rehabiilitation or new investments. This selection of corridors was based on comprehensive traffic survey
data and a demand modeling exercise with a modal split analysis comparing the several modal
alternatives for each corridor. The top-ranked group of corridors in terms of economic efficiency for the
region was the one formed by the Flumitrens metropolitan rail system, which could provide rail transport
services for many of the current road-based urban trips thereby decreasing bus congestion and
improving trip times for the users provided Flumitrens can provide an acceptable level of service in
terms of frequency and reliability. Alternative options such as busways were not considered feasible
given the volumes of passengers involved and the amount of expropriation and resettlement that would
be required. To achieve the level of service required, the PTM recommended that the Flumitrens system
be further rehabilitated and modernized to be able to carry a daily passenger load of 1.4 million
passengers by year 2002. The PTM also recommended a regional transport coordination commission
with representation from the State, Rio de Janeiro Municipality, and other municipalities of the RJMR,
users and operators be formally established to serve as a forurrm for the discussion and recommendation
of nevi major investments and common pricing and subsidy policies. Furthermore, the PTM emphasized
the need to better integrate the predominantly bus-oriented RJMR system with Flumitrens, the Metr6 and
the ferry. The Bank project team reviewed the reports prepared under the PTM and endorsed the results
of the! alternative analysis as well as the proposal for the establishment of a regional transport
coordination commission and a more integrated urban transport system. Finally, as recommended by the
PTM, the State should put in place the necessary financing mechanisms to ensure the sustainability of
the sector in the long run and prevent the deterioration caused by deferred maintenance. The above
recommendations agree with earlier Bank's departmental Economic Sector Work (Annex 13, ref. 19)
which set the foundations for the ongoing process of decentralization of railway systems from the Federal
to the State government.
1.6           Although the project team agreed with the recommendation of the PTM that Flumitrens
infrastructure and equipment needed to be rehabilitated, the main concern was to ensure that the system
be managed with a private sector orientation and would be able to overcome the problems of
mismanagement and inadequacy of maintenance budget which are common to most state-run railways
world-wide. Based on the conclusions of studies (financed under Ln. 3633-BR) on options for private
sector participation in Flumitrens, the project team organized several brainstorming meetings with the
key State decision-makers, and the result of this exercise was an agreement that the best option to
ensure an adequate level of service and the financial sustainability of the system would be a full
concession to the private sector of its operations and maintenance for a period of not less than ten years.
The second best alternative would be the concessioning out of some key railway activities such as rolling
stock maintenance and track infrastructure to the private sector while the system would be still run by a
state-appointed administration. In all cases, however, there was a consensus that after the completion of
the ongoing Ln. 3633-BR which supported the decentralization of the Flumitrens system from the Federal
Government to the State, there would still be a need for large-scale rehabilitation of the remaining rolling
stock because the lack of maintenance funds prior to decentralization of the system led to the
immobilization of almost 50 percent of the fleet. Based on the few similar experiences in the world and
since these type of concessions are normally negative (i.e., with a subsidy at least in the first 5 years),
the private sector is only interested in bidding if the bid for the concession includes a State-financed
investment plan. The project team also agreed that, since the process of concession which started with
the State Reform Loan would take at least one year and a half, it was necessary to allow Flumitrens to
start its investment plan prior to concession since its fleet availability was very low despite the cars
rehabilitated under Ln. 3633-BR. The risk of starting the rehabilitation prior to concession would be that
the concession may not materialize and a number of contracts would have been signed. However,



-3 -
without the inclusion of a state-financed investment plan in the bidding document-. the concession of the
system would be less attractive to potential concessionaires, and the present state government, which
has been advocating a comprehensive urban sector reform, would have only one year left on its
mandate and a rail system in precarious position. Thus it was decided that the benefits of starting the
investment plan before the concession is signed outweigh the risks of not having a concession signed by
the agreed date.
1.7          Recent departmental Economic and Sector Work (Annex 13, ref. 19) concluded that
particulate air pollution in the northern part of the Rio Municipality and the Baixada Fluminense is serious
enough to cause significant health damages including premature mortality. Although these particulates
are mostly from industry, they are also due to transport emissions and solid waste buming. Data on
ground-level ozone is lacking but climatic conditions and emissions characteristics would suggest the
possibility of a serious ozone problem in Rio. Ozone (smog) is mainly due to transport emissions of NOx
and VOC (ozone precursors). Traffic congestion in tunnels make them unbearable due to poor
ventilation. In 1994 the number of vehicles registered in the RJMR was 1.7 million. Vehicular air pollution
has been somewhat mitigated by the use of alcohol. Vehicular accidents, on the other hand, have
become a major source of environmental risks. Congestion and overcrowding of the public transport
system are a source of envirunmental stress. Throughout the day and particularly at peak-hours noise
levels are well above the acceptable levels recommended by WHO.
1.8           After the liquidation of the only state-owned company (CTC), all bus services are
provided by private operators at one of the lowest fares in the country. The bus private operators do not
receive subsidies while Flumitrens (suburban trains), Metro (subway) and CONERJ (ferries) received
subsidies of respectively US$188 million, US$109 million and US$30 million in 1995. Annex 4 details
each of the urban transport agencies under state jurisdiction. The CTC was recently liquidated as part of
the State's move to privatize urban transport services. Bids for the concession of old CTC routes were
issued by June 30, 1997.Finally, RJMR needs to modernize its traffic engineering and control technology
to be able to cope with the present and growing number of road-based vehicles and introduce policies
which will discourage the rapidly growing use of automobiles for home-to-work trips.
1.9          The road network is radial and converges on the central business district. The
commercial speed of the buses in the reserved bus lanes is around 30 km/hr but drops to 20 km/hr or
less in the central business district. At peak period, most highway corridors are clogged with bumper to
bumper buses and automobiles. Bus services are generally of low speed and unreliable at peak hours
due to the congestion. Although they are privately operated, the municipal bus routes are allocated on
the basis of competitive bidding and regulated by the Secretary of Municipal Transport, a municipal
agency. The privately operated intermunicipal bus services are under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of
Transport of the State. Tariffs are set by those agencies and there are no subsidies paid to private bus
operators. In the Rio de Janeiro Municipality (RJM), there is a flat tariff which applies to all the
municipality and every trip. In the case of the intermunicipal services the tariffs are distance-based.
1.10         At present, Flumitrens, the State-owned suburban railway is partially integrated with 150
bus lines in 30 terminals, which generates about 47 percent of its demand without an integrated tariff.
Flumitrens is also integrated with the Metro in 3 stations of which the most important is D. Pedro II.
Flumitrens estimates that with more frequent services, increased train availability and reliability,
rehabilitation of 13 stations, 5 intermodal integration terminals, and a number of pedestrian crosswalks,
demand would increase substantially. For passengers who have their origins and destinations within
walking distance of the stations, Flumitrens offers the most comfortable and reliable mode of transport.
However, if the origins and destinations are beyond a reasonable walking distance, the lack of good
integration and the lack of stations at important demand generation centers, makes the use of the system
awkward and more expensive. This lack of sufficient integration between Flumitrens and buses
discourages more rail trips and encourages bus and automobile usage, thereby increasing the heavy
congestion during peak hours and significantly increasing home-to-work trip time. In its program to
decentralize the responsibility of operation of its metropolitan systems from the Federal Government to
the State (Ln. 3633-BR), a first attempt at improving integration was made, but it fell short of its goals
mainly because the train fleet available at the time the State took over the system was well below what
had been estimated at appraisal, due to a lack of promised Federal budget resources for routine and
periodic maintenance.



C. Institutional Responsibilities for Urban Transport in the RJMR
1.11         There are three main government bodies responsible for overseeing the urban transport
sector in the RJMR: (a) the State Secretary of Transport (SECTRAN) which regulates all the
intermunicipal bus services, rail-based and ferry-boat services of the region; (b) the Secretary of
Transport of the Municipality of Rio de Janeiro which regulastes municipal bus services and is also
responsible for traffic management and control in the RJM; and (c) the State Directorate for Roads
(Departmento de Estradas de Rodagem do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, DER-RJ) responsible for all the
state iroads in the SRJ. Urban transport responsibilities within any of the other municipalities of the RJMR
are under the jurisdiction of the Prefeitura of that municipalit,y. Intermunicipal services fall under the
jurisdiction of the State. At present, although the RJM and the other municipalities of the RJMR are the
main beneficiaries of Flumitrens' system, the Metr6, and ferry services, they do not have direct
contributions to either the capital or operating budgets of urban transport agencies. This is a situation
which must be addressed through formal financing mechanisms since it is only reasonable that they pay
their lair share in the provision of transport services which benefit the employers and users in their
territoiries.
1.12          Municipal bus operators have a clearing house (Camara de CompensaQao) for bus
tariffs, and they pay bus services according to a standard cost formula which they approve. In this
manner, they compensate bus companies which operate with tariffs below the estimated cost of the
formula. Intermunicipal bus services do not have a clearing house and do not receive a subsidy from the
government.
1.13          Since three levels of government have been formulating policies and regulating urban
transport without a formal coordinating arrangement, there has been a lack of consistency in the fares
chargEid by similar or competing modes, duplication of investments, absence of criteria to prioritize
investments, and only embryonic modal integration. This has led to bus services continuing to operate in
corrido,rs in which Flumitrens operates (especially since the introduction of the flat tariff in the
municipality), expensive and time-consuming disagreements on whether to build a light rail transport, the
lack of promotion for hub and spoke services, disparate subsidy policies often based on non-economic
considerations, and the absence of user representation in the urban transport decision-making process.
Recently, there has been an effort to integrate rail and intermunicipal bus services. The creation of a
Regionial Transportation Coordination Commission (RTCC) would ensure that this cooperation would not
depend on the political parties in power.
1.14         The lack of a coordinating entity with a unified approach to cost-recovery policies and
the lack of effective oversight by the State and the Municipality have resulted in the poor definition of
priorities in the RJMR, limited modal and tariff integration, and operating agencies which have no pre-set
operational and financial targets. The SRJ as part of this project has established the Ag6ncia
Metropolitana de Transporte Urbano (AMTU-RJ) which will fulfill the functions of a RTCC as described in
Annex 3. As required by the proposed project, the SRJ and RJM signed a convenio to create the AMTU-
RJ. A formal AMTU-RJ was established by a governor's resolution in January 1997.
D. Key Sectoral Issues
1.15         There are a number of key issues which must be addressed to improve the supply of
urban transport services and to guarantee their orderly development and sustainability in the long term in
the RJMR. They are: (a) capacity and safety issues; (b) institutional issues; (c) regulatory issues; (d) cost
recovery and financial management issues; (e) poverty alleviation and subsidy targeting; (f)
environmental issues; (g) transport planning issues; and (h) private sector participation in investments
and operations.
1.16         Capacity and Safety-Related Issues. First and foremost is the need to increase the
supply of adequate cost-efficient peak-hour capacity in order to guarantee an acceptable level of service
to the average commuter under reasonable safety conditions. This can be done by: (a) rehabilitating and
restructuring Flumitrens; (b) building new mass transit systems (busways, LRTs) which prove to be the
best alternative from the technical, economic and, especially, financial standpoint; (c) improving traffic



management through appropriate traffic engineering equipment in order to better manage available road
space and reduce congestion; and (d) reducing traffic and transit accidents through a combination of
transit safety education campaigns, law enforcement, and appropriate traffic engineering. The proposed
project would mainly strengthen Flumitrens' carrying capacity.
1.17         Institutional Issues. These are: (a) the fine-tuning of relations between state and
municipal governments and a clear definition of their respective roles in the financing, planning and
operation of urban transport services in accordance with the 1988 Constitution; (b) the creation of an
entity which is formally empowered by the RJMR for planning, coordinating and setting priorities for new
investments and modal integration including tariff setting and cost sharing, in order to assure a minimum
of planning continuity; and (c) the appropriate modification of regulation, including the elimination of any
remaining regulatory barriers which might prevent free entry and/or competition in the market for
provision of transport services especially bus services. The proposed project was instrumental in
achieving the establishment of an RTCC.
1.18         Cost Recovery and Financial Management Issues. The need to address cost
recovery from a more commercial-oriented standpoint by: (a) setting tariffs which, when added to
subsidies, cover at least the long-run variable costs (defined as out-of-pocket costs plus depreciation of
equipment and cost of capital) of the service provided and by controlling fare evasion; (b) setting
appropriate peak and off-peak pricing; (c) improving the financial management of the systems by wide
ranging cost-cutting measures, staff rationalization policies, and by appointing more financial managers
to run the mass transit systems; and (d) revamping funding mechanisms in order to guarantee adequate
financing for the implementation of new mass transit systems and the sustainability of the existing
systems. All the above issues would be addressed by the proposed project, through the concession.
1.19         Adequate Targeting of Subsidies. Blanket subsidies paid to operators, such as the
ones paid to Flumitrens/Metr6/CTC/CONERJ, ought to be eliminated. However, urban households have
been devoting increasingly large proportions of their incomes to transport, and transport-related
expenditures have become a considerable burden on local government budgets. The appropriate
targeting of urban transport subsidies and their extension to the informal sector which is not presently
covered by mechanisms such as the "vale-transporte" is a major issue which must be addressed in the
short term. Appropriate mechanisms for financing such subsidies (tariff differentiation, contracted
budgetary transfers, etc.) and channeling them (tokens, multimodal passes, differential tariffs) need to be
designed. Tariff policies, subsidies and financing mechanisms were carefully studied during the
preparation of the proposed loan, and a law to establish formal financing mechanisms for urban transport
was submitted to the state legislature.
1.20         Environmental Issues. A reduction of the environmental impacts of urban congestion
and noise pollution in the urban area would be brought about through cleaner and quieter systems. The
assessment of the potential role of market-based incentives to address pollution and implement, to the
extent possible, the polluter pay principle (PPP) to minimize the fiscal burden implied by de facto
govemment subsidies to polluters; design the allocation of responsibilities across government levels for
the enforcement of the law and definition of tougher standards. The Rio Special Environmental Control
Fund (FEEMA) must be equipped to monitor vehicle emissions and noise. An extensive environmental
review of the RJMR has been recently completed by the Bank and its recommendations have been taken
into account in this proposed loan.
1.21         Planning Issues. There is a need to strengthen RJMR's transportation planning, traffic
data base, traffic management, and the economic and financial evaluation of new investments,
especially the proposed systems for the Niter6i-S.Gongalo link and the extension of the Metr6 to Barra
da Tijuca. This could be done quite easily if there is a formal coordinating agency for urban transport in
the metropolitan region. The proposed project would strengthen planning capacities and the data bases
of the RJMR.
1.22         Private Sector Participation. The concession in full or by group of activities or sale to
the private sector of each urban transport agency and its assets, namely Flumitrensl
Metr6/CTC/CONERJ, might be a way to ensure that the level of service provided is respected and the
infrastructure and equipment are properly maintained. In Flumitrens, the maintenance of the rehabilitated



-6 -
fleet must be taken very seriously to avoid what is now happening (fleet availability is down to 58
percent). Furthermore, it is through privatization that some urban systems were able to arrest the chronic
fare evasion experienced in state-owned organizations. Early indications suggest fare evasion is
probably as much as 30 percent in Flumitrens. The SRJ should consider an increase in the private sector
participation in investment and operations of its systems. The concession of Flumitrens, Metr6 and
CONERJ and the sale of CTC were agreed upon in the State Reform Loan and would be consolidated
under the proposed project.
1.23         In the future, urban transport policies in the RJMR should be geared toward the efficient
and equitable provision of urban transport services, in particular for low-income groups which have
traditionally received less attention. Policies should be consistent with broad transport sector objectives,
as well as with the objectives of the urban subsector. In accordance with the 1988 Constitution, the
policies should support the decentralization of urban transport services from the Federal Government to
the St,ates to facilitate modal and tariff integration and respond quickly to local needs. The policies
should simultaneously address the need for institutional coordination and an integrated urban transport,
land use, and environmental strategy. The general approach is to restore the incentives which exist when
privately-owned systems operate under competitive conclitions. Redesigned regulations and
concessionary agreements, and improved bidding processes will promote competition in the provision of
bus services. Rates should be gradually liberalized in the corridors where there is effective competition.
Urban and metropolitan train operations should be owned by tlhe state and/or local governments and
operated by private interests operating under concessionary arrangements. Appropriate tariffs and
financing mechanisms would enable the efficient operation and development of the systems. Local
govemments would continue to be responsible for traffic regulation and management but would improve
their capacity to: (a) manage road use; (b) improve traffic management and street maintenance; (c)
protect the environment; (d) monitor the effects of regulations and taxation; (e) promote integration of the
various transport systems; and (f) coordination with land-use development.
E. Lessons from Experience in the Sector
1.24         Initial Bank support for the urban transport sector in Brazil was provided through four
urban transport projects totaling US$540 million, of which the First, Second and Third Urban Transport
Projects (Loans 1563-BR, 1839-BR, 1965-BR) have been cornpleted. The Fourth Urban Transport
Project, which continued the work started in the Third project, was canceled because the government
abolished the federal agency in charge of urban transport (EBTU). Additional urban transport projects
financed by the Bank (Loans 3457-BR and 3633-BR for US$126 million and US$128 million respectively)
support the rehabilitation and decentralization of the CBTU from the Federal to the State governments in
SAo Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. Loan 3457-BR (Sao Paulo) became effective on February 3, 1993. Loan
3633-BR (Rio de Janeiro) was signed October 14, 1993 and became effective March 14, 1994. Loan
3633-BR financed a number of studies dealing with the evaluation of options to concession out the
Flumitrens and Metr6 and contributed to the preparation of the presently proposed project.
1.25         To build upon the experience of past urban transport projects for the design of the
proposed project, an analysis of lessons learned was undertaken (Annex 1). The review was based on
Project Completion Reports and Performance Audit Reports (PCR/PAR) in urban transport and urban
development worldwide. Recognition was made of trends and changes in project design since the
PCRs/PARs were completed. The main lessons identified and incorporated into the design of the
proposed project are:
(a)   Institutional Strengthening. The organizations dealing with urban transport at
the federal, state and municipal levels should be reorganized and strengthened.
Studies included in the institutional component must be carefully monitored and
translated into action plans which the Borrower would implement;
(b)    Lack of counterpart funding has greatly influenced the pace of project
implementation and in some cases has led to cancellation of components. An
effort must be made to ensure that adequate provision of counterpart funds are
included in the annual budgets of federal and state enterprises;



- 7-
(c)    Slow implementation has been a frequently occurring theme. The reasons
have included: lack of familiarity with Bank procedures, over-optimistic
scheduling at appraisal, lack of final engineering designs at appraisal, changes
in political commitment, and lack of counterpart funds. These problems would be
mitigated in the proposed project by such measures as: strengthening capacity
of operating agencies for financial management and application of Bank
procedures; and requiring final engineering design of the first years works, for
which technical assistance should be contracted if need be with retroactive
financing; and
(d)    Rail Decentralization. Experience in both ongoing Lns. 3457-BR and 3633-BR
suggest that the decentralization of systems from the federal to the state level
must be followed by complete restructuring of the newly-formed companies
preferably with concessioning of the operations and maintenance of the systems
to the private sector. So far, the Buenos Aires concessioning of suburban rail
services and the subway to the private sector has substantially increased the
quality of the service provided and greatly reduced subsidies. Otherwise, there is
little motivation for government-appointed managers to reduce working subsidies
and improve the level of service offered by the systems.
F. The Bank's Strategy for the RJMR
1.26         Subsector strategy. In view of the issues stated above, the Bank's strategy would be
divided into short, medium and long term. In the short term: (a) assisting the state and municipal
govemments in formulating and implementing an urban transport policy consistent with the above goals;
(b) strengthening the institutional framework and the decision-making process in the sector through
adequate coordination between the two levels of government and proper technical, economic and
especially, financial evaluation of projects and their prioritization by a regional coordination agency; (c)
supporting a program to rehabilitate and extend existing services such as metro lines and busways,
which can more readily increase their efficiency and peak-hour capacity; (d) assisting in the concession
of the state-owned urban transport systems to the private sector; (e) managing the demand for road use
through improved traffic management and road-user taxes in order to reduce existing congestion and the
demand for travel by private single-occupancy automobiles; (f) decreasing the number of fatalities and
accidents due to urban transport; (g) introducing better cost-recovery mechanisms, including adequate
cost-based peak-hour tariffs and fare evasion control in order to strengthen their financial base; and (h)
improving the targeting of subsidies to those who need them. In the medium term, the Bank's strategy
will focus on promoting a more efficient and financially sustainable market-oriented supply of public
transport services, through: (a) reforming regulations which will facilitate market entry, fare deregulation,
and public bidding in route allocation; (b) promoting service differentiation especially in the bus systems;
(c) defining eligibility requirements and strengthening funding mechanisms for urban transport to cover
operating deficits (based on pre-agreed targets in contract plans) and finance major investments; (d)
supporting the evaluation and, if justified, the introduction of new investments such as reserved busways
and light rail transport; (e) reducing the environmental impacts of urban transport by setting standards for
air quality, noise pollution, and visual intrusion along with indicating who would pay for them and how;
and (f) assisting in projects which improve the data base required for appropriate planning such as
origin/destination surveys and preparation of master plans which study land use and urban transport
alternatives. In the long term, the Bank's strategy will aim at reducing the travel demand and increasing
the effectiveness of transport facilities by integrating land use and transport planning based on significant
input or management by locally-affected parties.



-8 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Backgrouncl
2.1          As mentioned in Section I, this project has its origins in the decision of the Govemment
of Brazil to transfer the Rio de Janeiro subdivision of the Brazilian Urban Train Company to the State
Government, and the willingness of the State of Rio de Janeiro to better integrate urban trains with the
state-owned subway, the ferry system, and the bus transport system. In addition, faced with huge
subsidies to urban transport agencies (estimated at 8-10 percent of State revenues), the State embarked
on a far-reaching staff rationalization and concession program aided by the Bank's recently approved
State Reform loan.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.2          The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Brazil, discussed by the Board on June 12,
1997, is to support policies and investments that will encourage economic growth and social
development in a context of macroeconomic stability. The emphasis is on efficient resource allocation,
increased efficiency in the public sector, the appropriate targeting and delivery of support systems to the
low-income population; and on improving the creditworthiness of the Brazilian states. The proposed
project is fully consistent with this assistance strategy since it is designed to: (a) promote reforms and
financial viability of public enterprises, including concessions or sale of state-owned urban transport
agencies to the private sector; (b) foster private sector participation in the development of new
infrastructure and its operation; (c) increase the efficiency of infrastructure investments; (d) contribute to
poverty alleviation; and (e) reduce Government subsidies through improved tariff policies and financial
management. The proposed project is also a follow-up to the efforts started with the Rio de Janeiro
Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project (Ln. 3633-BR) which decentralized the federally-owned
CBTU to the State of Rio de Janeiro to allow for more effective miodal and tariff integration.
C. Project Objectives
2.3          The main project objectives are: (a) to improve the quality of urban transport services in
the RJIMR by enhancing the development of a fully integrated urban transport system; and (b) to
substantially improve the level of service provided by Flumitrens while reducing the operating subsidies
it receives from the State through the substantial participation of the private sector in its operations and
management.
2.4          Objective (a) would be achieved by the rehabilitation/construction of transfer stations
between the several modes, the introduction of multimodal tariffs, and the establishment of a Regional
Transport Coordination Commission in charge of coordinating and recommending common policies on
pricing, financing and project evaluation in the RJMR. Objective (b) would be achieved through an
investment program for the rehabilitation/modernization of Flumitrens facilities and equipment and a full
or partial concession of the operations and management of the railway to the private sector as a means
of reducing the subsidies Flumitrens receives from the State.
2.5          Subsidiary objectives would be the improvement of the mobility of the low-income
population who are the main user of Flumitrens and public transport, and the reduction of the
environrnental impacts (mainly air quality and noise) on the RJMR due to road-based vehicle use.
D. Project Description
2.6          The project would comprise two components:
(a)    an Infrastructure and Equipment component (96 percent of the total project
cost) including: (i) rehabilitating/refurbishing of Flumitrens' rolling stock and
infrastructure; and (ii) rehabilitating or building transfer stations between the
trains and other modes (Metro, buses and ferries); and



- 9 -
(b)    an Institutional and Policy Development component (4 percent of the total
project cost) to help in: (i) supporting the process of concessioning Flumitrens to
the private sector through technical assistance for the preparation and
evaluation of bids; (ii) operating the RTCC for the RJMR; (iii) preparing an
integrated Transport Policy, Land Use and Air Quality Management strategy for
the RJMR to meet both transport and air quality targets and to introduce sound
cost-recovery, tariff, regulatory and subsidy policies; (iv) a comprehensive
retraining program for Flumitrens staff in view of the planned restructuring of the
company; (v) preparing feasibility studies and bidding documents for the
proposed Niter6i-S.Gon,alo extension and other priorities of the mass transit
system; and (vi) implementing an Environmental and Traffic subcomponent
including: (a) a study to review the ongoing vehicle inspection/maintenance
program; and (b) a comprehensive review of traffic violations with emphasis on
a more reliable system to collect traffic violation fines and enforce them as a
deterrent to traffic accidents.
Part A - Infrastructure and Equipment Component
2.7           This component represents 96 percent of the total project cost and is designed to
improve the infrastructure and equipment of Flumitrens to a level which is deemed necessary to attract
potential private sector concessionaires as summarized below.
2.8           The Civil Works Program which would account for 8 percent of Part A component
would consist of: (a) rehabilitation and modernization of 11 stations; (b) construction of two stations; (c)
construction of five pedestrian over/underpasses; and (d) eight km of fences in areas adjacent to stations
to reduce evasion.
2.9           The Permanent Way Program which would account for 2 percent of Part A includes
installation of sleepers, and the superstructure for the second track in Gramacho-Saracuruna.
2.10         The Systems Program which would account for 21 percent of Part A would consist of:
(a) installation and repair of transmission lines in the Leopoldina corridor; (b) rehabilitation/construction of
electric substations; (c) installation of Central Traffic Control (CTC) in D. Pedro II and Deodoro yards and
Sta. Cruz and Japeri corridors; (d) the installation of Automatic Train Control system in Deodoro, Sta.
Cruz and Japeri corridors; (e) automatic fare collection; and (f) telecommunications, with the installation
of fiber optics cable links in the Japeri corridor, the provision of a central station, and an integrated
telecommunication system in the CCO.
2.11         The Rolling Stock Program, which would account for 65 percent of Part A, would
consist of the rehabilitation of 103 Electrical Multiple Units (EMUs), the refurbishment of 36 EMUs.
Part B - Institutional Development and Policy
2.12         This component is designed to assist the State in the continuation of the implementation
of the concessions and management contracts jump-started by the proposed State Reform project for
Flumitrens, Metr6, CONERJ and CTC lines or services. A package of institutional and policy reforms is
needed to induce modernization changes and motivate management and staff. In addition this
component would be used to strengthen the regional transport coordination commission to ensure that
modal integration, tariff and subsidy policies, and prioritization of future urban transport projects in the
region become a reality. This component would account for 4 percent of the total project cost.



- 10 -
2.13         Flumitrens-Related Studies.
(a)    Assisting the Concession to the Private Sector. The first set of Actions Plans
concems the preparation of bid documents to be used in the concession
process: (i) institutional and organizational arrangements; (ii) investment plan to
be undertaken; (iii) evaluation of operating subsidies; (iv) patrimonial agreement
on the valuation and assets to transferred; (v) aspects relating to transfer of
personnel, pension benefits, and miscellaneous human resource-related issues;
and (vi) legal and administrative aspects for concession;
(b)    Technical Assistance Until the Concession. This technical assistance would
provide key advisors who would work with the President of Flumitrens to further
rationalize and stream line operations and maintenance to decrease the
perceived risks of the concession. For example, hiring of experts in rolling stock
maintenance and railways operations mianagement, management accounting to
define clear cost allocation rules, specialists to implement the payroll software,
and experts to build a reliable data base;
(c)    Technical Engineering Studies in Signaling and Telecom. These studies
would address the needs identified during preparation for the installation of
existing and new signaling and telecom equipment; and
(d)    Supervision Consultants. The implementation of the investment plan would be
supervised by engineering consultants in charge of ensuring that the works and
goods comply with specifications; and Project Management Consultants.
These consultants would be in charge of supporting the Project Management
and Implementation Group until the completion of the Project.
2.14         Modal Integration Related Study. The objective of the second set of Action Plans is to
support the establishment of the RTCC policy framework and provide practical recommendations for
implementing modal integration, namely: (a) updating of the Transport, Land Use, and Air Quality portion
of the Master Plans of the RJMR with emphasis on route rationalization and modal and tariff integration;
(b) an intermunicipal route management and rationalization study; and (c) preparation of feasibility
studies and bidding documents for the Niter6i - Sao Gongalo rnass transportation system. The RJMR
master plan should be analyzed in order to give the basic guidelines for the development of future
systeims for this corridor.
2.15         Training. In view of the concession, staff who remain with Flumitrens holding would
have two primary functions: (a) to manage the implementation of the investment plan; and (b) to monitor
the concessionaire on behalf of the State Regulatory Entity (ASEP-RJ).
2.16         Environmental and Traffic Safety Program. The environmental and traffic safety
prognam is estimated to cost US$1.1 million and accounts for 0.4 percent of the total project cost. It
would consist of: (a) a study to review the ongoing inspection and maintenance (I/M) program for vehicle
emissions and noise and propose corrective measures; and (b) a comprehensive review of traffic
violations with emphasis on a more reliable system to collect traffic violation fines and enforce them as a
deterrent to traffic accidents.
E. Project Cost and Financing
2.17         The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$373 million including physical and
price contingencies, with an estimated foreign component of US$186 million or about 50 percent of total
cost. Taxes and duties are expected to account for about 15 percent of total costs or US$57 million
equivalent. Physical contingencies add up to US$30 million, or 9 percent of the base cost, and price
contingencies are estimated at US$19 million or 6 percent of the base cost plus physical contingencies.
The contingencies were estimated on the basis of the disbursement schedule (an estimated
implernentation period of six years) and on the following forecast of price escalation for both local and
foreign expenditures expressed in US dollars: 2.9 percent in 1996, 2.0 percent in 1997, 2.1 percent in
1998, 2.3 percent in 1999, 2.4 percent in 1999, 2.4 percent in 2000 and 2.3 percent in 2001. Base costs
correspond to January 1996 prices. The costs of goods are based upon supplier quotations for similar



- 1 1 -
Brazilian-made items and recent prices of imported items. The cost of several components of the works
program such as, permanent way, two new stations, and the administrative building are based upon
detailed engineer designs and prevailing unit prices; the cost of other components of the works program
are based upon preliminary engineering designs and prevailing unit prices from recent tenders under
Loans 3457-BR and 3633-BR. Final engineering designs for the remaining components under the project
are underway. Cost estimates for consultant services are based upon prevailing local and foreign staff-
months rate; they provide for the cost of local transportation, office equipment, other minor items, and
where appropriate, intemational travel and per diem.
Table 2.1: Project Cost Estimates and Bank Financing
US$ million 2uivalent      --------  ---
......        ..........   Bs  ot............. .Bank.................................. Participation........................................... ........................
&Excl                              % of
Local Foreign  Duties   Duties   Total   Value    Total
1-CIVIL WORKS                        18.07    9.73   26.41     1.39   27.80    14.26
1.1 -Stations                       15.47    8.33   22.60     1.19   23.79    12.21
* Modemization                   11.66    6.28   17.04     0.90   17.93      9.20   54.0%
* Construction                    3.81    2.05    5.57     0.29    5.86      3.00   54.0%
1.2 - Fences / Ped. Overpass        2.60    1.40    3.80      0.20    4.00     2.05   54.0%
2 - PERMANENTWAY                      3.97    2.14    5.80      0.31    6.10     3.71
2.1 - Installation of Sleepers       0.98    0.53    1.43     0.08    1.50     0.91    64.0%
2.2 - Superstructure (GMO-SRA)       2.99    1.61    4.37     0.23    4.60     2.80   64.0%
3 - SYSTEMS                          18.89   12.11   29.46      1.55   31.01     5.96
3.1 - Electrification                3.76    2.03    5.50     0.29    5.79     2.75
* Transmission Lines              2.20    1.18    3.21     0.17    3.38      1.61    50.0%
* Substations                     1.56    0.84    2.29     0.12    2.41      1.14   50.0%
3.2 - Signaling                      9.47    6.31   14.99     0.79   16.78      1.80
* CTC
Contracted (CTC IATC)           7.20    4.80   11.40      0.60   12.00        -    0.0%
To contract                     1.66    1.10    2.62      0.14    2.76     1.31   50.0%
- ATC                             0.61    0.41    0.97     0.05    1.02     0.49   50.0%
3.3 - Telecommunications             3.87    2.58    6.13     0.32    6.45        -    0.0%
3.4-Automatic Fare Collection        1.79    1.19    2.84     0.15    2.99     1.42   50.0%
4 - ROLLING STOCK                    41.79  167.15  173.41    35.52  208.93    121.4
4.1 - Pneumatic System               1.84    7.35    7.63     1.56    9.19     5.34   70.0%
4.2 - Rehabilitation of Bogies       1.92    7.68    7.97     1.63    9.60     5.58   70.0%
4.3 - Rehabilitation of EMUs        23.49   93.94   97.46    19.96  117.43    68.23    70.0%
4.4 - Refurbishment of EMUs         14.54   58.17   60.35    12.36   72.72    42.26   70.0%
5 - GOODS                             6.38   28.83   25.70     9.51   35.21    10.92
5.1 - Arc Chutes                     0.36    0.84     .88     0.32    1.20             0.0%
5.2 - Materials of Transm. Lines     2.37    5.52    5.76     2.13    7.89     2.88   50.0%
5.3 - Materials of Substations       2.05    4.77    4.98     1.84    6.82     2.05   50.0%
5.4 - Equipment of CTC               0.92    5.23    4.49     1.66    6.16     2.25    50.0%
5.5 - Equipment of ATC                 -    3.30    2.41      0.89    3.30     1.20   50.0%
5.6 - Materials of CTC/ATCtATS         -    4.09    2.98      1.10    4.09        -    0.0%
5.7 - Equip. of Aut. Fare Collection  1.05    5.92    5.09    1.88    6.97     2.54    50.0%
6 - CONSULTANTS                       9.30    5.25   13.82      0.73   14.55     5.67
6.1 - Studies and Projects Signaling  1.69    0.91    2.47    0.13    2.60        -    0.0%
6.2 - Project Management             1.89    1.26    2.99     0.16    3.15     1.50   50.0%
6.3 - Institutional / Environmental  2.28    1.23    3.33     0.18    3.50     1.66   50.0%
6.4 - Supervision                    3.44    1.85    5.03     0.26    5.30     2.51    50.0%
BASE COSTS                98.39  225.22  274.59    49.00  323.61   161.93
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                9.20   20.74   25.52     4.42   29.94    15.01
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                   5.05   13.89   15.76     3.19   18.95      9.05
TOTAL                 112.64  259.85  315.88    56.62  372.50   186.00



- 12 -
2.1El        The project would be financed from the propiosed Bank loan of US$186 million (50
percent of the project cost) and the SRJ contributions of about US$187 million equivalent, including
US$57 million in taxes and duties (50 percent of the project cost). During loan negotiations, agreement
was reached on: (a) the project financing plan; and (b) the guarantee of the SRJ regarding all necessary
counterpart funds for the project.
F. Project Benefits and Risks
2.19         Project Benefits. Quantifiable and non-quantifiable benefits are expected from the
provision of an integrated rail and bus network including cost savings, time savings for the users, fewer
accidents and fatalities, and employment generation through better spatial integration of markets.
Important effects on the urban structure are expected if the RJMR rail based network becomes an axis
fed by the major bus routes. In addition, there would be a positive environmental impact through the
reduction of fossil fuel consumption, reduction of motor-vehicle related emissions, and a reduction in
road congestion, with a consequent improvement in air quality and noise pollution. The project would
facilitate access to employment and services, particularly for the low-income population. Development of
an integrated public transport system under a regional coordination body in charge of combining state
and municipal pricing and subsidy policies, prioritizing major investments, and proposing common
demand management measures in the RJMR, are important non-quantifiable benefits. Finally, by
concessioning out to the private sector the operations and maintenance of Flumitrens, the proposed
project would be a first step towards decreasing the investment and subsidy burden on the state.
2.20         Project Risks. The usual risks associated with investment projects-cost and time
overruns-apply to this project. The investment, however, is in well-known technology, available from
many sources. Delays in the procurement process were minimized by starting at pre-appraisal the pre-
qualification for lots in the critical path of project implementation, by the use of standard bidding
documents, and by requiring the borrower to produce the major tender documents by negotiations.
Further risks include problems with the formal establishment and sustainability of the RTCC, possible
delays in the procurement process and in the rehabilitation of Flumitrens' rolling stock (which has a direct
impact on demand), delays in the actual award or failure to concession out Flumitrens, delays in
controlling fare evasion, and the timely availability of counterpart funds. Negotiations between the State
and Municipal Governments have progressed very well for modal and tariff coordination and a
forerunner of the RTCC has already been established. All parties have agreed on the need for an
integrated urban transport system but there is still a risk that the involved parties will be reluctant to rely
on R1CC's consensus and advice due to political differences between the State Government and the
Mayor of Rio d Janeiro. It is, however, expected that just the discussion of the main urban transport
issues and recommendations of the RTCC will generate pressure for politicians to seek metropolian
rather than state-only or municipal-only solutions. The pre-qualification documents for rolling stock
rehabilitation were already issued, and several trains rehabilitated under Ln. 3633-BR will be available
before! the concession. The contracting of the concession of Flumitrens is a condition for the
disbursement of the second tranche of the State Reform Project. The timely availability of counterpart
funds would be addressed by seeking assurances that they are included in the SRJ's CY97 and CY98
budgets and future budget projections. If the concession process fails, the repercussions are: (a) the
State-appointed management of Flumitrens may not have the independence required to run the railway
as a commercially-oriented concern. This might affect the service and the control of fare evasion having,
therefore, an impact on net revenues; and (b) part of the proposed investment would have been
committed. The proposed investment would always be beneficial to the railway because it would be
mainly in rolling stock. In case the award of the concession does not materialize, the Bank would press
for the second best altemative which calls for substantial outsourcing of railway maintenance activities. If
this is the case, the economic rate of return of the project would still be high (33 percent). In case the
concession fails to materialize, the fall in ridership would bring the economic rate of return down to 15
percent.
G. Tariff Setting and Affordability by Low-income Users
2.21         Poverty, Affordability and Subsidies. The growing crisis in urban transportation in
Brazil, especially in the metropolitan regions, demands a close look at alternatives for financing services
in a more predictable and sustainable way while, at the same time, targeting subsidies more directly to
low-inoDme ridership. The various initiatives already underway within ongoing Lns. 3457-BR and 3633-



- 13 -
BR to improve efficiency through tariff increases, service improvements, and trip reliability, as well as
efforts focused on reducing operating costs, are planned to continue.
2.22         Approximately 56 percent of the urban population earns less than four minimum salaries
(US$400/month). If successfully implemented, the project would primarily benefit the low-income
population in the participating cities, since they depend mainly on bus, metro and suburban rail services
to commute to and from work, especially those living in the favelas for whom access to the areas of
employment is a daily ordeal.
2.23         To make urban transport affordable to the low-income population, it is necessary to
strengthen and expand the eligibility of the vale-transporte program to low-income residents which are
not formally employed, to substantially promote integrated (bus-rail) fares, which should be always lower
than the sum of individual modal fares, and to increase the overall level of service provided to the users.
This would result in lower travel times due to higher frequencies and operating speeds, reduction of
waiting time, much higher reliability and safety, bringing down therefore, the overall generalized (tariff,
time and safety) transport cost to the user and thus alleviating the burden that urban transportation
imposes on low-income households. It is noteworthy that annual bus and train passenger surveys
indicate even low-income riders are willing to pay higher tariffs if the service provided is faster, waiting
times are less, and the system is more reliable.
2.24         In the bidding documents for the concession of Flumitrens, the govemment would set the
tariff to be charged by the concessionaire to guarantee that it is affordable by the predominately low-
income population populations which constitute the main ridership of the Flumitrens system. The tariff
would be updated regularly to reflect inflation and would be pegged to the urban bus tariff which is
periodically updated. The concession contracts will oblige the private concessionaires of the bus, rail,
metro and ferries to negotiate joint tariffs which are less than the sum of individual tariffs.
2.25         Under the State Reform Project, the State has commissioned a study to recommend the
most appropriate tariff policies for the RJMR in a context where there would be several privates
concessionaires. The study will propose ways of introducing a multi-modal ticket and how to allocate its
proceeds amongst the several concessionaires.
2.26         Review of Financing Mechanisms. In conclusion, it was agreed that efforts should be
focused on seeking a solution(s) that would: (a) generate sufficient resources to maintain stable and
predictable funding for urban transport investments; and (b) establish mechanisms to generate adequate
operating cross-subsidies from within transport related taxes, user charges, etc., to provide adequate
support for normalization (operating deficits) transfers. The SRJ has submitted to its legislature a draft
law proposing financing mechanisms for funding urban transport operating subsidies while they exist and
eventual future expansions.
H. Project Economic Evaluation
2.27         A standard cost-benefit analysis was performed to evaluate the economic impact of the
implementation of the proposed Investment and Equipment program, which together represent 96
percent of the total proposed project. Direct user benefits include travel time and operating costs
savings; indirect benefits arise from the reduction of negative externalities such as accident and air
pollution costs. Investment costs comprise civil works, permanent way, operational systems, rolling stock
and project studies.
2.28         Substantial direct benefits are expected to arise from travel time savings, operating cost
savings, bus system control savings, and road maintenance cost savings. Travel time savings result
mainly from the transfer of bus passengers into the railway system and from existing Flumitrens
passengers who can save time in their trips by taking advantage of the improved transport facility. Travel
time savings also result from the increased operating speeds and shorter trips of the buses and cars
which would be feeding the rail system. Operating cost savings for the non-rail modes derive principally
from the improved commercial and traffic speeds, which can be achieved by buses and cars,
respectively. In addition, indirect benefits would arise from the reduction in negative externalities, such
as accidents and air pollution.



-14 -
2.29         The  IERRs obtained  in the  economic    Table 2.2: Economic Evaluation
evaluation are summarized in the Table 2.2. The sensitivity         IERR (%)
analysis on traffic forecasts, increased investment costs,   Base Case  Worst C a    se
deferral of benefits, etc., produced acceptable results which  62.4   26.8       68.2
rangedl from 26.8 percent (case in which the operating costs           *
were 100 percent lower than estimated) to 68.4 percent (case in which the value of incremental traffic is
10 percent higher). A detailed description of the economic evaluation is given in Annex 9 and reference
number 9 of the Project File.
I. Project Financial Evaluation
2.30         Flumitrens. CBTU/STU-RJ, the predecessor of Flumitrens, historically relied on the
Federal Government to finance its operational deficits and its capital program. These operational deficits
have been attributed to low and declining ridership, insufficient tariffs, high personnel costs, and
significant rates of evasion and fraud. During 1991-95 the cost recovery from internally generated funds
varied between 11-19 percent. Personnel expenses accounted for 84 percent of the total working costs',
and the total revenues were barely enough to cover one-fourth of the working costs. Actual ridership in
1995 was about 370,000 paying passengers per day compared to the nearly one million paying
passengers in 1984. Evasion and ticket fraud was estimated at 17-22 percent in 1995 and contributed to
the poor working ratio of 6.12. Flumitrens received US$186 million in operating subsidies in 1995.
2.31         The present management of Flumitrens has put in place a new cost reduction program to
rationalize the work-force and to cut expenditures. Between 1995-1996, about 2,000 staff were let go
through various incentive programs. Similarly, overtime compensation was reduced by 10 percent in
1996. In order to better control ticket evasion and fraud, Flumitrens is in the process of outsourcing ticket
sales in its major stations. Administrative functions are ailso being re-evaluated for possible
rationalization. On the revenue side, an extensive capital investment program is under way for
increasing the capacity of the system through the recovery of paralyzed trains. In addition, Flumitrens is
actively pursuing integration among different modes of transport (bus+train, train+metro) to take
advantage of its strength as a low-cost producer. A private concessionaire is expected to be operating
Flumitrens as of January 1, 1998.
2.32         Upon completion of the proposed Bank project and other ongoing investment programs,
the railway is not only expected to recapture all of its lost traffic but also attract some new ridership. The
paying ridership is expected to increase by about 250 percent between 1996-2002 through a combination
of better management, increased capacity, and reduction of ticket evasion. Additional revenues would be
provided by an increase of the standard tariff to US$0.55, salie of advertisement space, and rental
income from the stations. The availability of extra capacity, however, is not expected to result in an
automatic increase in the ridership; the private concessionaire would have to change the image of the
suburban rail by offering timely and reliable service. It is expected that by the fourth year of the
concession, the railway would be in a position to operate without any operating subsidies from the State
Governrnent. Performance targets to monitor Flumitrens' financial situation during the project are given
below.
1     Ooeratina costs exclusive of denreciation and interest



-15-
Table 2.3: Performance Targets for Flumitrens
TaK9!  ............................   1996 it   1997    1998   1999    2000  2001  2002
Percentage of Flumitrens' stations with integrated bus/rail    0%  -    -    5%   5%   20%   20%
and metro/rail lines
Flumitrens' share of urban transport trips        4%    4%   4%   8%   9%   10%   10%
Total number of paying passengers carried per day (1000's  295   424  624  890  1,038 1,258  1,288
of linked trips)
Availability of Rolling Stock (train fleet in operation divided   44%   58%  72%  81%  89%   90%   90%
by total train fleet)
Average interval between trains at peak hour in minutes  15.0  13.0  10.0  8.5  6.0   6.0   6.0
(headway)
Staff costs as a % of total revenue              354%  188%  98%  73%  66%   56%   56%
Revenue cost coverage                            23%   38%  59%  79%  87%  103%  104%
Maintenance costs as a % of total working costs   6%    8%   19%  19%  20%   19%   19%
O0erating subsidy (US$ millions)                 (152)  (121)  (78)  (41)  (27)   7     8
' Base year
2.33          State of Rio de Janeiro Finances. The finances of the State of Rio de Janeiro were
studied in detail in the context of the Rio de Janeiro State Reform Project and the analysis shows that
the State has improved its financial situation and would be able to provide the necessary counterpart
funds for the proposed loan as well the eventual subsidies which might be needed during the project time
horizon. Furthermore, the State would have the capability of, prior to concession, providing Flumitrens
with a budget which would allow the execution of routine and periodic maintenance required to improve
train availability. Annex I OB gives details of the State financial analysis.
J. Environmental Impact of the Project
2.34          The proposed project is classified as environmental category B. Since the proposed
project would greatly increase the capacity offered by the RJMR rail system, it is expected that a
substantial percentage of the passengers now carried by bus will return to their original mode of
transportation, that is, rail. This is especially true for passengers who live within walking distance from
the stations, who switched to buses because in the last five years the capacity and reliability offered by
the trains decreased considerably. Nevertheless, theoretically it is estimated that by project completion
about 1,789 fewer buses/day would be required in the streets of the RJMR, because of shifting demand
and because bus integration with the Flumitrens system would shorten bus trips. Intermunicipal buses
would operate feeder services for the rail system rather than duplicate its routes. The main expected
positive environmental impacts stem from this reduction in bus services, given their present negative
impact on the air quality, noise levels, traffic congestion, and road accidents. Population resettlement is
not foreseen given that works are in existing right-of-ways which have not been invaded. Independent
consultants physically inspected of the right-of-way and confirmed that no resettlement is needed. The
concession of Flumitrens would be preceded by an environmental and safety audit to be carried out by
independent consultants and following terms of reference provided by the Bank.
2.35          The impact on air quality is due to a reduction of emission by the buses which would be
removed from circulation or which would have their route kms shortened because they would be
operating feeder services for the rail system rather than duplicating their routes. The impact on air quality
was conservatively estimated at US$1.2 million per year in RJMR. A positive impact on noise levels is
also due to the removal of buses, especially in RJM, where the older vehicles predominantly owned by
the private sector are noisy and when bunched together cause decibel (dB) levels, which preclude
speaking at normal voice levels on the street. The impact on traffic congestion was estimated at
US$91.6 million per year in RJM and is mainly due to the shorter waiting time for commuters using their
automobiles and buses. The effect on road accidents is based on statistics which suggest that in the
metropolitan region, the number of bus accidents is a function of the number of buses on the road. It is
conservatively estimated that the savings due to fewer accidents are US$2.2 million per year in the RJM.
Even if the benefits estimated were cut in half because the bus operators would, in some cases, continue
to run the buses at lower load factors, the project would contribute positively to the environment. Benefits
which were not quantified are those related to the improved living environment which would result from
safer and cleaner stations, crossovers from the sidewalks to the stations, space for queuing up at the
wickets, ramps for the handicapped, and in some cases, modal integration with taxis, buses and private
automobiles. Other non-quantified benefits are those related to the structuring effect of a revamped rail



- 16 -
system which would attract housing in the surrounding areas. Furthermore, real estate development on
the air space above the stations and on land owned by. Flumitrens is also expected. Additional non-
quantified benefits relate to the diminished stress which the road system and congestion would impart on
the road users and the better ambiance expected in trains. Shorter trip times and faster home-to-work
trips would also have a positive effect on the rail users' welfare.
K. Private Sector Participaltion
2.36         As part of the proposed State Reform Project, the SRJ has decided to concession out to
the private sector Flumitrens and the Metr6 and to sell its assets in CONERJ (ferries) and CTC/SERVE
(buses), and concession the routes they operated to the private sector. To make Flumitrens and the
Metr8 more attractive to the private sector, the SRJ started a number of reforms. The reforms would
focussed essentially on Flumitrens and the Metr6 which together are the main contributors to 80 percent
of the operating deficit of the sector. The overall strategy to be followed in both cases is the following:
(a)    staff downsizing through voluntary and involuntary dismissals;
(b)   reduction of salary benefits to the minimum required by law;
(c)    acceleration of private sector involvement in operations and management of the
urban transport companies, through concessions and/or management contracts;
(d)   tariff adjustments to increase revenues in line with inflation; and
(e)    sale/lease land assets and building which belong to the agencies to increase
non-operating revenues.
2.37         Flumitrens and Metr6. As a top priority, the SRJ has set January 1998 as the deadline
for starting the long-term concession of the Metr8 and July 1998 for the long-term concession of
Flumitrens. To make both systems more aftractive to the private sector, the State requested that both
Flumitrens and the Metr6 put in place a downsizing program since the ratio 'revenue passengers per
staff' is low when compared to similar systems elsewhere, suggesting that payroll costs should be
reduced by almost 50 percent or the revenue passengers increased by as much. The initial staff
reduction program was completed in May 1996 with a reduction of 1800 staff in Flumitrens and 800 in
Metr8. 1-he State has used as a model and comparator for the Metr6, the Santiago, Chile subway which
has approximately the same length, almost twice as many passengers at the same average tariff and
has an operating surplus. For Flumitrens the model chosen as a comparator is the Buenos Aires
Suburbain rail system which is now operated by private concessionaires and has a productivity three
times higlher than Flumitrens. In addition, the SRJ asked Flumitrens to put in place a fare evasion control
system to increase revenues. The State has also instructed the agencies to evaluate the land and
buildings which can be sold or leased to increase non-operating revenues.
2.38         To decide the type of private management that would be more adequate for both
companies, the SRJ has launched two studies to evaluate the options for private sector participation in
the companies and to prepare the bidding documents for the selected option. These studies were
financed with funds from the ongoing Bank Loan (Ln. 3633-BR), which financed the decentralization of
the rail system from Federal to State Governments. The SRJ feels that the present State-appointed
administrations of Flumitrens and Metr6 are constrained by existing legislation from undertaking bolder
efforts to restructure their companies. The SRJ believes that a long term concession of both Flumitrens
and the Metr6 would reduce annual subsidies and improve quality of service as it did in Buenos Aires. To
make both systems more attractive to potential private sector concessionaires, the SRJ has instructed
Flumitrens and Metro's management to implement the above-mentioned downsizing programs which by
May 1996 had exceeded the targets set by the Government.
2.39         Concessions of the Flumitrens and Metro would likely follow the Argentinean model
which calls for bids to execute an investment plan financed and defined by the State, propose a schedule
of decreasing operating subsidies to be paid by the State, and provide a level-of-service stipulated in the
bidding documents at a tariff set by the Government. The proponent with the lowest net present value of
the cost of investment plan plus the subsidy is the winner of the concession. The Argentinean model



-17-
calls for a schedule of subsidies which become zero after a certain date, at which time the
concessionaire must start paying the govemment an annual concession fee. Suburban railway
concessions in Argentina were granted for 10 years and the subway concession was granted for 20
years. SRJ has hired a financial advisor to carry out the concession process of both Flumitrens and the
Metro and the process is underway. Consultants hired by the State are now preparing the model for the
concession and the bidding documents, following Bank's procurement guidelines.
2.40         The main difference between Flumitrens and Metro is that the latter has already secured
the funds for completing the works required to double its ridership and increase its route length from 23
to 35 km, while the former would be receiving those funds under the proposed Rio de Janeiro Mass
Transit Project. The investment for the Metro (US$298 million) came from a BNDES loan (the National
Economic and Social Development Bank), and would be used primarily for completing works started
more than 10 years ago which were halted due to the financial situation of the State. The investment for
Flumitrens (US$373 million) would be mainly devoted to rehabilitate rolling stock and upgrading the
signaling, telecom and stations necessary for the system to reach a ridership of one million passengers
per day.
2.41         CONERJ. The ferry boat company would have its assets sold to the highest bidder.
SECTRAN would act as the overseer of the private sector concessionaires which would operate the ferry
lines in the Guanabara and Sepetiba bays. The SRJ has set a date of November 1997 for completing
this sale, and has commissioned a valuation study using its own funds.
2.42         CTC and SERVE have been liquidated. Their assets are mainly buses and garages
which were sold to the private sector. The routes operated by CTC and SERVE would be taken over by
existing bus concessionaires which would be selected through competitive bidding.
2.43         CODERTE, the agency in charge of the terminals and parking garages of the State,
would also be sold. The SRJ has decided to undertake a study to determine the value of the assets
involved, to obtain all the legal titles of the properties, and to prepare terms of reference to select a real
estate company which would sell or rent the properties owned by the SRJ.
2.44         State Regulatory Entity (ASEP-RJ). The state has decided in the context of the State
Reform Project to create a State Regulatory Entity (ASEP-RE) in charge of regulation of all industries
including urban transport. This entity would in the beginning delegate some of its monitoring functions to
the Secretariat of Transport but will retain the main regulatory functions (entry, exit, disputes, and tariff
regulation). The AMTU-RJ would provide input to the ASEP-RJ whenever needed.



-18 -
Ill. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Institutional Responsibiliities
3.1          The State of Rio de Janeiro would be the Borrower. The Federative Republic of Brazil
would be the Guarantor. Flumitrens or its successor would be responsible for implementing the project, in
accordance with: (a) contractual arrangements; (b) the implemientation schedule; (c) implementation
arrangements; (d) the decentralization process; (e) procurement arrangements; (f) disbursement
arrangements; (g) auditing arrangements; and (h) monitoring and reporting arrangements. These
arrangements were confirmed during negotiations, and detailed guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, were
prepared by Flumitrens. The Bank would monitor the implementation of the project in accordance with a
monitoring and supervision plan (Annex 11).
3.2          The overall coordination and supervision of the proposed project would rest with
Flumitrens which has established a Project Management and Implementation Group (PMIG) supported
by consultants. Flumitrens and the State agreed that the PMIG would continue to manage the execution
of the project after the concession of the Flumitrens system to the private sector. This would ensure the
continuity of project management experience acquired with the ongoing Ln. 3633-BR and the State
Reform Projects and would prevent delays which could occur due a change of the project
implementation team before the conclusion of the project. To nnanage and guide the "non-hardware"
aspects (political, legal, administrative, institutional, and so forth) through the transition and until
December 1997, an intragovernmental General Coordination Committee would coordinate the work of a
number of task forces, which would carry out strategic studies on terms of reference agreed with the
Bank and prepare the bidding documents for the concessions.
B. Contractual Arrangements
3.3          In order to ensure a smooth transition to concession, and to support its subsequent
consolidation, the following legal arrangements would apply:
With the Bank:
Bank and GOB                            (Guarantor)          Guarantee Agreement
13ank and SRJ                           (Borrower)           Loan Agreement
Between governments and agencies:
SRJ and Flumitrens                      (Subsidiary Agreement and Contract Program)
Flumitrens and Private Concessionaire   (Concession Contract)
C. Implementation Schedule
3.4          The implementation of this project has been tentatively scheduled over a five-year
period (1997-2001). The project would start on November 1, 1997' and be completed by December 31,
2001, wilth a closing date of June 30, 2002. The Bank has recommended that Flumitrens should take
special care in finalizing the project implementation schedule, which is directly linked to the procurement
process, and indicated to Flumitrens that according to the Bank's experience, the bidding process for
each bid may take from 7 to 12 months, including the approval of bidding documents, advertisement in
Developrnent Business and local press, bid evaluation, recommendations for award, contract signature,
and contract effectiveness.
D. Implementation Arrangements
3.5          Project Management and Implementation Group (PMIG). Flumitrens would establish
and maintain a Project Management and Implementation Group (PMIG) headed by a Project Coordinator
to manage the implementation of the several components of the Bank project. The Project Coordinator
would relport directly to Flumitrens' President. Project Managemient and Implementation consultants
financed under Part A of the project would act as full-time advisers to the Project Coordinator to provide
the technical support and cross-country experience required for managing the project. These consultants
should be hired immediately after pre-appraisal. In addition to the Project Coordinator who would be
responsible for the overall financial management of the project, the PMIG would include: (a) a transport



- 19 -
economist and policy studies coordinator responsible for overseeing the execution of all the studies and
transport economics aspects of Part A of the project; (b) an engineer, with experience in procurement, to
coordinate Part B of the project; and (c) a management information systems specialist responsible for
the reporting and supervision of the project. The PMIG would be supported by a small secretariat which
would include an executive secretary and an accountant responsible for project accounts and
disbursements.
E. Concession Process
3.6          Until the concessionaire takes over, Flumitrens would continue to be managed by the
present SRJ-appointed management which would be responsible to implement the reforms described
above. Flumitrens and the SRJ would sign a contract program in which Flumitrens management would
agree to meet targets set by the SRJ. After the concession to the private sector, a Flumitrens Entity in
charge of supervising the concession and implementing the investment plan financed by the proposed
loan would remain in place and SRJ will decide, until December 1997, whether it will be part of ASEP-RJ
or/and SECTRAN. The PMIG would be part of this Flumitrens Entity together with a group of supervisors
in charge of monitoring the concessionaire. The provisional organizational structure and composition of
the Flumitrens Entity is presented in Annex 2 and will be confirmed at negotiations.
3.7          Transitional Phase to Concession. As the successful concession would be subject to
detailed negotiations, and would involve political considerations in addition to financial and technical
issues, the detailed steps and transition to concession are viewed as a dynamic process involving the full
and transparent participation of the Secretaries of Planning, Transport and Flumitrens. In order to
support this process, joint and parallel strategic studies, administrative and legal actions, organizational
changes, and key political decisions will have to be undertaken in a logical and sequential manner, and
synchronized with the timetable for processing and executing the proposed Bank loan to ensure the
completion of the concession process of Flumitrens not later than the target date of July 31, 1998. The
following steps should be included:
(a) General Coordination and Completion of Strategic Studies. The General Coordination
Committee (CG) would manage and guide the concession process. The CG would incorporate a number
of task forces. The CG, with representatives from Flumitrens, SECPLAN and SECTRAN, would report to
the SRJ Governor. The task forces would work on the strategic studies and Actions Plans necessary to
prepare the bidding process.
2.45  (b)    Concession to Private Sector. In accordance with the SRJ Government policy for
modemization of the economy, Flumitrens would be concessioned out using procurement rules
acceptable to the Bank. Assurances were sought at negotiations that not later than 60 days after signing
of the loan, the SRJ would issue pre-qualification bids for the concession, and thereafter, not later than
July 31, 1998 the concession would be signed. The concession of Flumitrens would be preceded by an
environmental and safety audit to be carried out by independent consultants and following terms of
reference provided by the Bank.
3.1          Timetable for the Concession process. The project has been prepared to take into
account the SRJ Government's objective to complete concession of the Flumitrens by the target date of
July 31, 1998 . Until the concession is completed the SRJ will be allowed to invest up to US$50 million or
27% of the loan on the infrastructure and equipment component, mainly on rolling stock. The term
"concession" means the transfer of operational and maintenance responsibilities of the Flumitrens
System to a Consortium including the enactment and execution of all legal, contractual and
administrative acts and documents required under the legislation of the State and of the Guarantor for
these purposes. If the first attempt at concessioning out the system fails for reasons beyond the control
of SRJ, the Borrower will attempt again to concession out the system and have a concession signed not
later than December 31, 1999. In the meantime , the Bank may authorize SRJ to invest up to 50% of the
loan, mainly on rolling stock, as long as SRJ/Flumitrens outsource the maintenance of rolling stock and
the fare collection to the private sector and comply with the targets for availability of rolling stock,
interval between trains and the operating subsidy provided in Table 2.3. If by December 31, 1999, no
concession has been signed and the targets agreed were not met, the Bank may cancel the remainder of
the loan.



- 20 -
F. Procurement                        Certification and Payment Process
3.2           All project components financed  1. The concessionaire seeks the approval of
under the proposed Bank loan would be procured     Flumitrens to begin the agreed work by submitting
in  accordance  with  Bank's  Guidelines  for      a Service Order, which includes details of the
Procurement (January 1995, Revised January and     implementation, benchmarks for gauging
progress, and a payment schedule linked to the
August 1996). The works and goods included in the   benchmarks.
project would be procured in two packages. The
first is for a total amount of US$100 million  2. A Flumiltrens inspector is permanently assigned to
equivalent for the infrastructure and equipment    the work and is responsible for measuring the
component (as detailed in Annex 8) and would be    progress against the established benchmarks by
procured by Flumitrens following the procedures    certifying monthly work progress through Bill of
indicateid below. This procurement process was     Quantities.
initiated in January 1997 and should be completed
by December 1997. The second package, for a  3. Payment requests are madebythe oncessionaire
total arnount of US$263 million equivalent (also   on monthly basis by submitting to Flumitrens
detailed  in Annex 8) would  be part of the        Work Certificates which include agreed price
concession. Bidders for the concession would be    adjustments and the inspected monthly progress
asked to bid for both the concession and this        P
package of already defined works and goods that  4. The Flurnitrens reviews and approves the work
would help rehabilitate and improve the transport  certificates and forwards them for further review
infrastricture to be concessioned. The winning     and payment to the Bank. Five percent of the
bidder would implement all the works and goods     invoice is withheld to be paid at the completion of
included in the bid documents according to the     the work.
schedule outlined therein. The Bank would ensure
that the  concession  tendering  and  selection  5. Flumitrens makes the payment within 30 working
procedures  satisfied  the  Bank's  criteria  for  days of the date of the work certificate after
transparency, efficiency  and  free  access for    approval from the Bank.
potential bidders. Therefore, in accordance with  6. At the conclusion of the work, the concessionaire
paragraph 3.13 (a) of the procurement guidelines,  recovers the five percent withheld amount.
works and goods specified in the concession
bidding documents would be procured from eligible
sources using the procedures of the concessionaire. Payments would be made to the concessionaire, as
detailed in the adjoining box.
3.3           Procurement procedures would be as follows:
(a)    contracts for goods estimated to cost more than US$350,000 equivalent, and
contracts for works including civil works, systems, permanent way and rolling
stock, estimated to cost more than US$5.0 million equivalent, would be procured
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with
Bank guidelines. The procurement of some goods valued below US$350,000
could be through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures up to an
aggregate amount of US$0.5 million;
(b)    works of US$5.0 million equivalent or Iless, up to an aggregate amount of
US$37.1 million (Table 3.1) would be aEwarded through NCB procedures. In
addition: (i) project components such as, civil works and systems, permanent
way, and rolling stock have been packaged and would be procured under supply
and installation procedures; and (ii) pre-qualification procedures would be
followed for the procurement of the signaling component; and



- 21 -
(c)    consultants, which are expected to aggregate to about US$16.2 million
(including supervision of investment under the project), would be selected and
engaged following the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers (January 1997) and using the Bank's standard form of contract.
3.4           All procurement aspects were confirmed during negotiations, in particular the use of: (a)
standard bidding documents for NCB procedures for the procurement of goods or civil works satisfactory
to the Bank; and (b) the standard form contract for consulting services issued by the Bank. The
procurement schedule for major contracts is shown in Annex 8.
3.5           Procurement Review. All contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$350,000 or more, and all contracts for works estimated to cost US$5.0 million or more, would be
subject to the Bank's prior review of the procurement documentation (advertising, bidding documents,
bid evaluation and contract award). The total value of these contracts would be US$326.9 million or
about 88 percent of all Bank-financed goods and civil works. The types of procurement and prior review
thresholds are summarized in Table 3.2. Flumitrens' management has the capabilities to handle
adequately the procurement processes required for this project. Procurement information would be
recorded as follows: (a) prompt reporting of contract award by the borrower; and (b) comprehensive
semiannual reports to the Bank by the borrowers, indicating: (i) revised cost estimates for individual
contracts and the total project, including best estimates of allowances for physical and price
contingencies; (ii) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract awards,
and completion time for individual contracts; and (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified
methods of procurement.
Table 3.1: Procurement Arrangements if
(Estimated cost in US$ million)
Expenditure Category         Procurement Methods    N.B.F-      Total
.................................. idf........9.......................................................
ICB  NCB   Others.
A. WORKS
Civil Works                    25.4    5.4                         30.8
(13.0)   (2.7)                      (15.8)
Permanent Way                  5.0      1.6                         6.7
(3.1)   (1.0)                       (4.1)
Systems                        44.4    5.4              26.6      (76.4)
(17.6)   (2.1)                      (19.8)
Rolling Stock                 216.3   24.7                         241.0
(125.7)  (14.4)                     (140.0)
B. GOODS                                     -       --       1.4        1.4
(0.0)
C. CONSULTANT SERVICES
Technical Assistance/                                    2.9        2.9
Training C'                                         (0.0)       (0.0)
Consultants                                     7.4                 7.4
(3.5)              (3.5)
Supervision                                     5.9                 5.9
(2.8)              (2.8)
Total               291.2   37.1    13.3    30.9         372.5
(159.4)  (20.3)  . (6.3)   0.0      (186.0)
-' Figures in parentheses indicate proposed financing by the Bank.
i' Not Bank financed.
c,Other = concession contract and consultant contracts.
Of services to be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers (January 1997).



- 22 -
Table 3.2: Procurement Thresholds
-   ---------(US  000..).
Description                   Type of Procurement              Prior Review Limit         Contract Value
........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1. WORKS                                                                                               IB   ,0
Civil Works                            ICB/NCB                        All ICB and           NCB 500 to 5,000
Systems                                 ICB/NCB                    First NCB contract       N
Permanent Way                          ICB/NCB
Rolling Stock                            NCB                      First NCB contract              5,000
........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
2. GOODS                                          ICB                             All                     >350
NCB                      First two contracts          50 to 350
3. CONSULTING SERVICES
Firms                                QCBS,FB,LCS                   TORs, Short list,             > 100
Technical Evaluation
and contracts
TORs,
CQ                        and contracts                <100
Individuals                              CQS                       TORs, Short list,              >50
CQS                ~~~~~and contracts>5
CQ                      TOR, CV, Contract               <50
Table 3.2: Table 3.3: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount of the Loan
Category                           Allocated (Expressed                  % of Expenditures
in US$million Equivalent)                to be Financed
(1) WORKS
(a) Civil Works                                           15.79                               54%
(b) Permanent Way                                          4.07                               64%
(c) Systems                                               19.79                               50%
(ci) Rolling Stock                                       140.04                               70%
(2) CCINSULTANT SERVICES
AND TRAINING                                               6.31                               50%
Total                                    186.00
G. Disbursement and Special Account
3.6               All disbursements under contracts of less than UIS$5.0 million equivalent for works, such
as systems, permanent way, and assembly of rolling stock, and of less than US$350,000 equivalent for
goods would be made on the basis of certified statements of expenditures (SOEs) prepared by
Flumitirens. SOE limits for consultant service contracts would bie US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000
for individuals. Supporting documentation for the SOEs woulcl be retained by Flumitrens and made
available for examination by Bank staff during supervision missions. To expedite project execution, a
Special Account would be opened in a commercial bank under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank with an authorized allocation of up to US$6.0 million equivalent. This account would be replenished
for the amount of withdrawals on account of eligible expenditures. Authorization is sought for retroactive
financing of up to US$18.6 million equivalent (10 percent of loan funds) in accordance with the Bank's
standard guidelines. This retroactive financing would be for expenditures made after January 1, 1997, or
twelve months before the signing of the loan, whichever is later and cover items such as the preparation



- 23 -
of final engineering designs which must be carried out to complete the project preparation (Annex 5).
Claims for retroactive financing would have to be made no later three months after loan effectiveness.
The disbursement arrangements were discussed and agreed upon during negotiations. Table 3.3
presents the percentage to be disbursed by loan category.
H. Auditing
3.7          Flumitrens or its successor would prepare financial statements, the Special Account
audits, and SOEs audits using external auditors acceptable to the Bank. The Bank would review the
external auditors' terms of reference. Flumitrens would review the audit and report to the Bank on the
status and any remedial actions taken, if required. Flumitrens audit reports would be presented to the
Bank no later than April 30 of each year. The project auditing arrangements were discussed and agreed
upon during negotiations. The State and Flumitrens are familiar with the Bank's auditing procedures and
have the financial capacity to manage funds. Flumitrens has been submitting its audited accounts under
Ln. 3633-BR.
1. Monitoring and Reporting
3.8          Annual Review and Project Plan of Action. In November of each year, the Bank and
the SRJ would conduct a formal joint review of the progress made in reaching the objectives and in the
implementation of the proposed project. The annual review would provide an opportunity to discuss
project issues, in particular: compliance with covenants; technical assistance; institutional development
advancements and performance of Flumitrens; execution and analysis of further needs of the training
program; the quality of subproject implementation, including environmental analyses; implementation of
studies, sector policies and actions; and the implementation of a monitoring program (proposed
monitoring indicators are presented in Annex 11). The discussion and analysis of the issues addressed
during the year under review would lead to the formulation of adjustments and, if necessary, remedial
actions satisfactory to the Bank. The timing and scope of the annual review were confirmed during
negotiations.
3.9          The project places great emphasis on institutional development in the sector and as
such, implementation must be closely monitored and evaluated. It is proposed that a Mid-term Review of
the project be held 24 months after loan effectiveness. At the review, the performance of the project
would be assessed and the second period implementation program would be amended as necessary
based on the results of that evaluation. A review will take place one year after effectiveness to evaluate
the concession process. If there is a failure to concession Flumitrens for valid reasons, this mid-term
review would recommend other options to increase private sector participation.
3.10         Reporting. It was agreed during appraisal, and was confirmed at negotiations, that
Flumitrens with the assistance of participating operating agencies, would prepare biannual progress
reports on June 30 and December 31 of each year and submit them within 60 days. The reports would
cover past institutional development and project execution achievements and compare them with the
appraisal projections and goals set forth in the Action Plan (Annex 11). They would present a critical
assessment of problems and issues arising during project execution. The reports would also discuss
compliance with dated covenants and other conditions by each agency and actions taken to enforce
compliance. In cases of unsatisfactory progress, the reports would also describe proposals for
adjustments and remedial actions. The case for more periodic (quarterly) reporting would be reviewed at
the Mid-term Review. To facilitate adequate monitoring of the project, Flumitrens has agreed to install no
later than 90 days after loan signing a management information system to track the physical, financial
and environmental status of each component of the project.
J. Project Supervision
3.11         The responsibilities for supervising project implementation and a supervision plan are
shown in Annex 11. It is expected that at least three supervision missions per year staffed by an urban
transport engineer/planner, a railway engineer, a metro infrastructure engineer, and a financial



- 24 -
analystitransport economist would be required to supervise the proposed project during the first three
years of execution. In addition, specialists in resettlement, traffic engineering, air quality and
procurement would accompany the supervision missions as required. Supervision requirements are
expected to be intensive, particularly in the initial years, as Bank missions would aim to visit every
operating agency at least once a year. For the first three years, the supervision requirements are
estimated at about 15-staff weeks, reducing to 13-staff weeks in the fourth year, and 12-staff weeks in
the fifth, sixth and seventh years.



- 25 -
IV. PROJECT AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
4.1          The following Project Management assurances were obtained at appraisal and
confirmed at negotiations:
(a)   that the Project Management and Implementation Group (PMIG) would be structured
and adequately staffed and otherwise supported in the implementation of its
responsibility under the project. Flumitrens provided the Bank with the names and
curriculum vitae of the project coordinator assigned to the PMIG (para. 3.5);
(b)   that procurement would be carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines, including: (i)
the use of standard bidding documents for the procurement of goods and works, under
NCB and ICB procedures; (ii) use of Bank's guidelines for the selection of consultants;
and (iii) the procurement limits (para. 3.9);
(c)   that a Special Account in a commercial bank would be opened and maintained (para.
3.13);
(d)   that the Special Account and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs): (a) would be audited
according to procedures, and by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (b)
audits would be submitted by June 30 of each year (para. 3.14);
(e)   that: (i) within 90 days of loan signing a Project Management Information System
satisfactory to the Bank would be installed; and (ii) pre-agreed operational and financial
performance targets would be included in the biannual progress reports to the Bank
(para. 3.17);
(f)   that the project would be executed according to environmental good practices, and that
Flumitrens' system prior to concession would be subject to an environmental and safety
audit (para. 3.7); and
(g)    assurances that SRJ has the funds required for eventual severance payments of staff
that might not be retained by the concessionaire; and also that SRJ will secure the
counterpart funds required to carry out the project.
4.2          The Contract Program between the SRJ and Flumitrens until concession, satisfactory to
the Bank and completion of final engineering and technical specifications of works and goods for the first
year of the program were submitted to the Bank for review during negotiations.
4.3   The following are Conditions of Loan Effectiveness: the registration of the Loan Agreement by
the Central Bank; execution of the Subsidiary Agreement between SRJ and Flumitrens; and the approval
by the SRJ legislature of the law that enables the concession contract to be enacted.
4.4 Dated covenants to be included in the Legal Agreements are:
Concession and Operational Efficiency:
(a) (i) not later than sixty days after the date of this Agreement, issue the pre-qualification
bidding documents for the concession of the operation, management and maintenance of
the FLUMITRENS' System, such documents to be in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank; and (ii) if, after the period stipulated in the pre-qualification bidding documents, no
candidates for the concession are pre-qualified, issue, not later than sixty days after such
period, revised pre-qualification documents, satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) not later than April 30, 1998, issue the bidding documents for the concession of the
operation, management and maintenance of the FLUMITRENS' System, such documents to
be in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) If, by not later than July 31, 1998 the concession of the operation, management and
maintenance of the FLUMITRENS' System shall have not been awarded and the Concession
Contract shall have not been entered into, the Borrower shall:(i)not later than August 31,



- 26 -
1998 hold a review with the Bank and FLUMITRENS for the purposes of evaluating the
concession process of the operations, management and maintenance of the FLUMITRENS'
System and, promptly thereafter, implement the recommendations agreed during such
review; (ii) not later than September 30, 1998, issue bidding documents, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of contracting the provision of the
following services: (i) maintenance of rolling stock; and (ii) collection of fares; and promptly
thereafter, enter into the corresponding agreements, with the awarded parties; (iii) not later
than July 31, 1999, issue revised pre-qualification bidding documents for the concession of
the operation, management and maintenance of the FLUMITRENS' System, such
documents to be in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (iv) not later than
September 30, 1999, issue the bidding documents for the concession of the operation,
management and maintenance of the FLUMITRENS' System, such documents to be in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
(d) If, by not later than December 31, 1999, the concession of the operation, management and
maintenance of the FLUMITRENS' System shall have not been awarded and the Concession
Contract shall have not been entered into, the Borrower shall: (i) not later than January 31,
2000, hold a review with the Bank and FLUMITRENS for the purposes of evaluating the
concession process of the operations, management and maintenance of the FLUMITRENS'
System and, promptly thereafter, implement the recommendations agreed during such
review;
(e) The Borrower shall comply, or cause to be complied, during Project implementation, with the
targets in respect of: (a) Availability of Rolling Stock (train fleet in operation divided by total
train fleet); (b) Train Headway (average interval between train at peak hours in minutes); and
(c) Operating Subsidy to the FLUMITRENS' System (operating revenues less operating
costs without depreciation); as such targets are set forth in  the Project Monitoring
Letter.(par.2.32).
Financial Policy and Modal Integration:
(f) that prior to the concession of the system the SRJ would be responsible for the cost of
capital investments plus debt service (interest and amortization) that Flumitrens incurred
before the signing of the concession as well as the costs of the proposed loan;
(g) that during the period up to signing of the concession, the SRJ: (i) would cover the difference
between the working costs and operating revenuies of the Flumitrens; (ii) that, before
concession, the SRJ would ensure that Flumitrens maintenance budget allocations are
adequate to maintain the system in a way that it can meet the performance targets agreed;
and (iii) that after the concession is effected, the SRJ subsidy to the concessionaire would be
paid as agreed in the contract between the SRJ and the concessionaire;
(h) that not later than 12 months from the date of signing of the Loan Agreement, the SRJ would
present a plan (financial, technical and institutional) and a timetable, satisfactory to the
Bank, for the integration and consolidation of the metropolitan bus system with Flumitrens,
and that the SRJ would be responsible for starting the implementation of this integration plan
not later than March 1998;
(i) that the SRJ would maintain the AgOncia Metropolitana de Transpofte Urbano (AMTU) not
later than one year after loan effectiveness (para. 1.12); that the minutes of the monthly
meetings of the precursor of the AMTU be made available to the Bank; and
0) that not later than December 31, 1998, the SRJ would undertake a study to review  the
ongoing vehicle inspection/maintenance programi and will take into account the
recommendations of the study while implementing such program; and not later than
December 31, 1998 complete a study with recommendations on how to improve the collection
of traffic violation fines and thereafter implement it.



- 27 -
(k) that a review will take place one year after effectiveness to evaluate the concession process
and propose, if need be, corrective actions;
(I) that a Mid-term Project Review would take place 24 months after project effectiveness to
review pre-agreed institutional, operational and financial performance indicators, and
compliance with covenants (including tariffs, subsidies, and progress on studies) of the Loan
and Project Agreements to assess project performance and progress on the concession, and
as necessary, agree on remedial actions. Particular importance would be given, during the
Mid-term Review, to the agreed working ratios and the status of the studies and action plans
required to ensure a smooth transfer of Flumitrens (para. 3.6); and
(m) Flumitrens non-operating assets: the SRJ and Flumitrens would undertake to establish a
department/division in charge of managing the non-operating assets of Flumitrens which
would not be part of the system concessioned out to the concessionaire.
4.5          Retroactive Financing. Retroactive financing of up to US$18.6 million equivalent (10
percent of loan funds) for expenditures made after January 1, 1997 (or one year before loan signing,
whichever is later) is recommended because certain project activities, such as preparation of final
engineering designs, technical assistance for the transition to the concession, and creating a project
management team would have to be undertaken immediately.
4.6          Recommendation. With the above Agreements and Conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$186 million equivalent, to be repaid in 15 years, including a
grace period of three years, at the Bank's fixed interest rate for single currency loans in US$.



-28-                                  ANNEX I
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO MASS TRANSIT PROJECT
ANNEX 1
BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR IN BRAZIL
AND LESSONS LEARNED
1.           This Annex outlines the Bank's past support for the Brazilian urban transport sector and
the experience gained. The lessons learned can be summarized as: (a) the coordination between the
three levels of government in urban transport should be dealt with very carefully at the project
preparation level and reviewed in detail during the Mid-term Project Review; (b) policy for the sector
should be strengthened to minimize distortions resulting from inefficient physical and financial
coordination between modes and to promote multi-modal integration; (c) the tariff levels should allow for
significant cost recovery of working costs and should be complemented by financing mechanisms which
cover the shortfall; (d) demand levels are often overestimated and should therefore be carefully
scrutinized; and (e) more attention should be given to the management of infrastructure maintenance.
A. First Urban Transport Project (Ln. 1563-BR, US$88 million, May 1978)
2.           Project Objectives. The objectives were to: (a) finance investments that would improve
urban transport services, with emphasis on the provision of public transport, especially to the poor; (b)
promote and support the development and implementation of aippropriate urban transport policies; and
(c) strengthen municipal, state, and federal capacity to prepare, appraise, and execute sound urban
transport projects.
3.           Project Content. The project was broad in scope and included traffic engineering and
management measures in central urban areas and at critical points, the introduction of exclusive bus
lanes and segregated busways, widening of critical links, or construction of missing links in the road
network, reorganization or construction of bus terminals, paving of bus routes in low-income areas, and
training, technical assistance and institutional strengthening to improve the delivery of transport services.
Project beneficiaries included five metropolitan regions (Belo Horizonte, Curitiba, Porto Alegre, Belo
Horizonte and Salvador). Nine different agencies were involved in implementation and overall
coordination was the responsibility of the Brazilian Urban Transport Company (EBTU).
4.           Implementation Experience. The project experienced various delays due to: (a) lack of
institutional support to the cities from EBTU, and Govemment changes in 1979 which led to staff
changes in the various implementing agencies; (b) the preparation of final engineering designs and
tendering; (c) land acquisition; (d) availability of counterpart funds; (e) local level coordination; and (f)
quality control of the works. The closing date for the project was extended twice, resulting in the
implennentation period changing from three years to five years and nine months. This suggests that the
appraisal schedule estimate was overly optimistic. Even so, the implementation period was still
substantially shorter than both worldwide and LAC region profiles which were above eight years. The only
specific covenant not met was the one requiring the five municipalities to take the necessary steps to
revise the valuation for tax purposes of properties whose values had been affected by the project. In the
early stages of the project, EBTU staff were less forceful than expected in solving local problems and
bringing difficulties to the attention of decision-makers. It must be recognized, however, that EBTU was
in its formative stages. This was a first project for them and there was a learning process involved. As
part of this process, and in order to achieve institutional improvement, EBTU prepared several
operational manuals to assist in the appraisal and supervision processes. These manuals and the
experilence gained by EBTU (and the Bank) provided the basis for the development procedures applied
in the Third Urban Transport Project (1981), which did much to improve the quality and efficiency of
EBTU's operations.



-29-                                   ANNEX 1
5.            Results. The project was timely and helped to focus the Government's growing concern
about urban transport problems. The support given to the institutional development of EBTU, following its
creation in 1976, improved federal-level urban transport planning. The project was successful in
providing improved urban transport services, particularly public transport to serve the poor. The OED
concluded that "the project was successful in implementing some of the most imaginative and radical
bus priority measures carried out anywhere in the world. These experiences have relevance for Bank-
financed urban transport projects worldwide." The bus priority measures included the development of the
bus corridor concept. Bus corridors were designed to accommodate passenger demand levels which
were difficult to satisfy by conventional bus services. Schemes involved segregated busways introduced
into the existing road system, facilities for passengers and pedestrians, bus system reorganization
(usually trunk/feeder), traffic management measures and integrated bus fare systems. The project was
also generally successful in providing institutional support at the metropolitan region (MR) level where
there has been a significant improvement in the capacity of the agencies to tackle urban transport issues.
The success was most particularly noted in those cities in which plans for future urban transport
investments existed, not necessarily financed by the Bank, which provided the scope for continued
institutional support. Finally, the studies and institutional strengthening financed under the project,
coupled with the successful implementation of the physical components, have led to policy changes
affecting urban transport in Brazil as whole and, in particular, have resulted in increased emphasis on
public bus transport and greater attention to cost-effective policies of traffic management.
6.            Sustainability. Institutional, technical and financial resources are required to sustain the
types of investments included in the First Urban Transport Project. Although there were some
institutional and technical weaknesses, the project clearly provided support to strengthen EBTU and the
local agencies. In the case of EBTU, this support was continued in the Third Urban Transport Project.
The major constraint with respect to sustainability has been the lack of provision for cost recovery, or
other funds to cover maintenance of the physical schemes implemented under the project. The failure to
make provision for maintenance of the investments is seen in practically all the city projects.
7.            However, the project had a substantial institutional impact overall. It assisted EBTU at a
critical and formative stage of its development, by providing strong technical and financial support, which
enabled it to play a catalytic role in transport improvements in urban areas. EBTU subsequently took
increasing responsibility in the appraisal and supervision of Bank-financed urban transport projects, a
process which began with the five metropolitan regions included in the First Urban Transport Project, and
which culminated with full responsibility for appraisal and supervision of eleven of the fourteen urban
centers included in the Third Urban Transport Project.
8.            The institutional support resulting from the technical assistance and studies, coupled with
the experience gained generally from the successful implementation of the physical components
included in the First Urban Transport Project, have led to urban transport policy changes which affect
Brazil as a whole. These include more emphasis on traffic management, on the provision of public bus
transport, and on the functioning of coordinating bodies at the local level to implement urban transport
policy.
B. Second Urban Transport (Porto Alegre) Project (Ln. 1839-BR, US$159 million, June 1980)
9.            Project Objectives. The objectives were: (a) to establish a new company to own,
manage, and operate a suburban rail mass transit system on a commercial basis without operating
subsidies; (b) to achieve a significantly more efficient modal distribution of traffic and use of all transport
facilities in the metropolitan region's North-South corridor; and (c) to promote the development of
selected employment growth poles in the North-South corridor near urban railway stations.
10.           Project Content. The project consisted of the construction of a surface suburban rail
mass transit system using electric unit trains between the central business area in Porto Alegre and the
municipality of Sapucaia, 26.7 km to the north, the establishment of a new company to own, manage and
operate this service, and a complementary program of policies and studies.



-30-                                  ANNEX I
11.          Implementation  Experience. Despite some serious problems of procurement,
passenger services started in March 1985, one year after the originally planned starting date. The railway
company, TRENSURB, was successfully established and during the course of project implementation
changed its nature from a construction organization to a railway operating company. The project closing
date vvas extended once by one year, to December 31, 1986.
12.          Results. The Project Completion Report sums up well the principal lessons:
(a)   It is not sufficient for the railway service to be successfully implemented. The
success of the project depends upon the service attracting sufficient passengers
to make the investments economically viable and the railway profitable. This will
be highly contingent upon the resumption of economic growth in Porto Alegre
and in the evolution of the fares for the users of alternative transport modes. In
addition, the attractiveness of the system would be enhanced by the
implementation of the recommendations of the studies carried out under the
project (bus integration, car parking restrictions, etc.).
(b)    One major lesson to be learned from this project is that, in cases in which there
is a need for substantial policy decisions and the implementation of measures
involving different Government agencies subject to conflicting pressures, their
commitment should be realistically assessed during project preparation. The
steps to ensure that these policies are implemented on time should be carefully
identified at the same time. In the particular case of the Second Urban Transport
Project, a more detailed action program including specific policy implementation
targets and appropriate measures for its enforcement should have been agreed
upon during appraisal.
(c)    Regarding the original objective of TRENSURB covering its working costs, the
appraisal was unrealistic to expect that this would take place during the initial
operation period. Only after the system has demonstrated its reliability to the
users, will the application of a revenue maximizing policy be feasible. In the
meantime, TRENSURB should review its staff needs in order to streamline costs
and carry out a tariff study to determine the optimal user charges. The Bank
should closely follow-up the implementation of these tasks in the context of its
ongoing and future involvement in the sector and continue to impress upon the
Government the benefits to be gained from a financially healthy public enter-
prise as well as the existence of tools much more effective than transport
subsidies to achieve income distribution objectives.
C. Third Urban Transport Project (Ln. 1965-BR, US$90 million, March 1981)
13.          Project Objectives. The objectives were: (a) to improve the quality and efficiency of
EBTU's operations through changes in its structure, procedures, and staff allocation; (b) to improve
transport infrastructure and operations in 14 medium-sized cities and conurbations (AGLURB); and (c) to
pave bus routes in low-income areas in medium-sized cities, state capitals, and metropolitan regions
(termed PROPAV).
14.          Project Content. The project consisted of three subprojects: (a) the institutional
subproject included EBTU's reorganization, training, technical assistance and studies; (b) the AGLURB
subprcject consisted of the establishment and operation of an urban transport management unit in each
of the 14 cities and various components in low-cost improvements to existing urban transport
infrastructure, with emphasis on public transport operations and improvements of planning and operation
of urban transport infrastructure and services at the local level; and (c) the PROPAV subproject included
the paving of about 850 km of bus routes in low-income areas.



- 31-                                 ANNEX 1
15.          Implementation Experience. Project implementation delays were experienced as a
result of numerous political changes, limited counterpart funds, the transfer of EBTU to the Minisftrio de
Desenvolvimento Urbano (MDU) from the Ministfrio dos Transportes (MT) and, soon thereafter, the
Federal Government's Economic Package, which delayed the signing of the 1986 Convenios by about
six months. The project was amended twice, which included the addition of four cities to the AGLURB
subproject and of 350 km of bus routes in low-income areas to the PROPAV subproject, and resulted
also in an extension in the implementation period from four years and three months to five years and
nine months. EBTU was in compliance with all loan covenants.
16.          Results. The AGLURB subproject has done much to create a realistic and effective
transport planning environment in Brazilian medium-sized conurbations. The design of the physical
components drew heavily on the successful experience of the First Urban Transport Project. Emphasis of
the project was placed on cost-effective, traffic management-based schemes in which assistance to
public transport (buses) has been the primary objective in the majority of components. The institutional
development.of the AGLURB areas was achieved through the establishment of management units
specifically to coordinate project implementation. Transport companies were formed to coordinate
transport planning and operation. Retention of the management units would depend on decisions by
individual cities, but selected personnel would be transferred from the management units to the transport
companies. At the time of project completion, the implementation delays arising from the political,
financial, and organizational factors meant that comprehensive ex-post evaluations were not yet
available. As with the First Urban Transport Project, there is a risk that the institutional gains may not be
sustained unless a flow of funds is made available to AGLURB cities to continue purposeful transport
planning.
17.          The PROPAV  program  was innovative and was a significant step in EBTU's
development. PROPAV was essentially a subsectoral component and EBTU was responsible for all
aspects of the program. The program utilized local materials and labor-intensive construction methods to
the maximum practical extent, with the result that the costs were initially overestimated. This permifted a
greater than targeted program to be undertaken, and to date all 850 km of paving have been
implemented. The PROPAV program is regarded as a highly successful program. To an extent, the
success of the program is demonstrated by the fact that similar paving programs have been undertaken
in other countries in Latin America.
18.          The institutional strengthening comprised two main aspects: (a) EBTU reorganization;
and (b) training and studies. The reorganization of EBTU proposed under the Third Project was
completed in 1984. In general, the reorganization was judged to have increased EBTU's effectiveness.
However, with the changing demands arising from federal government policy on decentralization and
from the needs of the Fourth Urban Transport Project, additional changes were considered necessary.
19.          The training program comprised a conventional approach (of courses, seminars, etc.) to
transport planners and an imaginative training program for bus operators and personnel. The latter
program has been successful in lowering bus operating costs, reducing accidents, and improving public
acceptability for bus services.
20.          The general delays in project implementation affected the commencement of the studies
proposed for inclusion in the project. Furthermore, EBTU did not initially give high priority to the studies.
However, in the last year of the project, the study program was revised and additionally provided inputs
to the preparation of the Fourth Urban Transport project. In particular, the Financial Study enabled EBTU
to form a policy for on-lending, the vehicle operating cost study (carried out by GEIPOT) provided data
for incorporation in the EBTU Operations Manual (OM), and the bus information system program
(SITURB) furnished an initial data base for evaluating bus operating costs.
D. Fourth Urban Transport Project (Ln. 2822-BR, US$200 million, May 1987)
21.          Project Objectives. The objectives were: (a) improve the operating efficiency of the
urban transport systems in the nine metropolitan regions (MRs) through savings in transport costs and



-32-                                  ANNEX I
time; (b) seek to pass savings from improvements in the urban transport systems on to users, many of
whom were among the urban poor, in the form of lower tariffs and/or improved levels of service; (c)
conserve energy and encourage substitution of diesel fuel by promotion of domestic energy sources,
wherever economically justified; (d) strengthen the role of financial aspects in urban transport policy; (e)
strengthen the major institutions, in particular for coordinated investment planning for the sector as a
wholle; and (f) increase the responsiveness of transport planning to local needs.
22.          Project Content. The proposed project would have financed components selected from
EBTU's rolling urban transport investment plan (1986-1990) in Brazil's nine MRs (Belo Horizonte, Belem,
Curitiba, Fortaleza, Porto Alegre, Recife, Rio de Janeiro, Salvador and Sgo Paulo). Components would
include a Corridor Program, comprising investments, including design and supervision, to improve
public transportation (mainly bus systems, but also some trolley bus and ferry systems) and to correct
wealcnesses in road networks. The Corridor Program would include infrastructure (including extensive
rehabilitation and reconstruction), traffic management measures and supporting organizational
improvements; and a system-wide Maintenance Program, including civil works, equipment, the
establishment of maintenance management systems, and institutional strengthening. The project would
also finance a sector-wide Institutional Program which would involve EBTU, MRs, MDU, and CBTU.
This component would include technical assistance and training for improved planning and operational
practices, studies and organizational measures to strengthen and improve sector coordination, financial
planining and urban transport policy development and pilot technological development programs.
23.          Results. There was a considerable delay in cleclaring the project effective. Institutional
problems at the level of the Federal Government resulted in a very poor environment for the project's
implementation. The Fourth Urban Transport Project was canceled when the EBTU was abolished by the
Government in 1989.
E. Sao Paulo Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project (Ln. 3457-BR, US$126 million,
September 1992)
24.          This project was signed in September 1992, became effective in February 1993, and its
closiing date is June 30, 1996. The project is underway and several major institutional hurdles, such as a
federal law to transfer the assets of the railway from the Federal to the State, have been overcome. The
rehalbilitation of CBTU-SP, the Sao Paulo subdivision of the CBTU, is underway. S3o Paulo established
a new company (CPTM) to take over the decentralized CBTIJ-SP and also the FEPASA metropolitan
train. So far, the main problems of the project have been associated with problems at the Federal level,
incluiding delays in the opening of special accounts, and several changes in ministers and their
immediate advisors. These constant changes delayed the signing of 'convOnios' which regulate the
transfer of operations and assets. The actual takeover of CBTU by CPTM took place on May 27, 1994.
The project is now disbursing very well and some of the infrastructure and equipment components have
been completed. As of June 17, 1997, 85 percent of the total project cost had been disbursed and the
study to evaluate concession options for CPTM is underway.
F. Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project (Ln. 3633-BR, US$128.5 million,
October 1993)
25.          This project was signed in October 1993 and became effective on March 14, 1993. Most
of the bids for track work and rolling stock rehabilitation are underway. The actual decentralization which
involves the takeover of CBTU-Rio de Janeiro by the State and of the Metro by the Municipality of Rio
de Janeiro took place on January 1, 1995. As of June 17, 1997 the project had disbursed 67 million or
52% of the loan. Most of the contracts have been awarded but there have been delays in the delivery of
the rehabilitated rolling stock. The project was instrumental in financing studies which evaluated the
optioins for the concession of the Flumitrens system and of the Rio de Janeiro Metro System.



-33-                                  ANNEX1
G. Recife Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project (Ln. 3915-BR, US$102 million, June
1995)
26.          This project was signed on April 3, 1996 and became effective on September 19, 1996 .
The delays between board approval and effectiveness were mainly due to internal politics. The actual
decentralization which involves the takeover of CBTU-Recife by the State is scheduled for August 31,
1997. As of June 17, 1997 the project had disbursed 2.28 million or 2.2% of the loan. Most of the
contracts related to station integration have been awarded but there have been delays in the processing
of the major track contracts because the Pernambuco Environmental Agency was too slow in issuing the
environmental licenses to build. The project is expected to disburse at least US$10 million in the first
quarter of FY98.
H. Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project (Ln. 3916-BR, US$99 million,
June 1995)
27.          This project was signed on November 30, 1995 and became effective on April 19, 1996.
The delays between board approval and effectiveness were mainly due to the slowness of the approval
process by the Brazilian Senate. The actual decentralization which involves the takeover of CBTU-BH by
the State is scheduled for December 31, 1997. As of June 17, 1997 the project had disbursed 7.6 million
or 7.68% of the loan. Most of the major track and station contracts have been awarded in June 1997 and
resettlement is proceeding satisfactorily. The project is expected to disburse at least US$15 million in the
first quarter of FY98. A study to evaluate options for concession of the system will soon be signed.
G. Conclusions and Lessons Learned
28.          Despite the considerable achievements of the First Urban Transport Project and the
success of the Third Urban Transport Project, the projects have led to the conclusion that several
specific issues in the urban transport sector require attention and should be addressed within the context
of overall sector reform. The main issues are discussed below.
29.          Cost Recovery. Direct cost recovery is difficult in the urban transport sector, other than
for self-financing infrastructure and passenger vehicles and vessels. Therefore, transportation
infrastructure investments (urban and interurban) conventionally recover costs indirectly through
transport-related taxes. In the First Urban Transport Project, it was envisaged that partial cost recovery
would take place by the revaluation of properties whose values were affected by the project. No such
revision in valuation, however, has apparently taken place in any of the five Metropolitan Regions (MRs),
partly because of the difficulties in assessing an increase in property values through the low-cost
improvement schemes provided under the project, when alternative policies or conditions encourage the
provision of essential municipal infrastructure, at little or no cost to the beneficiaries. In retrospect, the
project should have also addressed the indirect cost recovery mechanisms.
30.          Maintenance. Lack of maintenance is clearly a problem in each of the five MRs in the
First Project, and is now apparent in the components implemented early in the Third Urban Transport
Project. Problems apply to a wide range of components. Maintenance covenants were included in the
agreements for both projects, but this has proved an ineffective mechanism for ensuring adequate
maintenance levels. While there is increasing awareness of the problem and while improved
maintenance standards are an objective of the Federal Government, there is a need to develop an
institutional and financial framework and capability to provide the necessary funding and to carry out the
appropriate maintenance. In hindsight, this problem probably reflects the limitation of addressing narrow
sectoral issues, in isolation of a broader policy framework for the urban sector as a whole.



-34-                                  ANNEX 1
H. Lessons Learned and the Rio de Janeiro Mass Transit Project
31.          The proposed urban transport project is the eighth to be considered in Brazil. Thus, there
is considerable "in-country" experience to draw upon. In addition, the design of the proposed project has
attempted to recognize the findings and experience from simillar projects outlined in this Annex. The
main fieatures of the proposed project which respond to the lessons learned are described in the following
paragraphs.
32.          Institutions. A successful institutional arrangernent will be the key to project success
and project sustainability. In the past in Brazil, there has been little incentive for cities/municipalities to
undertake cost-effective transport planning and investment. Cities have been starved of resources for
transport investment. The creation of the AMTU-RJ will be a major advance. In addition to insuring that
major lprojects are in line with an approved integrated air quality, land use and urban transport strategy,
AMTU-RJ's key role will be to facilitate service and tariff integiration between the several modes. It is
expected that no urban transport project in the RJMR will be considered in the future by the Bank without
prior approval by the AMTU-RJ.
33.          To further support the long-term development of traffic and transport planning, the
project will include funding for the preparation of an Integrated Air Quality, Land Use and Urban
Transport strategy and the updating of the metropolitan data base. Staff from participating implementing
agencies will benefit from this work.
34.          Counterpart Funding. In Brazil, lack of timely counterpart funding is often the main
cause of delays in project implementation. Several steps were taken to mitigate this problem. The
Goverrior, as a condition of negotiations, will indicate in writing that in case of scarcity of counterpart
funds the proposed project will have priority over other transport projects. Although an analysis of the
State finances reveals that the sources of funds exist, the challenge will be to ensure that they are
available when the system is decentralized.
35.          Implementation Schedule. Long implementation, and thus slow disbursements, have
been problems in previous projects. This may be traced to:
(a)    Lack of familiarity of local staff with Bank procedures. A training program  is
proposed but training programs take time for benefits to be realized and, even then,
there is no substitute for practical application. CBTU's PIU has gained considerable
experience with the ongoing Sao Paulo, Belo Horizonte, Recife, and Rio de Janeiro
Metropolitan Transport Decentralization loans (Lns. 3457-BR and 3633-BR). Flumitrens
PMIG is capitalizing on that experience and is using approved bidding documents and
TORs to gain time.
(b)    Uncertain political commitment. The establishrnent of the AMTU-RJ gives grounds for
confidence that all levels of govemment of the metropolitan region are committed to the
project. During preparation the level of support was excellent.
(c)    Lack of final engineering designs for physicall works. It is proposed that participating
agencies should have the first year of final engineering designs (including bidding
documents) available at negotiations.
36.          Environment. In the past, urban transport projects with the exception of the Mexico
Transport Air Quality Management Project (Ln. 3543-ME) and the Teheran Transport Emissions
Reduction Project (TF 028642-GET) have had few or no specific measures to improve air quality project.
The proposed project contains an Air Quality and Traffic Safety component which together with the
infrastructure components is expected to set the foundation for further development in these areas in the
Rio de Janeiro Mass Transit Project.



-35-                                      ANNEX2
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO MASS TRANSIT PROJECT
ANNEX 2
PROJECT COORDINATION AND EXECUTING AGENCIES
1.            The overall coordination and supervision of the proposed project rests with Flumitrens which has
established a Project Management and Implementation Group (PMIG). To assist Flumitrens to carry out its
obligations, the PMIG will be supported by a Project Management and Implementation Consultant (PMIC).
Flumitrens will be the implementing agency for all components but will be helped in some cases by the State
Secretariats of Transport, Planning and Environment.
Table2.1 Implementing    nc for Each Component
Component                    Implementation Agency          Assisting
Agency
..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Infrastructure and Equipment           Flumitrens/ Concessionaire
Institutional Development and Policy     Flumitrens/SECTRAN            SECPLAN
Environmental Subcomponent                  FEEMA                  Flumitrens
Traffic Subcomponent                       DETRAN                  Flumitrens
Figure 2.1: Flow of Funds
ai        Secretary
IBRD   o     Bank             ~~~~Faze nda
F -      ~~Flumitrens



- 36 -                                        ANNEX2
Figure 2.2: Legal Agreements
LIFZ
oan                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Guarantee
Agreement                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~Agreement
sidiar A
RJitt]         n CnratLUIRES                                            G.0. B.
[GovernmentPrga
.   ...   ...    ...   ...    Cocssiona ire
Concessionaire Agreement



- 37 -                                     ANNEX 2
Figure 2.3: Proposed Flumitrens Organizational Structure After Concession
6  e.  Diretor
|  Presidiente            (6
+ ~~~~~~~~Supervision
( 6) |Licitacoes           -   (6 
(6)  l    Depto.                      Au6o3         (6)
(2)                                     (2)                                         (2)
Gestgo de                                Tecnologia e                           GerAl
Neg6cios                                 Programas
(8)                 (15)               |  (5)                 (8)                  (10
Gestlo e         Equipe Tecnica           Gerencia        Equipe T6cnica    Contabilidade e
Exploraglo        VP, Eng.Civil e             de              Material          Financas
Patrimonial          Sistemas              Projetos           Rodante
( 18)                                                                               (8
LDesenvolvimento                                                                         u
e Gestgo                                                                      Humanos
de Transporte
MONITORArAO                                                          ( 0
Concession                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Suprimentos e_.
Concession                                                                        Sri,o
Private Sector  _
(120) - Total employees (22- Support Staff)
Source: Relat6ro Final - Estudos Para A Preparagao Da Gestao Privada Dos Trens Metropolitanos Do Rio De Janeiro -
Procenge Consultores LTDA
Note: the size of the organization will decrease (20) as soon as the State of Rio de Janeiro Regulatory Agency takes over the
monitoring functions of the rail concession. SRJ will decide by DECEMBER 1997 if the remainder of the proposed staff will be
absorbed by SECTRAN



Figure 2.4: Present Flumitrens Organizational Structure
GOVERNO
Secretaria               Secretaria de             Secretaria de
da Fazenda       O  *      Transporte      s              SPlanejamento
(SECTRAN)                 (SECPLAN)
I
Diretor
Presidente
Gabinete da PresidenciaREa
IAssessoria                       ||Assessoria   ||Assesoria de  ||Asessoria de  ||Coordenadoria de|
| Jurldica       i Auditoria    ||Orgamento   | Projetos Especiais|   ComsuonicwagAo  ||Licitag3o (BIRD)|
Dietoria de                           l| Diretoria de              Dieoi de                          Diretoria de|
|Adm. e F inangas|                 Engnhaia| Rec. Hu manos t                                            rodu 0 
2  Asses. |                                       0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eAsses. 
Sindicais
z  -jw   > ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~w                                        2
.0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                                                 ~ 
Ci)  0                                OLL~wo
ZW                         ID~~~- 



- 39 -                                ANNEX 3
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO MASS TRANSIT PROJECT
ANNEX 3
URBAN TRANSPORT METROPOLITAN AGENCY
A. The Establishment and Role of a Urban Transport Metropolitan Agency (AMTU-RJ)
1.           The Metropolitan Regions (MRs) in Brazil were created by the complementary law
number 14, dated 6/8/73, with the aim to achieve metropolitan synergy, e.g., integrated planning for the
social and economical development, land use, sewerage, transportation, production and distribution of
utilities for domestic use, better use of water resources, and environmental pollution control. This federal
law created the following MRs: Sao Paulo, Belo Horizonte, Porto Alegre, Recife, Salvador, Belem and
Fortaleza. The Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region (RJMR) was created later, by a similar Federal Law,
number 20, dated 7/1/74, along with the merger of the former states of Guanabara and Rio de Janeiro.
2.           According to the 1969 Brazilian Constitution, the Federal Government was responsible
for establishing Metropolitan Regions. The present 1988 Constitution transferred such authority to State
Governments. In 1990, the Government of the State of Rio de Janeiro reconstituted the RJMR. It now
includes the following municipalities: Rio de Janeiro, Belford Roxo, Duque de Caxias, Guapimirim,
Itaborai, ltaguai, Japeri, Mage, Mangaratiba, Marica, Nil6polis, Niter6i, Nova Iguarcu, Paracambi,
Queimados, S3o Gon9alo and Sao Joao do Meriti. These municipalities integrate the "organization,
planning, and execution of public functions, and share common public services."
3.           The law stipulates that the Integrated Planning for the Metropolitan Region will share 'the
definition of the policies for: development, land use, urban growth, industrial plant location, dwelling,
tourism, pollution, environment control, sewerage, culture preservation and protection, as well as for
mass transit, including the permission, concession, authorization and scheduling for transit systems,
transfer stations for passenger and cargo."
4.           The MRs are managed by a Deliberative Council composed by the following members:
* all mayors;
* one county deputy selected by each municipality;
* five members of the State House of Representatives;
* five members of the executive power, nominated by the Governor and chosen from
the Secretariat;
* one member of the community, nominated by the Governor;
* one member of the Civil Society, nominated by the Governor;
* the president of the council is the Governor.
5.           The MRs have the following attributions:
* to submit to the State House of Representatives the Metropolitan Master Plan;
* to exercise normative power concerning: integrated planning, the organization and
execution of common shared services;
* to define the parameters of the financial compensation from the municipalities which
compose the MR;
* to create rules for the State and municipalities concerning the concession, permission
and authorization of public function activities;
* to establish the guidelines for a tariff policy for public services.
6.           According to the Law, the State must exercise, through an entity under the executive
branch, the functions necessary to execute the Master Plans, Programs and Projects of the MR.



-40-                                   ANNEX3
7.           The necessary resources to make the MR function will be assured by the State and the
municipalities through the Accounting Fund for the Development of The Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan
Region, aimed at financing projects and programs, designated the Metropolitan Fund for Development.
8.           To facilitate coordination of investment and operation among the major providers of
urban transport services, the proposal to create a regional coordinating body is being given priority. This
would not be a new level of government and would not usurp the powers of the state or the municipality.
It would provide a forum, however, to formally review all proposals with respect to their compliance with
an agreied-upon transport strategy, evaluate alternatives, and make recommendations based on a
regional, intermodal point of view. This entity would be termed the Urban Transport Metropolitan Agency
of Rio die Janeiro (AMTU-RJ). The AMTU-RJ will include representatives of the Governor of the State
and mayors of the RJMR, in particular the Mayor of the Rio de Janeiro Municipality, as well as
SECTRAN, Flumitrens, Metr6, CONERJ, bus operator associations, and those agencies responsible for
municipal and regional planning. An executive secretariat in charge of actually developing and/or
evaluating proposals and carrying out day-to-day activities would be established. The AMTU-RJ would
be responsible for developing an integrated urban transport and alir quality strategy for the RJMR that is
compatible with the land-use policies jointly developed with the land-use agencies of the RJMR.
9.           The following questions must be asked when defining the functions of the AMTU-RJ: (a)
~how are itransport plans prepared, and how often are they updated? Is a single entity responsible for their
preparation across all modes (highways, metro, suburban rail, bus/busways) and the entire region, or are
separate plans prepared by the respective municipalities, building and operating companies and then put
together by a coordinating agency? (b) who monitors the condition and performance of the transport
systems, and how do the results of the monitoring feed into the planning process? (c) what is the
relationship between the transport plan(s) and the respective! land-use plans developed by the
municipalities? (d) what is the relationship between the plan(s) developed under question (a) above, and
the multi-year capital program developed by the various implementing authorities? Is the project flow
top-down (i.e., emanates from the plan), bottom-up (generated by the implementers/operators), or both?
and (e) do the various operating companies have direct access to funding or should their capital budgets
be approved either by the SECTRAN-RJ or the new AMTU-RJ?
10.          At the suggestion of the Bank, SECTRAN and 'Secretary of Transport of the Rio de
Janeiro Municipality have signed an implementation agreement (protocolo de inten,6es) in order to
create the AMTU-RJ, and with the support of Flumitrens, it has launched studies to define the role,
responsibilities, composition and funding of the AMTU-RJ.
B. AMTU-RJ's Proposed Structure, Composition and Role
11.          The general structure of an entity in charge of coordinating transport policy, prioritizing
major investments, and defining air quality and traffic safety objectives and policies pertaining to urban
transport in the 17 municipalities that make up the RJMR is outlined below. This annex highlights the
basic features of a proposed solution which attempts to comply with the objectives described above.
12.          Institutional Background. The RJMR comprises 17 independent municipalities, each
with its own mayor and municipal council (camara de vereadores), of which the Municipality of Rio de
Janeiro (prefeitura), also the state capital, is by far the largest and most important from the economic
and political standpoints. The State Constitution indicates that public transport of regional interest is to be
planned and coordinated by the State Government together with thie municipalities involved. Such is the
case with many transport routes in the RJMR. In fact, even some transport services within the
boundaries of a specific municipality can be of regional interest and, as such, should be planned jointly.
C. Basic Concepts
13.           The key elements for the sustainability of the proposed coordination are as follows: (a) it
should be conceived as a permanent structure, designed to outlive executive or legislative mandate
periods; (b) it should be accepted by the parties as an additional asset and not as a threat to their



-41-                                   ANNEX3
autonomy or decision-making powers (even though the balance of power may, and probably will, shift at
its inception); (c) it will not interfere with jurisdictions which belong to those parties, notwithstanding the
fact that it will be granted a specific political status, and its own specific powers; and (d) it should not
assume the functions of a public company (empresa), nor should it be in charge of operations of any
kind. These conditions for long-term sustainability of an entity of this type may restrict the scope of work
to only a few basic functions, which will, however, constitute the basis upon which to develop further
coordinating responsibilities. Experience in other countries, such as that of the United States, indicates
that the planning function is the best support for actions aimed at transport coordination. Such planning
aims at the establishment of a fully integrated public transport system, and this concept should always be
present as a basic guideline for coordination proposals and for the implementation of the related
institutional framework.
14.          Within the planning function, priorities should be appropriately defined. Actions might
begin, for example, with investment policy and fare policy coordination, and later encompass physical
planning, traffic management, and system operations. Such phasing-in would be supported by a common
strategic vision of the metropolitan transport system. AMTU-RJ would have an important role in the
decision-making process regarding the transfer of transport-related funds from the state and federal
levels to the municipalities. Projects submitted to the World Bank and other multilateral agencies
should first be prioritized by the AMTU-RJ. It should be noted that granting such powers may be one
of the most difficult points to be agreed upon. If, however, the final investment decisions are left out from
AMTU-RJ attributes, AMTU-RJ would become little more than a forum for discussions (and eventual
decisions) on metropolitan transport matters, with little or no coordinating role. Budget control by AMTU-
RJ would be more naturally accepted by the parties involved, given a set of political mechanisms, such
as: (a) assuring an adequate balance between state and municipal points of view concerning planning
decisions; (b) active involvement of the Federal Government, considering that good transport
performance in large urban areas is to be viewed as a matter of national interest, and not only as a
concern of local government entities; and (c) implementation of a permanent planning process,
continuously incorporating relevant new information as it is made available, with emphasis on socio-
economic and environmental changes and proposed improvements to the transport system, always from
a strategic point of view.
15.          The state transport secretary would represent the state government and preside over the
executive secretariat. Also, operators companies would provide AMTU-RJ with the necessary technical
and administrative support. In the event that RJMR becomes a legally recognized entity, AMTU-RJ
would naturally be absorbed into a fuller metropolitan planning structure. The establishment of the
AMTU-RJ as a permanent body, as mentioned before, will require a search for the most suitable legal
framework. Also, AMTU-RJ components would be designed with that in mind, giving priority to stable
relations with all government levels, while maintaining sound political and technical supporting
structures. When the AMTU-RJ is established, existing bodies with related functions would be terminated
or absorbed into it.
16.           Highlights of the regimento intemo signed by the Secretary of Transport of Rio de
Janeiro Municipality and Secretary of Transport of the State (SECTRAN) are given below.
D. General Description of AMTU-RJ
17.          Objective. The Rio de Janeiro urban transportation metropolitan agency (AMTU-RJ) is
an entity that represents the State Government, the RJMR's municipalities, and all those institutions from
private or public nature, with the responsibility of planning, managing or operating public transport
systems in the RJMR, in order to ensure a metropolitan approach in studies, plans and investments in
transport sector, aiming at their integration with urban and environment plans.
18.          Composition. AMTU-RJ structure includes three bodies: (a) a deliberative council,
composed by the Secretary of Transport of the State of Rio de Janeiro who will act as the chairman or
president, the Secretary of Transport of the Municipality of RJ, who will act as the vice-president, five
mayors representing RJMR's subregions, the president of the planning institute of RJ municipality



- 42 -                                 ANNEX 3
(IPLAN Rio), the president of Flumitrens, the president of Meltr6, the president of road transportation
department (DETRO), the president of CETRAN, the president of the private road operators association,
the president of BNDES, and a representative of users association entity; (b) an executive committee,
whose chairman will be the representative of the Secretary of Transport of the State; and (c) a technical
commiittee, as an advisory and support technical secretariat, composed of representatives from public
transport companies and bus operators, with the role of dealing with selected items affecting city and
state. Representatives from other areas or agencies and indepiendent professionals may be invited for
discussion on specific issues.
19.           Municipal Subregions. For representative purposes, the RJMR has been split into five
subregions, considering the main transportation corridors. Each group will deliberate about transport and
traffic management issues within their respective areas, and will elect a mayor to represent it at the
executive committee.
* Subregion A: Nova Igua,ci Municipality;
* Subregion B: Paracambi, Japeri, Queimados, Mangaratiba, Itaguai and Seropedica;
* Subregion C: Nil6polis, SAo Joao de Meriti and Belford Roxo;
* Subregion D: Mage, Guapimirim and Duque de Caxias; and
* Sub,region E: Itaborai, Sao Goncalo, Marica, Niter6i and Tangua.
20.          Attributes. The role of AMTU-RJ will be to: (a) plan, coordinate and suggest to all
govemiment levels the priority of investments in transport, taking into account economic efficiency and
financial sustainability and the environmental and land-use questions; (b) propose integrated alternatives
of transport between different systems and modes; (c) propose the fare guidelines for transportation
systems in the RJMR; (c) propose standards and rules concerning the planning and integration of the
systems; (d) make compatible guidelines concerning licenses and permissions; and (e) establish criteria
and to monitor the costs and evaluate the performance of the different systems.
21.           The role of the deliberative council will be to: (a) deliberate about metropolitan
transportation, its political and strategic aspects; (b) define objectives, guidelines and standards; (c)
propose, evaluate and approve plans, projects and programs; (d) deliberate about transport funding and
administration proposals; and (e) deliberate about membership proposals.
22.           The role of the executive committee will be to provide support to the AMTU-RJ and to
see that decisions are properly implemented. This function woulid be carried out by the SECTRAN-RJ
appointed representative. The committee will also be responsible! for the revisions of the transport plan,
tactical studies conceming specific items within the transport system, periodic checking of plans and
programs against strategic guidelines, promotion of specific events for information interchange with other
sectors of the metropolitan administration, and execution of surveys and studies to support AMTU-RJ
decisions.
23.           Membership. Any of the RJMR municipalities are allowed to join to the AMTU-RJ, as
well as federal, state and municipal institutions and private organizations involved in planning,
management and operating public transportation systems in RJMR.
E. AMTU-RJ'S Terms of Reference
24.           Objectives. The objectives of these Terms of Rieferences are to establish the purpose
and the working program for the initial implementation of the Agency. Under the institutional point of
view, the functions of the AMTU-RJ must be more explicit, by the characterization of its role and of its



-43 -                                  ANNEX 3
interaction with other organizations, in planning and operation of the sector. The detailing of its
organizational arrangement must consider its functions and the strategy that will be used in obtaining an
ideal mixing of public and private organisms, distinguishing, at the onset, the priority functions. The
technical context must specify the necessary technical and management attributes of AMTU-RJ, in view
of obtaining its objectives using own resources or contracting advisers.
F. Work Plan
25.           First. Final negotiations among the participants and establishing of the agreement,
including the clause that legally creates the Agency.
26.           Second. Mobilization to attract more municipalities to the Agency.
27.           Third. Carrying out the first meeting of the Deliberative Council, to establish the Agency
and approve its statutes.
28.           Fourth. Carrying out the second meeting of the Deliberative Council, to:
* detail the Institutional Functions;
* detail the Organizational Structure and its nominations (initial phase); and
- discuss the attributes and the technical department and its management.



- 44 -                                ANNEX 4
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO MASS TRANSIT PROJECT
ANNEX 4
INCREASING PRIVATE SECTOR PARTICIPATION IN THE RJMR URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR
1.           In this section we describe the urban transport sector in the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan
Region, the main state agencies involved in the provision of urban transport services, the institutional
framework of the sector and the major reforms sought in the proposed project.
A. SECTRAN and Its Agencies
2.           Since most of the urban transport component deals with the agencies which are
subordinated to the Secretary of Transport of RJ (SECTRAN), a summary description of those agencies
and of SECTRAN is provided in the next paragraphs and summarized in Table 4.1.
3.           SECTRAN is responsible for policy setting, regulation and supervision of all public and
freight transport in the State which crosses municipal boundaries. In addition, it is also responsible for rail
suburban transport in the RJMR, ferry boat services in the Guanabara, Sepetiba and liha Grande bays,
and for the Rio de Janeiro Metro. SECTRAN has a staff of 330 ernployees (166 in the operational areas
and 164 in administrative functions) and is organized as a traditional transport ministry with departments
dealing with Passenger Transport, Freight Transport, Special Projects, Transport Engineering and
General Administration in addition to divisions in charge of technical and legal support to the Secretary
and the IJndersecretary. SECTRAN is not responsible for road infrastructure which is under the Secretary
of Public Works. The main agencies subordinated to SECTRAN are: (a) Companhia Fluminense de
Trens Urbanos (Flumitrens); (b) Companhia do Metropolitano do Rio de Janeiro (Metro); (c) Companhia
de Nave gaao do Estado do Rio de Janeiro (CONERJ); (d) Compwanhia de Desenvolvimento Rodovidrio
e Terminals (CODERTE); (e) Companhia de Transportes Coletivos do Estado do Rio de Janeiro (CTC);
(f) Empresa Estadual de Viagao (SERVE); and (g) Departamento de Transportes Rodovidrios do Estado
do Rio de Janeiro (DETRO). At the end of 1995, SECTRAN and ils agencies had a total staff of 15,942
employees of which 4,218 in administrative functions and 11,724 in operating functions. SECTRAN and
its agencies received subsidies totaling R$356.11 (US$371 million) in 1995.
4.           Flumitrens, the suburban rail company was, until December 1994, part of the federally-
owned Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos. In a Bank-financed decentralization program (Ln. 3633-
BR), the Federal Government agreed with the State that in return for investing US$272 million (of which
the Bank. loan amounted to US$128.5) in infrastructure and equipment of the system, the State would
assume the operational and financial responsibility of Flumitrens free of debt and would receive all the
assets of the company including land and terminals needed for operational purposes. The State saw in
this decentralization program an opportunity to better run the suburban rail system, to be more
responsive to the users, and to improve integration with the bus, subway and ferry system all under its
jurisdiction. As part of the agreement to receive the Flumitrens; system, the State had reached an
agreement for the Municipality of Rio de Janeiro (RJM) to take over the Metro. After two years of
negotiations, RJM decided not to take over the Metro. The State had, at that time to decide whether to
assume Flumitrens and continue with the Metro or to withdraw frorn the decentralization program. Since
as part of the decentralization program, the Federal Government would also absorb a US$2.8 billion debt
of the Metro with the Federal Government, that would allow the State to restart the Metro works which
had been halted in the last ten years as well as it would unblock other federal funding to the State, the
latter decided to continue with the decentralization program. The long negotiations between the State
and RJM, resulted in implementation delays of Ln. 3633-BR which affected the overall performance of
Flumitrens, particularly the condition of the train fleet which deteriorated very fast. The working subsidy
estimatecl at appraisal for 1994 was around US$80 million while the actual subsidy paid by the Federal
Government at that time was US$160 million, i.e., twice as much, mainly due to a drop in demand
caused by very poor train availability and very high fare evasion. To compensate for this deviation, the



-45-                                  ANNEX 4
Federal Government agreed to meet a full year of payroll after decentralization (1995) to give time for
the State to restructure the system. However, during 1995, salary increases stipulated by federal
legislation combined with further deterioration of the train fleet and slow restructuring, increased the 1995
subsidy to US$188 million. In fact, 1996 is the first fiscal year in which the State is going to meet the
payroll of Flumitrens. During the mid-term review of Ln. 3633-BR, agreement has been reached in re-
allocating more funds for train rehabilitation and decrease the amounts spent in station rehabilitation.
This would bring the ridership to close to 900,000 passengers per day at the end of the project instead of
the projected 1.1 million forecast at appraisal. It is estimated, however, that a further investment of
US$373 million will be needed to bring Flumitrens infrastructure and equipment to a standard which is
attractive to private concessionaires and capable of serving 1.28 million passengers/day. This additional
investment is essentially (about 80 percent) for train rehabilitation.
5.           Flumitrens had at the end of 1995 (i.e., at the end of the first year under the State),
7,871 employees of which 826 in administration and 7,045 in operations. The tariff charged by the
system is at present US$0.42 which is much less than the competing intermunicipal buses (US$1.35).
Most of the users are low-income (1-2 minimum salaries/month) and therefore the government is
reluctant to raise the tariff which is traditionally set at 90 percent of the municipal bus fare. Despite their
low income, surveys show that users are willing to pay more if the service becomes more reliable and
frequent and that can only be achieved when the train fleet is rehabilitated. The State has decided that,
as part of a program to reduce Flumitrens subsidy, it will call for bids for a long-term concession of the
system to a private sector concessionaire which will operate and maintain the system at the lowest net
present value of cost to the Government over the period of concession. In the meantime it is expected
that the investments under Ln. 3633-BR plus investments to decrease the maintenance backlog will
improve train availability. Furthermore, the State has asked the Bank to evaluate a loan to finance the
additional US$373 million estimated to bring the system to a condition which will make it more attractive
to potential private sector concessionaires.
6.           Flumitrens employees contribute to a railway pension fund which complements the
social security pensions to which they are entitled. The ongoing staff downsizing program in Flumitrens
and the Metro is likely to affect the pension fund's capacity to repay its members since the laid-off
employees are entitled to withdraw their contributions.
7.           Flumitrens' subsidy per passenger in 1994 was US$1.558 while in Argentina the privately
run suburban rail system of Buenos Aires is US$0.32. The subsidy per car-km supplied by Flumitrens is
US$5.03 while in Buenos Aires it was US$1.03. Finally, paying passengers per staff in Flumitrens were
12,488 while in Buenos Aires were 42,860. These comparisons are only to suggest that restructuring of
Flumitrens through concessions may boost productivity and drastically reduce the subsidy per passenger.
8.           Metro operates only 2 lines, one of 11.6 km and 15 stations and another with 11.4 km
and 7 stations for a total of 23 km and 22 stations. Metro was always under the State responsibility and
its works have been halted since the beginning of the previous administration due to the inability of the
State to pay the debt service owed to the Federal Government. At the end of 1995, Metro had 3272
employees of which 1,842 in operations and 1,430 in administrative functions. This compares with the
Santiago de Chile Metro which with the same length operates with only 1300 employees and, with the
same tariff as the Metro (US$0.45) covers all its costs. Metro received a subsidy of R$109 million
(US$113.5 million) in 1995 and transported 73.1 million passengers. This subsidy is expected to increase
to US$120 million in 1996 if the system is not restructured. In 1995, Metro's subsidy per paying
passenger was US$1.34 and the subsidy per car-km supplied was US$12.21 compared respectively to
US$0.08 and US$0.60 in the Buenos Aires subway under private concession. The State was able to
secure a BNDES loan of US$298 million which together with State funds of US$198 will allow Metro to
extend its system to 35 km and finish works which had been halted since 1990. With these investments,
Metro expects to double its ridership to approximately one million passengers/day, and decrease its very
high subsidy. The State has also decided to have Metro managed by a private management and later on
by a concession as in Buenos Aires and intends to bring its subsidy to zero by the end of 1998.



Table 4.1: Rio de Janeiro Urban Transport Sector
Entity               Func-tinn                 Employees       Revenues - r$ x 106 (1995)    Expenses - R$ x 106    Results - R$ x 106
(1995)              (1995)
Adm. Oper.  Total  Oper. Other Subsidy  Total   Staff  Other  Total w/subsidy wo/subsidy
SECTRAN    Responsible for planning the transport  164  169    333   0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00    5.06   0.00   5.06    -5.06  (5.06)
system of the State of Rio de Janeiro.
FLUMITRENS Operation of the urban trains system of  826  7,045  7,871  33.33 1.02 174.17  208.52  180.58 33.93 214.51   -5.99    (180.16)
the State of Rio de Janeiro.
METR6       Operation of the subway system of the  1,430 1,842  3,272  30.53 0.78 108.91  140.22  111.67 28.79 140.46   -0.24    (109.15)
Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region
CONERJ      Operation of the ferry boat system in the 381  716   1,097  10.29  1.96  25.08   37.33   28.29  13.60  41.89   -4.56  (29.64)
Bay of Guanabara and the.
Bay of Sepetiba
CODERTE    Administration and construction of road  306  389    695   8.75  4.20  0.00   12.95   7.19   4.55  11.74    1.21   1.21
terminals, garages and parking
CTC/SERVE Bus and tramway transport in Rio de   1,048 1,448  2,496  11.97  1.77  37.34   51.08   29.86  20.67  50.53    0.55  (36.79)
Janeiro, Niter6i, Sao Goncalo
. and Campos
DETRO       Manager of intermunicipal bus transport 63   115    178   4.66  1.00  0.00    5.66    1.74   0.44   2.18    3.48  3.48
in the State of Rio de Janeiro
TOTAL                                      4,218 11,724 15,942  99.53 10.73 345.50  455.76  364.39 101.98 466.37  -10.61    (356.11)



-47-                                  ANNEX4
9.           CONERJ operates the ferryboat system  between Rio/Niter6i, Rio/Paqueta and
Rio/Ribeira in the Guanabara Bay and the route between Mangaratiba/Abrago/Angra dos Reis in the
Sepetiba Bay. CONERJ also administers and operates the ferry terminals of Praga XV in Rio, Niter6i,
Paqueta, Ribeira, and also the docking quays in Mangaratiba, Abraao and Angra dos Reis. CONERJ has
19 ferries of which eleven have a 2,000 passenger capacity, four have a capacity of 1,000, two of 500,
two of 370 and 3 support vessels. In 1995, CONERJ had 1,097 employees of which 381 were in
administrative functions and 716 in operating functions. Most of the passengers (93 percent) are carried
in the Rio (Praga XV) -Niter6i link which at peak hours offers a 15 minute headway service for a 5 km (20
minute) crossing. CONERJ transported roughly 24 million passengers per year and in 1995 had a
subsidy of R$29.64 (US$30.875) which gives a subsidy per passenger of R$1.2 (US$1.286) per
passenger. SRJ intends to sell the assets of CONERJ and concession out its present lines to the private
sector.
10.          CTCISERVE are bus companies which operate in the municipalities of Rio de Janeiro,
Niter6i, Sao Gongalo and Campos providing intermunicipal services and integrated services with other
modes. CTC also operates in the Santa Teresa neighborhood of Rio where it operates the tramways
(bondinho). CTC/SERVE operate a total of 26 bus routes and 2 tramway routes. They have a fleet of 369
buses of which 117 are fueled by gas, 50 are articulated diesel-fueled buses and 142 are standard diesel
buses with more than 7 years. In 1995, CTC/SERVE had a total of 2,496 employees of which 1,048 in
administrative functions and 1448 in operating functions. CTC/SERVE staffing per bus is much higher
than that of its private sector competitors who do not receive subsidies. CTC/SERVE transported 26.6
million passengers in 1995 and received subsidies which amounted to R$36.79 (US$38.32) or a subsidy
of US$1.441 per passenger carried. The State has decided to sell CTC/SERVE assets and concession
out its lines to the private sector operators.
11.          CODERTE owns 18 road terminals, 2 garage buildings in Rio, 12 parking lots located in
several municipalities, in addition to shops, rooms and commercial real estate totaling 200 properties.
The road terminals of Novo Rio and Roberto da Silveira are privately managed. At the end of 1995,
CODERTE had 695 employees of which 306 in administrative functions and 389 in operating functions.
In 1995, CODERTE turned an operating profit of R$1.21 million (US$1.26 million). The State feels that
CODERTE could be much more profitable and therefore it plans to increase private sector participation
in the management of CODERTE's properties and to sell some of the assets to the private sector.
12.          DETRO is the agency in charge of regulation of the intermunicipal bus system in the
State. There are two types of services regulated by DETRO: (a) the urban services which use vehicles
with two doors, common seats, tumstiles, and can circulate with standing passengers; and (b) the
intercity services whose buses have reclining seats and which can not circulate with standing
passengers. In 1995 there were 106 licensed bus companies regulated by DETRO. DETRO's functions
are to regulate entry/exit, tariff setting, enforce safety and monitor compliance with agreed level-of-
service. DETRO had 178 employees in 1995 of which 63 in administrative functions and 115 in operating
functions. DETRO turned an operating profit of R$3.48 million (US$3.625 million). The State will have to
continue to regulate buses and most likely DETRO will continue with SECTRAN. It is also expected that
the intermunicipal bus regulatory framework will be revamped and adapted to take into account the
recently approved concessions law.
B. Objectives of the State Reform Program in the Urban Transport Sector
13.          The objectives of the State Reform Project in the urban transport sector are: (a) To
substantially reduce the high amount of projected annual subsidies paid by the State to urban transport
agencies (estimated in 1995 at US$363 million or 10 percent of State Revenues) by a combination of
restructuring and or sales/concessions or management contracts to the private sector; (b) to provide a
better level-of-service to the users of urban transport services; (c) to finance backlog maintenance which
is affecting the capacity of the operating agencies to increase revenues and provide an acceptable level-
of-service; and (d) to introduce an air quality program for vehicle-based emissions.
14.          The proposed State Reform Project is concentrating its disbursements in actions which
will facilitate the administrative reforms and restructuring of the agencies, in studies to define the best



- 48 -                                ANNEX 4
options lFor increased private sector participation in the agencies, and in rehabilitation activities designed
to boost productivity of assets which have been immobilized due to low maintenance budgets. This is
particularly the case of Flumitrens and the Metro. Under the project, Flumitrens launched a staff
downsizing program and will improve its revenues by a combination of infrastructure and equipment
rehabilitation and reduction of fare evasion. The Metro also started to downsize its staff and will take
advantage of the completion of its BNDES-financed extension to increase its revenues. CTC and Serve,
which are the only state-owned bus companies in SRJ will have their assets sold to the private sector
and will be liquidated. Their routes will be absorbed by municipal and intermunicipal private operators.
CODERTE, the agency in charge of exploration of terminals will also be restructured since it is felt that it
is producing far less profit than it should. Finally, CONERJ, the ferry boat company will have its assets
sold and its main lines will be operated under concessions by private operators.
15.          The project will also foster the creation of a Regional Transport Coordination
Commission in charge of coordinating all the urban transport tariff and subsidy policies in the RJMR. The
AMTU-RJ will also prioritize future investments in the region and foster integrated multimodal fares. The
AMTU-RJ will provide information to the State Regulatory Entity which will oversee regulatory aspects in
the State. The AMTU-RJ will have representatives of the State Secretary of Transport, the RJ
municipality Secretary of Transport, representatives of the other municipalities of the RJMR,
representatives of the operators and the users. In January 1996, an agreement was signed by the State
and the Municipality of RJ to create a precursor of the AMTU-RJ.
16.          By the end of the project it is expected that overall subsidies to urban transport agencies
will be brought to zero in the case of the Metro, CONERJ, CTC/SERVE and reduced by two-thirds of the
1996 buclgeted level in the case of Flumitrens. Furthermore, the State has agreed to introduce financing
mechanisms to fund urban transport operating subsidies while needed and eventually contribute for
future expansions. It is expected that one mechanism to be used will consist on a surcharge on the
Vehicle Ownership Tax which is collected by the state.
C. Implementation of Reformis
17.          The implementation reforms will focus essentially on Flumitrens and the Metro which
together are the main contributors to 80 percent of the operating deficit of the sector. The overall strategy
to be followed in both cases is the following:
(a)    Staff downsizing through voluntary and involuntary dismissals;
(b)    Reduction of salary benefits to the minimum required by law;
(c)    Acceleration of private sector involvement in operations and management of the urban
(transport companies, through concessions and/or rnanagement contracts;
(cI)   Tariff adjustments to increase revenues in line with inflation; and
(e)    Sale/lease land assets and building which belong to the agencies to increase non-
operating revenues.
18.          Flumitrens and Metro. As a top priority, SRJ has decided that both Flumitrens and the
Metro should be managed by the private sector. SRJ has set January 1997 as a deadline for starting the
long term concession of the Metro and January 1998 for the longl term concession of Flumitrens. To
make both systems more attractive to the private sector, the State has requested that both Flumitrens
and the Metro start a downsizing program since the ratio urevenue passengers per staff" is too low,
suggesting that payroll costs should be reduced by almost 50 percent or the revenue passengers
increased by as much. The initial staff reduction program was completed in May 1996 (with a reduction
of 1,800 staff in Flumitrens and 800 in Metro) and affected the administrative, engineering and planning
divisions of the agencies which are overstaffed. The State has used as a model and comparator for the
Metro, thei Santiago of Chile subway which has approximately the same length, almost twice as many
passengers at the same average tariff and has an operating surplus. For Flumitrens the model chosen as



-49-                                  ANNEX4
a comparator is the Buenos Aires Suburban rail system, which is now operated by private
concessionaires and has a productivity three times higher than Flumitrens. In addition, SRJ asked
Flumitrens to put in place a fare evasion control system to increase revenues. The State has also
instructed the agencies to evaluate the land and buildings which can be sold or leased to increase non-
operating revenues.
19.          To decide the type of private management that will be more adequate for both
companies SRJ has launched two studies to evaluate the options for private sector participation in the
companies and to prepare the bidding documents for the selected option. These studies were financed
with funds of an ongoing Bank Loan (Ln. 3633-BR) which financed the decentralization of the rail system
from Federal to State Governments. SRJ feels that the present State-appointed administrations of
Flumitrens and Metro are constrained by existing legislation from being bolder in its efforts to restructure
their companies. SRJ believes that a long-term concession of both Flumitrens and the Metro will reduce
annual subsidies and improve quality of service as it did in Buenos Aires. To make both systems more
attractive to potential private sector concessionaires, SRJ has instructed Flumitrens and Metro's
management to implement the abovementioned downsizing programs which by May 1996 had exceeded
the targets set by the Government.
20.          Concessions of the Flumitrens and Metro will likely follow the Argentinean model which
calls for bids to execute an investment plan defined by the State, propose a schedule of decreasing
operating subsidies to be paid by the State, and provide a level-of-service stipulated in the bidding
documents at a tariff set by the Government. The proponent with the lowest net present value of the cost
of investment plan plus the subsidy is the winner of the concession. The Argentinean model calls for a
schedule of subsidies which become zero after a certain date, at which time the concessionaire must
start paying the government an annual concession fee. Suburban railway concessions in Argentina were
granted for 10 years and the subway concession was granted for 20 years.
21.          It could be argued that the concessions proposed are in fact management contracts to
operate the systems and, in fact, they are. Subsidies must be paid because Government reserves the
right to set tariffs which are affordable by the low-income populations which are the main users of the
systems. Also one may ask why should the Government be paying for the investment plan and why can't
the concessionaire do so. Experience has shown that if the concessionaire must raise the money (in the
case of Flumitrens the investment plan to rehabilitate about 70 percent of its plant is estimated at about
US$373 million) the concession becomes much less attractive than other opportunities available to the
private sector which have a much higher rate of return. The main advantage of a concession as done in
Argentina is that the concessionaire has an incentive to comply with the investment plan at the lowest
cost and propose the lowest subsidy schedule to win the bid, knowing full well that if its net operating
deficit is better than the subsidy, the concessionaire will be able to keep the difference. Experience has
also shown that after a government-financed investment plan, the concessionaire will risk investing its
own resources to attract more demand and increase revenues while decreasing costs. Since the
investment plan proposed for Flumitrens is designed to rehabilitate its fleet along with its signaling and
telecom plant, one may argue that it is justified because is the minimum necessary to attract the private
sector. Otherwise, chances are that investors will shy away from such ventures because they would have
very low financial rates of return.
22.          The main difference between Flumitrens and Metro is that the latter has already secured
the funds for completing the works required to double its ridership and increase its route length from 23
to 35 km, while the former will be receiving those funds under the proposed Rio de Janeiro Mass Transit
Project which is under preparation for financing by the World Bank. The investment for the Metro
(US$298 million) came from a BNDES loan, and will be used primarily for completing works started more
than 10 years ago which were halted due to the financial situation of the State. The investment for
Flumitrens (US$373 million) will be mainly devoted to rehabilitate rolling stock, and upgrading the
signaling, telecom and stations judged necessary for the system to reach a ridership of one million
passengers per day. It is therefore important to follow up the staff downsizing and operational
improvement actions started with the State Reform project with this investment program in order to
entice the private sector to operate the system under concession.



-50-                                  ANNEX4
23.          CONERJ. The ferry boat company will have its assets sold to the highest bidder.
SECTRkN will act as the overseer of the private sector concessionaires which would operate the ferry
lines in the Guanabara and Sepetiba bays. SRJ has set a date of November 1996 for completing this
sale and has commissioned a valuation study using its own funds.
24.          CTC and SERVE are also to be liquidated. Its assets are mainly buses and garages
which will be sold to the private sector. The routes operated by C(TC and SERVE will be taken over by
existing bus concessionaires which will be selected through competitive bidding.
25.          CODERTE, the agency in charge of the terminals and parking garages of the State, will
also be sold. SRJ has decided to undertake a study to determine the value of the assets involved, to
obtain aill the legal titles of the properties, and to prepare terms of reference to select a real estate
company which will sell or rent the properties owned by SRJ.
D. Sector Reforms
26.          Before awarding concessions to the private sector in the urban transport sector it is
important to define a basic sector regulatory framework and the responsibilities of each of the urban
transport agencies involved. We depart form the premise that the State has agreed to the creation of an
independient State Regulatory Commission which will oversee all the major regulatory issues in the
State, including urban transport. This commission will have a transport division, but will use a pool of
economists, lawyers and other specialists which will be dealing with all the sectors. It is also assumed
that this commission will issue basic regulatory guidelines which are to be followed in all sectors, but will
expect that each subsector will approve a set of very specific regulatory policies for each of its
subsectors. For example, based on general principles for market entry/exit, tariff setting, safety
regulations, etc. the Secretary of Transport (SECTRAN) must prepare a set of regulations for rail, sea
and land transport. These regulations must be approved by the State Regulatory Commission and serve
as the regulatory framework for the mode. SECTRAN has invited consultants to prepare such regulatory
framework and a plan to restructure SECTRAN's organization.
27.          In parallel with the preparation of a regulatory framework, it is also necessary to establish
the new structure for SECTRAN. In fact the present structure of SECTRAN and its different agencies
(Flumitrens, Metro, CONERJ, CTC/SERVE, CODERTE) will be inadequate once the new concessions to
operate those modes are granted. As mentioned in the main text, regulation of all sectors will be the
responsibility of a State Regulatory Commission. It is expected, however, that the State will delegate
inspection and monitoring and supervision functions in urban transport to SECTRAN, which in turn will
either delegate them to its directorates or to the agencies in charge of overseeing the concessionaires
day-to-day performance. To undertake this work it is expected that SECTRAN will use contractors
instead of force account. In the specific case of buses which involves the monitoring and supervision of
more than 1000 lines, SECTRAN intends to restructure DETRO to make this organization more
accountable, flexible and transparent probably by sub-contracting its functions to the private sector.
28.          At present the regulations for rail transport are fedieral regulations because until recently
the railway mode was basically under federal jurisdiction. With the decentralization of urban railways to
the State, it might be necessary to get Federal government approval for Railway State legislation.
Similarly, all sea regulation, such as the regulations that apply to CONERJ, are under the federal
jurisdiction. Again with the concession of CONERJ lines to private entrepreneurs the State may want to
get federal approval for specific State legislation. If by any chance that becomes difficult because
several lobbies may want to keep the regulation under the Federal Government umbrella, than the State
should examine other avenues to do so.
29.          Finally, the Regional Transport Coordination Commission will act as a policy coordinator
for the three levels of govemment involved in urban transport, as an adviser on tariff and subsidy policy
and a main forum to discuss and prioritize the main investments in the RJMR. It will probably be called to
make presentations to the State Regulatory Commission but will not have deliberative power.



- 51-                                 ANNEXS
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO MASS TRANSIT PROJECT
ANNEX 5
INFRASTRUCTURE AND EQUIPMENT COMPONENT
1.           General. The Flumitrens system is organized into five corridors: D. Pedro Il-Deodoro,
Deodoro-S. Cruz, Deodoro-Japeri, D. Pedro Il-B. Roxo, and B. Maua-Saracuruna, with about 684 km of
main line track. The system is electrified and passenger services are provided with electric multiple units.
The rail network mainline is broad gauge (1.60m), and has an adequate alignment, about 2 percent of
total track length is in curves with less than 300m radius (Table 5.1), permitting if the track was
maintained in good conditions, maximum speeds up to 80 km/h. Passenger traffic lines are laid mostly
with 57 kg/m rail (Table 5.2). Sleepers are impregnated timber (about 69 percent of total number placed
in mainline track), but mono-block and bi-block concrete sleepers have been used on main line relaying
for some years (Table 5.3). Rail fastenings are rigid in some sections and elastic in others. Ballast is
crushed stone of reasonable quality, but not adequate in quantity and in general, polluted. Flumitrens'
main problem related to track infra/superstructure is still deferred maintenance, the track condition has
been gradually deteriorating during the last years as a consequence of budgetary restrictions. This
situation is gradually improving as a result of the track rehabilitation works being carried out under the
ongoing Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project (Loan 3633-BR), works which are
expected to be completed during 1997.
2.           Flumitrens' specifications for track rehabilitation are summarized as follows: (a) rails are
standard 57 kg/m and are welded by the flush-butt process at a fixed depots into longer lengths (240m)
before laying and are then joined again in the track using the alumino-thermit process; (b) rail fastening
are of elastic type, to be used in all track renewals; (c) timber sleepers are of selected wood and
impregnated; (d) concrete sleepers are locally manufactured, pre- or post-tensioned and are placed at
1,850 per km using elastic fastenings; and (e) crushed stone ballast is provided at about 1,500m  per km.
3.           In early 1991, CBTU restructured the organization of the Rio de Janeiro System
(Flumitrens), including the permanent way labor force, decentralizing the administration by corridors. It is
felt, however, that further refinements are still needed for productivity improvements, and for allowing
private participation in track maintenance tasks and thus continue to reduce its staff. In addition, the
planning, programming, cost accounting and monitoring methods and procedures need to be
strengthened. A specific study (man-power development rationalization) is being carried out under Loan
3633-BR. The track maintenance force in Flumitrens is divided into two sectors: one responsible for the
maintenance of Deodoro, Japeri and Santa Cruz corridors and other for Belford Roxo, Gramacho and
Meter Gauge corridors. Current total working staff is about 324 staff (a reduction of 536 staff compared
to 860 in 1986), representing 0.52 staff/km, compatible with modern standards (0.40/0.50 staff/km). Each
unit has the responsibility for periodic routine maintenance in their sections of track, including the cyclical
work performed annually by special gangs with mechanized equipment. Major rehabilitation or new track
works are carried out by the private sector. The standards of maintenance can be assessed regularly on
the graphs produced by a track condition recording unit; the system has one Permanent Way workshop
in Deodoro which provides maintenance support to track equipment. The condition of the equipment fleet
is gradually improving under the rehabilitation program of the ongoing Loan 3633-BR and State Reform
Program.
A. Civil Works
4.           Civil Works under the proposed project include the rehabilitation and modemization of
eleven stations and the construction of two stations. Details of location and type of works to be
performed on those stations under the project are shown in Figure 5.1 of this Annex. This component
also includes the construction of five pedestrian overpasses, 8,000m of fences in areas adjacent to some



- 52 -                                ANNEX5
selected stations. The overall cost of this component amounts to US$31 millions including contingencies
or 8.2 percent of total project cost.
5.           Permnanent Way Rehabilitation Works. These works would consist of rail replacement
with long welded rails on 10 kms of the Leopoldina corridor, superstructure for the Gramacho-Saracuruna
second line, installation of 50,000 sleepers on the five corridors,, and would amount to about US$6.7
million including contingencies or 1.8 percent of total project cost.
B. Systems
6.           A description of the systems currently operated by Flumitrens and improvements
included in the project are summarized bellow:
(a)    Electrification. The EMU's pick up power at 3 kv DC from an overhead catenary, which
is supplied by rectifier substations at 44 kv AC input. In addition to providing power for
the trains, the substations also reduce the AC voltage to 6.6 and 4.4 kv for use in other
power facilities connected to the substations by ovierhead transmission lines. Several of
these transmission lines require upgrading because of deterioration and undersized
conductors. The proposed project includes the following interventions, in order to provide
more reliable power supply for train control systems operation:
*     installation of 4.4 kv, 44 kv and 3 Ikv transmission lines, from Gramacho
to Saracuruna and reform of the 4.4 kv and 44 kv circuits between
Barao de Maui and Gramacho;
*     installation of second circuit plus 44kv between D.Pedro II and
Mangueira;
*     rebuilding of the substation of Deodoro, currently out of operation due to
damage by fire. The equipment reqjuired are in storage;
*     rebuilding of the substation of Benfica, deteriorated because of age,
including project, with equipment that are in storage;
*     construction and installation of the substation of Saracuruna;
*     rehabilitation of the substation of Nilopolis (required equipment is
already in storage); and
*     replacement, including a study, oI the existing earth systems, at each
substation and mid point section cabin along the overhead catenary, in
view of the deterioration due to corrosion.
These improvements will reduce the interference with the main line
power flow, and increase the reliability of the system operation. This component
has been estimated to cost US$23.8 million including contingencies or 6.4
percent of total project cost.
(b)    Signaling/Train Control.
Centralized Traffic Control (CTC). Some sections of the Flumitrens system
have been equipped with the CTC components and have been made
operational. Other sections have not been equipped, and therefore the CCO
operators have to use radio and telephone lines to wayside signal locations. The
lack of CTC increases the number of operating staff required, and also has an



- 53 -                                ANNEX5
adverse effect on operating reliability. The proposed project component would
provide CTC facilities throughout the system, by adding equipment in Japeri and
Santa Cruz corridors, and in D. Pedro and Deodoro yards in order to make the
entire system operable by CTC. Some components are in the storage
warehouse, and others would be procured under the project.
Automatic Train Control (ATC). Currently, none of the EMU's fleet are
equipped with the necessary on-board cab signaling equipment, nor is any of the
field equipment (at trackside) installed. There are 180 sets of on-board
equipment stored in the warehouse, but this quantity is considered to be
insufficient to equip the entire fleet of refurbished EMU's. In addition, there is a
large quantity of ATC field equipment storage in the warehouse, and more fully-
compatible components would need to be procured under the proposed project.
The proposed project includes the installation of field and board ATC system, so
62 sets of on-board equipment have to be acquired in addition. The lack of ATC
has resulted in many near collisions between trains, and also resulted in
collisions causing damages. This lack effectively prevents headway reduction,
thus limiting the total passenger-carrying capacity of the system. The signaling
component has been estimated at US$34.8 million including contingencies or
9.4 percent of total project cost.
(c)    Telecommunications. Until now the fiber-optic cable links and the associated
multiplexing equipment were installed between D. Pedro II and Santa Cruz. The
proposed project includes the installation of this equipment on the Deodoro - Japeri line.
The necessary fiber-optic cables are in storage. This fiber-optic network, when
completed, will be used to: control and monitor the power substations and power
switches along the line; the CTC (signaling system) and the telephone links between
CCO and all substations; CTC (signal) control locations; and administration facilities
such as workshops and offices, with the CCO.
(d)    Central Control Office (CCO). The fiber-optic links carry information, data and voice
telecommunications to the CCO. The proposed project includes the connection of the
various power and CTC (signaling) locations along the line with the CCO. The
information are provided at control desks and displayed by visual indications on control
panels. All this equipment is in place and is in partial operation awaiting connection.
Some modifications to the display panels are needed to bring them into correspondence
with the revised layouts in the D. Pedro II and Deodoro yards. The overall cost of this
component amounts to US$7.5 million including contingencies or 2 percent of total
project cost.
(e)    Automatic Fare Collection. Installation of automatic fare collection system  in all
stations. This equipment has been estimated at US$11.7 million including contingencies
or 3.2 percent of total project cost.
C. Rolling Stock
7.           Attached as Table 5.4 is the actual fleet size for Rio de Janeiro showing current train
availability. Table 5.5 shows the future plan for train availability for Rio de Janeiro after implementation
of the rehabilitation proposal. These tables show substantial anticipated increases in train availability
after implementation of the proposed project component. The proposal presented to achieve this,
described in this Annex, is straightforward, feasible and technically sound. Flumitrens would have to
contract out all the work proposed due to lack of current capacity within their own organization. The work
contents of the proposal is such that it is expected that a wide range of capable contractors could submit
competitive bids. The contractors could be local or international or a combination involving Joint
Ventures or Licensing Agreements. The overall work content entail mechanical, electrical and civil



-54-                                   ANNEX5
engineering. The extent of these works, coupled with the quantities involved, is expected to be attractive
to interested Contractors. Within the Rio de Janeiro network there are several passenger train sets
presently not available for revenue service due to the following reasons (Table 5.4): (a) Accident/collision
damage; (b) lack of spare parts due to budgetary restrictions; and (c) material/components
cannibalization, resulting from (b). These factors have significantly reduced the number of train sets for
passenger service use (train availability). An ideal service should provide between 90 percent and 92
percent availability, the remaining 8 percent to 10 percent is out cf service for maintenance. The existing
train sets are in average condition, and achieve about 60 percent service availability. By investing in the
proposed rehabilitation and modernization, the network would raise train availability figures significantly
in order to cope with the projected passenger demand (Table 5.5).
8.            The proposed rolling stock component, which is the largest included in the project, is
designed to improve passenger train set availability and reliability to meet the planned future increased
revenue service. It covers the following areas: (a) rehabilitation of 103 EMU's currently operating; (b)
Refurbishment/modernization of 36 EMU's currently out of service; and (c ) rehabilitation of bogies and
pneumatic systems of 44 EMUs. The cost of this component has been estimated at US$245 million
including contingencies or 65 percent of total project cost. The main characteristics of the EMU's fleet to
be rehabilitated under this project component are:
For rehabilitation: Total - 103
Carbon steel - 34 EMU Series 400 - 35 years (modernized 19 years ago)
Stainless steel - 2 EMU Series 500 - 19 years
Stainless steel - 25 EMU Series 700 - 16 years
Stainless steel - 10 EMU Series 800 - 16 years
Stainless steel - 32 EMU Series 900 - 16 years
For refurbishment/modernization: Total - 36
Carbon steel - 6 EMU Series 400 - 35 years (modernized 19 years ago)
Stainless steel - 3 EMU Series 500 - 19 years
Stainless steel - 4 EMU Series 700 - 16 years
Stainless steel - 7 EMU Series 800 - 16 years
Stainless steel - 16 EMU Series 900 - 16 years
9.            Engineering  Designs. Final engineering designs for track rehabilitation works,
modernization of nine stations and specifications for part olF the EMU's fleet rehabilitation and
refurbishment program  have been completed. Flumitrens plans to finish by September 1996 all
preliminary engineering designs as well as final engineering desiigns for those components included in
the first year of the project.
10.          Supervision. The project includes the provision of consultants (1,324 stafflmonths) for
the implementation and supervision of each project component. The cost of these services have been
estimated at US$6 million including contingencies or 1.5 percent of total project cost.



-55-                                           ANNEX5
Table 5.1: Summary Of Track - Line Characteristics
Length of Curves
% of Curves             R < 300m
Corridor                    Length (km)       300 < R < 500m             (in meters)
D. Pedro II - Deodoro         158.861                15.0                    1.162
Deodoro - Sta. Cruz            88.987                 8.1                   2.069
Deodoro - Japeri              108.475                 9.2                 237.000
D. Pedro II - B. Roxo          77.457                 8.6                    5.337
B. Maua -Gramacho              62.723                18.6                 518.000
Sub Total        496.503                12.0                   9.109
Meter Gauge                   186.866                 8.0                   4.726
Sub Total        186.866                 8.0                   4.726
Total       683.369                10.9                  13.835
Source: Flumitrens, May 1996.
Table 5.2: Summary Of Track - Rails
Corridor           Type of Rail    Unit    Quantity    Useful Life
.................................................................................. ....................................................................................   ......
D. Pedro II - Deodoro         TR-57        Tons      18.110           25
Deodoro - Sta. Cruz           TR-57        Tons      10.145           25
Deodoro - Japeri              TR-57        Tons      12.366           25
D. Pedro II - B. Roxo         TR-57        Tons        8.830          25
B. MauA - Saracuruna          TR-57        Tons        7.150          25
(Gramacho)
Meter Gauge                   TR-37        Tons        4.785          25
TR-45        Tons       7.219          25
TR-57        Tons       4.785          25
Source: Flumitrens, May 1996.



- 56 -                                                      ANNEX 5
_______________                 Table_5.3A:_SumMa_f Track-Sleepers
Corridor                                                      Percent (%)
............................................................................................................................................................................
Wood (Units)                                   Concrete (Units)
Mono-Block                   Bi-Block
D. Pedro II - Deodoro                              90                                   07                            3
Deodoro - S. Cruz                                 100
Deodoro - Japeri                                   58                                    24                          18
D. Pedro II - B. Roxo                              65                                    23                          12
B. Maui - Gramacho                                 72                                     -                         28
Source: Flumitrens, May 1996.
Table 5.3B: Summary Of Track - Sleepers
Corridor                                                           Lenrgth (km)
..................  ...............................................................I.................................................................................................
Wood (Units)                                     Concrete (Units)
Mono-Block                 Bi-Block              Mono+Bi
D. Pedro 11 - Deodoro                       263,053                       19,058                     8,448                 27,506
Decidoro - S. Cruz                          164,626                           -                         -                     -
Deodoro - Japeri                            111,176                       46,200                    33,627                 79,827
D. Pedro II - B. Roxo                         89,546                      30,977                    16,692                 47,939
B. Maua - Gramacho                            80,814                          -                     31,416                 31,416
Total             709,215                                                                      186,688
Percentage                                       79%                                                                          21%
Grand Total                895,903
Source: Flumftrens, May 1996.



57 -                                          ANNEX5
Table 5.4: Conveyance of 400,000 Passengers Per Day (Reference Level 1995)
Train Availability
Corridor   Passenger              Number of EMUs                      Number of EMUs by series
per day    Traffic   Reserve   Operation  Total  1000   400   500   700   800    900
Deodoro       114,300      17                    17       17     14             2            1
B. Monte                                         0
S. Cruz        63,075      16                    16       16                                 2     14
C. Soares                                        0
Japeri         96,667      26                    26                             6    16             4
Paracambi                   1                    1        27     1       _     _
B. Roxo        52,500      14                    14                      14
S. Mateus                   1                    1        15             1
Gramacho       79,722      11                    11                      4      5     2
Saracuruna                                                11                            _
Total   406,264     86                       86           15      19    13    18    3        18
Operation         86           15     19    13    18    3        18
Not Avail.       61            7      15    11    7       7      14
%Immob.  ________________  (36.4)  (44.1)  (45)  (30)  (70)   (45)
Total fleet      147           22     34    24    25    10       32
Source: Flumitrens, May 1996.
Table 5.5: Conveyance of 1,400,000 Passengers Per Day (Future Plans)
Train Availability
Corridor    Passenger             Number of EMUs                     Number of EMUs by eries
per day    Traffic   Reserve   Operation  Total  1000   400    500   700   800   900
Deodoro       131,300      14         2          16       16    14
B. Monte                   22         1          23                     -             4            18
S. Cruz       278,400      26         2          28       51   _              _____         26
C. Soares                  24         1          25                            24
Japeri        469,800      34         2          36       64                          22           12
Paracambi                   2   1    1           3                       2
B. Roxo       189,000      32         2          34       36            32
S. Mateus                   2   |                2                       2  |  ___
Gramacho                   16         2          18              16
Saracuruna    331,500      22   1                22       40   _                                   22
Total  1400000      194        13    1       207          30      36     24    26    26    52
[ Operation        207          32     41     25    26    29    54
|| NotAvail.     23            4      4      3      3     3     6
%lmmob.                      (10)   (10)   (10)  (10)  (10)  (10)
Total11leet      230          36      45     28    29    32  | 60
Source: Flumitrens, May 1996.



-58-                                 ANNEX5
Figure 5.1: Map of Flumitrens' System
ITAGUAI
Xm65695      (FLUMITRENS!
\SANTA CRUZ
6Km 54.774
LEGENDA
PARACAMBI
Km 70.004
B. MONTE                                  ESTA,CES A SEREM
Km 43.800                                       REFORMADAS NO PET
;)  ,ESTA,OES A SEREM
CONSTRU[DAS NO P E T
JAPERI
Km6l.479       E  ESTACOES DE TRANSFERENCIA
* ESTAQOES TERMINAIS
B. ROXO
Km3O.930
A$ X                  S~MAEU
DEODORO
Km 22.058
MAL. HERMES                 GURGEL
SARACURUNA
n |   |              ~~~~~~~GRAMACHO _ =    ,   K3.21
MADUREIRA                               Km 23.238               | 
CASCADURA
cL)   1 ,2D. CASTILHO  g   i'ENHA             ~~~~INHOMIRIM
im, R l X X  tie  ENG, DE  /  I Km 8.04K  11.940                            Km 49.370
|ENG. NO\   i                                     m  .8            &
|Km 8.631 )                                   BONSUCESS
>  'S F  :    tiigl    ~~~Km 7.846
% XAVIER:
MAGt       GUAPIMIRIM
L.MOLL                                                          Km 57.570    Km 16.720
D. PEDRCOI          Km 0.000       NITEROI               V. ITABORA!
i Km 0.001                       Km 32.002              Km 73.945



-59-                                  ANNEX6
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO MASS TRANSIT PROJECT
ANNEX 6
ENVIRONMENTAL AND TRAFFIC SUB-COMPONENT
A. Background
1.           This section describes the environmental and traffic safety component of the proposed
project which includes:
(a)   the design of a vehicle inspection and maintenance program; and
(b)   the development of a system to process and collect traffic violation fines and
enforce them as a deterrent to traffic accidents.
2.           In addition, the proposed project includes studies and technical assistance to support
improvements in motor vehicle emissions control and the development of an integrated
transport/environmental strategy for the RJMR.
B. The Environmental Sub-Component
3.           Inspection and maintenance (I/M) serves two purposes in a vehicle emissions control
program. First, it helps to identify vehicles in which maladjustment or other mechanical problems are
causing higher emissions than necessary. Second, it ensures that the emission control equipment on
vehicles so equipped remains in place and operational, so that the emissions benefits of that equipment
are realized. The first purpose applies mostly to older vehicles without emission controls; for emission-
controlled vehicles, the second is much more important. An effective I/M program is essential to ensure
that the emissions benefits projected for the adoption of new vehicle emissions standards are actually
attained. The project finances the design of an I/M program and will recommend how the l/M program
can be implemented through concessions to the private sector. The cost of the basic study to design the
l/M program is estimated at US$0.6 million.
C. The Traffic Subcomponent
4.           The objective of the traffic management component is to design and put in place a
system to enforce, process and collect fines for traffic violations. This study is estimated to cost US$0.4
million. The number of traffic violations in the RJMR is high, but once fined, traffic offenders do not pay
their fines. Because the system to process and collect fines is very slow, traffic violators continue to
disrespect regulations and are not properly checked. The proceeds of fines would also contribute to funds
for the refinement of the urban transport system.



-60-                                   ANNEX7
BRAZIL
RIG DE JANEIRO MASS TRANSIT PROJECT
ANNEX 7
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND POLICY STUDIES
1.           This annex describes the studies and technical assistance for project supervision and
management and training to be contracted to support the policy and institutional development
component. The studies will be divided in three categories: (a) studies which are only Flumitrens related;
and (b) studies to enhance modal integration and (c) the training component which should contribute to
the training of staff which will be monitoring the concession as well as training in-house and abroad.
2.           A list of the proposed studies and training is presented below. Draft terms of reference
for the first year studies and outlines for the other studies were agreed at appraisal and were ready by
negotiations.
A. Flumitrens Related Studies
3.           Assisting the Concession to the Private Sector. The first set of Actions Plans
concerns the preparation of bid documents to be used in the concession process: (a) institutional and
organizational arrangements; (b) investment plan to be undertaken; (c) evaluation of operating subsidies;
(d) patrimonial agreement on the valuation and assets to transferred; (e) aspects relating to transfer of
personinel, pension benefits, and miscellaneous human resource-related issues; and (f) legal and
administrative aspects for concession;
4.           Technical Assistance Until the Concession. rhis technical assistance will provide key
advisors who will work with the President of Flumitrens to further rationalize and stream line operations
and mnaintenance to decrease the perceived risks of the conceission. For example, hiring of experts in
rolling stock maintenance and railways operations management, management accounting to define clear
cost allocation rules, specialists to implement the payroll software, experts to build a reliable data base.
4.           Technical Engineering Studies in Signaling and Telecom. These studies would
address the needs identified during preparation for the installation of existing and new signaling and
telecoirn equipment.
5.           Supervision Consultants. The implementation of the investment plan will be
supervised by engineering consultants in charge of ensuring that the works and goods comply with
specifications.
6.           Project Management Consultants. These consultants will be in charge of supporting the
Project Management and Implementation Group until the completion of the Project.
B. Modal Integration Related Studies
7.           Modal Integration. The objective of the second set of Action Plans is to support the
establishment of the AMTU-RJ policy framework and provide practical recommendations for
implenmenting modal integration, namely: (a) updating of the Transport, Land Use, and Air Quality portion
of the Master Plans of the RJMR with emphasis on route rationailization and modal and tariff integration;
and (b) a intermunicipal route management and rationalization study.
8.           Niter6i - Sao Gongalo Corridor. Preparation of feasibility studies and bidding
documents for the Niter6i - S3o Gon,alo mass transportation system. the RJMR master plan should be
analyzed in order to give the basic guidelines for the development of future systems for this corridor.



-61-                                           ANNEX 7
C. Training
9.      In view of the concession, staff who remain in the Flumitrens holding will have two primary
functions: (a) to manage the implementation of the investment plan; and (b) to monitor the
concessionaire on behalf of the state regulatory entity.
Table 7.1: Consultants CoTj2n!Et.....
Contracting    Base Cost
Consultant               Description      Agnc          US$1 000
Studies and Project Design                          Flumitrens       3.50
General                            0.90
Signaling                          2.60
Supervision a/                                      Flumitrens       6.58
Rolling Stock(4)                   4.50
Systems (2)                        1.16
Civil Works (2)                    0.92
Management                                          Flumitrens       3.15
Institutional Development                           Flumitrens       2.5
Concession
Assistance                         1.06
Bid Procedures                     0.15
RH Program                         0.35
Financing
Procedures                         0.20
Technical
Assistance                         0.36
Bus Integration                    0.04
Integrated Plan                    0.50
Niter6i / Sao
Goncalo Study                      0.50
Training                           0.40
Environmental and Traffic Safety                                     1.00
ItM vehicle        FEEMA
emissions                          0.60
Collection of     Flumitrens
Fines for Traffic
Violations                         0.40
vi One of each contract will support state reform supervision.
Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalents)
Consultant Category                            Selection Method                Total Cost
(not including
contingencies)
QCBS      FB    CQ       LCS   OTHER
A. Firms                            5.4      5.9     .7       1      2.9          15.9
(3.1)    (3.4)    (.4)    (.6)    (0.0)       (7.4)
B. Individuals                                       .3                           .3
(.2)                        (.2)
Total                 5.4      6.9      1       1      2.9          16.2
(3.1)    (3.4)    (.6)    (.6)    (0.0)       (7.6)
QCBS=Quality Based Selection
FB= Fixed Budget Selection
CQS= Consultant Qualification Selection
LCS= Least Cost Selection
Other- Not Bank Financed



- 62 -                        ANNEX8
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO MASS TRANSIT PROJECT
ANNEX 8
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(see following pages)



RIO DE JANEIRO MASS TRANSIT PROJECT
TABLE 8.1. DETAILD coST ESTMATES
U3S Mbaon
a.anty                           LsnK                              B.. asae                                              Tot Includig C-op-la-r                           Including C.Mnn densl         P       tfmd
Unit                                                         eo, tFrorgn    Local                                                                                                                                        Duaz    Pt,|  F., T.
eoMpotlari                            1M07    logo    1999    2000    2001    TOTAL                     .-TsS   1g7 19118  1999      2000      2001      TOTAL      1997      1999       1299      2000     2001       TOTAL      Comp.    Comp.       T...   t%) tlt
1,CMLWORKS                                                                              s.so      12.15     10.62     *.o       e.90         28.27    5.94     1340       1169r     *.@@     .00          31.31    109        20.35 1115 1.S2 .0t0.0  2.27 6.9  13O  1.0  0.0  .0031.1    1.2  2036  .6
1.1-SiaWrJns                                                                         140       1130       10.40     o.oo      ooO         23.79    1.01      13.12     11.72     O.N      0.00          2646    9.26       17.209      132 000  .0023.0  .61 13.2  1.72 0.0  000  &46 9.2  1720  .3
*Modemi2afon                un      ~~~~~~~~~~                   ~           ~~~~~1.0  8.0  6.0  82 ,9,2  A     .97      7A7       0.00     0.00         17.93    1.61      9.093      W4       O.N0     ON            19.92    0.97      12556       1.00      5   35   5
Constncaon               un              ~~~~~~~~~             ~          ~~~~~~~~~~0.50    0.50  1.0  S,882,000    0.00  2.93  2.S3  0.00  0.00       5.96    oso0      323        3.30     0.00     0.00           653    2.29       4.25        0.33      6   35   6
1.2 -Fence/tPed,oeps                             1N0%          =.                                     4,0,0       4_000                 .0        .0      0             4.00    4.33      O.N0      0.00      O.N0     O.N            433    15f        2.61       0.22       5 3       5
13-Supfflvidon               ~~~~       ~      ~~~~~~mmon  63.4    554          i1q9           4,000    O.N0      0.25       0.22      0.00     0.00          OAS    O.N0       029       0.26      0.00     O.N0          a63    0.19        0.364      os03       5   3s   s
2-FERMANENTWAY   |  -    | SNN.o                                                        '50       470                                 20    1.ffi2     0.OO      ON              O.N           1.62    0s7       140454 700.0  0.0  o40 920  5   SS S11  0.0  000  000  #0  .38  ,420.3
2.2-Stpershn6dure(GMOSRA)   sm   1   11.0                         11s         410,192    000       4.00      0.00      0.00      0.00         4. 0    0.0018    5.07       O.N       O.N      O.N0          5070 4.0     10 5.07 0.00  .7) 000  5 7    1.7  3O30 0.25    3S S
2.3-SLporvidon   mmen 1          245                              245          4,0N     0.00       0.10      o.Oo      0.00      0.00         ,10    O.W        o.11       0.00     O.N      O.N0           O.f1    0.04       0.070     0.010.  50  as0      5 0.0  000  000  011    004  007  001  6 35 
3 SYSTEMS                                                                                                           4A7       22bS5      29.27     8.50     3A3          67.53    5.07      28.37     33234     10.26    424           7529    48.59      30.70      13.03
3.1 -Elecbtrifictin                                                                                               4;A7       53 41        7      0001.3    0.00         12OA    507       160194     6167      1.64     0.0          2377    1420        5424       4.64
Im.stalaion                           k.      8$.0    101.0   2.0s                     2114.0       15,793    124        1.50      0A4       0.00      O.Oo         3.38    1.52      1.84       0.62     0.00      0.00          3al    1.36        2.52       0.19     1 0   35   5
Mnteriais                   a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m 95.0    101.0   28.0             214s0        36,81    3.13       3.72       1.03       .0      0.00          7B89    3.56      430       1.22      0.00     ON0           9.06    6.34       2.72       245       10   70  27
*Subtafdors                                                                                                    ON0        4.10      3J77      11.36     0.00         0.22    0.00      4.73       4Al6      1.64    O.N0          *eL0.12    6.59     4.24       2.30
____nstaK8fiWn                            #                27%     54#    19%               1.0       2,407,200    0.00      O.SS      1.30      OAS       0.00         2AI    0.00      0OJs        1s53     0.6s     ON0            Z*4    OB9         1.94       0.14     10 3 
Materialsh                                             40%       a      6                 0       50690       oo         2.25      2.47      0.90      0.00         5.52    0.00      2.so       2.92      1.09     0.00          L60    4.52        1.98       1.78     1 0 702
3.2    hte -n S                                          203 2rkg                                                0.00      6.57      12A2      3.97      333         2 .n2    O.N        7569      104.N6    9,42     4.1S         '39    22A2        102A2      6526      1      02
;InplementationCTC/ATC                                                                                          O.N0       5.92      10.06     5.87     338          25.00    0.00      0.04      11.96     6. 6     4.16          2971    18.03      11.69      4.14
Instalbtion:
-Cornsaced(CCAC                       #_20#    27%                     26%     29%      110      1200,0N,oo   o.w       240        324       3.00     338          1Z.00    9.N0      2.77      3.52      3.62     4.16          1436    5.75       9,03       0.72      1 0   4
-T    carnctna(CTCI                   1m               6.0    29.0    15.0              sos0        56,154    O.N0       033       1.60     0OSs      O.Oo    -276    O.N0           0OuB        1BB      1.00     O.W            3.27    1.31      1B6        0.16      1 0   4
ErqWPatWs (CTC)                       k.                9.0    29so    15s0             So.O       123,126    O.M0       0.74      3.57      1.95      O.o     _    6_16    o.OO      0.0s       4.22     2.23      OBO0          7.30    620        1.09       1.S7     10   652
MderiaistCTC/ATClATS)    I ~        ~       ~~~~~% SO#    40%                 11.0      4,0B6,000    0.00      245        1.63     0.00      oso0         4.00    ON0       2.83       1B93      0.00     OBO0          476    4.76        0.00       129      10  100  27
*ImobrrfntationATC-TocrAbad:  l                                                     O.N       OB6        2.37      120      0.00         432    O.N         0.76      2B0       1fi7     090           510.2    40.s0     o.n 301.104.3  0.0  0.2 22  1.7  OJO  S2    4.9  01.1
Installtfoirn (ATC)                   %s                       SS#66   30%               1.0      1,022,00    0.00       0.15      066       0.31      0.00         1.02    0.00      0.19       0.66     0.37      O.N0          121    oAs         0o,n       0.06     10   4     s
EqDpmerts (ATC)                       Is               15#    6S#    SD%                 1.0      3,200,00N    0.00     _0.49      1. 11    0oss       9.00         3230    O.N0      067        2.14     1.19      0.00          3-J1    3.91       0.00       Ills     10  102
3.3. TelocnrOC01101S                     k.               22s0   11.0                      33.0        195,455    O.N0      430        2.15     0.00      o.DW         GAS    0.00       4.07       2564      O.N0     ONo           7.51    3.WO       4.50       0.38     10 4 
3.4 -ALdoratic Fare Crlodlon                                                                                       0.00      2.09       727      O.N0      9.00         9g6    0.00        2A2       923       ON0      0.00         11.70    8.37       3.34       2.39
Instalation                            %21.0X   79.0#                                    1.0      2,987,260    ON0       0.63      2.36      0.00      0.00         2.991   O.N0      0.72       2J79     O.Oo      000O          351    1,40        2A I       0.18     10   4 
ErxJDmntgs                            %2i.0%   79.0%                                     1.0      6,970,260    O.N0      1A6       551       0.00      0.00         *.97    0.00      1.N        8650     O.N0      00            Ms,   6.96         123        2.21     1 0 *s2
3.5. Supervido                           mo                1192   147.5   44A       17.0   329            400      ON        0e         99        0.18     0.07         11.32    O.N0      O.Ss      0.M       020      0.09          Ila     0.62       OM         0.07      5 3        5
4- ROLLiNG STOCK                                                                                                     711.38    84.111     46.22     *.9S      *.00       21235   BIA41       97.8      54.51      5.98     O.M0        24481   194.115    50.M5       41.16
4.1 . xrImac System of EMUS               r-MU     44.0                                     44.0        208,918    9.10      CMw        0.00     O.N0      0.00         9,19   1040        O.N0      0.00      G.O0     O.00         10AO      8.32      2.00       1J77     1     80 7
4.2 -RehabiltationoflBogesoflEMUs         EMU      44.0                                     44.0        V918J2    9680       O.N0        .oO     O.N0      0.00          0.50i  10.97      0.N0      0.00      0.00     O.N0         1a67    6.59        2.17       1965     1     *0 7
4.3. Rehatbid3s of EMUs                            SO 6.0    63.0                           103.0     1,140,071    67.00    50A2        0.00     O.N0      0.00        11TA3   64.63      M9.SO      0.00      0.00     0.00         13,4   107A7       28a7       22.84     1     801
4.4- RefUbishme  of40EMUs                 EMu              112    22A       2A              30.0      2,020,460    ON0       22.83     45.28     4.85      0.00         T74.7   o.w       26.14      S3A3      s.ss     0.00                  604 8.34  17.03       14.52     1    *o1
4.5-Supervidon                           mmo     144A    439.9  239.7   25sJ                851.7         4,00    0959       lie        oss       0.10     o.oo         34       .s         J4       1N        0.2      o.0177    132                    2AS        0.19       s    s 5
5 -STUDIES AND PROET                                                                                                  00 mmno,  IA        0.75      OO        o.o8         2.M    o.00       1,60        8        *IAS     ooo           2.g1    1.02       *." 9       .15
SlrJnab0             | mmon             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~             ~ ~~2sn.0   150.0   sn.0  520.0  S,00N    0.N0  IAG  0.7s  040      0.00         zrn    o.w         1 80      OAs       OAS      o.w0          2.9      1.02      1.6O       0.1s       5   3s   s
6- PROJECT MANAGEMENT                     |           BOe SA  12ss   86.1    13.8    3A        315.0        10,0N0    0.        1.26      0.86f     0.14      0.ff3        3.15   .          .                  e1       e4340    1131                    Leo        0.17      5 4        5
7- INSTITUTIONAL/ ENRONMENTAL             |mo                 175.0   176.0                    360.0        10.000    O.M       t    1.75           O.M       0 0 00 0.0.o                    ,307                 J                     3. 0    I27        254        O."       6 3       5
TOTAL BASE COST                                                                                                      #711      127L9       At8      13.n9    3A4         3Z61
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                                                                                                GAS       11.72     8S07       136    0*14          21es.4
SUB TOTAL                                                                                                            87.10     140.69     s6.ss     16.35     3.01       3ssss
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                                                                                                   2A4       7.0W       7.07      151      CAT          Iass
TOTAL                                                                                              100.0n     147.7    103.61    1686111    4"         3ns      lot."    147.7      103.41    lam       42e          J7ZS    25 A        ItZt       $11.411
NOTE:ROiL- Stc - Fir,a in panJthos6 tdcdto -W ofd EMUs rlinttWed.



-64-                                            ANNEX8
Table 8.2: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Category                        Allocated (Expressed                % of Expenditures
in US$ Equivalent)                to be Financed
(1) WORKS
(a) Civil Works                                       15.79                            54%
(b) Permanent Way                                      4.07                            64%
(c) Systems                                           19.79                            50%
(d) Rolling Stock                                    140.04                            70%
(2) CONSULTANT SERVICES
AND TRAINING                                           6.31                            50%
Total                                 186.00
Table 8.3: Estimated Disbursements
BANK FY           1998      1999       2000        2001       2002
................. ......................    ............................................................................................................
Annual            56.65   73.98       49.12        6.19       0.06
Cumulative       56.65  130.63    179.75    185.94    186.00



-65-                                 ANNEX8
Table 8.4: Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
IBRD                Estimated            Estimated            Estimated
Fiscal Year          Disbursements         Cumulative         Cumulative As
Semester             per Semester        Disbursements         % of Total
1998
December31, 1997                        15.00|              15.00|                8.00
June 30, 1998                           41.65               56.65|               30.46
1999
December 31, 1998                      36.99                93.641               50.34
June 30, 1999                           36.99              130.63                70.23
2000
December31, 1999                       24.56               155.19                83.44
June 30, 1999                          24.56               179.75                96.64
2001
December 31, 2000                        3.00              182.75                98.30
June 30, 2001                            3.19              185.94                99.97
2002
December 31, 2001                        0.061             186.001              100.00



-6-                                         ANNEX8
Table 8.5: Procurement Schedule of Major Contracts 
ContractJI                    I                           III
Component       1 Value        Type of    Type of Documents Bids Prop. Contract Delivery  Initiation    End
j(US$ '000)    Contract  jBidding    Ready  IInvited ISignature Iof Goods i of Works  of Works
A - CIVIL'WORKS____
STATION MODERNIZATION____
PET-01            3185.4      Works       ICB      0719/     897      12197 J01/98    12/99
PET-02         -4688.3        Works       lOB     07197     08/97    12/97            01/98    12/99
PET-03         -2768.7        Works       ICB     07/97     08/97    12/97 j01/98    12/99
PET-04         -3884.7        Works       lCB-    07/97     08/97    12/97            01/98    12/99
PET__   05            2475.0      Works        ICB     07/97     08/97    12/97            01__98_   12_99
9;3-0.0    Works       NCB      01/197    0-2-/97    06/97  ____     7 __97_
CONSTRIJCTION
PET-07            5862.0      Works       ICB     07/97  108/97    12/97              01/98    12/9
FENCE/PED.OVERPASS
I'll KM       4004.0  1 Works   INCB  101/977    02/97  106/97                     07/97 
B - PERMANENT WAY
1500.0  Works    NOB  10/97 :102/97  106/97                   07/97   SJ
PET-1IlJ 4600.0  1 Works   IICB  107/97   108/97  112/97                               01/98    1 I0/98
C - SYSTEMS
ELECTRIF-ICATION TRANSMISSION LINES              ___                          ______
PET-12            4991.0  1Supp. /Works  I[CB      01/98     02/98    06/98   __  J07/98    07/99
PET-13         I1575.0  1Supp. /Works   ICB        01/98     02198    06/98         107/98    07/99
.~~~~~~ ~~3700.0    up./Wrs NOB                      01/97     02/97    06/97__         ______
100.      up. / Works   NOB     01/97     02/97    06/97   ____ 07/97
SUBSTAT'ION__________
PET-1 6      3100.0  [Supp. / Works   IClB  101/98  102/98  ]06/98               07/98  [06/00
PET-17       3724.0   Supp. /Works   IOB  j  01/98       02/98  J06/98           07/98  106/00
PETm18          200.0.  Supp. / Works   IOB  j01/98          02/98  J06/98             07/98    07/99
SIGNALING
PET-1             9684.0   Supp. /Works   lOB     01/98      098      6/8798    12100
PET-20            3550.0   Supp. /Works   IOB      07/97     08/97    12/97           01/98    06/99
AUTOMATFIC FARE COLLECTION
PET-21            9957.5   Supp. I(Works   IOB    01/98      02198    06/98           07/98    12/99
D- GOOD.S
SYSTEMS
PET-23            1200.0      Suppl       NBF      07/97     08/97    12/97   01/98             10/98
E- ROLLINIG STOCK
PNEUMAT-IC SYSTEM OF EMUs                        ___   ___________    __
} ~2417.0   Supp. / Works   NOB      01 /97  [02/97  J05/97              06/97 
. . ....... ..        2451.0   Supp. / Works   NOB     01/97   102/97  J05/97              06/97      ..
~~~ ~4320.0   Supp. I Works   NOB  101/97   102/97  ]05/97  ____7
28800 Spp./ Works   NOB      01/97     02/97  J05/97 1           06_97
1080.0  Supp. /Works   lOB  101/97        02/97    05/97 1          06/97
PET-31       1~~8112.5   Supp. / Works  lONB  101/97    02/97  105/97 1         1 06_ 9
1610.   Sup./ Works   NOB    01/97     02/97    05/97  ____ 06/97  * 
PET-31    8112.5 Supp.I Works   lOB       01/97      02/97    05/97  ____   06/97          .
PET-34    ~~2935.0   Supp. / Works   lOB      01/97     02/97    05/97            06____97    __
PE-3                  10799.5  Supp. / Works   IOB     01/97     02/97    05/97            06197_
PET-34       93800.0  Supp. / Works   lOB     01/97     02/97    05/97            06/97    129
PET-35           20800.0  ,Supp. / Works   lOB     01/97     02197    05/97            06____97__  1___
PET-38_1          12194    upp. /Works   IOB       01/98     02/98    05/987 ___    06/98        59
PET-37           60805.7  -Supp. /Works   IOB      01/98     02/98    05/98            06____97__    12__97
PET-38            80719.64  Supp. t/Works   [OB    01/98     02/98    05/98           06____  98__    05/99_
PET-39           14139.3  Supp. / Works   ]ClB     01/98     02/98    05/98            06__98 _02__9
PET-42           1 2119.4 -.Supp. / Works   ICB    01/98     02/98    05/98            06/98_____  ____99
PET-'43          10099.5  Supp. /Works   IOB       07/98     08/98    11/98            12__98 _10_99
PET-44           10099.5  -Supp. /Works   IOB  -12/98        01/99    04/99            05____ 99__ 1 03/00



-67-                                            ANNEX8
Contract              I l                     I                 I        I
Component          Value        T Type of    Type of Documents Bids Prop. Contract Delivery  Initiation    End
(US$ '000)    Contract    Bidding    Ready    Invited  Signaturelof Goodsi of Works of Works
F - CONSULTANTS
0 i . 3150.0                          Services    Other2    01/97      02/97    05/97      |    | 06/97    12/01
'                    A I  _   3500.0   Services    Other  |  07/97      08/97     12/97 |       | 01/98    12/99
3    : ,   lgMRV~N      529.7     Services    Other  |  01/97      02|97    05/97 |          0697    1201
a/ Items to be financed under the Bank Loan.
bt Base Cost - Not Including Physical and Prices Contingencies.
c/ BanK's Guidelines for Selection of Consultants.
$R 



-68-                               ANNEX8
Table 8.6: Implementation Schedule - Estirnate Annual Payments
(US$ million)
Project Element                                                Total
Bids Issued per Calendar Year  1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   Value
1 - CIVIL WORKS                       5.942 13.398 11.972  0.000  0.000   31.312
1.1 - Stations                      1.615 13.119 11.722  0.000  0.000   26.456
* Modernization                    1.615  9.887  8.419  0.000  0.000   19.921
* Construction                     0.000  3.23:2  3.303  0.000  0.000    6.535
1.2 - Fence I Ped. Overpass         4.327  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000    4.327
1.3 - Supervision                   0.000  0.280  0.250  0.000  0.000    0.529
2 - PERMANENT WAY                     1.621  5.181  0.000  0.000  0.000    6.802
2.1 - Installation of Sleepers      1.621  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000    1.621
2.2 - Superstructure ( GMO - SRA)                 0.000  0.000  0.000    5.072
2.3 - Supervision                   0.000  0.1013  0.000  0.000  0.000    0.108
3 - SYSTEMS                           5.066 25.524 33.980 10.500  4.239   79.310
3.1 - Electrification               5.066 10.043  6.816  1.870  0.000   23.795
* Transmission Lines             5.066  6.1142  1.740  0.000  0.000   12.949
Installation                    1.520  1.843  0.522  0.000  0.000    3.885
Materials                       3.546  4.300  1.218  0.000  0.000    9.064
* Substations                    0.000  3.90-1  5.075  1.870  0.000   10.846
Installation                    0.000  0.751  1.535  0.553  0.000    2.838
Materials                       0.000  3.150  3.541  1.318  0.000    8.008
3.2 - Signaling                     0.000  7.5893 14.663  8.421  4.154   34.827
* Implementation CTC             0.000  6.841  11.859  6.856  4.154   29.710
Installation                    0.000  3.155  5.714  4.625  4.154   17.648
Equipment                       0.000  0.853  4.215  2.231  0.000    7.300
Materials                       0.000  2.832  1.929  0.000  0.000    4.762
* Implementation ATC             0.000  0.748  2.804  1.565  0.000    5.117
Installation                    0.000  0.17 7  0.664  0.370  0.000    1.211
Equipment                       0.000  0.5711  2.140  1.195  0.000    3.906
3.3 - Telecommunications            0.000  4.967  2.538  0.000  0.000    7.506
3.4 - Automatic Fare Collection     0.000  2.416  9.286  0.000  0.000   11.702
Installation                    0.000  0.725  2.786  0.000  0.000    3.511
Equipment                       0.000  1.6911  6.501  0.000  0.000    8.191
3.5 - Supervision                   0.000  0.509  0.677  0.209  0.084    1.480
4 - RC)LLING STOCK                   86.438 97.878 54.494  5.975  0.000  244.785
4.1 - Pneumatic System             10.402  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000   10.402
4.2 - Rehabilitation of Bogies     10.868  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000   10.868
4.3 - Rehabilitation of EMUS       64.535 69.803  0.000  0.000  0.000  134.338
4.4 - Refurbishment of EMUS         0.000 26.134 53.414  5.857  0.000   85.405
4.5 - Supervision                   0.633  1.94C0  1.080  0.118  0.000    3.772
5 - STUDIES AND PROJECTS              0.000  1.599i  0.845  0.461  0.000    2.905
Signaling                          0.000  1.599I  0.845  0.461  0.000    2.905
6- PROJECT MANAGEMENT                 0.933  1.376  0.976  0.159  0.040    3.485
7 - INSTITUTIONAL / ENVIRONMENTAL            1 .930  1.972  0.000  0.000    3.902
Total                100.000 146.886 104.240 17.096  4.279  372.500
Bank Financed             56.647 73.983' 49.115  6.192  0.059  186.000



- 69 -                                ANNEX 9
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO MASS TRANSIT PROJECT
ANNEX 9
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Background
1.           A standard cost-benefit analysis was performed to evaluate the economic impact of the
implementation of the proposed infrastructure and equipment component (consolidate the rehabilitation
of Flumitrens and build/rehabilitate the transfer stations between the trains, metro and ferries), which
represents 96 percent of the total proposed project. This Annex describes the demand analysis and the
set of benefits and costs that have been considered in the economic evaluation, as well as the
assumptions adopted regarding key inputs, such as the value of time. Direct user benefits include travel
time and operating cost savings; indirect benefits arise from the reduction of negative externalities
(accident and air pollution costs). Investment costs comprise civil works, permanent way, operating
systems, rolling stock, and costs of projects and studies. Both benefits and costs are defined as
incremental compared to the situation of the end of the project CBTU/IBRD I (Ln. 3633-BR). Throughout
the analysis, and for illustrative purposes, the proposed investments were evaluated with and without the
accident and air pollution externalities. A more detailed description of the data and assumptions
supporting the economic evaluation summarized in this annex can be found in Reports 8 and 9 in the
Project Files.
2.           This economic evaluation estimates the discounted expected present value of the
infrastructure investment's net benefits, the expected internal economic rates of return, as well as the
expected benefit/cost ratios for a set of discount rates, which includes the 10 percent discount rate, which
has been defined by SEAIN (Secretary of Planning for the Federative Republic of Brazil), as well by its
Commission of External Financing (COFIEX) for the project appraisal of foreign investments. In addition,
the sensitivity analysis included in this annex provides an idea of how the economic rates of return would
change due to deviations from the value of benefits and costs used in the base case. The analysis is
then complemented by a table of impacts of the project which are evaluated on a qualitative basis.
B. Choice of a Project Base Case
Mass Transit Options
3.           Following current Bank policy recommendations for the appraisal of mass transit
investments contained in the Urban Transport Policy Paper (World Bank, 1986), the proposed
investments were compared against two totally segregated busways with regular buses and a totally
segregated busways with articulated buses (Annex 13, ref. 8a). In all cases, the analyses showed that the
proposed investments had a higher internal rate of return.
C. Demand Analysis
Demand Modeling
4.           The demand estimates used in the economic evaluation are the result of a simulation of
the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region transport network, performed with the Mantra System'
microcomputer program. The urban transport demand model used by this program is a classical
aggregate four-stage transport planning model, which comprises trip generation, trip distribution, modal
Mantra Computer System was developed by Logit - Logistica Informatica e Transportes, Brazil, and SDG - Steer
Davies Gleave, England.



-70-                                  ANNEX 9
split, and trip assignment. This model estimates peak (6 hours) and off-peak (10 hours) periods of public
transport demand, which are assigned to bus, metro and railway networks.
5.           The model Mantra is integrated with a Geographic Information System, GisPlus. 2 In
order to use the model, it was necessary to create a GIS database for Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan
Region (RJMR), which comprises a zoning layer and a transport network layer (made up of line and node
layers). To develop the databases for the demand study, the team benefited from the existence of a
model of the transport network prepared under the Transport Master Plan of the RJMR financed by the
Bank. This network was prepared using GisPlus and then imported by Mantra.
6.           The zoning system adopted is based on the RJ sub-regions, which were defined in the
Rio de Janeiro Master Plan. This zoning system was digitizecl using GisPlus and then imported by
Mantra.
7.           The present demand study used as primary data the 1994 Household  and
Origin/Destination (OD) survey undertaken by IPLAN-RIO for the Rio de Janeiro Master Plan based on
household samples in all RJMR. From this survey were obtained the following data: transport demand on
a daily/hourly basis, breakdown into peak and off-peak period ancd breakdown into trip purposes.
8.           Peak hour periods considered were the following: 06:00 a.m. to 09:00 a.m. and 16:00
p.m. to 19:00 p.m. The number of trips in this period corresponds to 56,4 percent of the weekday
ridershiip. Both periods have similar number of trips and almost the same peak hour factor. The OD
matrix breakdown into trip purposes shows that 56,6 percent of trips are commuter and business trips
and 43,4 percent are related to other trip purposes.
9.           The steps in the demand modeling exercise were:
(a)    Trip Generation. This step consists of the estimation of the number of trips
which will be produced by and attracted to the area of influence of the projects
considered in the study. In the present study it was conservatively assumed that
the 1994 OD matrix is a good estimate up to the year 2001. After this year, a
yearly demand increase of 1 percent per year was considered. Car and walking
trips were not considered at all.
(b)    Trip Distribution. This step consists of the determination of the origin zone and
destination zone for each trip based on the types of trips produced by and
attracted to each zone and the interzonal "impedance" values (typically travel
times). Also in this case there is the assumption of using the current matrix as an
estimate up to the year 2001.
(c)    Modal Choice consists of the calculation of which trips will use the bus network
and the metro system. The Mantra model allows the competition between single
modes and combined modes. The modail choice model used is the multinomial
Logit model. It is important to point out that for each zone pair of interest, for the
area of influence of the Railway lines, there will always be competition between
bus and railway+bus and in some cases metro+bus. The model utility functions
considered the same values of travel time used in the economic evaluation. Non
cash cost of transfer is taken into account as an impedance to choose a mode.
(d)    Trip assignment consists of the "loadinig" of the passenger trips onto the multi-
modal public transport network. The method used to assign the trips made within
each model, is the "all or nothing" procedure with no capacity restraint iterations
2     GisPlus is a Geographic Information System developed by Caliper Ccrporation, USA.



- 71 -                                ANNEX 9
for bus and incremental assignment with capacity restraint for the railway and
metro lines.
10.          The model was applied for the situation "without" and "with" the project. The outputs
obtained from the application of the model are the number of trips, passenger-kms and passenger-hours
by each individual mode: bus, metro and railway. By running the model for the situation "without" and
"with," data were obtained on the additional trips in the railway mode, and also the decrease in bus trips
which result from the implementation of the proposed project. The following paragraphs summarize the
situation "without" and "with" project for the railway lines above and the results in terms of passenger-
kilometers, passenger-hours and average speeds are summarized below:
(a)    Situation 'Without Project" (Year 1998 and 2001). This is the situation at the
end of CBTU/BIRD I project (Ln. 3633-BR). The main traffic characteristics of
the study area in the situation "without" the project on a daily basis are: average
peak-hour bus speeds of 17.04 km/hour with a total of 4,094,360 passengers,
with 83,594,816 passenger-kms generated by bus trips with origins or
destinations in the RJMR. The corresponding number of passenger hours is
5,005,279. The railway trips generated for daily origins/destinations in the study
area a total of 837,955 passengers with 20,979,434 passenger-kms,
corresponding to 517,063 passenger-hours. The transit modal choice in terms of
trips generated by the study area would be 71.75 percent bus, 13.56 percent
metro, and 14.69 percent railway.
(b)    Situation "With Project" (Year 1998). On a daily basis, the average peak-hour
bus speeds in the study area would rise to 17.66 km/h and daily demand for bus
transportation would go down to 3,954,717 passengers with 80,778,031
passenger-kms and 4,845,248 passenger-hours. The daily demand for railway
trips will go up to a total of 945,315 passengers with 23,707,032 passenger-kms
and 584,492 passenger-hours. The transit modal choice in terms of trips
generated by the study area
would be 70.05 percent bus,    Table 9.1: Demand Levels in the Railway
13.21 percent metro, and                     Lines
16.74 percent railway.      Item                          Amount
(c)    Situation  "With  Project"    Peak-Hour Inbound
(Year 2001). On a daily    Passengers (all corridors)
basis, the average peak-                                     93,847
hour bus speeds in the study    - Santa Cruz                 26,446
area would rise to 18.38    -Japeri
km/h and daily demand for      P                             30,777
bus transportation would go    - B. Roxo
down    to    3,471,698                                      15,583
passengers with 70,016,724    - Leopoldina                   21,041
passenger-kms        and
4,161,735 passenger-hours.   Peak-Hour Outbound
The  daily  demand  for   Passengers (all corridors)         31,881
railway trips will go up to a   Santa Cruz
total    of     1,445,502    - at  rz17,742
passengers with 34,525,835    - Japeri
passenger-kms and 843,049                                     3,444
passenger-hours. The transit   - B. Roxo                      2,847
modal choice in terms of   - Leopoldina
trips generated by the study                                  7,848
area would be 61.99 percent
bus, 12.20 percent metro,   Average Weekday Boardings      1,445,502
and 25.81 percent railway.  Average Annual Ridership    450,996,624



- 72 -                                ANNEX9
11.          The demand estimates for the railway lines (all corridors) in the year 2001 indicate: (a) a
peak-hour inbound volume of about 93,847 passengers; (b) a peak-hour outbound volume of 31,881
passengers; (c) a total of about 8,673,012 week-day boardings; and (d) an annual ridership of more than
450 million passengers.
D. Benefits
Value ofl Time
12.          Mass transit projects can hardly be economically justified without accounting for the real
resource savings that economies of time represent. The monetary value of time by which the time
savings ,are multiplied to obtain the benefits from time savings is a key input in the economic evaluation
of the infrastructure components of this project. Individual values of time are traditionally considered to
be a function of income, in particular a function of the individual wage level. Thus, the value of time used
in the calculation of time savings is derived from the income distribution of users, disaggregated by
transport mode and trip purpose, and from information on wage levels. Table 9.2 shows the income of
public transport users in the zone of influence of the FLUMITRENS and is disaggregated by mode. The
information was obtained from the 1994 Household and Origin/Destination (OD) survey for the Rio de
Janeiro MAaster Plan.
13.          The base minimum wage used was R$112 which at the shadow price of foreign
exchange of 1 is equivalent to US$112. From this minimum wage base, the value of fringe benefits was
considered separate from payroll taxes. Fringe benefits in Brazil include vacation and the 13th month of
salary; both entail scaling the base salary by a factor of 1.25. Commuting and other purpose trips are
valued as a proportion of net wages. This implies subtracting direct taxes paid by the employee from the
base wage, which includes fringe benefits. The employee is subject to a payroll tax that varies between 8
percent and 10 percent. In addition, the income tax should be subtracted. By assuming that one-third of
passengers are not tax-exempt and do not evade taxes, the net wage deflating factor will be in the 0.92-
0.88 range. An average factor of 0.9 was used. Business trips are valued at gross wages, where fringe
benefits and payroll taxes are taken into account. Payroll taxes in Brazil vary between 38 percent and 45
percent and about 35 percent are paid by the employer. By combining fringe benefits and employer
contribution on payroll taxes, the base wage must be scaled by a factor of 1.60 (1.25 plus 0.35).
14.          Hourly wages for each transport mode users are estimated by multiplying the individual
wage (in minimum wages) by the value of the minimum wage and dividing the result by 157, the
assumed average number of hours worked in a given month. Common practice in the appraisal of urban
transport projects is to use a proportion of the hourly wage rate to approximate the value of time saved.
This propiortion as well as the wage rate base chosen for the calculation-whether gross or net wages-
depend on the type of trip. Three types of trip can be distinguished for the purposes of the analysis:
home-to-work trips (or commuting trips), work-related trips (or business trips), and non-work related trips
(or other trips), for example shopping or visiting the doctor. E-conomic theory indicates that both
commuting trips and other trips should be valued as a proportion of the net wage. Empirical evidence
suggests that this proportion may vary between 20 and 100 percent. The value adopted in the economic
evaluation was a value of 17.5 percent based on a study undertaken a few years ago for a similar city
with the :same type of population. A 20 percent value was tested as part of the sensitivity analysis.
Economic theory also indicates that business trips during working hours be valued at 100 percent of the
gross wage rate.3 The resulting values of time used in the economic evaluation are summarized in Table
9.5 and the proportion of passenger-hours spent traveling by type of trip is summarized in Table 9.3.
When the! value of time is equal to zero the IERR is still 38.17 percent.
In developed countries, estimates of the value of time for journey to work ranges from 20 to 100 percent of the
gross wage rate. A recent review of the literature concludes that a reasonable average value of time for journey to
work is 50 percent of the gross wage rate. See Kenneth Small, Urban Transportation Economics, Harwood
Academic Publishers 1992; page 44.



- 73 -                                ANNEX 9
Direct Benefits
15.          Direct benefits estimated in the economic evaluation are travel time savings, operating
cost savings, bus system control savings, and road maintenance cost savings:
(a)    Travel time savings result mainly from the transfer of bus passengers into the
new lines, and from existing metro and rail passengers who can save time in
their trips by taking advantage of the new transport facility. Travel time savings
also result from the increased operating speeds of the buses that continue
operation and, to a lesser extent, of car traffic. The program used to model the
demand works with an origin-destination matrix where the number of trips is
fixed. The number of "legs" comprising those trips may vary. When the new link
is introduced in the network, the modal split is affected and some trip itineraries
change. Thus, the demand model estimates the diverted demand, but it does
not estimate the so-called generated demand, that is, the additional trips that
will be potentially generated throughout the RJMR, but particularly in the
corridors directly affected by the investment. Omission of generated demand
yields a conservative level of demand and, consequently, results in a lower rate
of retum. Travel time savings are measured for each mode by the difference
between the total number of moming peak passenger-hours spent without the
project and those spent with the project. These peak-hour estimates are
converted to annual values and then multiplied by the assumed value of time to
obtain a monetary value of time savings. The net change in travel time across
the four modes is considered to be the overall measure of the travel time
savings;
{lPass-hr (w/o) - Pass-hr (w)] x VoT x PHF x ND)} 1,000, where Pass-hr are
passenger-hours, VoT is the value of time, PHF is the peak-hour factor, and ND
is the number of operating days in a year.
(b)    Operating cost savings for the non-rail modes derive principally from the
improved commercial and traffic speeds, which can be achieved by buses and
cars, respectively. Operating cost savings are measured for each mode by the
difference between the moming peak passenger-kilometers carried without the
project and those carried with the project. All trips were considered irrespective
of their purpose. These peak-hour estimates are converted to annual values and
then multiplied by the assumed values of operating cost per passenger-kilometer
for each mode to obtain a monetary value of operating cost savings. The net
change in operating costs across the four modes is considered to be the overall
measure of operating cost savings. Operating cost savings include wages and
salaries, materials, energy and general expenditures. An alternative method to
estimate these savings was to calculate the actual number of buses eliminated
at peak hour due to the construction of the line and estimate the savings due to
the elimination of the buses and reduction in bus kilometers produced. Table 9.4
shows the calculations used.
{[Pass-km (w/o) x OC (w/o)] - [Pass-km (w) x OC (w)] x PHF x ND}, 1,000,
where OC are operating costs per passenger-kilometer.
(c)    Bus system control cost savings depend critically on the reduction of the bus
vehicle fleet, which is assumed to follow from the reduction in bus patronage
after the metro line opens. Bus system control cost savings are measured by a
given percentage (8 percent) of bus operating costs.



-74 -                                 ANNEX9
(d)    Road maintenance cost savings derive from the possibility of delaying
periodic maintenance mainly because of reduced bus traffic on the corridors
under consideration. The benefits from reduced vehicle operating costs resulting
from reduced pavement damage are not considered.
{[Pass-km (w/o) - Pass-km (w)] x RMC, x PHF x ND}, 1,000 where RMC are
road maintenance cost savings per passenger-kilometer.
Indirect Benefits
16.          Indirect benefits arise from the reduction in externalities, such as accidents and air
pollution:
(a)    Accident cost savings are measured for each mode by the difference between
the moming peak passenger-kilometers carried without the project and those
carried with the project. These peak-hour estimates are converted to annual
values and then multiplied by the assuimed values of accident costs per 1,000
passenger-kilometer for each mode to obtain a monetary value of accident cost
savings. The net change in accident costs across the four modes is considered
to be the overall measure of accident cost savings. Accident costs include
property damage, injuries and loss of life.
{[(Pass-km (w/o)),1,000 - (Pass-km (w)X)1,000J x ACC x PHF x ND)  1,000,
where ACC are accident cost savings per 1000 passenger kilometer.
(b)    Air pollution cost savings are measured for bus and cars by the difference
between the moming peak passenger-kilometers carried without the project and
those carried with the project. These peak-hour estimates are deflated by the
average vehicle occupancy (to obtaiin costs per vehicle-kilometer) then
converted to annual values, and finally multiplied by the assumed values of air
pollution costs per vehicle-kilometer to obtain a monetary value of air pollution
cost savings. The air pollution factor (US$/gram) of emission reduction)
represents the total health and welfare benefits associated with the reduced
pollution emissions resulting from the proposed investments. Health benefits
include reduced morbidity and mortality whereas welfare benefits include the
reductions in soiling and corrosion of buildings and other structures. The net
change in air pollution costs in the bus and car modes is considered to be the
overall measure of air pollution cost savings. The set of air pollutants considered
include carbon monoxide (CO), hydrocarbons (HC), nitrogen oxides (NOX),
sulphur oxides (SOx) and fine particulate matter (PM1 0).
{([Pass-km (w/o) - Pass-km (w)] x APC x PHF x ND) AOF)}, 1,000 x where
APC are air pollution cost savings per passenger-kilometer and AOF is the
average vehicle occupancy factor.
E. Costs
17.          Investment  Costs.  Investment  cost           Shadow Price Factors
components were grouped for the economic evaluation into    Iem                  Pie
civil works, permanent way, operating systems, rolling    Foreign Exchange         1.0
stock, and costs of projects and studies. Annex 8 contains    Rail Investments     0.9
a detailed breakdown of the capital cost structure. To    Value of Time           0.175
obtain the economic cost stream for both links, taxes were



-75-                                  ANNEX 9
subtracted from the total costs (including physical and price contingencies) shown in Annex 8 and
multiplied by a shadow value factor of 0.9. The shadow price factors are bases on estimates prepared
and used by SEAIN and BNDES in recent projects.
18.          Operating Costs. The incremental operating costs due to the investments are wages
and salaries, materials, energy and general expenditures (e.g., auditing, legal costs, transport, and
cleaning services).
19.          Discount Rate. In calculating the net present value for the underground and rail
integration components of the project a discount rate must be selected which represents the opportunity
cost of capital in Brazil. The discount rate used as "benchmarkN by SEAIN (Secretary of Planning) for
foreign investments, as well as COFIEX (Commission of Extemal Financing) is 10 percent.
F. Results of Economic Evaluation
20.          Internal economic rates of return (IERR), net present values (NPV), and Benefit/Cost
ratios (B/C) were calculated. The assumed project life is 25 years. Residual values were estimated at the
end of the project life for the civil works, permanent way, operating systems and rolling stock. These
residual values were calculated following FLUMITRENS accounting procedures that assume a linear
depreciation rate, which vary according to the expected operational life of the components.
Distribution of Costs and Benefits
21.          Table 9.6 shows the annual series of expected benefits and costs for the proposed
project in the base case scenario.
Net Present Values
22.          The discounted expected present value of benefits for both investments net of costs, are
positive in the relevant range, which includes the discount rate of 10 percent are given in Table 9.6.
Intemal Economic Rates of Return
23.          The estimated IERR for the base case is given in Table 9.6.
First-year Benefit Test
24.          A "first-year" benefit test was performed to assess whether the investments are
premature. Table 9.10 show the results of the test for discount rates of 10 percent and 12 percent. For
both discount rates the proposed investments have benefits larger than the rate of discount multiplied by
the net present value of total investment costs in the planned year of start-up of operations. This
suggests that there are no additional net benefits to be gained if the implementation of the project is
delayed from the schedule assumed in the base case scenario.
Sensitivity Analysis and Switching Values
25.          A sensitivity analysis was performed to estimate the variance of the IERR in relation to
the calculated value (base case) if deviations occur in the major benefit and cost components (travel
time savings, operating cost savings, wages and salaries, general expenditures, investment costs). Table
9.7 shows the results. The switching values are shown at Table 9.8. The cases tested in the sensitivity
analysis of the financial evaluation were tested also and the results are shown at Table 9.9.
Results by Corridor
26.          An economic evaluation by corridor was performed to investigate the IERR of all
corridors. Table 9.11 shows the IERR, NPV and BenefiVCost ratios (B/C) for each corridor for the base
case, best case and worst case.
Qualitative Analysis of the Infrastructure and Equipment Component
27.          Table 9.12 is an impact matrix which summarizes the impact of the proposed investment
on a number of aspects which could not be quantified in the standard benefit cost analysis.



Table 9.2: Basic Inputs
FLUMITRENS
MAIN OUTPUT                                                EIRR        NPV         B/C
62.36%    1,154,170.38    4.32
BASIC INPUTS                   UNIT       FORMULA         METRO        RAIL        BUS        AUTO
Peak-hour factor (HOURS) - work           Bl1              7.58        7.58        7.68       7.46
Peak-hour factor (HOURS) - other          B12              7.58        7.58        7.58       7.46
Peak-hour factor (VEHICLE) - work         B13              7.58        7.58        7.58       7.46
Peak-hour factor (VEHICLE) - other        B14              7.58        7.58        7.58       7.46
Operating costs (without project)    US$lp.km   815      0.048114    0.03228    0.025208   0.255174
Operating costs (with project)  US$/p.km   B16           0.043347    0.030343    0.019835   0.209655
Road maintenance costs         US$/p.km   B17              none        none      0.000118   0.000278
Accidentcosts                  $/1000p.km  B18             0.06        0.08         0.8        40
Cost of air pollution          US$/km     Bl9=1/2 of SP    none        none     0.1886745  0.0471895
Average Occupation (peak)      pass       Bl10                                      45         1.2
Operating Costs - Railway with project                     1996        1997        1998       1999        2000       2001        2002
Wages & S.                     US$1000   BIl1             143,370     125,370     106,740    111,780    117,000    120,330    123,750
Op + Ma Co.                    US$1000   B112             21,150      28,440      49,770     52,920      57,420     57,780      57,780
OtherCost                      US$1000   8113             13,230      21,870      22,860     23,220      24,300     25,580      25,920
Total                          US$1000   B114             177,750     175,680     179,370    187,920    198,720    203,670    207,450
Operatig Costs - Raihvayvithout proj                       1998        1997        1998       1999       2000        2001        2002
Wages & S.                     US$1000   B115             143,370     143,370     143,370    143,370    143,370    143,370    143,370
Op + Ma Co.                    US$1000   B116             21,150      27,270      33,391     33,391      33,391     33,391      33,391
Other Cost                     US$1000   B117             13,253       8,981      9,303       9,303      9,303       9,303      9,303                                                       _
Total                          US$1000   B118             177,773     179,621     186,064    186,064    186,064    186,064     186,084                                                     0)
Inputs to estimate Time Savings
Minimum Wage (as of 11/11/94)    R$       Li               112
Exchange Rate (US$1,00=)       R$         L2               1.00
US$        L3=L11L2         112
Time Saving Factors - Business            L4                 1          1.6         1
Time Saving Factors - Commute              L5              0.175       1.25        0.9
Time Saving Factors - Other               L8               0.1. 75     1.25        0.9
Salary \ User                                            Bus User   Rail User   Auto User
Individual Salary              min. wag/mo L7              3.54        2.87       17.73
Salary                         US$/month  L8=L7-L3        396.48      299.04      1985.76
No. Days/Year                  days       L9               312
No. Hours / Month              h.         LIO               157
ECONOMIC EVALUATION INPUTS
Discount Rate                  %                           10%
Inihal EIRR                    %                           35%
Growth rate - 2001-2011        %                           1.00%       1.01
Growth rate - 2012-2020        %                           1.00%       1.01
INVESTMENT INPUTS                                          1996        1997        1998       1999       2000        2001       2002        2003      TOTAL
Investments Costs              US$1000                     2,688      69,720     131,250    115,160      51,840     1,830         0          0        372,488
Price Contigencies             US$1000                      50         1,980      6,270       7,880      4,640       200          0          0        21,000
Inflation Factor               %                          0.50%       1.80%       2.60%      2.50%       2.50%      2.50%       2.50%      2.50%                                           >
z
Investments Avoided            US$1000                      0           0           0           0          0          0           0          0           0                                 z
Discount rate suggested by Brazilian Planning Secretaria is 10 percent.                                                                                                                    X
co



Table 9.3: Demand Input
FLUMITRENS                                                     YEAR 1998                                       YEAR 2001
DEMAND - PEAK HOUR             UNIT              RAIL       BUS       AUTO       TOTAL           RAIL       BUS        AUTO       TOTAL
Pass-hour - total - without project    pass.h   69,702     746,460      0                       69,702     746,460       0
Pass-hour - total - with project  pass.h        72,565     737,838      0                       100,044    665,548       0
Participation of work          %                56.60%     56.60%     56.60%                    58.60%     56.60%      56.60%
Pass-hour - work - without project   pass.h   39451.332  422496.36      0                      39451.332  422496.36      0
Pass-hour - work - with project  pass.h        41071.79  417616.308      0                     56624.904  376700.168     0
Net change pass-hour - work    pass.h          1620.458   -4880.052      0      -3259.594      17173.572  -45796.192     0       -28622.62
Participation of commuting in work    %         91.87%     91.87%     91.87%                    91.87%     91.87%      91.87%
Pass-hour - comm - without project  pass.h      36245    388159.20       0                       36245    388159.20      0
Pass-hour - comm - with project  pass.h         37734    383675.76      0                       52023    346084.96       0
Net change pass-hour - comm    pass.h            1489     -4483.44      0        -2994.68        15778    -42074.24      0       -26296.40
Participation of business in work  %            8.13%      8.13%       8.13%                    8.13%       8.13%      8.13%
Pass-hour- busn -without project   pass.h        3206     34337.16      0                        3206      34337.16      0
Pass-hour - busn - with project  pass.h          3338     33940.55      0                        4602      30615.21      0                       4
Net change pass-hour - busn    pass.h            132       -396.61      0        -264.914        1396      -3721.95      0       -2326.22
Participation of other         %                43.40%     43.40%     43.40%                    43.40%     43.40%      43.40%
Pass-hour - other - without project   pass.h  30250.668  323963.64      0                      30250.668  323963.64      0
Pass-hour - other - with project  pass.h       31493.21   320221.692    0                      43419.096  288847.832     0
Net change pass-hour - other   pass.h          1242.542   -3741.948      0      -2499.406      13168.428  -35115.808     0       -21947.38
Total net change pass-hour     pass.h            2863       -8622        0        -5759          30342     -80912        0        -50570
Pass-km - total - without project  pass.km     2,851,770   11,716,978    0                     2,851,770  11,716,978     0
Pass-km - total - with project  pass.km        2,963,668  11,593,344     0                     4,158,561   10,452,766    0
Participation of work          %                56.60%     56.60%     56.60%                    56.60%     56.60%      56.60%
Pass-km -work-without project    pass.km      1614101.82 6631809.55      0                     1614101.82 6631809.55     0
Pass-km - work - with project  pass.km        1677436.09  6561832.7      0                    2353745.53 5916265.46      0
Net change pass-km - work      pass.km        63334.268  -69976.844      0      -6642.576     739643.706 -715544.086     0      24099.6197
Participation of other         %                43.40%     43.40%     43.40%                    43.40%     43.40%      43.40%
Pass-km - other - without project    pass.km  1237668.18 5085168.45      0                     1237668.18 5085168.45     0
Pass-km - other-with project   pass.km        1286231.91  5031511.3      0                     1804815.47 4536500.37     0
Net change pass-km - other     pass.km        48563.732  -53657.156      0      -5093.424     567147.294  -548668.08     0      18479.2137
Total net change pass-km       pass.km          111898    -123634        0        -11736        1306791  -1264212.17     0      42578.8335
z
(0



Table 9.4: Estimation of Buses Saved With and Without Project
FLUMITRENS                                                          YEAR 1998                                               YEAR 2001
UNIT             WHITHOUT             WHrrH               DIFF            WHITHOUT           WH[TH              DIFF
PROJECT            PROJECT                               PROJECT          PROJECT
PEEAK PERIOD
Hours of Operation              h                     5                  5                                     5                5
Pass-km (peak hour)             pass.km           11,716,978         11,593,344                            11,716,978       10,452,766
Pass-hr (peak hour)             pass.h             746,460            737,838                               746,460          665,548
Speed (peak hour)               km/h                15.70              15.71                                 15.70             15.71
Pass-hr (peak period)           pass.h            3,732,300          3,689,190                             3,732,300         3,327,740
Pass/bus (peak period)          pass/bus             45                 45                                    45                45
Bus-hr (peak period)            bus.h              82,940              81,982                               82,940            73,950
Bus-km (peak period)            bus.km            1,301,886          1,288,149                             1,301,886         1,161,418
Bus-kmlhr (peak hour)           bus.kmlh           260,377            257,630                               260,377          232,284
Busses (peak period)            bus                 16,588             16,396                               16,588            14,790
PEAK-HOUR FACTOR
Pass-hr                         pass.h              7.58                7.58                                 7.58              7.58
Buss-km                         bus.km              7.58                7.58                                 7.58              7.58
TOTAL
Pass-hr                         pass.h            5,655,000          5,589,682                             5,655,000         5,042,030
Buss-km                         bus.km            1,972,555          1,951,741                             1,972,555         1,759,725
Buss-km/buss-yr                 kmlyear            37,101              37,139                               37,101            37,122
ALL DAY
Pass-km                         pass.km           83,594,815         80,778,031                            83,594,815       70,016,726
Pass-hr                         pass.h            5,005,279          4,845,249                             5,005,279         4,161,736
OFF-PEAK
Hoursof Operabon                h                    10                 10                                    10                10
Pass-km (off-peak period)       pass.km           25,009,925         22,811,311                            25,009,925       17,752,897
Pass-hr (off-peak period)       pass.h            1,272,979          1,156,059                             1,272,979         833,996
Pass-km/hr (off-peak period)    pass.km           2,500,993          2,281,131                             2,500,993         1,775,290
Pass-hr/hr (off-peak period)    pass.h             127,298            115,608                               127,298           83,400
Speed (off-peak period)         km/h                19.65              19.73                                 19.65            21.29
Pass-hr (off-peak period)       pass.h            1,272,979          1,156,059                             1,272,979         833,996
Pass/bus (off-peak period)      pass/bus             40                 40                                    40                40
Bus-hr (off-peak period)        bus.h              31,824             28,901                                31,824            20,850
Bus-km (off-peak period)        bus.km             625,248            570,283                               625,248          443,822
Bus-km/hr (off-peak period)     bus.km/h           62,525             57,028                                62,525            44,382
Busses (off-peak period)        bus                 3,182              2,890                                 3,182            2,085
OPERATING COSTS SAVING
Speed - peak                    km/h                15.70              15.71                                 15.70            15.71
Speed - off-peak                km/h                19.65              19.73                                 19.65            21.29
Operating cost/km - peak        US$/100km           28.70              28.00                                 28.70            28.00
Operating costlkm - off-peak    US$/1 00km          27.00              26.20                                 27.00            26.20
Annual bus-km - peak            1000000km          406.19             401.90                                406.19            362.36
Annual bus-km - off-peak        1000000km          195.08              177.93                               195.08            138.47
Operating cost- peak            US$1000000         116.58              112.53              -4.04            116.58            101.46           -15.11
Operating cost - off-peak       US$1000000          52.67              46.62              -6.05              52.67            36.28            -16.39
Total                           US$1000000                                                -10.10                                               -31.51
Number of Buses                 bus                16,588             16,396               -192             16,588           14,790            -1,798                                  >
Fixed cost per bus-year         US$                                                       47,273                                               47,273                                  z
Inflation                                                                                  1.00                                                 1.00                                   m
Fixed cost saving               US$                                                     9,057,507                                            84,998,955                                x
Operaying cost saving           US$                                                     10,097,101                                           31,505,668
Total annual cost saving        US$                                                     19,154,608                                           116,504,643
Operating costs based on hdm relations



Table 9.5: Estimation of Other Benefits
FLUMITRENS
BENEFITS (US$ 1000)                                       UNIT
Legend:                                                                               mwlindMid.  wage rate  hourafotith  wagelhour            Convertion
(w/o) = without project (w) =wKh project                                 BUS             3.54        112        157        2.53                  tactor
Vot= value of tine; PHF= peak-hour tactor                                MAlL            2.67        112        157        1.90                    1
NOY= number of operatng days per year                                   AUTO            17.73        112        157        12.65
YEAR 1998                               YEAR 2001
Travel Time Savings (TTS) in US$1000                     US$1000                                    Vot        PHFt        NDY      VoTT(w/h)   VoTT(w)    TfS Net   VoTTwIo)   VoTT(w)    lTS Net
TTS= (Pass.h(wla)- Pass.h(w))xVatYPHFtx NOY                              METRO        Commuting     0.37        7.58       312        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00
Business     3.05       7.58        312        0.00        0.00       0.00        o.00       0.00        0.00
Other      0.37        7.58       312         0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
RAIL         Commuting     0.37       7.58        312      32,125.47   33,445.02   -1,319.55   32,125.47   46,110.01   -13,984.55
Business     3.05       7.58        312      23,095.82   24,044.48    -948.66    23,095.82   33,149.67  -10,053.85
Other      0.37        7.58       312      26,812.41   27,913.72   -1,101.32   28,812.41   38,484.13   -11,671.72
BUS          CommutIng     0.50       7.58        312      456,144.82  450,876.11   5,268.71   456,144.82  406,701.33   49,443.49
Business     4.04       7.58        312     327,934.15  324,148.34   3,787.81   327,934.15  292,387.96   3,548.19
Other      0.50        7.53        312     3ao,705.49  376,308.14   4,397.35   380,705.49  339,439.19   41,268.30
AUTO         Commuting     2.49        7.46       312        0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
Business    20.24       7.46        312        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00
Other      2.49        7.46       312         0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
-rrTota                                                   1,246,88.186 1,236,733.82  10,084.34  1,246,818.16 1,156,272.29  90,545.87
operating Coats Savings (OCS) in US$1000                 US$1000                                               PHFv        NOY       COMM        OC(w)    OCS Net    OC(wlo)        OrC(w)    oCs Net
These benefts were estimated on the basis of buses saved
as show  In the previous table.
Acudentts Costs Savings (ACS) In US$1000                 US$1000                                               PHRt        NDY       AC(vW0)     AC(w)      ACS Net    AC(wlo)      AC(w)     ACS Net
ACS = (Pass.km (wIo) - Pass.km(w)) x AC x PHFI x NOV                     METRO                                  7.58       312         0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00             -
RAIL                                  7.58        312       404.43      420.30     -15.87      404.43      590,76     -185.33
BUS                                   7.58        312      22,155.74   21,921.98    233.78    22,155.74   19,785.23   2,390.51
AUTO                                   7.46       312         0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00
ACS Total                                                  22,560.17   22,342.26    217.91    22,560.t7   20,354.99    2,205.18
Air Pollutlon Costa Savings (APCS) in US$1000            US$10C0                                     AO        PHFv        NDY      APC(wIo)    APC(w)   APCS Net   APCOwo)    APC(w)   APCS Net
APCS  [(Pass.ktm(wo)- Pass.km(w))xAPC xPHFvXNDYyAO                       BUS                         45         7.58       312      116,117.31  114,892.08   1,225.23   116,117.31   103,5i8.75   12,528.58
AUTO                        1.2       7.46        312         0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00
APCS Total                                                 116,117.31   114,892.08   1,225.23   116,117.31  103,588.75   12,523.58
Bus System Control Costs Savings (BSCCS) In US$1000      US$1000                                                                    BSCC(w1O)   8SCC(w)  5SCOS Net BSCC(Ywo)   85tC(w)  BSCCS Net
aSCCS  0,085 x OCSbus                                                    BSCCS Total                                                59,340.83   46,199.84   13,140.98   59,340.83   41,654.60   17,686.22
Road MaWtenance Costs Savings (RMCS) In US$1000          US$1000                                               PHFv        NDY      RMO(wfo)   RMC(w)   RMCS N    RMC(wlo)    RMC(w)   RMt:S Net
RMCS  (Pass.km(w1o) - Pass.kh(w)) x RMC x PHFv x NOY                     BUS                                    7.58       312       3,267.97    3,233,49    34.48     3,267.97    2,915.37    352.60
AUTO                                   7.46       312        0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
RMCS Total                                                  3,267.97    3,233.49    34.48     3,267.97    2,915.37    352.60
INVESTMENT AVOIDED                                       US$1000             1996        1997       1998       1999        2000       2001        2002       2003       TOTAL
0           0          0          0           0          0           0          0           0
INVESTMENT COSTS (US$1000)
1998        1997       1998       1999        2000       2001        2002       2003       TOTAL
Total Prices Excluding Duties                                               2,374       60,966     112,482     96,570     42,480      1,467        0           0        316,339
Economic Conv. Factor                                                        0.90
Total Prices Excluding Prie Contigencies                                    2,638       67,740     124,980    107,300     47,200      1,630        0           0        351,488
Intiaton Factor                                                             0.50%       1.80%      2.60%       2.50%      2.50%       2.50%      2.50%       2.50%                                               >
Basa+PhyslcaiandPriceConlgencies                                            2,688       69,720     131,250    115,160     51,840      1,830        0           0        372,488                                  z
Pdcre Contigencles                                                            50         1,980      6,270      7,880       4,640       200         0           0        21,000                                   z
(0



Table 9.6: Benefits and Costs
FLUMITRENS
US$ thousands                              DIRECT BENEFITS                           EXTERNALITIES                                     OPERATING COST
Road        Bus    Investments                           TOTAL   Investments              Operating               TOTAL        BENEFITS
PROJECT  CALENDAR    Travel    Operating  Maintenance   System         which                   Air      BENEFITS    Costs      Wages &       and       Others      COSTS          minus
YEAR       YEAR        Time        Cost       Cost        Cost       will be   Accident    Pollution    (B)                  Salaries   Maintenance    Cost       (C)          COSTS
Savings    Savings    Savings     Savings     avoided    Savings    Savings                                         Cost                                  (B-C)
1         1996         0          0           0          0           0          0           0          0         2,374        0           0          -23        2,351        -2,351
2         1997         0          0           0           0          0          0           0          0         60,966     -18,000      1,170      12,889     57,025        -57,025
3         1998       10,084     19,155       34         1,532        0         218        1,225      32,249     112,482    -36,630      16,379      13,557     105,788       -73,539
4         1999       36,905     51,605       141        4,128        0         880        4,993      98,652      96,570     -31,590     19,529      13,917     98,426          225
5         2000       63,725     84,055       247        6,724        0         1,543      8,761      165,054     42,480     -26,370     24,029      14,997     55,136        109,918
6         2001       90,546     116,505      353        9,320        0         2,205      12,529     231,457     1,467     -23,040      24,389      16,257     19,073        212,384
7         2002       91,451     117,670      356        9,414        0         2,227      12,654     233,772       0        -19,620     24,389      16,617     21,386        212,386
8         2003       92,366     118,846      360        9,508        0         2,250      12,780     236,110       0        -19,816     24,633      16,783     21,600        214,509
9         2004       93,289     120,035      363        9,603                  2,272      12,908     238,471                -20,014     24,880      16,951     21,816        216,655
10        2005       94,222     121,235      367        9,699                  2,295      13,037     240,855                -20,215     25,128      17,120      22,034       218,821
11        2006       95,165     122,448      371        9,796                  2,318      13,168     243,264                -20,417     25,380      17,292      22,255       221,009
12        2007       96,116     123,672      374        9,894                  2,341      13,299     245,697                -20,621     25,634      17,464      22,477       223,219
13        2008       97,077     124,909      378        9,993                  2,364      13,432     248,153                -20,827     25,890      17,639      22,702       225,452              co
14        2009       98,048     126,158      382        10,093                 2,388      13,567     250,635                -21,035     26,149      17,815     22,929        227,706              0
15        2010       99,029     127,419      386        10,194                 2,412      13,702     253,141                -21,246     26,410      17,994     23,158        229,983
16        2011      100,019     128,694      389        10,295                 2,436      13,839     255,673                -21,458     26,674      18,174     23,390        232,283
17        2012      101,019     129,981      393        10,398                 2,460      13,978     258,230                -21,673     26,941      18,355     23,624        234,606
18        2013       102,029    131,280      397        10,502                 2,485      14,118     260,812                -21,889     27,211      18,539     23,860        236,952
19        2014      103,050     132,593      401        10,607                 2,510      14,259     263,420                -22,108     27,483      18,724     24,099        239,321
20        2015       104,080    133,919      405        10,714                 2,535      14,401     266,054                -22,329     27,757      18,911     24,340        241,715
21        2016       105,121    135,258      409        10,821                 2,560      14,545     268,715                -22,553     28,035      19,101     24,583        244,132
22        2017       106,172    136,611      413        10,929                 2,586      14,691     271,402                -22,778     28,315      19,292     24,829        246,573
23        2018       107,234    137,977      418        11,038                 2,612      14,838     274,116                -23,006     28,599      19,485     25,077        249,039
24        2019       108,306    139,357      422        11,149                 2,638      14,986     276,857                -23,236     28,885      19,679     25,328        251,529
25        2020       109,389    140,750      426        11,260                 2,664      15,136     279,626    -15,817     -23,468     29,173      19,876      9,764        269,861
EIRR=                    62.36%
NPV         10%        1,154,170.38
BIC@        10%           4.32
Ben PV        10%       1,501,321.26
Cos PV@       10%        347,150.87
z
(a



Table 9.7: Sensitivity Analysis
FLUMITRENS
EIRR          NPV           B/C
%        (US$ million)    ratio
r=10%        r=10%
BASE CASE                                                                       62.36%       1,154.17        4.32
BENEFITS       Value of Time                      10%             higher        64.66%        1,212.54       4.49
10%             lower         60.04%       1,095.80       4.16
50%             lower         50.56%        862.30         3.48
60%             lower         48.14%        803.93         3.32
Operating Cost Savings             10%             higher        65.77%       1,236.23        4.56
10%             lower         58.93%h      1,072.11        4.09
50%             lower         45.00%        743.86         3.14
100%            lower         26.83%        333.56         1.96
Externalities                     100%             lower         58.63%       1,059.46        4.05
(accid. and air pollution savings)
Growth Rate                       0.50%       higher2001-2011    62.49%       1,182.57        4.38
(base case =1% per year)          0.50%       higher2001-2020    62.50%       1,189.64        4.39
1.00%       higher2001-2011    62.63%       1,211.89       4.43
Incremental Traffic                10%             higher        68.43%       1,304.30        4.76
20%             lower         49.95%        853.91         3.46
50%            lower         30.34%        403.51         2.16                                                     C
COSTS          Construction Costs                 50%             higher        42.32%        1,039.79       3.25
(including phys. and pric. cont)   80%             higher        35.58%        971.17         2.83
Operating Costs                   100%             higher        61.24%       1,035.78        3.22
230%             higher       59.46%        881.86         2.42
Start-up of Operabons             Investments Costs Stream
Year           US$1000
One Year delay                     1996            2,374         42.92%        966.93         3.96
(benefits start accruing in 2002)  1997            54,869
1998            96,082
1999            90,095
2000            54,459
2001            17,726
2002             734
2003              0
2004              0
Two Year delay                    1996             2,374         35.94%        851.58         3.74
(benefits start accruing in 2003)  1997            48,773
1998            79,682
1999            83,621
2000            66,438
2001            25,855                                                                                              >
2002            9,230                                                                                               Z
2003             367                                                                                                z
2004              0
2005              0
CD



Table 9.8: Switching Values
FLUMITRENS j
EIRR           NPV             B/C     I
_  __     (US$ million)      ratio
r= 10%        r= 10%
BASE CASE                                                                           62.36%         1,154.17         4.32
BENEFITS    Value of Time and Operating Cost Savings  82.19%           lower        10.00%           0.00           1.00
Incremental Traffic                      76.88%          lower         10.00%          0.00           1.00
COSTS        Construction Costs                       504.54%         higher        10.00%           0.00           1.00
(including phys. and pric. cont.)
Operating Costs                          974.85%         higher        10.00%          0.00           1.00
WITHOUT WAGES & SALARIES                                                           44.99%          962.07          2.78
BENEFITS    Value of Time and Operating Cost Savings  68.51%           lower        10.00%           0.00           1.00
Incremental Traffic                      64.08%          lower         10.00%          0.00           1.00
COSTS        Construction Costs                       420.57%         higher        10.00%           0.00           1.00
(including phys. and pric. cont.)
,Operating Costs                         309.85%         higher        10.00%           0.00           1.00
z
(0



-83 -                                ANNEX 9
Table 9.9: Sensitivity Analysis for Cases Tested in the Financial Evaluation
FLUMITRENS                                             EIRR      NPV       B/C
%    (US$ million)  ratio
r_= 10%   r=10%
BASE CASE                                                    62.36%    1,154.17    4.32
Ridership less by 25%     Daily ridership is 25% below       39.16%    627.68    2.87
.   estimates starting in 1997
Low Ridership             Daily ridership is 14% below estimates  21.65%    202.35  1.59
_________________________  in 1998, 32%   in 1999, 39%   in 2000 and
46% there after
Fail to Concession        Ridership 50% of forecast during   15.29%    132.00    1.25
1998 -2002; Staffing at the level
of 7/1996                                 _
One Year Delay in Concession Ridership 50% in 1998 and 1999;  33.15%    849.12    3.35
thereafter lagged by two years;
Staffing in 1997 - 8 = 5800
Partial Concession        Ridership is 70% of estimated      33.65%    507.83     2.46
(Maintenance of Rolling Stock)
Better than Forecast      Staff = 3500                       75.20%    1,348.41    9.82



Table 9.10: First Year Return Test
FLUMITRENS                           ________l___l
PROJECT          CALENDAR          INVESTMENT          DISCOUNT          DISCOUNT         NPV in year 7 at    NPV in year 7 at    BENEFITS
YEAR              YEAR              COSTS               RATE              RATE               10%                 12%             IN YEAR
10%               12%            (US$ 1000)          (US$ 1000)            7
1               1996               2,374              1.77              1.97               4,206              4,686
2               1997              60,966               1.61              1.76             98,186              107,443
3               1998              112,482             1.46               1.57             164,685             176,993
4               1999              96,570               1.33              1.40             128,535             135,674
5               2000              42,480              1.21               1.25             51,401              53,287
6               2001               1,467               1.10              1.12              1,614               1,643
7               2002                0                 1.00               1.00               0                   0
TOTAL             448,626             479,726
Annual            44,863              57,567           212,386           0
z
z



Table 9.11: Results by Corridor
CORRIDOR                            CASE                               EIRR                NPV               B/C
____ ____ ___ ____   __ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ____  ___%  _(US$   m illion)  ratio
r= 10%           r=10%
SANTA CRUZ   base case                                                73.18%              516.29             5.27
best case             Increm Traffic 10% higher        79.61%               580.01            5.80
worst case          Operating Cost Sav. 100% lower      35.76%              183.07            2.52
JAPERI        base case                                               37.15%               168.13            2.54
best case             Increm Traffic 10% higher         41.18%              195.83            2.80
worst case          Operating Cost Sav. 100% lower      12.13%              11.17             1.10
BELFORD       base case                                               44.61%               126.46            3.12
ROXO                                                           _
best case             Increm Traffic 10% higher         49.45%              145.06            3.44
worst case          Operating Cost Sav. 100% lower      11.78%               5.50             1.09
co
LEOPLODINA   base case                                                95.29%               317.96            6.49
best case             Increm Traffic 10% higher        104.82%              355.55            7.14
worst case          Operating Cost Sav. 100% lower      39.66%              108.51            2.87
GLOBAL        base case                                               62.36%              1,154.17           4.32
best case             Increm Traffic 10% higher         68.43%             1,304.30           4.76
_worst case         Operating Cost Sav. 100% lower      26.83%              333.56             1.96
z
z
m
(0



ANNEX 9                                        - 86 -
Table 9.12: Proposed Infrastructure and Equipment Component - Project Impacts and Standard
Cost-Benefit Ana_lsis
Type of Impact                         Project Impact                            Captured by
Standard Cost-
Benefit Analysis?
..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
A. Accessibility    1. Promotes the interconnection between residential and    1. No
and creation of    employment areas and social equipment (hospitals, schools)
new opportunities  facilities.
2. Strengthens existing subcenters.                         2. No
3. Creates new employment poles in the periphery.          3. No
4. It favors the development of new employment and housing 4. No
poles.
5. It softens the effects of the radial concenitric structure of    5. No
the city.
6. It will alter the distribution of the destinations which were   6. No
previously concentrated in the central business district and
shift them to the north, south, east and wesl: of the RJMR.
7. It will encourage new subcenters of ieconomic activity 7. No
which otherwise would not be started.
Land Use and       1. It increases land values due to lower generalized travel  1. Partially through
Value              costs by public transport and by auto even without changes   the operating cost
in the zoning law.                                         savings
2. It increases the dynamics of the real estate market which   2. No
is reflected by the occupation of empty lots and the renewal
of older buildings in the area of influence of the existing line.
Employment         1. It will promote the creation of jobs with multiplier effects in  1. No
Generation         several sectors of the economy, with an estiimate of 10000
direct and indirect jobs.
Trip Quality       1. It will improve trip quality insofar as reliability, comfort and  1. No. It can be by
safety are concerned.                                       considering a saving
of four minutes for
each new metro trip.
Road Use           1. It will reduce congestion by eliminating a great number of  1. Yes, through the
buses from the area of influence.                          time savings
2. It will increase the average vehicle speedl in the RJMR.    2. Yes, through the
operating cost
savings
3. It will reduce the number of road accidenlts.           3. Yes
Air Quality        1. It contributes to a reduction of 16 percent in bus       1. Yes
emissions.
Noise              1. It will reduce the level of noise in the area of influence of   1. No
the system from 70 dB to 55 dB which is the level
recommended by the WHO.
Fuel Consumption  1. It will be reduced by 16 percent.                         1. Yes



-87-                                 ANNEX 10A
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO MASS TRANSIT PROJECT
ANNEX IOA
FINANCIAL EVALUATION
1.           Past Financial Performance. The Companhia Fluminense de Trens Urbanos
(Flumitrens) was, formed as a separate company fully owned by the State of Rio de Janeiro on December
22, 1994. Previous to the formation of Flumitrens, the suburban railway services in the Rio de Janeiro
Metropolitan Region (RJMR) were provided by Companhia Brasilera de Trens Urbanos (CBTU), a
company of the Federal Government. As part of the decentralization policy for the suburban railways, the
Federal Government restructured the Balance Sheet of Flumitrens thereby absorbing all outstanding
liabilities while agreeing to finance the ongoing investment program aimed at expanding the system's
capacity (CBTU/BNDES Program)4. Under CBTU, STU-RJ (Superintendency for Rio de Janeiro), highly
depended upon federal subsidies to meet its operating deficits, to service its debt and to undertake
capital investments. While Flumitrens, as well, would continue to depend on external cash infusions, as
part of its own financial restructuring, the State of Rio de Janeiro has made an important decision: to
increase the efficiency of the system by concessioning it to the private sector. The operating subsidies
are, therefore, expected to fall.
2.            From a high of 940 thousand paying passengers per day reached in 1984 (CBTU took
over the system that year), the ridership has continued to drop every year. By 1995, it had dropped by 54
percent to 370 thousand passengers, a decline of 5 percent per year. The paying ridership is further
expected to decline to below 300 mark during 1996 mainly due to capacity constraints. In July 1996,
there were only 74 trains providing the service while more than 200 stood paralyzed due to lack of spare,
parts, accidents, and overhauls. The deficiencies of the system go beyond rolling stock to permanent
way, signaling, and stations. About 17 percent of the revenue is lost to evasion and another amount
estimated to be 5-10 percent is not recovered due to high level of ticket fraud.
Figure 10AI: Paying Daily Ridership
1,400
1,200    ----Historical
|- -  - -Projected
1,000
800
.9-
X'    600 -
400                                                        *'
200
O-    .   6 .' .        -   , - ,-  .    .   .   .    .         
84      86       88       90      92 Years 94       96       98     2002       2
Supported by the Bank Loan 3633-BR



-88 -                                 ANNEX IOA
Table 10-1: Projected Income Statement
1996     1997     199;   1999       2000     2001     2002
Operating Income                  44.5     73.4    111,7    156.1    180.4    216.5    221.7
Woring Expenses                  197.5    195.2    191.2    200.7    212.8    218.4    222.5
Working Ratio                4.44     2.66      1.71    1.29      1.18     1.01     1.00
Non-Operational Income            0.5       0.5    1,1        3.1      5.4      8.7      8.9
Working Cost Coverage         23%      38%               79%       87%     103%     104%
:,.   .. . ......E   i .iERRRi .- -.E
Annual Subsidy                  (152.5)  (121.3)   (78.4)   (41.5)   (27.1)     6.7       8.0
Daily Ridership ('000)            398      523      7        967    1,128    1,367    1,400.
3.            A combination of historically low tariffs and declining ridership led to a gradual erosion of
Flumitrens' earning capacity. With about 134 million trips in 1995, Flumitrens received about US$186
million in operational subsidies that year to cover its working expenditures of US$223 million. .The
resulting working ratio was thus 6.12 and the internally generated revenues were barely enough to cover
16 percent of the working costs. Personnel expenses were responsible for about 85 percent of the
working costs with the parts and materials costing four percent of the working cost . The remainder of the
working cost covered administrative expense, energy cost, and other miscellaneous expenditures.
4.            Since the takeover of the system by the State, Flumitrens has made a strong effort to
reduce its staffing costs. Between 1995 and 1996, about 2,000 employees were let go through various
incentive programs which were financed directly by the State Government. As a result, the salary budget
is expected to decrease by 16 percent between 1995-1996. Nonetheless, the overall working costs is not
expected to go down much as the difference would be picked up by maintenance which had been
ignored until now in order to pay the salaries.
5.             Besides the staff reduction program, the Fluimitrens management is in the process of
taking other steps to rationalize payroll. Extra benefits (e.g., overtime) is expected to be reduced by 10
percent in 1997 and another 25 percent when the concessionaire takes over the system in 1998. The
responsibility for ticket sales in key stations is in the process of being passed to the private sector under
a management contract for provision of ticket salesmen (There are some examples which already exist
on Niteroi line). This is expected to greatly reduce the ticket fraud. However, the railway would have to
begin to raise revenues if it were ever to achieve financial independence. The current investment
progirams directly aim at increasing the system capacity and thus would allow Flumitrens to capture long-
distance commuter demand.
6.            Financial Projections. With the proposed irnprovement and integration of the mass
transit network, which will start by mid-1998, annual traffic is expected to reach in excess of 426 million
passengers by 2001-an increase of more than 217 percent over 1995. The operating revenue is
expected to increase four-fold over the same period to US$210 million compared to US$35 million in
1995. This expected increase in the revenue is brought about by: (a) newly generated ridership due to
increiased system capacity; (b) rationalization of general tariff structure; and (c) integration of Flumitrens
with other transport modes (metro and bus) which would result in about 15 percent of the trips. The bus
routes are expected to be redesigned in order to feed the railway system. The improved Flumitrens is
expetcted to have an advantage of 15-30 minutes over other competitive modes while maintaining below
market tariffs.
Working Costs are cash expenditures that do not include depreciation, deferred expenses, interest charges, and tax.



-89-                                ANNEX 1OA
7.            With increased and enhanced service, tariffs are generally expected to increase in order
to better reflect the true economic value of the system and thus increase the availability of internally
generated funds. However, the proposed increase in average tariff-from US$0.34 in 1996 to US$0.49 in
2001-is chiefly achieved by cutting evasion and fraud. The standard tariff itself is expected to increase
modestly-from US$0.50 in 1996 to US$0.55 in 1988-2002 (in constant 1996 US$)-due largely because
of social reasons. The major factor responsible for high farebox revenues would be an increase in the
ridership. It is important that the integrated tariffs (rail + bus, rail + metro) be competitive with the through
bus tariff in order to have a successful integration of different transport modes.
8.            Operating expenses are expected to increase after a period of slow demand in 1997-
1998. The number of staff, used as a proxy for out-sourcing, is expected to increase as a result. The
staffing estimates are generally considered conservative; it is possible that actual staffing costs
(including out sourcing) are less due to an increase in labor productivity (In the case of the railway
concessions in Argentina, labor productivity increased four-fold). Similarly, expenditure on maintenance
is expected to increase with increased car-km which are expected to double between 1996-2001.
9.           Major Financial Forecast Assumptions. The financial forecast is based on January
1996 values and uses 1995 as the base year. To develop the financial forecast, the following major
assumptions were considered in addition to Flumitrens' past financial performance.
-     Ridership is mainly constrained by capacity. As more trains are put on the system during
1996-2002, ridership is expected to grow: from 398,000 per day in 1996 to 1,400,000 per
day in 2002. Growth in revenues is expected to be above the growth in passengers due
to a drastic reduction in fraud and evasion.
Average tariff is expected to increase in real terms during 1996-2002 from US$0.34 to
US$0.49. This increase is mostly due to: (a) a reduction in the evasion - from 22
percent to 5 percent; (b) a decrease in public service commitments as a percentage of
total ridership; and (c) a small increase in the standard tariff - from US$0.50 to
US$0.55.
*     Private concessionaire is expected to take over the system as of January 1, 1998;
Non-operational income is expected to reach four percent of the operational income by
2001, including income from advertisement. These results are similar to those observed
in other rapid transit systems;
*     Personnel expenses are expected to rise by 3 percent per annum during the projection
period. This is in addition to the increase in personnel cost due to added employment.
*     Energy cost is assumed to vary directly in proportion to car-km during the projection
period.
*     Spare and material cost is expected to increase at 2.25 times more than the change in
car-km to enhance its participation in the working costs. The low level of maintenance
expenditure is the major reason for the lack of system capacity.
*     Staffing numbers were used from the Flumitrens' reorganization study. These numbers
are considered high but were used in the projections as compensation for sourcing out
the services
*     Allowances are expected to be cut by 10 percent in 1997 and another 25 percent in 1998
when the concessionaire takes over the system.



- 90 -                               ANNEX IOA
The financial analysis does not include the cost of 185 additional persons plus their
related operating expenses who will form part of Flumitrens Holding; responsible for
monitoring the Concession. The estimated costs for Flumitrens Holding are in the order
of US$6-8 million per year.
10.          Sensitivity Analysis. The financial forecast is highly dependent on the ridership
projectiions which in turn are based on the availability of train capacity. Given the past financial
constraints faced by CBTU/Flumitrens, the achievement of the financial goals is directly linked to the
ability of the State Government to concession at the agreed date. In the absence of a complete
concession, extensive private sector participation in the operations, management, and maintenance
would be required.
11.          In the worst possible case, in which the State fails to concession the system or attract
major private sector participation, the financial position of Flumitrens is not expected to improve much
over its current performance. On the other hand if there is just a delay in the concession by one year, the
State would be required to pump in an additional US$365 during the forecast period. In this particular
case, the railway is not expected to be profitable (on cash basis) until the year 2004. The biggest
concern, however, is the failure of the ridership to materialize to the levels expected, with or without the
concession. In the case that the projected demand is overstated by 25 percent, the railway would require
an additional US$238 million in operating subsidies.
12.          The railway is, however, expected to benefit frorn a reduction in its employment due to
possible out-sourcing of major services and because of morie efficient use of labor. In this case,
productivity level of labor is 25 percent higher than the forecast, the railway is expected to generate extra
cash of about US$132 million. If the tariffs were also allowed to rise in conjunction with the improvement
is the quality of service, the railway is expected to contribute to the State treasury rather than taking in
external infusions of cash. Results of the Sensitivity Analysis are shown in Table IOA.12.
13.           Financial Rate of Return. The IRR was calculated on the basis of conditions that would
exist in the absence of the proposed project (or the current conditions would continue). In doing so,
certain assumptions were made: the staff reduction program would not progress further and the level of
staff would continue to be at 5,800 which existed in July 1996. Similarly, the farebox revenues would be
lower because of: (a) persistent evasion; (b) lower tariff (at US$0.50); (c) lack of integration among
differenit modes of transport; and (d) lower production capacity. Based on these assumptions, the IRR
was calculated to be 13 percent for an investment return over the seven years; 33 percent if the return
period were increased to 10 years and 35 percent thereafter.



- 91 -                                ANNEX IOA
Table 1 OA.1: Income Statement 1990-1995
(US$ millions January 1996 prices)
1991     1992     1993     1994     1995
OPERATING REVENUE
Full Fare                   24.7     23.1     22.0     28.2     34.3
Transfers                    0.3      0.3      0.3      0.4      0.5
Public Service               1.0      0.9      0.9      1.1       1.6
Total Operating Revenue     26.0     24.3     23.2     29.7     36.4
NON-OPERATING INCOME
Rental & Other                 -      0.6      2.0      1.3      0.5
Advertisement Space            -        -        -        -        -
Total Non-operating Income     -      0.6      2.0      1.3      0.5
Total Income                26.0     24.9     25.2     31.0      36.9
OPERATING EXPENSES
Personnel                  110.1     99.2    158.0    163.1    188.5
Spares and Materials         2.4      2.4      4.0      3.6      9.3
Electricity                 11.2     12.0     13.6     14.7      11.0
Administration/Other        11.5    21.1      26.3     20.0      12.4
Public Service               1.0      0.9      0.9      1.1       1.6
Total Workng Costs         136.1    135.6    202.8    202.5    222.8
Net Working Income           (110.1)  (111.3)  (179.6)  (172.8)  (186.4)
Depreciation              n.a.     n.a.     n.a.     n.a.       35.0
Total Operating Expenses   136.1    135.6    202.8    202.5    257.8
Net Operating Income         (110.1)  (111.3)  (179.6)  (172.8)  (221.4)
Net Income forthe Year       (110.1)  (110.7)  (177.6)  (171.5)  (220.9)
FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Working Ratio               5.24     5.58     8.75     6.81      6.12
Operating Ratio             5.24     5.58     8.75     6.81     7.08
Working Cost Coverage      19.1%    17.9%    11.4%    14.7%    16.3%
Personnel Cost:
% of Total Revenue     0.0%   298.1%   526.8%   425.6%   410.3%
% of Working Costs    80.9%    73.2%    77.9%    80.5%    84.6%



- 92 -                                 ANNEX 10A
Table IOA.2: Annual Ridership 1'190-1995
(US$ Millions in January 1996 Prices)
1991     1992     1993      1994     1995
Daily Traffic ('000)            773      681       628      536       430
Total Passengers (%)
Full Fare                    73%      73%       73%      73%      72%
Transfers                     1%       1%        1%       1%        1%
Gratuitos                     4%       4%       4%        4%       5%
Evasion/Fraud                22%      22%      22%       22%      22%
100%     100%     100%      100%     100%
Annual Traffic (MM)
Full Fare                  176.1    155.2    143.1    122.2       96.9
Transfers                    2.4       2.1      2.0       1.7      1.3
Gratuitos                    9.7      8.5       7.8      6.7       6.4
Evasion/Fraud               53.1     46.8      43.1     36.8      29.5
241.3    212.6    196.0    167.3    134.2
Transport Tariff (USS)
Full Fare                   0.14     0.18      0.21     0.31      0.40
Transfer Fare (rail share)  0.14      0.18     0.21     0.31      0.40
Average Tariff              0.10     0.11      0.11     0.17      0.26



- 93 -                                ANNEX IOA
Table 10A.3: Personnel Costs 1991-1995
(US$ Millions in January 1996 Prices)
1991     1992     1993     1994     1995
Workforce (count)
Maintenance               3,755    3,762    3,713    3,622    3,273
Operations                3,852    3,852    3,703    3,730    3,585
Administration              855      931      909      911      821
Total                8,462    8,545    8,325    8,263    7,679
Base Salary
Maintenance                27.9     28.7     38.2     35.0     39.7
Operations                 28.7     29.1     38.6     36.3     46.6
Administration              8.3      9.0     12.0     10.6      13.3
Total                 65.0     66.9      88.7     82.0     99.6
Allowances
Maintenance                 6.7      7.5     13.0     16.2      19.3
Operations                  6.9     10.0     16.1     20.1     26.2
Administration              0.7      0.7      1.2      1.3       1.8
Total                 65.0      18.3     30.2     37.7     47.3
Benefits
Maintenance                13.4      6.0     16.8     18.6      16.7
Operations                 13.8      6.5     18.0     20.5     20.6
Administration              3.5      1.6      4.3      4.3       4.3
Total                 30.8      14.1     39.1     43.4     41.6
Total Personnel Expense
Maintenance                48.1     42.3     67.9     69.8     75.8
Operations                 49.4     45.6     72.6     77.0      93.4
Administration             12.6     11.3     17.5     16.3      19.3
Total                 110.1     99.2    158.0    163.1    188.5
Cost per Employee (USS)
Maintenance              12,813   11,234   18,295   19,283   23,146
Operations               12,818   11,850   19,604   20,632   26,061
Administration           14,689   12,160   19,235   17,894   23,541
Average              13,005   11,613   18,980   19,739   24,549



- 94 -                                  ANNEX IOA
Table 10A.4: Energy Costs 1991-1995
(US$ Millions in January 1996 Frices)
1991     1992      1993      1994     1995
Car Km                       42.2      37.4     44.6      39.5      34.6
Passenger Kilometers
Total Electric Cost          11.2      12.0     13.6      14.6      11.0



ANNEX 10A
Table 1OA.5: Income Statement 1996-2002
(US$ Millions in January 1996 Prices)
1996     1997      1998      1999      2000     2001      2002
OPERATING REVENUE
Full Fare                    41.7      69.2  .104:6-  144.4    158.7    180.6    185.0
Transfers                     0.5       0.7       2.0       6.8     15.8      28.8      29.5
Public Service                2.3       3.5       5.0.      5.0      5.8       7.0       7.2
TotalOperatingRevenue        44.5      73.4  :1,11.7    156.1    180.4    216.5    221.7
NON-OPERATING INCOME *
Rental & Other                0.5       0.5       0.7'-   1.9        3.2       5.2       5.3
Advertisement Space           -         -         0.4       1.2      2.2       3.5       3.5
Total Non-operating Income    0.5       0.5       :,11     3.1       5.4       8.7       8.9
Total Income                 45.0      73.9         ..12.8  159.3    185.8    225.1    230.5
,- ...'.-:....: -    -:  -
OPERATING EXPENSES
Personnel                   159.3    139.3        , 110.6    116.2    122.0    125.7    129.5
Spares and Materials         11.8      15.9  -,36.2       38.5      41.8      42.1      42.1
Electricity                  11.7      15.7      19.1     20.3      22.0      22.1      22.1
New Contract Work             -         8.4       8.0      8.4       8.8       9.0       9.2
Administration/Other         12.4      12.4     12.4      12.4      12.4      12.4      12.4
Public Service                2.3       3.5       5.0.     5.0       5.8       7.0       7.2
Others                        -         -     - ' ' "  '
Total Working Costs         197.5    195.2    1912       200.7    212.8    218.4    222.5
Net Workng Income              (153.0)    121.8).  (79.)    (44.6)    (32.5)      (1.9)     (0.8)
Depreciation                 62.8      68.6     73.:7,    78.4      82.2      84.1      84.1
Total Operating Expenses    260.3    263.8    2.64,-..   279.2    295.1    302.4    306.6
Net Operating Income           (215.8)   (190.4)   (153.2   (123.1)   (114.7)    (86.0)    (84.9)
NetlncomefortheYear            (215.3)   (189.9) -  ..... (152.1)   (119.9)   (109.3)    (77.3)    (76.1)
FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Annual Subsidy             (152.5)   (121.3)  8.4).   .   (41.5)    (27.1)     6.7       8.0
-   .  .:.::.,.... .
Working Cost Ratio           4.44      2.66:   1 ..71      1.29     1.18      1.01      1.00
Operating Cost Ratio         5.78      3.57       .       1.75      1.59      1.34      1.33
Working Cost Coverage       22.8%     37.9%    59 .0%:   79.3%     87.3%    103.1%    103.6%
Personnel Costs:
% of Total Revenue    353.7%    188.5%  -8.1%        73.0%    65.7%     55.8%     56.2%
% of Working Costs     80.7%     71.4%     57.8      57.9%    57.3%     57.6%     58.2%
Assuming that the concessionaire is given the rights to commercially exploit the stations, trains, and platforms.



-96                                    ANNEX 10A
Table IOA.6: Annual Ridershilp 1996-2002
(US$ Millions in January 1996 Prices)
1996     1997      1998     1999      2000     2001      2002
Daily Traffic ('000)            398       523      720'..    967     1,128    1,367     1,400
Total Passengers (%)
Full Fare                    73%      80%       84%      87%       82%      77%       77%
Transfers                     1%       1%        2%       5%       10%       15%      15%
Gratuitos                     4%       4%        4%       3%        3%       3%        3%
Evasion/Fraud                22%      15%       10%       5%        5%       5%        5%
100%     100%       100%     100%     100%     100%      100%
Annual Traffic (MM)
Full Fare                   90.6    130.5 ,             262.5    288.6    328.4    336.3
Transfers                    1.2       1.6      4,.5    15.1      35.2      64.0     65.5
Gratuitos                    5.0       6.5      9.1       9.1     10.6      12.8     13.1
Evasion/Fraud               27.3      24.5  i:.::-22.7:..:   15.1  17.6     21.3     21.8
124.2    163.2    225.5    301.7    351.9    426.5    436.8
Transport Tariff (USS)                         . ......
Full Fare                   0.46      0.53      0.55     0.55     0.55      0.55     0.55
Transfer Fare               0.95      1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00      1.00
Rail share (45%)       0.43      0.45    0.45,      0.45      0.45     0.45      0.45
Average Tariff              0.34      0.43      0.47     0.50     0.50      0.49     0.49



97 -                                   ANNEX iOA
Table 10A.7: Personnel Costs 1996-2002
(US$ Millions in January 1996 Prices)
1996      1997      1998      1999      2000       2001      2002
Workforce (count)
Maintenance                 2,716      2,241     2117      2,197     2,276      2,276     2,276
Operabons                   2,780      2,733  .            2,093     2,104      2,104     2,104
Administrabon*                821       493        140       140       140       140        140
Total                   6,317     5,467     4,338     4,429      4,520     4,520     4,520
Base Salary                                     -
Maintenance                  34.0       28.9      2-.8I.    30.0      32.0       33.0      34.0
Operations                   37.2       37.7      29.6      30.6      31.7       32.7      33.7
Administration                13.7       8.4       2.5       2.5       2.6        2.7       2.8
Total                    84.9      75.0   .  .1        63.2       66.4      68.4      70.4
Allowances                                      ...
Maintenance                  16.5       12.6     '11-.0     11.8      12.6       13.0      13.4
Operabons                    20.9       19.0      13.4      13.9      14.4       14.9      15.3
Administration                 1.9       1.0 '      .3       0.3       0.3        0.3       0.3
Total                    39.3      32.7    '24.8'-.    26.0      27.3       28.1      29.0
Benefits
Maintenance                  14.3       12.1  ..  11.8      12.6      13.5       13.9      14.3
Operatons                    16.5       16.7  -1S           13.6      14.0       14.5      14.9
Administration                4.4        2.7                 0.8       0.8        0.9       0.9
Total                    35.2      31.6  .    5.7      27.0      28.4       29.2      30.1
Total Personnel Expense
Maintenance                  64.8       53.6      51.0.     54.5      58.1      59.9       61.7
Operabons                    74.6       73.4    `561        58.1      60.2      62.0       63.8
Administration                19.9      12.2  .-     .       3.6       3.8        3.9       4.0
Total                   159.3     139.3     110.6     116.2      122.0     125.7     129.5
Cost per Employee (US$)
Maintenance               23,840.0  23,929.9  24;06'&2"  24,790.3  25,534.0  26,300.0  27,089.0
Operations                26,842.4  26,873.2  2861I5   27,770.4  28,603.5  29,461.6  30,345.4
Administration            24,247.2  24,740.7  25,288.1  26,024.1  26,804.8  27,609.0  28,437.2
Average              25,216.7  25,474.4  ' 25A94.8       26,237.2  27,002.2  27,812.2  28,646.6
* The analysis does not include 185 persons which will be obsorbed by Flumitrens Holding as part of its functions as the monitoring
agency under the concessions. The operating costs for Flumitrens Holding are estimated to be between US$648 million.



-98 -                                 ANNEX IOA
Table IOA.8: Energy Costs 1996-2002
(US$ Millions in January 1996 Prices)
1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001      2002
Car Km                       37       50        ,       64        69       70       70
Pass-km
Total ElectricCost(US$)    11.7      15.7     19.1     20.3     22.0     22.1      22.1



99-                                      ANNEX 10A
Table 10A.9: Balance Sheet 1996-2002
(US$ Millions in January 1996 Prices)
1996     1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      2002
ASSETS
Current Assets
Fund for Capital Replacement                           :    .   ' -       -         6.7      14.8
Other Current Assets              24.0      24.0 .    4.       24.0      24.0      24.0      24.0
24.0     24.     0           24.0      24.0      30.7      38.8
Permanent Assets
Fixed Assets                   1,604.9 1,781.6         .1, .2,085.9   2,199.3   2,250.5   2,252.3
Less: Acc. Depreciation        (97.8)   (166.4)   ((318.5)   (400.8)   (484.9)   (569.0)
1,507.1   1,615.2     '      1,767.3   1,798.5   1,765.6   1,683.3
Work in Progress                 176.6    159.9       .       113.4      51.2       1.8
Total PermanentAssets     1,683.8   1,775.1       .    1,880.8   1,849.7   1,767.4   1,683.3
Total Assets                       1,707.8   1,799.1 . '    90   1,904.8   1,873.7   1,798.2   1,722.1
..... . ..
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liability                     33.3     33.3      3' '  33.3          33.3      33.3      33.3
Equity
Capital                        1,539.1   1,539.1  :          1,539.1   1,539.1   1,539.1   1,539.1
Additional Contribution          396.8    677.9       '.: 1,055.6   1,133.9   1,135.7   1,135.7
Accumulated Deficit             (261.4)   (451.3) -    4)    (723.3)   (832.6)   (909.9)   (986.0)
1,674.5  ...... 1,765.8  .   ' i,w. 1,871 .4   1,840.4   1,764.9   1,688.8
.... .. ...... 1,
Total Llabiltltes and Equ4w      77707.8   1,799.1 .- 1B    1,904.8   1,873.7   1,798.2   1,722.1



-100-                                       ANNEX IOA
Table 10A.10: Sources and Applications of Funds 1996-2002
(US$ Millions in January 1996 Prices)
1996      1997      1998      1999       2000      2001      2002
SOURCES
Internal Cash Generation
Net Operating Income             (215.8)   (190.4)   (153.2)}  (123.1)   (114.7)    (86.0)    (84.9)
Net Non-Operating Income            0.5        0.5       '1.1      3.1       5.4        8.7       8.9
Depreciation                       62.8      68.6       73.7      78.4      82.2      84.1       84.1
Total from Operations            (152.5)   (121.3)               (41.5)    (27.1)       6.7       8.0
.4f'fEi00 .  fEf. .....   ..   . id
Other Sources
Capital Subsides
CBTU Program                 169.1      52.1       12.2      -          -         -         -
State Reform Program          4.9       40.0       cL8       -         -          -         -
Mass Transit Program          2.7       67.8     131.4     113.4      51.2        1.8
176.6     159.9     144.4     113.4       51.2       1.8       -
Operating Subsidy                 152.5     121.3       78 .4     41.5      27.1
Total Sourcesof Funds                 176.6      159.9 -Xl-`;0444,4::;:  113.4  51.2        8.5       8.0
APPLICATIONS
Investment Program                                         ..... ....
CBTU Program                      169.1      52.1       12.        -         -         -          -
State Reform Program                4.9      40.  0      0.8       -         -         -          -
Mass Transit Program                2.7      67.8      131A      113.4      51.2        1.8
176.6     159.9     1.44.4.    113.4      51.2       1.8
Change in Working Capital                                          -        -               6.7       8.0
Total Applications of Funds           176.6      159.9    144.4      113.4      51.2        8.5       8.0



-101-                                    ANNEX 10A
Table IOA.1 1: Depreciation Estimate 1996-2002
(US$ Millions in January 1996 Prices)
1996     1997      1998     1999      2000     2001     Total
INVESTMENT PROGRAM
CBTU Project (IBRDIBNDES)
Civil works                      35.8      32.0     12.2       -        -         -       80.0
Permanent Way                    20.5       1.8        -       -        -         -       22.3
Electric Control Center                     -
Substations                                 -
Aerial Network                    1.2       --                          -         -         1.2
Signaling                         -
Telecomunicatons                  3.3       0.6      0.0       -        -                   3.9
Rolling Stock                    94.3      13.0      0.0       -        -         -      107.3
Workshop                         14.0       4.9                                            18.9
169.1     52.1     12.2       -        -         -       233.4
State Reform Project
Civil works                       0.4       3.6      0.2       -        -         -        4.2
Permanent Way                     1.2       2.0                -        -         -        3.3
Electric Control Center           -         -        -         -        -         -        -
Substations                       0.8       4.3  -    :-       -        -                  5.0
Aerial Network                    0.5       2.2       0.6      -        -         -         3.3
Signaling                                   0.3              -      -                      0.3
Telecomunicatons                  -         -       -          -        -         -        -
Rolling Stock                     2.0      27.6       -        -        -         -       29.6
Workshop
4.9     40.0       0.8      -        -         -        45.7
Mass Transit Project
Civil works                       -        14.7     13.8      10.2      2.4       1.8     42.9
Permanent Way                     -         0.2      0.5       -        -         -        0.6
Electric Control Center                     -    -    -        5.6      5.8       -       11.4
Substations                       -         3.2      4.9       -        -         -         8.2
Aerial Work                       -         4.5   .5.0         -        -         -         9.6
Signaling                         2.7      12.2 --11.3         3.5      0.4       -       30.1
Telecomunications                 -         4.9      2.5       -        -         -        7.4
Rolling Stock                     -        28.1    :93.3      94.1     38.7       -      254.1
Workshop                                                                3.9                3.9
2.7     67.8   - 131.4    113.4      51.2      1.8    368.2
DEPRECIATION
Life (Yrs)
Civil works            50         0.7       1.7      2.3       2.5      2.5       2.5     12.2
Permanent Way          30         0.7       0.9      0.9       0.9      0.9       0.9      5.1
Electric Control Center    20     -         -       -          0.3      0.6       0.6      1.4
Substations            40         0.0       0.2      0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3      1.5
Aerial Work            25         0.1       0.3      0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6      2.6
Signaling              20         0.1       0.8     1i.3       1.5      1.5       1.5      6.8
Telecomunications      15         0.2       0.6      0.8-      0.8      0.8       0.8      3.8
Rolling Stock          30         3.2       5.5      8.6      11.7     13.0      13.0     55.1
Workshop               20         0.7       0.9      0.9       0.9      1.1       1.1      5.8
5.8     10.9      15.6     19.4     21.3      21.3      94.4
Existing Net Assets    25         62.8     62.8      62.8     62.8      62.8     62.8      62.8
NewAssets (Lagged)                          5.8    - 10.9.    15.6      19.4     21.3      21.3
Total                       62.8      68.6     73.7      78.4      82.2     84.1      84.1



-102 -                                    ANNEX 1 OA
Table 10A.12: Sensitvity Analysis
(US$ Millions in January 1996 Pnces)
1996     1997     1998     1999      2000     2001     2002
Base Case
As torecast        Ridership     398      523       726      967    1,128    1,367    1,400
('000)
Revenues    45.0      73.9    112.8    159.3    185.8    225.1    230.5
Expenses    197.5    195.2    191.2    200.7    212.8    218.4    222.5
Subsidy    (152.5)  (121.3)   (78.4)   (41.5)   (27.1)      6.7      8.0
Additional Requirement:
Rldershlip less by 25%
Daily ridership is 25%  Ridership  398    392      545       725      846    1,025    1,050
belkw estimates
starfing in 1997   Revenues    45.0       55.6     84.6    119.4    139.3    168.8    172.9
Expenses    197.5    194.3    189.9    199.5    211.4    216.6    220.7
Subsidy    (152.5)  (138.7)  (105.3)   (80.1)   (72.1)   (47.8)   (47.8)
Additional Requirement: 
Low Ridership
Daily rdership is up by   Ridership  398  498      622       653      686      720      756
25% in 1997/98 over 1996;
thereaftergrowth is5%    Revenues    45.0  70.3    96.6    107.5    112.9    118.5    124.5
Expenses    197.5    195.0    190.5    199.1    210.6    215.0    219.2
Subsidy    (152.5)  (124.7)   (93.9)   (91.6)   (97.6)   (96.5)   (94.7)
Additional Requirement:
Fall to Concession
ridership 50% of forecast Ridership  398  392      363       484      564      684       700
durihg 1998-2002; Non-
Operating Income that of Revenues    45.0  55.6    53.2     70.3     81.0      97.0     99.3
1996; Staffing at the  Expenses    197.5    202.3    227.9    236.2    246.5    252.5    257.7
level of 7/1996 (5,800);  Subsidy    (152.5)  (146.8)  (174.6)  (165.9)  (165.5)  (155.5)  (158.4)
Evasion/Fraud=15%                                             Additional Requirement:
One Year Delay In Concession
ridership 75% of forecast Ridership  398  392      363       523      726      967    1,128
in 1997; 50% in 1998;
thereafter lagged by two  Revenues    45.0  55.6   53.2     86.1    119.6    159.2    185.8
year; Evasion=15% in   Expenses    197.5    202.3    227.9    198.5    210.8    216.3    221.1
1997-98;Staffingin  Subsidy    (152.5)  (146.8)  (174.6)  (112.3)   (91.2)   (57.1)   (35.3)
1997-98 = 5,800                                               Additional Requirement:   M
Better than Forecast
Labor productivity high:   Ridership  398  523     726       967    1,128    1,367    1,400
staff = 3,500; salary
competltivewith market  Revenues    45.0  73.9    112.8    159.3    185.8    225.1    230.5
Expenses    197.5    195.2    169.5    176.0    184.9    189.6    192.9
Subsidy    (152.5)  (121.3)   (56.7)   (16.8)     0.9      35.5     37.7
Extra Cash:
Higher Tariffs
Labor productivity high:   Ridership  398  523     726       967    1,128    1,367    1,400
staff 3,500; Tariff =600
in 1998; 750 theafter;    Revenues    45.0  73.9    123.1    216.4    251.5    303.6    310.9
integratedtariff= 110    Expenses    197.5    195.2    170.0    177.9    187.0    192.2    195.5
and 1:250 respectively.   Subsidy    (152.5)  (121.3)   (46.9)    38.5  64.4    111.4    115.4
Extra Cash:



-103 -                                   ANNEX 10A
Table 10A.13: Financial Rate of Retum
(US$ Millions in January 1996 Prices)
1996     1997     1998     1999      2000     2001     2002
With Project
As forecast        Ridership     398      523       726      967    1,128    1,367    1,400
('000)
Revenues    45.0      73.9    112.8    159.3.   185.8    225.1    230.5
Expenses    197.5    195.2    191.2    200.7    212.8    218.4    222.5
Subsidy    (152.5)  (121.3)   (78.4)   (41.5)   (27.1)      6.7      8.0
Without Project
Low Ridership      Ridership     398      523      726       885      885      885       885
Loss of non-oper. income
decreaseincar-km   Revenues    45.0       69.8     96.7    117.7    117.7    117.7    117.7
high staffing cost  Expenses    197.5    197.2    223.1    227.1    231.7    236.4    241.2
lowertariff        Subsidy    (152.5)  (127.5)  (126.4)  (109.4)  (114.0)  (118.7)  (123.5)
Savings in Operating Subsidy         -        6.2      48.0     67.9     86.9    125.4    131.6
Investment Program                  (2.7)   (67.8)  (131.4)  (113.4)   (51.2)    (1.8)       -
Net Benefits                    (2.7)   (61.6)   (83.3)   (45.5)    35.7    123.6    131.6
7-Yr    10-Yr    12-Yr    15-Yr
FIRR               13%      33%       35%      35%



-104 -                                 ANNEX 10B
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO MASS TRANSIT PROJECT
ANNEX IOB
STATE FINANCES
1.            Program Seffing. The present administration, w/hich took office on January 1, 1995,
inheritecl a difficult financial situation, with large commitments to personnel, a heavy debt burden and a
major loss-making bank. The state's overextended civil service consumed 84 percent of state revenues
in 1995. State debt, excluding the liabilities of the state bank, totaled Rs.$7.3 billion, equal to 1.4 times
state revenues (all values are expressed in prices of December 1996). Of this, 70 percent consisted of
high-cost state bonds, which bore a real annual interest rate of 33 percent in 1995. The administration
responded by freezing hiring, cutting investments and taking advantage of the federal govemment's
willingness to permit interest on state bonds to be capitalized. As a result, in 1996, the state was
successlul in holding personnel costs to their 1995 level (as a percent of revenues) and maintaining
investment spending at a minimal seven percent of revenues. The state's debt stock, however,
continued to grow. Due to the capitalization of unpaid interest on state bonds, new borrowing to finance
arrears to personnel, and growth in the stock of arrears themselves, the state's total stock of debt
increased to Rs.$8.3 billion by the end of 1996.
2.            The state's recent debt agreement with the federal government (whose protocol was
initialed in January 1997) particularly affected its stock of debt and its prospects in fiscal improvement.
Under the agreement, the state's bond debt, along with certain other existing contractual debts, will be
transfomed into a 30 year debt to the federal treasury. As part of the agreement, however, the state is
required to acknowledge Rs.$6.3 billion in liabilities arising from its ownership of the state bank Banco
do Estado do Rio de Janeiro (BANERJ). This will be included in the package of refinanced debt, and will
roughly double the amount of outstanding state contractual and bonded debt. Under the agreement, the
state is required to make an upfront transfer of assets to the federal government, which will be partly
used to reduce the initial stock of debt. The state estimates the value of assets to be transferred (net of
the amount the state can use to service debt) at Rs.$2.0 billion. Even if this valuation prevails, the state's
total debt will grow to Rs.$13 billion.
3.            The interest rate on the refinanced debt will range from six percent to 7.5 percent
depending on the ultimate valuation of the assets transferred by the state. Even at 7.5 percent, this
represents a substantial drop in the state's average cost of funds. In terms of its impact on debt service,
however, it is not large enough to offset the growth in the stock of debt due to the incorporation of
BANERJ liabilities.
4.            Debt service on the refinanced debt, along with debt service from earlier reschedulings,
will be subject to a debt service cap of 13 percent of net recurrent revenues. Due to transitional clauses
in the debt agreement, the effective debt ceiling in 1997 will be about ten percent of revenues, rising to
11.5 percent of revenues in 1998. The stock of debt is therefore expected to grow, due to the
capitalization of debt service above the 13 percent ceiling. At the same time, arrears are expected to
increase. Even with the 13 percent ceiling, the state will be required to increase its cash outlays for debt
service. Given the rigidity of its other spending obligations, the state is likely to finance this through
increased arrears.
5.            The project will also monitor the state's investment program and fiscal performance
during the! disbursement period. This is not designed to induce improvement in the state's fiscal
situation. As noted earlier, the inability of the federal-state debt negotiations to produce a sustainable
workout6 renders the objective of state fiscal recovery temporarily nmoot. The intent of fiscal monitoring
e As seen in Table I OB-2, due to the model design, the debt:revenue ratio for 1996 already reflects the state-federal governments
debt deal concluded on January 15,1997 (i.e., the 1996 debt:revenue ratio is calculated as the stock of debt as of December 31,
1996, divided by revenues in 1996.



- 105 -                                 ANNEX IOB
is merely to permit the Bank to halt disbursements of project funds in the event that the state engages in
reckless fiscal behavior.
6.             Two sets of fiscal indicators will be      Table 106.1 Program of Major Investments, 1997
monitored. The first is the size and quality of the state's  (Rs.$ Million of Jan 1,1997  financing
investment program. Here, the intent is to enable the                               loan   state
Bank to halt disbursements if the state undertakes  METRO                               220 
major capital works whose lack of economic or social  BAIA GUANABARA                           24
justification violates the overall objectives of the project.                            60    2
To implement this condition, the state and the Bank  BAIXADAVIVA                        60      6
have reached agreement on a list of major investments  PET (Mass transit)               51    51
to be undertaken during 1997, and the proportions of  Prosanear, Promoradia,             38     -
those projects that will be financed from debt and from   Other major investments             100
the state's own resources. The list of major projects  Total                            603   181
and their financing sources is shown in the table below.
The state's compliance with this program will be a condition of disbursement for the time slice of
January-June 1998 and for the time slice related to the water and sanitation reforms.
7.             The second set of fiscal indicators refers to the state's overall fiscal performance. While
little improvement in the state's fiscal situation is expected, this provision will permit the Bank to halt
disbursements if the state engages in actions that result in substantial fiscal deterioration. To implement
this provision, the Bank and the government have agreed on a 'most likely" fiscal prognosis for the
state, based on a detailed examination of the factors that will affect each of the major items of receipts
and expenditures: GDP growth, tax effort, the number and salaries of personnel, investment spending,
and likely receipts from privatization and new borrowing. These have been incorporated into a detailed
fiscal projection for 1997. To facilitate supervision, the Bank and the government have agreed to use
two summary indicators as measures of fiscal performance:  the operational surplus (deficit)7 as a
percent of revenue, and the ratio of the stock of debte to revenue.  Based on fairly optimistic
assumptions--e.g., that (a) GDP will grow 4 percent; (b) tax effort will increase 3 percent; (c) total
personnel costs will drop three percent; and (d) investment spending will be largely limited to the major
projects cited in table 3.1--the target for the operational deficit in 1997 was fixed at 35 percent of net
revenues. The target for the debt stock:revenue measure was fixed at 2.85:1.
8.             To place these results in perspective, the fiscal projection was extended through the year
2002. As shown in Table IOB-2, the fiscal outlook for the state is unpromising. While the state would
achieve a primary surplus in 1999, debt service on contractual debt would remain high--at about 25
percent of revenues. As a result, the operational deficit would decline only slowly, reaching -12 percent
of revenues in 2002. As much of state's debt service would be deferred under the debt service ceiling,
the resulting accumulation of deferred interest would slow the rate of decline in the stock of contractual
debt. In 2002, the stock of contractual debt would be 224 percent of net revenues.
9.             Arrears are also expected to grow. The combination of stubbomly high personnel costs
and undeferrable debt service produced a cash flow deficit equal to five percent of revenues in 1996.
Projected growth in investment spending in 1997 and 1998 wili widen the gap. The accumulation of
arrears (including the capitalization of interest on arrears) is projected to produce a total debt stock equal
to 291 percent of revenue in 2002.
10.           It should be emphasized that projections for the outer years are extremely speculative.
It is particularly likely that the state will be forced to find a means to balance receipts and expenditures
7   The operational surplus (deficit) is defined as net current revenues, less the sum of (a) accrued interest obligations (including
deferred interest), (b) other recurrent expenditures, and (c) capital expenditures, excluding amortization but including capital works
financed from privatization or borrowing.
8   Debt includes contractual debt (including debt refinanced under the recent debt agreement) and any net increase in arrears from
January 1, 1996. Debt is measured as at December 31, 1997.



- 106 -                                        ANNEX IOB
well before 2002, either through cuts in personnel costs, increases in tax revenues, or further
adjustments in debt service obligations to the federal government. The feasibility of such tactics will
depend upon changes in the Federal Constitution which are still under debate.
Table I OB-2 Fiscal Indicators
1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002
Rio de Janeiro
Growth of revenue                          8%      7%      2%     7%      7%     7%      7%
Personnel as % revenue            84%    85%    77%    74%    79%    78%    75%    72%
Capital spending as % revenue      6%      9%    19%    17%       3%      5%      5%     5%
Debt service on contractual debt  28%    26%    27%    26%    25%    24%    23%    22%
of which financed by capitalization    23%    17%    12%    10%  9%      8%     7%      6%
Total debt service as % revenue   28%    26%    28%    27%    26%    26%    26%    26%
Prmary deficit as % revenue      -1 %*    -8%   -10%    -5%       4%      3%      6%     9%
Operational deficit as % revenue  -28%   -30%   -32%   -27%   -18%   -19%   -16%   -12S
Unfunded cash flow deficit (arrears)    -3%    -5%    -7%   -12%   -14%   -16%   -13%   -11%
Stock of debt (EOY) as % revenue    144%   271    282%  304%   304%   303%   299%   291%
Stock of contractual debt        144%1 266%   270%   2S0%   267%   253%   239%   224%



-107                                ANNEX 11
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO MASS TRANSIT PROJECT
ANNEX 11
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE, MONITORING, EVALUATION
AND SUPERVISION PLAN
A. Project Implementation Schedule
1.           The implementation schedule for individual components are shown in Annex 8. Those
schedules and the detailed cost tables of Annex 8 provide the basis for project monitoring and for the
disbursement profile.
2.           Implementation Monitoring. Flumitrens will monitor compliance with the individual
implementation schedules by defining target dates for key actions. The target dates for key actions for
the first two years of the project (to about mid-1997) are shown in the Action Plan in this Annex. In
November of each year Flumitrens will prepare, with the agreement of the Bank, a similar action plan for
the following year of implementation, and so on throughout the life of the project. In the event of delays,
Flumitrens will be responsible for identification of the constraints and for devising and executing policies
to resolve problems.
3.           Financial progress will be monitored by Flumitrens in the same manner as
implementation progress. Estimates of costs of Part A have been made but final costs will be dependent
on consultants' final engineering designs and on bid prices (for equipment etc.). Thus, it will be the
responsibility of Flumitrens to update cost schedules as contracts and bids are finalized and to monitor
financial progress in relation to the updated schedules.
4.           Flumitrens will report on both implementation and financial progress in the biannual
progress reports.
S.           Evaluation of Part A of the project will attempt to determine the extent to which original
construction schedules and costs are respected.
B. Monitoring and Evaluation of Project Components
6.           Monitoring would identify the physical, institutional and financial status of each
subproject component, as appropriate, on a periodic basis. The aim would be to identify implementation
problems and the extent of deviation from the targets proposed at appraisal. The results of the
monitoring program (the comparison of achieved performance with appraisal targets) will be presented in
the biannual Progress Reports prepared and coordinated by Flumitrens. The results of each
subcomponent monitoring program will provide the basis and information for implementing agencies to
prepare measures and actions to resolve implementation problems, if any, and at the same time, to
update project costs, disbursement and implementation schedules if necessary. Monitoring indicators to
be employed will vary by type of component but the general guidelines are set out in the following
paragraphs.
7.           The general guidelines given below would be followed:
(a)   each implementing agency would prepare, as part of its component preparation
report, an implementation schedule which sets out target dates for key actions
for physical works, equipment supply and institutional components. Where
components are not fully prepared at appraisal, it would be a condition of their
subsequent inclusion that an implementation schedule be prepared as an
integral part of the component;



-108                                ANNEX 11
(b)   for physical works (and equipment) progress the implementation schedule will
define target dates (to the nearest quarter) for the start and finish of key actions
involved in the implementation of physical works (and supply of equipment).
Thus indicators are likely to include:
(i)    start/finish dates for final engineering design and documents for works
(or equipment);
(ii)    date of issue of bid documents;
(iii)   date of contract signature; and
(iv)   start/finish dates for works (or supply of equipment).
(c)   for financial performance since works (or supply of equipment) are likely to
extend over some time, the component implementation schedule will also be
required to give target "percentage completed" by quarter. Thus target
expenditures can be estimated and will be used to monitor financial
(disbursement) performance on a quarterly basis;
(d)   for institutional measures (technical assistance, training and studies), the
monitoring targets will be the progress reports and the dates of completion
indicated in the implementation plan of Annex 7; and
(e)    monitoring of property values in the area of influence of the Flumitrens before,
during and after construction.
8.           Ex-post evaluation would be aimed at determining the effectiveness and efficiency of
measures in meeting the objectives determined at appraisal. In the event that objectives are not met and
previously anticipated improvements in performance are not achieved, the data would be used: (a) to
identify wvhy components had not been fully successful; and (b) to modify future components proposed
for subsequent implementation which were based on similar premises. Furthermore, the ex-post
evaluatic,n would be used as a major input to the Project Implementation Report.
9.           Quantitative performance targets have been established for Flumitrens and are shown
below.
Table 11.1: Quantitative Performance Tagets for Flumitrens
Target                    1996  1997 1998 1999 2000  2001  2002
Percentage of Flumntrens' stations with integrated  0%  -       5%   5%   20%   20%
bus/rail and metro/rail lines
Flumitrens' share of urban transport trips     4%   4A,  4%   8%   9%   10%   10%
Total number of paying passengers carried per day  295   424  624  890  1,038 1,258 1,288
(1 000's olf linked trips)
Availability of Rolling Stock (train fleet in operation  44%   58%to 72%  81%  89%   90%   90%
divided by total train fleet)
Average interval between trains at peak hour in  15.0  13.0  10.0  8.5  6.0   6.0   6.0
minutes (headway)
Staff costs as a % of total revenue           354%  188%  98%  73%  66%   56%   56%
Revenue cost coverage                         23%   38%X6 59%  79%  87%  103%  104%
Maintenarice costs as a % of total working costs  6%    8%   19%  19%  20%   19%   19%
Qperati22.subsidy (USS millions)               12)(21) (78.. (41)  (7)   7         8
10.          The qualitative monitoring indicators will be: (a) the date of the establishment of the
Regional Transport Coordination Commission as compared to the agreed date in Section IV of the main
text and its effectiveness in meeting the basic objectives described in Annex 3; (b) date of submission of
a financing mechanisms draft law to the SRJ legislature and an action plan to carry out its



-109                                  ANNEX 11
recommendations which should take place before the Mid-term Project Review; (c) the pace of the
implementation of the intermunicipal bus integration plan after with Flumitrens measured by the
additional number of lines integrated at stations; and (d) the results of a train user survey, to be carried
out every two years after effectiveness until project completion, by an independent firm, to gauge the
satisfaction of the users with the level of service offered by the system. All the above qualitative
monitoring indicators would be rated on a scale of 0 (unsatisfactory) to 5 (excellent).
11.           Bank Supervision. The main emphasis during the initial project phase would be to: (a)
review the development and implementation of the project monitoring system; (b) make certain that
Flumitrens' staff is familiar with Bank procurement guidelines, Bank disbursement procedures (i.e.,
Special Account transactions), and Bank independent auditing requirements; (c) ensure that all steps
towards decentralization of Flumitrens to the State are being taken; and (d) help Flumitrens/AMTU's
development of a strategy to properly promote the project to the RJMR public. Many of these items
would be addressed in the first supervision mission scheduled for January 1997. During project
implementation, the supervision missions would need to conduct the following activities in the field on a
regular basis in addition to monitoring project progress: (a) review a sampling of contract bids and
awards; (b) inspect disbursement procedures and record-keeping; (c) inspect adequacy of supervision
and monitoring of the implementing agencies and respective subprojects; (d) review performance and
accuracy of the Project Monitoring System; and (e) complete a Mid-term Review 24 months after project
effectiveness to examine the progress made, especially in the Integrated Land Use, Urban Transport,
and Air Quality Strategy and policies to assess the relevance of project objectives and actions, and
recommend appropriate revisions (as needed). Supervision missions in the field should attempt to visit
all the agencies dealing with the project during each trip. A preliminary schedule of supervision missions
including key activities is indicated in the table on the following page. The key activities shown are in
addition to the regular supervision needs, which include a review of: (a) progress reports; (b)
procurement issues; (c) disbursements; (d) Project Implementation Plan; (e) project costs; (f) yearly
independent audits; (g) correspondence; and (h) unforeseen issues.
12.          The Bank project team  would consist of the Task Manager (Sr. Transport Plan-
ner/Economist), a Railway Engineer and a Financial Analyst. Consultants are anticipated to be required
on a short-term basis to assist in specific areas, such as analysis of monitoring system, and review of
institutional development programs. Supervision requirements for the project are expected to be high
due to: (a) the complexity of the institutional arrangements; (b) the anticipated large number of small-
scale subprojects; and (c) the institutional weakness of Flumitrens (requiring significant training and
technical assistance). Supervision requirements are anticipated to be about 20 staff-weeks during the
first year and about 12-15 staff-weeks thereafter. A summary of key inputs is provided on the following
page.
13.           Borrower's Contribution to Supervision. Flumitrens is expected to: (a) be responsible
for project monitoring and coordination, to keep the Project Monitoring System accurate, and to follow-up
and address all issues which are "signaled" by the system; (b) be responsible for properly managing all
procurement and disbursement considerations, keeping procurement and disbursement records up to
date; (c) prepare progress reports in June and December of each year; and (d) be responsible for
coordinating arrangements for the Bank supervision missions.



-110                                  ANNEX 11
-                   Table 11.2: Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
Approx.                  Key Activities                      Expected Skill         Staff
Dates                                                        Requirements         Weeks
8/97     Supervision Mission-Launching Seminar- (i)     Transport Planner            4.5
Monitoring system; (ii) special coordinating   Railway Specialist
arrangements devised among several sectoral    Procurement Specialist
agencies participating in project implementation; and Disbursement Specialist
(iii) existing financial and accounting
systems/procedures)
9/97     Supervision Mission                            Transport Planner            5.0
(Project launch workshop, review Project Monitoring  Disbursement Specialist
System, selection of consultants)              Procurement Specialist
10/97    Supervision Mission                            Transport Plan-              5.5
(Review Project Monitoring System, concession  ner/Economist
process, institutional development including training  Railway Engineer
programs)
12/97    Supervision Mission                            Transport Planner            8.0
(Discuss results of concession process)       PRailway and Metro Engi-
iieer
3/98     Supervision Mission                            Transport Planner            7.0
(Concentrate on subprojects: (i) contracts; (ii)  Railway and metro Engi-
eligibility/limits; (iii) costs; and (iv) status)  rieer
6/98     Supervision Mission             .Transport Planner                          8.0
(Concentrate on disbursements, financial status,  Railway and metro Engi-
Institutional development, public transport studies)   neer
F:inancial Analyst
12/98    Supervision Mission                            T-ransport Planner           7.0
(Concentrate on subproject status and          Railway and metro Engi-
implementation of recommendations of public    nieer
transport study, review status of concession, prepare
Mid-Term Review)
1999    Two Supervision Missions                        Transport Planner           13.0
Railway and metro Engi-
neer
Consultant
2000    Three Supervision Missions                      Transport Planner           12.0
Railway and metro Engi-
neer
Consultant
2001 to  Two Supervision Missions-Loan Closing          Transport Planner           12.0
2002    (Project closing, final negotiations for follow-up loan) Railway and metro Engi-
n,eer



-111                                          ANNEX 11
E. Action Plan
14.             The Action Plan is based on the assumption that Negotiations will be held in December
1996, Board Presentation in February 1997, and Effectiveness in April 1997. The Action Plan represents
key actions to be taken in the first year. The second year action plan will be developed in June 1997.
Table 11.3: FY96-98 Action Plan
Action                              Date            Status      Observations
..... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Submission to Bank draft of precursor of            April 30, 1996       Done    "Convenio" was
"AMTU-RJ"                                                                          signed with MRJ
Confirmation of engineering designs/costs for    April 30, 1996          Done
first year
Submission of draft financing mechanisms            April 30,1996        Done
law
Completion of CBTU financed study on               March 31, 1997        Done
options for concessions
Submission of PMIG curricula vitae                 November 1997         Done
Submission of Contract Program for 1997-           November 1997
1998
Concession of Flumitrens                            January 1998



Table 11.4: Project I plementation Schedule
1997            1998      |     1999             2000            2001
I 1 1lll  11 IIII II IV         I 11 IIII IV I I 11 tIIIiI  I  I 11 {III  IV
1.1 -STATIONS
1-CIVIL WORKSr                                                       i
MODERNIZATION
* Triagem, D, Pedro II (2a Fase) and
Del Castilho PET - 01
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Works
' Santa Cruz and B. Monte PET - 02
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Works
* Ramos and Gramacho PET - 03
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Works
 Meier and Eng. Novo PET -04
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Works



Table 11.4: Project Implementation Schedul  Con't_
1997            1998            1999             2000            2001
._________    I I11 IIIIV   I I11 IIIIV    I11  III  IV   I 11 IIIIV    I I11 IIITIV
1.1 - STATIONS
MODERNIZATION
* Penha and Bonsucesso PET - 05
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Works
* D. Pedro II PET - 06
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Works
CONSTRUCTION
* Sao Crist6vao - PET-07
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Works
1.2 - FENCES AND PED. OVERPASS
PET-8o
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Works



Table 11.4: Project Im lementation Schedule (Con't)
___ __1997            1998             1 999           2000             2001
I        ,1II I IV   I  lll 11  III IV   I   11 III  IlV   I   11 IIIIVII'V
2 - PERMANENT WAY
* Installation of Sleepers - PET-09
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Works
*Superstructure (GMO-SRA) PET - 11
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Works
3- SYSTEMS
3.1 - ELECTRIFICATION
* TRANSMISSION LINES
* B. Maua - Saracuruna - PET - 12
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works
* D. Pedro II - B. Roxo (4,4 kV)
PET -13
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works
* Masts, Contact Wire and Carrying
Cable Implementation PET - 14
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works



Table 11.4: Project Implementation Schedule (Conut_
1997            1998            1999             2000            2001
1  11   _111   IV  I  11  III  IV  I     11    II11I    IV  I     1 1 1  III   IV  I     1 1 1  III    IV
* D. Pedro 11 - Mangueira 44 kV
Circuit # 2 PET - 15
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works
3.2 - SUBSTATION
* Deodoro and Benfica - PET - 16
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works
* Nil6polis/Saracuruna - PET - 17
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works
* Earthing System Implementation
PET-18
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
SupplyNVorks               _     .     . _                        _



Table 11.4: Project Implementation Schedule (Con't)
1997            1998             1999            2000             2001
I         IV   I    I   1I    IV I  1    I  11      I   111  I     I     I I   IV
3.3 - SIGNALLING                             T   I           T            1    T7p    -
* CTC/ATC DeodoroJaperi
PET -19
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works                                                       _               E _ _EE_
^ CTC Gramacho - Saracuruna
PET - 20
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Works                                                     _ _     
3.4 - AUTOMATIC FARE COLLECTION
PET -21
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works
4 -GOODS
* ARC CHUTES - PET -23
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Works



Table 11.4: Project Imple entation Schedule (Con't)
1997            1998            1999             2000            2001
T-__ _III Iv        II  Ill   IV    i    IIV Iv  _        II IV    I  I-   In V
5 - ROLLING STOCK
5.1 - PNEUMATIC SYSTEM OF EMUs
* 400 Series ( 16 EMUs ) - PET - 24
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works
* 700 Series ( 16 EMUs ) - PET - 25
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works
* 900 Series ( 16 EMUs ) - PET - 26
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works
5.2 - REHABILITATION OF BOGIES
OF EMUs
* 400 Series ( 16 EMUs ) - PET - 27
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works



Table 1.4: Project Imple entation Schedule (Con't)
1997            1998            1999             2000            2001
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~ ,                          rwl ii l t j l  i i i       , ll-l
IIIrwIV   I                        4- I   -I  I       I     I   I    I
900 Series ( i6 EMUs -PET - 29
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works
5.3 - REHABILITATION OF EMUs
* 400 Series ( 16 EMUs ) - PET - 30
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works
* 400 Series ( 18 EMUs) - PET - 31
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works
* 500 Series ( 2 EMUs) -PET -32
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works
* 700 Series ( 16 EMUs ) - PET - 33
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works



Table 11.4: Project Implementation Schedule (Con't)
1997            1998            1999             2000            2001
__     II I__V   I _ _  III IV    i    IVIIIV I    11  III  IV   I  1i  III IV
5.3 - REHABILITATION OF EMUs
* 700 Series ( 9 EMUs ) - PET - 34
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works
| * 800Series (10 EMUs ) -PET - 35
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works
* 900 Series ( 16 EMUs) - PET - 36
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works
* 900 Series ( 16 EMUs ) - PET - 37
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works



Table 11.4: Project Implementation Schedule (Con't)
[1    1 997     1     1998            1999             2000            2001
.~~ ~ ~~ ~~~ if    III    I V      I   11    III   IV  I  11    III    iV-    I  11    III     IV  I  11    III     IV
5.4 - REFURBISHMENT OF EMUs
* 400 Series ( 6 EMUs ) - PET - 38
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works                                                 _
* 500 Series ( 3 EMUs ) - PET - 39
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works                                                 _         
* 700 Series ( 4 EMUs ) - PET - 40
Prepa atin of Bdding Documents
P-reparation of Biddl inDocuet           
Bidding
SupplyNVorks
* 800 Series ( 7 EMUs )-PET - 41
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
SupplyANorks-* * *                                                          *



Table 1.4: Project Imple entation Schedule (Con't)
1997            1998            1999             2000            2001
l_ _II lu   IV   I  II  Ill  IV   I  11  HII  IV  Il1   III IV     I I1  Ill IV
5.4 - REFURBISHMENT OF EMUs
* 900 Series ( 6 EMUs ) - PET - 42
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works                                                 _   _       E_
* 900 Series ( 5 EMUs ) - PET - 43
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works
* 900 Series ( 5 EMUs ) -PET - 44
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Supply/Works



Table 11.4: Project Implementation Schedule (Con't)
1997            1998             1999             2000             2001       1
[  ITr1TNiIFfT!   !V ![    1        !!  11! |V     I     II |V      I II IV
6 - STUDIES & PROJECTS
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Works
7 - PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Services
8 -INSTITUTIONAL / ENVIRONMENTAL
P rep a rat Ion of' Bidding Documents
Bidding
Services
9 - SUPERVISION
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
Services



-123-                                  ANNEX 12
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO MASS TRANSIT PROJECT
ANNEX 12
THE RJMR'S SOCIAL, ECONOMICAL AND URBAN TRANSPORT CHARACTERISTICS
A. General Aspects
1.             Urban population growth in Brazil has been impressive over the past several decades.
In 1940, the urban population was about 16 percent of the total population, increasing to 65.57 percent in
1980 and to 75.60 percent in 1991. According to the Constitution, States are allowed to designate
metropolitan, micro-regions and urban conglomerates. The metropolitan regions have been organized by
grouping neighboring municipalities, in order to integrate the planning and execution of public services of
common interest. Among all the metropolitan regions, RJMR stands out from the other, because it
comprises 77 percent of the population of the State, in an area which is equivalent to 15 percent of the
State's area, and therefore, an extremely high demographic concentration.
2.             Its urbanization process took place along natural vectors, most of them without basic
infrastructure, in view of the permissive laws of land use, especially in the Baixada Fluminense. The
region's topography induced the development vectors in the same directions of the mass transport
corridors, and these, in view of the investment policy, caused an increase or decrease of those vector's
development.
B. Socio-Economical Data
- Produce about 85 percent of the income of the State of Rio de Janeiro;
- Generates 4,500,000 jobs;
* Development indicators: 1980- 1990:
- energy consumption:   52 percent residential;
43 percent commercial;
74 percent industrial;
- jobs: 22 percent; and
- The Rio de Janeiro municipality has 56 percent of the population and 77 percent of the income of the
RJMR.
Table 12.1: Population Growth in Brazil and RJMR
E ............. 1980   1991      Annual Growth**(ON...
..........  ............................... ...........  .... ............................................................. ..  .
RJMR        8,772,265    9,814,574        1.02
Brazil    119,003,000  146,825,475        1.93



-124 -                                       ANNEX 12
Table 12.2: Population Growth and Density in RJMR Municiealities
Municipality                Population              Density         Annual Growth
................................................n.......ab...............................)..   ................. /o  .........
1980        1991
Rio de Janeiro                  5,090,700  5,480,768           41.59               0.67
Itaguai                            90,133    113,057           2.16                2.08
Mangaratiba                        13,845      17,925          0.61                2.37
Nil6polis                         151,588    158,092           71.85               0.38
Nova lguaciu                      621,789    768,508           15.88               1.94
Queimados                          94,254    124,514            9.95               2.56
Japeri                             56,334      65,723           8.00               1.41
Paracambi                          30,319      36,427           1.84               1.68
Sao Joao de Meriti                398,826    425,772          125.22               0.60
Belford Roxo                      282,428    338,959           46.42               1.67
Duque de Caxias                   575,814    667,821           15.06               1.36
Mage                              140,414    163,733            4.38               1.41
Guapimirim                         23,188      28,001           0.81               1.73
Itaborai                          114,540    162,742           3.09                3.24
Sao Goncalo                       615,352    779,832           34.19               2.18
Niter6i                           397,123    436,155           33.55               0.86
Marica                             32,618      46,545           1.37               3.28
Table 12.3: Economically Active Population Income Profile
Min. Salaries   Less                                                  More       No      Don't
Ranqe        1/2  1/2 -1  1-2   2-3   3-5   5 - 10  10 - 20  than 20  Income  Declare
........              ......................................................................................... .................. 
%O RJMR Pop.  3.12   11.97  23.19   13.12   17.52   13.94    6.82        4.52     4.67      1.14
C(umulative %   3.12   15.09  38.28    51.4  68.92  82.88   89.68        94.2   98.87   100.00
Min. salary is US$1 00/month
Source: IBGE
C. Transportation System
3.                The RJMR generates about 13.18 million trips/day, 48 percent from home to work. Of
the total trips, 67 percent are by public transport, 11 percent are by auto, 20 percent are by foot and the
remaining 2 percent by other modes. The public transport trips presents the following modal split.
Figure 12.1: RJMR Daily Trips (Work Day)
Modal Split Motorized Transpiort
Ferry Boat 1.0%
Car (private, taxi) 14.5%    Other 0.5%
Train 4.0%
Subw ay 3.0%
Bus 77.0%/
Source: PTM194 Total Daily Trips   1318 mnillion



-125 -                                 ANNEX 12
4.             Base on the research carried out for the Mass Transportation Plan of the RJMR (PTM -
1994), there is a very unbalanced modal split, with the buses playing the role of a structural
transportation mode, causing undesirable effects to the transportation system and therefore to the quality
of life of the region. In this context, the railway system operated by Flumitrens, presents all the potential
conditions for restructuring the transportation system, being present in 15 of the 17 municipalities that
form the RJMR, constituting a fundamental mass transport alternative, and linking all those 15
municipalities to the central area of Rio de Janeiro.
D. Flumitrens' Key Data
5.             Flumitrens' network, with an extension of 264 km (163 km electrified and in broad
gauge -1.60m, 9 km non-electrified in broad gauge, and 92 km non-electrified in 1.00m gauge), has five
main broad gauge electrified corridors: Deodoro, Japeri, Santa Cruz, Leopoldina and Belford Roxo; and
three corridors non-electrified, in metric gauge: Vila Inhomirim, Guapimirim and Niter6i.
6.             Nowadays, the daily transport is about 400,000 passengers, 95 percent in the broad
gauge system. There are 1,019 diary departures programmed, but only 80 percent of these trips are
carried out. In 1984 and 1985, about 942,000 passengers transported by working day, and taking into
account the income evasion, the total transport in working days was at that time about 1,200,000
passengers.
Figure 12.2: Total Paying Passengers
WORKDAY AVERAGE
20000m         PERIOD 84 - 94
S4 SS  86  87  8B  E9   90  gt  g2  93  94  96
Average Tanff
0,6.
84  85  E6  87  88  es  90  91  92  93  94  96  96
|-TRAJN                  -- BUS ( RJ Municipalitie )I



-126 -                                 ANNEX 12
Table. 12.4: Kse Infrastructure and Equipmen Data
Electrified                         1.60 m           163
Track                  Non Electrified         Gauge       1.60 m             9
(Extension - km)       Non Electrified                        Om             92
Total                                                264
Stations               Stations                                              95
Train Stops                                           32
Rolling Stock          EMUs                                                 244
Daily Train            Scheduled                                          1,019
Departures             Actual                                               832
Paying                                           320,000
Daily Ridership        Non Paying                                        16,000
(Work Day)             Evasion                                           64,000
Total Transported                                400,000
Power Supply           Substations                                  14+1 mobile
Mid Point Section Cabin                               11
Signaling (km)         Manual                                               111
Automatic                                            163
Figure 12.3: Ridership Distribution By Corridor
Farebox (1995)
JAPERI 28%             BIT. METRICA 3%      Revenue Distribution
EFORD                         066.17% Tariff - US$0.42
ROXO 14%                     DEODOR021%    29.00% Vale -Transporte'
2.50% Senior Citizens
GRAMACHO17%                Sta. CRUZ 17%
:2.30% Employees



-127-                                      ANNEX 12
Figure 12.4: Ridership Profile
RIDERSHIP ACTIVITY SECTOR                     TRIP PURPOSE
Sector         __Purpose                               _    _ _
Services                    51.4         Work                      92.6
Commerce                    25.7         Education                  2.5
Industry                    15.2         Health                     1.5
Education                    2.5          Shopping                  1.1
Unemployed                   0.9          Leisure                   0.9
Others                       4.3         Others                     1.4
FAMILY RIDERSHIP INCOME                         RIDERSHIP INCOME
DISTRIBUTION                                DISTRIBUTION
Branch Line        Number of
so        s             _+             *                           Minimum Wages
so                                             Leopoldina               1.59
70 -                                           Santa Cruz               1.77
so         /                                   Japeri                   1.87
so                                             Deodoro                  2.00
40                                            I Belford Roxo            1.83
30 -                                           Flumitrens               1.80
10 -                                                    Source: Flumitrens
O b           |                      |                      Moming Peak Poll
0           4           8            15                     Downtown Bound/94
EMPLOYEES ASSIGNMENT BY WORK AREA
Area                   Number
Operation                        2,117
Maintenance                      3,022
Administration                    682
Total                   5,821
Source: DIREH - Flumirens, July 96



-128-                           ANNEX 12
Figure 12.5: Integrated System Supervision
tI,    JA      ~~JAPERI
SANTA CRUZ      A,
t\\  ~~~S~ 0.1
.0# \I fBELFORD ROXO
|qNOVA '      !*'   )SARACURUNA
'*\\ ' ' / 'IGUACl    t/ U^ 
,\ >,,     t /   ,    t  GRAMACHO
^wz #PAVUNA 2'r
j  DEODORO.
.  _ I-O-ITNORION/R
SUMARE,
ih ! ejiv RIAGEM
D.PEDRO li  0         BARAO DE MAUA
CENTRALIZED
TELECOMMUNICATION
- -  MULTIPLEX/OPTICAL CABLE INSTALLED
- MULTIPLEX/OPTICAL CABLE TO BE INSTALLED
DIGITAL RADIO INSTALLED
*   PABX INSTALLED
SIGNALING
-SIGNALING TO BE REPLACED
O)   LOCAL CABINS TO BE REPLACED
-     SIGNALING WABCO SYSTEM INSTALLED
- - - - SIGNALING MITSUI INSTALLED
-     - SIGNALING TO BE CONTRACTED



-129-                                ANNEX 13
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO MASS TRANSIT PROJECT
ANNEX 13
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Piano de Transporte de Massa-PTM, Relat6rio Gerencial, September 1994
2.    Programa Estadual de Transportes-PET, Carta Consulta a Cofiex, March 1995
3.    Processo de Estruturagao Transportes na RegiAo Metropolitana do Rio de Janeiro, Cons6rcio
ConcrematlSofretu, April 1995
4.    Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project, Toronto Transit Consultants
Limited, September 1995
5.    Niteroi Rapid Transit Project- Leopoldina Line, Toronto Transit Consultants Limited, September
1995
6.    Systems Engineering Support- Identification Mission, Toronto Transit Consultants Limited,
December 1995
7.    Preparation Mission, Toronto Transit Consultants Limited, May 1996
8.    Programa Estadual de Transportes, Flumitrens, July 1996
8a.   Rio de Janeiro Mass Transit Project - Train versus Bus Comparison - Economic evaluation of
altemative options.
9.    Rio de Janeiro Mass Transit Project- Economic Evaluation, October 1996
10.   Review of Flumitrens Basic Engineering Designs for Stations, Toronto Transit Consultants
Limited, July 1996
11.   Mission to evaluate status of the Flumitrens Rolling Stock Refurbishment and Rehabilitation
Program, July 1996
12.   Key Data on Flumitrens
13.   Programa Estadual de Transportes - PET
14.   Relat6rio Inicial - November 95
15.   Programa Estadual de Transportes - PET
16.   Missao de Preparacao - February 96
17.   Progrma Estadual de Transportes - PET
18.   Missao de Pre-Appraisal - May 96
19.   Brazil - the Urban Transport Sector - Issues and Options, Infrastructure Operations Division, LAC
CD1, Brazil, Peru, Venezuela, March 1991
20.   Brazil - Managing Environmental Pollution in the State of Rio de Janeiro, LAC CDI, Report No.
15488-BR, August 1996.



I



MAP SECTION






This sp -os produced by the Mop Design Unit of The World flek.                                                                                                                    BRAZIL
The, bo-dories,clr,  deo-isotioo, esd osy otherI,, riot
sho   us this mop dono-t imply us the pot of The World Bonk                                                                                                RIO   DE  JANEIRO   MASS  TRANSIT
DGrop, any judgmest on the .ego stItos of osy tertito,ry or osy
-d--nt -c.pt.-. f                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJ ECT
SO 5UTH                   endorseiment or occeptsece sf such boundaeries.                                                                                                                                 rN JL 
r R  '  METRO PROJECT LINES
BresiIio *                                                                                                                                                                                      0      NEW LINE ELECTRIFIED
*  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~         ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      O'C) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Dec-troliotiu Project - CBTU -
Rio de Janeir- System)
POtTy                                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~METRO SYSTEM
JANhcO DF                                                                                                                                                                              b-    FLUMITRENS LINES
AMERICA                                                                                                                                                                                               41-      METRO GUAGE SYSTEM
VWi   METRO STATIONS
DJUAPIMIRIM                    ROADS
VINHOMIRJM                       PM.DELO                         MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
BUILT-UP AREAS
IDEAL
Bo.o_sdolerylst=                                                              .!;   a '                                        PSASETA FITROLANDIA
PARACAMBI                                             *-BRLO   -  EUCA                                                                                                         JOROR6
LAG                                                   DMBAREL                                                                                                       J.NOVA MARiLIA
DR.E  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                          ,--.--BR-1                EABCA6A
'SAEIRA  CUURUNA  4t     -p 6z4bz,   STA.DUILHERMINA
.. a< _.~~~~~~~~.r-...- ......   .4 r, ,O                    E     to' OOA Ej
OUBIBMEOS  -    ~~AUSTIN                K          .           .WA
r   SO'~"'*s       4 - ggR OF           LLICAS              o',>n    .                                               DeE         S    8 
ME.QU.  . E.                                                        . A  I                                                   . .DATA   ,
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~StIL 9y tvot ='''-I
-o L                       000  ;3              -;:;:St                                                                                                                   01    xtoloelersis   1s
H                                                                                                                                             i ~~~~~~~~. -           .        -.~~~NLOO
-'N..                                                      '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LID
O                                                                                                                                                                                             KILOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADOD
C           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z                   (
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BA~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~       jLACIj,,lN,l,
is                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         on~~~~~~~~~~~



