Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4291-BR
Loan Agreement
(Rio de Janeiro Mass Transit Project - PET)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO
Dated June 1, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4291-BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee certain obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of the Loan as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Page  2
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that 
an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount 
of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
cancelled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"AMTU-RJ" means Agência Metropolitana de Transporte Urbano do Estado do 
Rio de Janeiro, the urban transport agency for RJMR (as hereinafter defined), 
established pursuant to an agreement dated December 19, 1997, sponsored by the 
Borrower and entered or expected to be entered into among the same and the 
municipalities which are part of the RJMR (as hereinafter defined);
(b)
"ASEP-RJ" means Agência Reguladora de Serviços Públicos Concedidos do 
Estado do Rio de Janeiro, the Borrower’s regulatory agency of the public services 
under concession, created pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 2,686 of February 13, 
1997;
(c)
"Concession Contract" means the contract entered into between the 
Borrower and the Concessionaire (as hereinafter defined), dated September 17, 1998, 
governing  the concession awarded to such Concessionaire  to operate, manage and 
maintain the FLUMITRENS’ System (as hereinafter defined);
(d)
"Concessionaire" means the corporation to which the Borrower has awarded 
the concession to operate, manage and maintain the FLUMITRENS’ System  pursuant to the 
terms of the Concession Contract;
(e)
"Environmental and Safety Audit Report" means the report dated July 31, 
1997, containing the results and related recommendations regarding the  environmental 
and safety audit of the operations of  FLUMITRENS’ System;
(f)
"FLUMITRENS" means Companhia Fluminense de Trens Urbanos, the Borrower’s 
urban train company;
(g)
"FLUMITRENS’ System" means the railway network comprising: (i) five main 
broad gauge electrified corridors (Deodoro, Japeri, Santa Cruz, Leopoldina and Belford 
Roxo); and (ii) three corridors non-electrified, in metric gauge (Vila Inhomirim,  
Guapimirim and Niterói-Visconde de Itaboraí);
(h)
"Guidelines" means the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 
1996;
(i)
"PMIG" means Project Management and Implementation Group, the unit  
established pursuant to a decision of the President of FLUMITRENS dated March 4, 1997;
Page  3
(j) 
"Project Monitoring Letter" means the letter dated March 24, 1999 
delivered by the Borrower’s Secretary of Planning to the Bank, setting forth the 
indicators and targets to be used in monitoring the progress of the implementation of 
the Project and in the evaluation of its results;
(k)
"RJMR" means Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region, an area comprising the 
following municipalities of the Borrower: (i) Rio de Janeiro; (ii) Belford Roxo; (iii) 
Duque de Caxias; (iv) Guapimirim; (v) Itaboraí; (vi) Itaguaí; (vii) Japeri; (viii) 
Mangaratiba; (ix) Maricá; (x) Magé; (xi) Nilópolis; (xii) Niterói; (xiii) Nova Iguaçu; 
(xiv) Paracambi; (xv) Queimados; (xvi) São Gonçalo; (xvii) São João de Meriti; (xviii) 
Seropédica; and (xix) Tanguá;
(l)
"SECTRAN" means Secretaria de Estado de Transportes do  Rio de Janeiro, 
the Borrower’s Secretariat of Transportation;
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(n)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 
(c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred and eighty six million Dollars ($186,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The President of FLUMITRENS and the person or persons designated 
in writing by such President, are designated as representatives of the Borrower for 
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall, with 
Page  4
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, environmental, engineering, transportation and management practices, cause 
the Project to be carried out by FLUMITRENS.
(b)
The Borrower shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(c)
For the purposes of regulating their respective responsibilities under 
the Project, the Borrower and FLUMITRENS shall enter into an agreement satisfactory to 
the Bank (the Subsidiary Agreement).
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Concession Contract in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the 
Bank otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to 
enforce such Contract, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause FLUMITRENS to:
(a)
maintain, until the completion of the Project, a unit (the PMIG) with 
responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank and with staff in 
adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications, for the purposes of assisting 
FLUMITRENS in the carrying out of its responsibilities under the Project, such 
assistance to include, inter alia, the following Project-related responsibilities: (i) 
procurement and disbursements;  and (ii) monitoring, evaluation and reporting; the 
PMIG to be headed at all times by a Project coordinator with qualifications, 
experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, who shall report 
directly to the President of FLUMITRENS; 
(b)
not later than 120 days after the Effective Date, put into effect a 
monitoring and information system for the Project, satisfactory to the Bank, which 
shall include information on the indicators set forth in part A of the annex to the 
Project Monitoring Letter;
(c)
not later than 120 days after the Effective Date, establish and 
thereafter maintain, until the completion of the Project, with responsibilities, 
structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank and with staff in adequate numbers 
and with adequate qualifications, a division in charge of managing the 
non-concessioned assets of FLUMITRENS; and 
(d)
without limitation upon the provisions of Sections 9.01 (a) and 9.07 of 
the General Conditions: (i)  in the months of May and November of each year during 
Project implementation, furnish to the Borrower and the Bank reports on the progress 
in the implementation of the Project during the previous six months, which shall take 
into consideration the indicators and targets set forth in the annex to the Project 
Monitoring Letter, and to be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request; and (ii) in the months of June and December of each year during 
Project implementation, hold reviews with the Borrower and the Bank on the progress of 
the Project and the attainment of its objectives (the review to take place in December 
of the year 2000 to be the mid-term review), such reviews to be based on the reports 
referred to in subparagraph (i) above and, thereafter, take or cause to be taken all 
such action which shall have been agreed upon by FLUMITRENS, the Borrower and the Bank 
during such reviews, as necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or the 
achievement of its objectives, such action to be taken in the manner and within the 
timetable agreed upon during such reviews.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
participate in the reviews referred to in Section 3.03 (d) (ii) of this 
Agreement;
(b)
Cause FLUMITRENS or the Concessionaire to carry out the recommendations 
of the Environmental and Safety Audit Report;
(c)
without limitations upon the provisions of Section 3.01 (d) of this 
Agreement, and if the Concession Contract shall have been assigned, amended, 
abrogated, waived or failed to be enforced, make available to FLUMITRENS, funds in 
Page  5
amounts sufficient to cover the difference between FLUMITRENS’ working costs and 
operating revenues;
(d)
(i) not later than December 31, 2000, furnish to the Bank, for comments, 
the review referred to in Part A.4 of the Project, and thereafter, take into account 
the Bank’s comments thereon, during the implementation of the Borrower’s environmental 
program; and (ii) not later than December 31, 2000, furnish to the Bank for comments, 
the study referred to in Part A.5 of the Project, and, promptly thereafter, implement 
the system which will be proposed by such study in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; 
(e)
not later than 12 months after the date of this Agreement, furnish to the 
Bank for comments a financial, institutional and technical plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank, for the integration of the RJMR bus system with the operations of FLUMITRENS’ 
System, and carry out such plan in respect of the inter-municipal bus system, in 
accordance with its timetable, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; 
(f)
(i) maintain, until the completion of the Project, the AMTU-RJ with 
responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and with staff in 
adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications; and (ii) furnish to the Bank, for 
information, the minutes of each of the meetings of the AMTU-RJ, promptly after the 
occurrence of each such meeting;
(g)
maintain, until the completion of the Project, the ASEP-RJ with 
responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and with staff in 
adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications;
(h)
ensure sufficient funds to cover severance payments to FLUMITRENS’ 
employees and those transferred to the Concessionaire who may be dismissed within the 
period stipulated in the Concession Contract; and
(i)
not later than March 31, 2000, furnish to the Bank a study, to be 
prepared under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to define the 
institutional role of FLUMITRENS in relation to SECTRAN, AMTU-RJ and ASEP-RJ, and, 
promptly thereafter, implement the recommendations of such study after taking into 
account the Bank’s comments thereon.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall comply, or cause to be complied, during Project 
implementation, with the targets in respect of: (a) Availability of Rolling Stock 
(train fleet in operation divided by total train fleet); (b) Train Headway (average 
interval between train at peak hours in minutes); and (c) Operating Subsidy to the 
FLUMITRENS’ System (operating revenues less operating costs without depreciation); as 
such targets are set forth in part B of the annex to the Project Monitoring Letter.
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare or cause to be prepared, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date 
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
Page  6
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
FLUMITRENS shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FLUMITRENS or for the suspension 
of its operations before the completion of the Project and no other arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been made by the Borrower to ensure the timely 
completion of the Project and the attainment of its objectives.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
(b)
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the Subsidiary Agreement has become effective.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly 
registered by the Guarantor’s Central Bank.
Section 6.03. The date September1, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  7
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the 
Secretary of Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
     Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento 
  Rua Pinheiro Machado s/ número Predio 
  Anexo - Sexto Andar 
Rio de Janeiro - RJ 22238-010 Brazil
With copy to:
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Ministério do Orçamento e Gestão
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco K - 5o. andar
70040-906, Brasília -D.F.
Brazil
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in, 
the City of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil as of the day and year first above written.
STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO
By /s/ Anthony William Garotinho
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  8
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
(a)
Civil works
   15,790,000
54%
(b)
Works for
    4,070,000
64%
construction of
permanent way
(c)
Works for
   19,790,000
50%
installation of
systems
(d)
Works for
  140,040,000
70%
rehabilitation
of rolling stock
(2)
Consultants' services
    6,310,000
50%
and training
TOTAL
  186,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
(a)
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding the amount of $18,600,000, may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures incurred within the twelve months prior to the dated of this Agreement.
(b)
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (i) payments already made or 
planned to be made for expenditures financed under the Bank loan for the Rio de 
Janeiro State Reform-Privatization Project; or (ii) any other payments already made or 
planned to be made for expenditures financed or guaranteed by the Guarantor or any of 
the Guarantor’s financial agencies.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures under contracts for: (i) works costing 
less than $5,000,000 equivalent; (ii) services of consulting firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent; and (iii) services of individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve: (a) the quality of urban transport 
services in the RJMR by supporting the development of an integrated urban transport 
system; and (b) the level of service provided by FLUMITRENS’ System while reducing the 
operating subsidies it receives from the Borrower, through substantial reduction of 
the Borrower’s participation in the operations and management of the FLUMITRENS’ 
System.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Institutional and Policy Reforms
Provision of technical assistance in the implementation of the institutional and 
policy reforms undertaken in connection with the RJMR’s transportation sector, 
including activities related to concession and management of such public services, as 
follows:
1.
In respect of FLUMITRENS: (a) provision of assistance in the preparation of the 
bidding documents, including concession contracts, to be used in the concession 
process, such documentation to cover the following areas: (i) institutional and 
Page  9
organizational arrangements; (ii) preparation of an investment plan; (iii) evaluation 
and determination of operating subsidies; (iv) valuation and identification of the 
assets to be included in the concession; (v) human resource-related issues such as 
transfer of personnel and pension benefits; and (vi) legal and administrative aspects 
of the concession; and (b) provision of assistance, until the Concession Contract 
enters into effect, to further rationalize and streamline FLUMITRENS’ operations and 
maintenance, in the following areas: (i) rolling stock maintenance and railways 
operations management; (ii) management accounting; (iii) installation of payroll 
software; and (iv) installation of a human resources data-base; (c) carrying out of 
technical engineering studies in railway signaling and telecommunications; and (d) 
provision of consultants’ services to support the supervision of the investments 
described in Part B of the Project.
2.
Carrying out of studies to support the adoption of a modal integration policy 
framework for the AMTU-RJ, such studies to consist of: (a)  updating of the transport, 
land use and air quality sections of the master plans of the RJMR with emphasis on 
route rationalization and modal and tariff integration; (b)  inter-municipal route 
management and rationalization; and (c)  preparation of feasibility and bidding 
documents for the Niterói-São Gonçalo mass transportation system.
3.
Training of FLUMITRENS’ staff in the management of the investments described in 
Part B of the Project and of assets not included in the concession and in the 
monitoring of the Concessionaire on behalf of ASEP-RJ.
4.
Review of  the Borrower’s environmental program related to urban traffic issues, 
consisting of an inspection and maintenance strategy for vehicle emissions and noise.
5.
Design of a more reliable system to collect traffic violation fines with 
emphasis on ways of enforcing them as a deterrent to traffic accidents.
Part B:
Infrastructure and Equipment
Improvement of the infrastructure and equipment of FLUMITRENS’ System through:
1.
(a) rehabilitation and modernization of twelve passenger stations; (b) 
construction of one passenger station; (c) construction of five pedestrian 
over/underpasses; and (d) installation of nine Kilometers of fences in areas adjacent 
to passenger stations to reduce tariff evasion.
2.
(a) replacement of 50,000 sleepers; and (b) conversion of one track of the 
Gramacho-Saracuruna segment into broad gauge.
3.
(a) installation and repair of transmission lines in the Leopoldina corridor; 
(b) rehabilitation or construction of electric substations; (c) installation of a 
central traffic control in D. Pedro II and Deodoro yards and Sta. Cruz and Japeri 
corridors; (d) installation of an automatic train control system in the Deodoro, Sta. 
Cruz and Japeri corridors; (e) installation of automatic fare collection; (f) 
installation of fiber optic cable links in the Japeri corridor, provision of a central 
telephonic exchange station and an integrated telecommunication system in the 
operations control center.
4.
Rehabilitation of about 139 electrical multiple units.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Page  10
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
"Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
"Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
"Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
Page  11
portions thereof allocated to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; 
plus
(iii)
the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR 
Total Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed 
Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Guarantor 
and the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry 
of the notice period unless the Guarantor or the Borrower notifies the Bank during 
said period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply 
to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after April 15, 2013, the Borrower shall also pay on said date 
the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed 
Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Works
Part A:
General
Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
Guidelines and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $5,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Prequalification
Bidders for works related to signaling equipment shall be prequalified in 
Page  12
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $5,000,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of works under this Part C, bidding 
documents in a standardized form for the Project shall be used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of works to be undertaken 
pursuant to this Part C:
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank 
in each case; and
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works  estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D.
Part E:
Other
For purposes of the Guidelines, the term custom duties and other import taxes 
includes the Guarantor’s Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine 
(Adicional ao Frete para a Renovação da Marinha Mercante - AFRMM), established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree-Law No. 1,142 of December 30, 1970, as amended on 
December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of 
the Bank, may substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Page  13
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.5 of the 
Consultant Guidelines and estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services related to the supervision of works and the preparation of engineering 
design studies, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services related to the preparation of institutional, policy and engineering 
studies (other than engineering design studies), estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
Page  14
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to $8,000,000, or 
such other amount as the Bank shall establish, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $6,000,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed $25,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
Page  15
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
