                                                Documentof
                                              The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                                 ReportNo. 39720-BR




                                             PROJECTPAPER

                                                   ONA

                            PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGLOAN

                       INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$44MILLIONEQUIVALENT

                                                  TO THE

                                STATEOF RIO DE JANEIRO (BRAZIL)

                                      WITH THE GUARANTEE OF

                              THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLICOF BRAZIL

                                                   FOR A

                             RIO DE JANEIRO MASS TRANSIT PROJECT

                                            December 28,2007




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
Brazil Country ManagementUnit
LatinAmerica and CaribbeanRegionalOffice




This document has a restricteddistributionand may be usedby recipientsonly inthe performance oftheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS


                        Currency Unit = Real ($R)
                           R$2.14-R$1.75 = US$l

                               FISCAL YEAR

                           January 1-December 31



                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


PMIG             Project Management Implementation Group
RJM              Rio de Janeiro Municipality
RJMR             Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region
RTCC             Regional Transport Coordination Commission
SECPLAN    ----- Planning Secretariatofthe State of Rio de Janeiro
                 (Secretariade Planos do Estado do Rio de Janeiro)
SECTRAN    -     Transport Secretariat ofthe State of Rio de Janeiro
                 (Secretariade Transportesdo Estado do Rio de Janeiro)
SRJ        -     State o f Rio de Janeiro




                      Vice President:    Pamela Cox
           Country ManagerDirector:      John Briscoe
                     Sector Director     Laura Tuck
       Sector ManagedSector Leader:      Jose Luis IrigoyedJennifer Sara
     Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Jorge Rebelo



                                       i

                                                                                            FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                         BRAZIL
                          RIODEJANEIRO MASSTRANSIT PROJECT
                                  ADDITIONAL FINANCING LOAN

                                                      CONTENTS



I.      INTRODUCTION       ..................................................................................           1

I1
 .      BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALEFOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING                                                 ............ 1
        PROJECT OBJECTIVE ............................................................................
        PROJECT MANAGEMENT .......................................................................                      1
                                                                                                                        2
        RATIONALEAND REASONSFOR REQUESTINGTHE ADDITIONAL FINANCING.......... 2

I11
  .     PROPOSEDCHANGES             ...........................................................................         3

IV.     CONSISTENCY WITH CAS              .....................................................................         4

V.      ECONOMICANALYSISOF COST FINANCING GAP                                  ..................................       5

VI.     EXPECTED OUTCOMES              ........................................................................         5

VI1.    BENEFITSAND RISKS           ...........................................................................         5

VI11    FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE ADDITIONAL FINANCING                                          .......... 5

ANNEX 1: DEVALUATIONOF THE US$ VS THE BRAZILIANREAL                                        ........................     6




  This document has a restricteddistributionand may be usedby recipientsonly inthe performance oftheir
  official duties. Itscontents may not otherwisebe disclosed without World Bank authorization                             .
                                                               ..
                                                               11

                                        BRAZIL

                   RIODEJANEIRO MASSTRANSIT PROJECT
                          ADDITIONAL FINANCINGLOAN
                              PROJECTPAPERDATASHEET




Additional Financing Loan                      Environmental Category: B

Borrower: State o f Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Responsible agency: Secretaria de Transportes do Estado do Rio de Janeiro




Bank policies?                                                            oYes XNo




N.A.
Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? Ifso,
click here to indicate which one(s) NA.
                                For Additional Financing                          P




[XILoan [3 Credit       [ ] Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
       Total Bank financing (US$m.): 44 equivalent to R$94m
       Proposed terms: FSL inreais




                                            ...
                                            111

                                              BRAZIL

                         FUODEJANEIRO MASSTRANSIT PROJECT
                               ADDITIONAL FINANCING LOAN

I. INTRODUCTION

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an additional
loan in an amount of R$94 million (equivalent to US$44 million) to the State of Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil for the Rio de Janeiro Mass Transit project (ID P043421, Ln.4291-Br). The proposed
additional loan would help finance the costs associated with the devaluation of the US$ and
Korean Won (currency of one of the biggest contracts financed by the loan) in relation to the
BrazilianReal and shortages incounterpart funds, which caused a financing gap.


11.     BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING

2.      The Board approvedthe ongoing original loan for the Rio de Janeiro Mass Transit project
for US$186 million on March 5, 1998. The Loan became effective on August 03, 1999. The
current loan i s scheduled to close on June 30, 2008 and ifthis additional financing i s approved it
i s expected to be fully disbursedby June 30, 2009.

3.      The main objectives of the project are: (a) to improve the quality of urban transport
services in the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region by enhancing the development of a fully
integrated urbantransport system; and (b) to substantially improve the level of service provided
by the suburban railway while reducing the operating subsidies from the State through the
substantial participation of the private sector in its operations and management. There were no
changes in the Project Development Objectives which will remain the same in the proposed
additional financing requestedby the Borrower.

4.      The main achievement of this project was the concession of the railway system without
operating subsidies to the private sector in 1998. This saved approximately US$l80ndyear in
operating subsidies to the State. The loan allowed the State to fulfill its capital investment
obligations included in the concession contract. These capital investments included mainly
rehabilitatiodmodernization of existing rolling stock fleet, acquisition of new rolling stock and
station rehabilitation. As the rail capacity increases, integration betweenbus and rail and rail and
subway is also increasing and is starting to pay off, particularly for the low-income population.
The Rio Master Transport Plan (PDTU), the first in Rio in 28 years, was also a major
contribution of the project because it mapped out and prioritized the medium and long-term
options for the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region (RJMR) urban transport system, by
integrating land use, urban transport and air quality. Fifty two trains have been rehabilitated and
20 new trains have been delivered. Integration with municipal buses has been increased now to
12 bus routes. The project development objectives will be substantially met.

5.      The ProjectDevelopmentObjectives and ImplementationPerformance: The Project
Development Objectives (DOs) and Implementation Performance (IPS) ratings of the project



                                                  1

have been satisfactory and have succeeded in improving the rail transit subsector o f the RJMR,
decreasing its burden on the State Treasury by eliminating operating subsidies.               Modal
integration under a regional transport Coordination Commission (AMTU-RJ) i s moving forward.
This happened despite a much longer implementation period than originally planned due to
initial delays in effectiveness and severe fiscal restrictions that affected the country after the
Argentine macroeconomic crisis. All legal covenants have also been complied with.

6.      Project Management: The activities proposed are fully consistent with the PDOs, and
compliant with Bank policy for additional financing. Most of the additional project financing
will be used for the completion o f the works and goods contracts which were affected by the
devaluation and lack o f counterpart funds. The rest will be used to support the financial gap in
supervision services for ongoing works, the Project Management Implementation consultant and
other ongoing consulting studies and to pay the front end fee. The proposed additional financing
operation can be accommodated in the context of the ongoing project, relying on the Project
Management and Implementation Group (PMIG) which has managed the project within the
Central organization. PMIG has proven its ability to handle such contracts with good results.
The proposed additional activities are expected to be completed within a maximum o f 18 months
of the current closing date o f the loan, which i s consistent with the Bank's policy on additional
financing. Therefore, given that all contracts are ongoing it i s expected that all disbursements
will take place by June 30, 2009.

7.      Procurement: There will be no new procurement since all contracts have beenawarded
and are underway. Procurement has consistently beenrated satisfactory.

8.      Financial Management: Financial management has been rated satisfactory and there
are no outstanding financial audits.

9.      Safeguards: The additional financing loan does not trigger any new safeguard policies
and the Borrower has complied with all o f its obligations under the original loan.

Rationaleand reasons for requestingthe additionalfinancing

10.     According to OP/BP 13.20, the Bank may provide additional financing through
additional loans in the context o f ongoing, well-performing projects. The additional financing
requested by the State i s being requestedsolely to cover a portion o f the financing gap due to the
devaluation o f the US$in relation to the Brazilian and Korean currencies. This devaluation and
usual effect of inflation affected the works and goods contract costs and the annual price
readjustment contained inthose contracts. Annex 1 gives an estimate o f the financial gap.

11.     The Borrower, State o f Rio de Janeiro (SRJ), has requested from the Bank additional
financing in the amount o f R$94 million (equivalent to US$44 million) to cover 69% o f the
financial gap estimated at US$64 million (see Annexl). As mentioned above, the financing gap
was due to the sharp devaluation o f the U S dollar in relation to the Brazilian Real which i s the
currency in which all works and consulting services contracts have been signed. The steady
deterioration o f the dollar since the contracts were signedalso had a significant effect inthe price
readjustment formulas included inall works contracts. The goods contract for acquisition o f new
trains (which accounted for 55% o f the original loan and was signed in Korean Won), also had


                                                  2

an impact on the financing gap since the Won appreciated in relation to the US$. Finally, the
State was unable to provide about 50% of its counterpart funds because o f strong fiscal
restrictions since 2003. Since January 2007, the State has been providing counterpart funds to
the project and will continue to do so to cover the difference betweenthe estimated financing gap
(US$64 million) and the amount authorized by the Guarantor for the additional financing
(US$44 million). With this additional financing loan and the counterpart funds, all contracts will
be completed as planned. The State has assured the Bank that it will continue to provide the
US$20M in counterpart fund requirements, so that by the end of the project the Bank will
finance 67% of the project cost instead o f the original 50%.

111.      PROPOSEDCHANGES

12.       There are no changes to the original project design. As mentioned above, the additional
financing would cover the devaluation o f the US$ loan o f the Bank in relation to the original
project costs that were calculated in Reais. The Brazilian currency appreciated considerably in
relation to the US$since the actual works started. In addition to the works and goods contracts,
the additional financing will also cover the cost of the extension of the supervision services and
project management consultant.

13.       As shown in Table 1, 95% o f the US$44M in additional financing will be used to cover
the financing gap in Part A - Infrastructure and Equipment contract and 4.75% will be used to
complement the financing gap inthe Part B                 - Institutional    and Policy Development component.



                                 Table 1: Additional FinancingProject Costs

                         Component                             Category      Indicative  % of      Bank-   % of Bad
                                                                               costs     Total   Financing financing
                                                                              (US$M)             (US$M)
Part A. Infrastructure and Equipment Investment              Physical and     60.004     94.37   41.991       70.0
Component: to finance trains rehabilitation ,train              others
acquisition and civil works

Part B. Institutional and Policy Development                  Institution-     3.461     5.38      1.899       55
Component: : to finance the Project Managementand              Building
Implementation consultant, ongoing institutional contracts
and project supervision consultants

Front End Fee (0.25% of loan)                                                 0.110       .25     0.110       100

Basic add. project with Contingencies                           Total         64.000     100     44.000       69


Total estimated additional project loan: approx. US$44 million equivalent to R$94M




                                                              3

Disbursement

14.    The additional financing is expected to be disbursedwithin one year after the signing of
the contract, inthe following manner:

                          Table2: EstimatedDisbursementsinUS$M

                       FY                        2008                      2009
                     Annual                       35                          9
                  Cumulative                      35                         44


                                   Table 3: Disbursementby Category


                                                      After          Additional
                       Disbursement Category       Financing      Financing for each
                                                                      category
                                                      (US$)
                  1.a -Civil Works                 12,575,703.79        7,273,500.00
                  1.b -Civil Works                 10,627,672.39            32,300.00
                  1.c - Permanent Way Works         8,011,134.89         3,721,600.00
                  1.d - Systems Works               1,252,3 13.12
                  1.e - Rolling Sock Rehab. works  93,043,881.90         16,827,000.00
                  2 - Goods                        96.204.499.88.        14.136.900.00
                  3 - Consulting Services and
                  Training                          8,174,794.03         1,898,700.00

                  4. Front-end Fee                       110,000 I            110,000




IV.    CONSISTENCYWITH CAS

15.    As indicated above, there are no changes to the original project design which was
described in the appraisal o f the existing loan. The additional financing is only to cover the
financing gap o f the original project which was approved by the Board in March 5, 1998 and i s
consistent with the present Bank's Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report endorsed by the
Bank's Board of Directors on May 6, 2006. A new Country partnership Strategy (CPS), under
preparation will continue to support the four pillars put forth in the original CAS: (a) equity, (b)
sustainability, (c) competitiveness,       and (d) sound macro-economic management. More
specifically, the project supports: (a) reforms and financial viability o f public enterprises,
including the concession o f state-owned urban transport agencies to the private sector; (b)
improved efficiency o f infrastructure investments; (c) economic growth by improving efficiency
inthe metropolitanarea and (d) contribution to poverty alleviation by improving accessibility of
low-income segments of the population to jobs, educational and health facilities.




                                                  4

V.       ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF FINANCING GAP

16.      Since original investment costs were spreadover a longer period of time because of fiscal
restrictions and supplier delays, full first year benefits were also delayed by the same amount of
time. These delays were mainly due to the late delivery of rehabilitated trains and later than
planned arrival of the new trains. On that basis, the Economic Internal Rate of Return(EIRR) of
the project is expected to be 34% instead of the original 64%. The detailed cash flow analysis
can be found inthe project file.

VI.      EXPECTED OUTCOMES

17.      The expected outcomes of the project are the same as the original ones.

VII.     BENEFITS AND RISKS

18.      There are no changes in the project beneficiaries who are the residents of the RJMR, and
particularly low-income households (earning up to four minimum salaries) as the major users of
public transport inthe Baixada Fluminenseand Zona Oeste. The Government of the State of Rio
de Janeiro will also benefit from the project by increasingthe number of trips by rail-based modes
thereby decreasing congestion on the roads. The reduction o f bus-kilometers and less congestion
in the area of influence of the rail system will have positive air quality impacts which are
quantifiedinthe economic evaluation.

19.      Project Risk factors: The main foreseen risks associated with this project are eventual
budget restrictions that might delay the disbursement of the additional financing. The State and
the Bankhave discussedthis risk and the needfor the State to ensure that the project receives the
highest priority for disbursement. The State Secretary of Finance has assured the Bank project
team that the project has the highest priority for the State and therefore it will be provided with
the fiscal space requiredfor quick disbursement.

VIII. FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE ADDITIONAL FINANCING

20.      The Borrower has chosen a Fixed Spread Loan in US$ with Automatic Rate Fixing. The
Bank Financial Complex has worked with the State Secretary of Finance to convert the original
loan from US$ to R$.

21.      Retroactive Financing of up to US$8.8million equivalent for expenditures made one year
before loan signing was requested by the Borrower for the category Goods and i s recommended
by the project team.




                                                   5

                                          ANNEX 1
             Rio de Janeiro Mass Transit Project: Additional FinancingLoan
                          Impact of the Devaluation of the US$ vs. the
                                          Brazilian $R



1.   The Korean Won (KRW) was the currency in which the contract for the cquisition of
twenty new trains was signed. The KRW devalued from 1US$ = 1,204.4 KRW in December
2003 to 1US$ = 925.6 KRW in December 2006.               The overall contract was for KRW
111,328,474,93 1. The devaluation cost in US$ due to the devaluation of the US$ i s estimated at
US$39.6 M.

2.     The other contracts which were signed inReais were estimated at R$ 172 MinDecember
2003. The US$ devalued from R$ 2.925255 in December 2003 to R$2.14992 in December
2006. The cost of this devaluation was roughly US$24.5M

3.     The overall financial gap due to the devaluation o f the US$ is therefore estimated at
US$64M. The Borrower is asking for US$54M because this is the amount that fits within its
external borrowing limits established by the Federal Government as part of the Fiscal
Responsibility Law and the negotiated Fiscal Adjustment Program.




                                              6

