Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6651-JO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$80 MILLION
TO
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR AN
ECONOMIC REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT LOAN
SEPTEMBER 15, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ACM            =       Arab Common Market
AEP            =       Approved Economic Program
ASAL           =       Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
CBJ            =       Central Bank of Jordan
CEM            =       Country Economic Memorandum
CG             =       Consultative Group
CIF            =       Cost in Freight
DDSR           =       Debt and Debt Service Reduction
EDP            =       Export Development Project
EFF            =       Extended Fund Facility
EP             =       Economic Program
ERDL           =       Economic Reform and Development Loan
ERDP           =       Economic Reform and Development Program
ESAL           =       Energy Sector Adjustment Loan
EU             =       European Union
GATT           =       General Agreement on Tariff and Trade
GDP            =       Gross Domestic Product
GST            =       General Sales Tax
ICB            =       International Competitive Bidding
IEC            =      The International Electro-technical Commission
IM             =       Initiating Memorandum
ISO            =       The International Organization for Standardization
ITPAL          =       Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan
LDP            =       Letter of Development Policy
MFA            =       Multifibre Arrangement
MFN            =       Most Favored Nation
MOF            =       Ministry of Finance
MOP            =       Ministry of Planning
MOTI           =       Ministry of Trade and Industry
OECD           =       Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development
SBA            =       Stand-by Arrangement
SOE            =       Statement of Expenditures
UR             =       Uruguay Round
WBG            =       West Bank and Gaza
WTO            =       World Trade Organization
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)
(As of September 30, 1995)
US$ 1.00 = JD 0.67
JD 1.00 = US$ 1.50
JD 1.00 = fils 1,000
GOVERNMENT OF THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ECONOMIC REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN SUMMARY   .........................................    i
PART I - THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT  ......................   1
A. Background  ..........................................    1
B. Recent Economic Developments  .............................    1
C. Adjustment Issues, the Challenge of Peace and the Reform Agenda  ...           ....   4
D. Bank Assistance to the Adjustment Process  ......................   6
E. Macroeconomic Prospects  .................................   7
PART II - ESTABLISHING AN OPEN AND OUTWARD-ORIENTED
TRADE ENVIRONMENT   ..............................   9
A. Trade Pattern and Prospects ................................   9
B. Trade Regime .........................................  10
C. Strategy for Trade Liberalization .............................  10
PART III - CREATING AN OPEN AND INVESTMENT-FRIENDLY
BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT  ...........................  14
A. Encouraging Foreign Investment .............................  14
B. Improving Investment Incentives .............................  15
PART IV - SUMMARY OF THE LOAN'S CONDITIONS  ................  16
PART V - MACROECONOMIC  IMPACT OF REFORMS  ................  18
PART VI - UTILIZATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS  .....................  20
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION   ...............................  21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ECONOMIC REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
(continued)
Text Tables
1. Macroeconomic Indicators ...................................   3
2. External Financing Requirements ...............................   8
3. Evolution of Trade Policy: 1987-1995  ...........................  12
Annexes
I.     Letter of Development Policy
Attachment: Medium-term Policy Framework Matrix
II.    Supplementary Project Data Sheet
III.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits and IFC Investments
IV.   Tariff Reductions and Restructuring Schedules
V.    Protocol Trade Arrangements, and Organizations Exempted from Tariffs



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ECONOMIC REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT LOAN (ERDL)
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower                  The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Amount             :      US$80 million equivalent.
Terms              :      Repayment in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable rate.
Objectives                A key objective of this loan is to support Jordan to address the constraints
on its long-term growth imposed by the limitation of a small domestic
market. This would be achieved through close integration with international
markets and the establishment of an investment-friendly environment. An
important policy direction supported by this loan is the ultimate removal of
the remaining trade and investment barriers, paving the way for a closer
trade relation (an Association Agreement) with the European Union (EU),
and accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO). A further objective
is to support the adoption of trade and investment procedures and practices
consistent with international practices and with WTO requirements. This
is expected to reduce uncertainty, raise the level and efficiency of
investments and lead to accelerated growth.
Description               The ERDL supports trade and investment policy reforms to: (a) remove the
quota-based preferential treatment of goods originating in or going to
specific countries, or convert it into a full-fledged free trade agreement that
satisfies WTO rules; (b) remove import licensing requirements; (c) reduce
and restructure tariffs, including the elimination of the various import fees
and surcharges; (d) remove tariff exemptions; (e) establish a credible path
to achieving full long-term trade liberalization; (f) equalize domestic taxes
on imports and domestically produced goods; (g) establish a business-
enabling investment environment and strengthen investment incentives; (h)
streamline and rationalize customs administration; and (i) improve the
operations of export development schemes.
Benefits          :       The ERDL would complement and deepen the Government's ongoing
adjustment program. It would: (a) strengthen the incentives for export
production through reducing the import costs of capital goods and
intermediate goods; (b) benefit domestic consumers by lowering the costs
of imported consumption goods; (c) give a boost to GDP and national
income growth; (d) improve resource efficiency and raise factor
productivity; (e) help Jordan to attract direct foreign and domestic
investment; (f) facilitate tax reforms by shifting from taxes on external trade
and on savings toward taxes on domestic consumption; (g) facilitate
Jordan's move toward closer trade relations with the EU and regional
economies; and (h) support Jordan's balance of payments financing



- 11 -
requirements.
Risks                      There are macroeconomic risks arising from external shocks that may
derive from adverse capital movements, changes in the external demand for
Jordanian goods and services, and changes in demand for Jordan Dinar-
based financial assets. There is also the risk that despite the expectation
that trade reforms would benefit the bulk of the population, vested interests
may succeed in arguing against the reforms due to misconceived social and
political risks from lowering trade protection.
Maintaining the macroeconomic framework, including a flexible exchange
rate and interest rate policy stance, would enable Jordan to better cope with
external shocks that could take place from changes of capital flows. The
assurance of a sound macroeconomic framework has been secured with the
successful implementation of the Fund EFF  program.  In addition,
international support for Jordan's economic adjustment program has been
further strengthened due to the Peace Accord with Israel.
The Government has maintained a delicate balance between economic
reforms and political stability since 1989. The political liberalization
initiated has provided a democratic process for conflict resolution, thus
contributing to social and political stability. The Government's appreciation
of the political feasibility of the reforms has been factored into the program
(e.g. in the phasing of tariff reductions), thereby reducing risks to program
implementation. Furthermore, the matching of trade policy reforms with
export development support is an indication of the Government's
commitment to assisting domestic industries during the transition to an
outward oriented and investment-friendly economy.
Poverty Category           Not Applicable.
Disbursements              The loan would be disbursed in one tranche of US$ 80 million.
Disbursement would be against general imports with a negative list.
Financing Plan             The Government has requested cofinancing of US$ 80 million equivalent
from Japan, and cofinancing of Lira 20.0 billion (about US$12 million
equivalent) from Italy.
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Jordan in June 1995 consisting of Mr.
Chang-Po Yang (Mission Leader), William Tyler (Lead Economist), Bernard Hoekman (Trade
Economist), John Wetter (Research Economist), and Ole Risager (Consultant). Mr. Willem Van
Eeghen (Senior Economist) participated in the subsequent loan negotiations. Messrs. Adil Kanaan and
Inder Sud are the Division Chief and Country Director respectively responsible for the operation.
Neil Roger is peer reviewer.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED ECONOMIC REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT LOAN
TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
i.           I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Economic
Reform and Development Loan (ERDL) to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan for US$80.0 million equivalent.
This loan would be disbursed in one tranche to provide financial support for the trade and investment policy
reforms the Government has already implemented as part of its medium-term Economic Reform and
Development Program (ERDP). This program is described in a Letter of Development Policy (LDP) from
the Goverrnment (Annex I), and summarized below (para. 15-19). The loan would be on standard IBRD
terms of a variable interest rate with 20 year's maturity, including 5 years of grace. The Government has
requested cofinancing of US$80 million equivalent from the Government of Japan, and cofinancing of Lira
20 billion (about US$12 million equivalent) from the Government of Italy.
Part I. The Macroeconomic Context'
A. Background
1.           Jordan enjoyed unprecedented growth in its income and expenditures during 1973-1984,
boosted by foreign assistance and loans, workers' remittances, and exports to regional markets. This ended
in the mid-eighties, following the rapid decline in the price of oil and the subsequent slowdown in regional
economies. As a consequence, Jordan experienced a drastic slowdown in growth and severe fiscal and
external account difficulties. By 1991, real per capita income in US dollar terms had declined to about half
of its level during the pre-crisis years, while unemployment and poverty increased.
2.            Jordan's main comparative advantage in the past had been in the export of skilled workers
to the Gulf region. Remittance income, together with large official transfers, constituted a very substantial
source of financing but also left a problematic heritage for the economy since it led to: (a) excessive reliance
on foreign savings to finance domestic expenditures; (b) significant vulnerability to external shocks; and
(c) a Dutch disease effect: the loss of foreign exchange earnings and transfers since the mid-eighties had left
domestic wages above their market clearing levels.
3.            With a small domestic market and limited employment opportunities in regional markets at
present, Jordan needs to aggressively implement a strategy which aims at increasing domestic savings,
promoting foreign and domestic investment, and making Jordan attractive for private capital inflows. A
central element of this strategy is the pursuit of private-sector-led, outward-oriented growth via exports of
goods and services using Jordanian skills.
B. Recent Economic Developments
4.            Jordan has made significant progress since the Government adopted a program of stabilization
and adjustment supported by the Bank and by an IMF Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) in 1989. Overall,
Jordan's economic performance has been impressive, with the Government demonstrating firm commitment
to its program. Adjustment efforts have centered on three main areas: (a) restoring financial stability, with
particular attention to the resolution of the external debt problem and mobilization of domestic resources to
I     See also Country Economic Memorandum, entitled "Consolidating Economic Adjustment, and Establishing
the Base for Sustainable Growth", dated August 24, 1994 (Report No. 12645-JO).



- 2 -
redress the long-standing imbalances in external and internal accounts; (b) accelerating efficiency-improving
reforms by adopting a more open trade regime and improving financial intermediation and the regulatory
framework; and (c) restructuring and reforming the public sector to ensure that economic agents in both
the public and private sectors compete on equal grounds and respond most efficiently to market signals.
5.           The specific stabilization and adjustment measures adopted by the Government during 1989-
1994 included: (a) a series of fiscal adjustments to reduce budget deficits, including tariff and tax reforms;
(b) a large devaluation of the Jordanian Dinar in 1989 followed by the maintenance of a flexible exchange
rate policy responsive to market forces; (c) a number of measures to reduce tariff protection and improve the
trade incentive regime; (d) decontrol of nearly all prices, including interest rates; (e) initiating comprehensive
structural reforms in the energy and agriculture sectors; and (f) strengthening institutional support for export
development.
6.           In addition to assistance from the Bank and Fund, these adjustment efforts have been
supported by successive debt rescheduling (March 1992 and July 1994) through the Paris Club, by a debt and
debt service reduction (DDSR) operation with the London Club, and a debt buy-back arrangement with the
former Soviet Union. Substantial donor assistance has also been mobilized through two Consultative Group
meetings chaired by the Bank (January 1993 and May 1994). More recently, official bilateral debt reductions
on the order of US$800 million (or more than 15% of the debt stock) were granted by several creditor
countries, mainly the United States (US).
7.           Main Achievements. The effective implementation of the adjustment program, despite the
disruptions caused by the Gulf crisis of 1990-91, has led to impressive results (Table 1). Real GDP
rebounded by 16% in 1992 and has been growing at an annual rate of about 6% since then. This favorable
development on the supply side, coupled with prudent demand management, has contributed to a sharp decline
in inflation. At present inflation is less than 5 % per annum. The level of unemployment, which rose to a
peak of 25% in the aftermath of the 1990-91 Gulf crisis, has been sharply reduced, although at 14-15% it
remains high. Poverty, which had increased during the economic stagnation of the late 1980s and 1990-91,
has begun to decline. Budgetary and external sector performance have strengthened considerably since 1992,
with the overall fiscal deficit declining to 5.9% of GDP in 1994 (from 17.4% in 1991), and the external
current account deficit to about 11.8 % of GDP (from 20.9 %). The flexible and market-based exchange rate
and interest rate policy stances in the past five years have enabled Jordan to maintain stable exchange rates
and to adjust the interest rate on Jordan Dinar-based assets in line with monetary developments. Furthermore,
the debt management strategy implemented by the Government has entailed a steady reduction of the debt-to-
GDP ratio from over 180% in 1991 to less than 120% in 1994. Debt service as a share of exports of goods
and services fell to 18.4% in 1994.
8.           Status and Lessons of the Previous Adjustment Operations. These macroeconomic gains
have been accompanied by strong government efforts to deal with longstanding structural problems. Trade
reforms and government support for export development supported by the Industrial and Trade Policy
Adjustment Loan (ITPAL FY90) have led to real growth of nontraditional exports of 10% per year during
1991-94 with both investment and GDP growth responding vigorously to the policy reforms. The principal
lessons which emerged from  this operation included:2  (i) strong Government commitment led to
comprehensive and consistent program implementation; and (ii) success in macroeconomic stabilization at the
early stage militated against policy reversal and laid the foundation for sectoral reforms.
2     The OED Performance Audit Report (No. 14772), June 1995.



- 3 -
Table 1. Macroeconomic Indicators
Actual                    Projected (1995-1999)
1990   1991   1992  1993   1994        1995   1996    1997   1998  1999
GDP (million, current US$)                 4,021   4,194   5,139 5,604   6,106    6,854   7,560    8,303   9,152  10,090
GDP Growth Rate (%)                          1.0    1.8   16.1   5.8    5.8        6.2    6.1    5.6        6.0   6.0
Domestic Inflation                          11.4    5.1    5.4   5.1    3.9        4.3    4.0    4.0        4.0   4.0
ICOR                                       27.7   19.8    2.1   7.8    7.2         4.9    4.9    5.5        5.1   4.5
(Percent of GDP)
Investment                                 31.9   25.9   34.6   31.8   26.4    26.0   26.2   26.1    25.0  23.7
Consumption                                94.4   96.6   97.0   98.1   96.7    94.4   92.3   90.7    89.9  89.4
Gross Domestic Savings                      5.6    3.4    3.0    1.9    3.3         5.6    7.7    9.3    10.1  10.6
Gross National Savings                      3.3    5.0   13.4   14.1   14.6    16.2   17.9   18.8    18.5  17.9
Current Account Balance'                   -28.5  -20.9  -21.2  -17.7  -11.8    -9.8   -8.3   -7.3    -6.5  -5.8
Government Revenues'                       27.5   28.2   33.5   30.7   29.2    31.2   30.6   30.1    29.8  29.7
Government Expenditures                    45.2   45.6   36.9   36.4   35.1    35.7   34.7   33.9    33.0  32.2
Budget Deficit (-)'                        -18.3  -17.4   -3.4   -5.7   -5.9    -4.6   -4.1   -3.7    -3.2  -2.6
Memo Items:
Real Export Growth (Goods & Services, %)    -2.7   -3.6    4.8    7.8    1.9       6.1    8.3    8.2        6.9   6.4
Merchandise (FOB)                        -6.9    3.4    6.9    6.1    8.7        7.0    9.9   10.0       8.0   8.0
Non-Traditional Goods                 -8.0    9.8   11.3    6.2   12.9        7.3   10.6   10.5        8.4   9.0
Real Import Growth (Goods & Services, %)   22.0   -3.1   21.0    6.7   -5.1         1.6    6.2    5.7       3.9   3.7
Merchandise (FOB)                        24.5   -2.7   27.5    8.3   -7.2        2.5    7.5    6.6       4.3   3.9
Debt/GDP (%)                               181.0  185.7  139.8  124.4  118.0   105.8   96.1   86.3    82.4  73.2
Debt Service/Exports2                       18.6   20.9   19.0   14.7   18.4    15.3   14.2   12.6    11.1  10.8
1) Excluding grants
2) After rescheduling. Exports include goods, services and remittances.
Source: Bank staff estimates.



9.            Progress to date has been mixed under the ongoing Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL,
FY94), and the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL, FY95). Adjustment measures agreed under the
ESAL are intended to ensure the financial soundness of power sector enterprises, establish a transparent and
predictable regulatory mechanism attractive to private investors, and restructure energy sector institutions
(including corporatization and eventual privatization) to provide better efficiency incentives. Policy actions
have been slower than expected in raising the electricity tariff and in agreeing on a plan for institutional
restructuring, but on schedule in adjusting most petroleum and gas prices to world levels, and ahead of
schedule in actual corporatization and some aspects of organizational restructuring. The situation is similar
with measures agreed under the ASAL: the very controversial increase in Jordan Valley irrigation pricing has
proceeded according to schedule, as have other water management measures and many aspects of price
decontrol and trade liberalization (e.g., replacement of quantitative restrictions on agricultural imports with
tariffs), while some agreed aspects of price and trade liberalization lag behind schedule. The Bank is working
closely with the Government to maximize the likelihood that action in the lagging areas be taken before
completion of both operations in 1996.
10.          An important lesson of the ESAL and ASAL experiences to date has been that in addressing
politically difficult issues, broad-based political commitment and flexibility are essential for consistent
implementation; they are all the more essential given the high public expectation of a tangible dividend from
the peace process. A further lesson in this regard is that Bank operations should be designed to complement
the implementation capacity of the Government in a pragmatic and flexible manner. A series of single-
tranche adjustment loans at this point would support such an objective. They would support actions that will
have been taken, thereby reflecting a greater degree of ownership by the Government. They would also
better correspond to the reality on the ground, since progress in the implementation of reforms typically
moves along a broad front of policy areas, with some areas moving faster than others.
C. Adjustment Issues, the Challenge of Peace and the Reform Agenda
11.          Adjustment Issues. Notwithstanding the progress described (para. 7), Jordan still faces
major challenges ahead. Its heavy reliance on external financing for its domestic expenditures remains a
source of macroeconomic uncertainty. The prospect for increasing domestic savings in the short- to medium-
term is limited if per capita consumption is not to decline drastically. Against this backdrop, Jordan will
have to restrain aggregate demand and sustain economic growth over the medium term at about 5-6%
annually. Achieving an appropriate balance between these policy goals requires rapid implementation of
structural reforms that would increase investment efficiency and establish a strong base for non-inflationary
growth.
12.          There are a number of domestic policy constraints that must be addressed. The trade regime
is still characterized by relatively high tariffs and non-tariff barriers. The regulatory regime is tilted in favor
of public enterprises. Investment incentives are often discretionary and trade procedures burdensome. The
public sector is overextended and inefficient in many respects. The financial system is segmented, not
sufficiently flexible, and characterized by high costs and a low volume of financial intermediation. In
essence, the emergence of a dynamic and private-sector-led economy has been hampered by the small
domestic market, partial integration in international trade and the dominance of the public sector.
13.          The Challenge of Peace. The peace process, in which the October 1994 Peace Accord
between Jordan and Israel represents a historic breakthrough, presents Jordan with unprecedented
opportunities and challenges. Peace carries new growth opportunities for Jordan's banking sector, tourism
and exports. It offers the prospect for regional cooperation in water, natural resource management and
environmental protection. It could also lead to a broad-based investment recovery throughout the region.



On the other hand, peace also poses challenges to macroeconomic stability because of the circulation of
several currencies in the West Bank and Gaza (WBG) and the potential loss of substantial seigniorage once
the WBG introduces its own currency and seeks to redeem the Jordan Dinars it holds. Peace could also pose
a risk to growth because of the potential diversion of investment capital and the migration of skilled labor
to the WBG. Furthermore, the peace process has raised the expectation for a rapid improvement of living
standards and led to intensified demands on the Government to deliver better social services. However, these
risks are manageable, and are likely to be overcome over time. Effective implementation of the ERDP,
including trade and investment policy reforms, would enable Jordan to take advantage of the opportunities
presented by peace and minimize potential risks.
14.          Notwithstanding the achievements of adjustment policies to date, the announcement of the
intention to create a monetary authority in the WBG in April 1994 has led to a shift out of the Jordan Dinar
into holdings of other major currencies, and consequently a major decline in Jordan's official reserves.
Although the Government has maintained a strong stabilization program, including increases of interest rates
on Jordan Dinar-based assets in an attempt to restore the level of official reserves, this development has left
Jordan quite vulnerable to further speculative attacks on its currency. Therefore, Jordan urgently needs to
mobilize donor assistance, particularly for balance-of-payments support, to build up its reserves and to
prepare for the eventual redemption of Jordan Dinar in circulation in the WBG.
15.          The Overall Government Reform Agenda. To meet the challenges of peace and investment
requirements in the medium- to long-term, Jordan must be able to attract significant and long-term foreign
investment and capital inflows. Given the external debt relief received to date and the limits on further
external official financing, the Government is giving high priority to improving the business environment to
attract private foreign investment. Therefore, the Government intends to accelerate the implementation of
its ERDP (described in the Letter of Development Policy), with a strong focus on open trade and investment
regimes and on creating an enabling policy and institutional environment to promote growth through private
sector initiatives. The ERDP sets out clear medium-term policy goals and provides a broad agenda tailored
to Jordan's implementation capacity. The broad thrust of the ERDP is based on the following elements: (a)
maintaining macroeconomic stability; (b) promoting economic integration with world markets, starting
with exploiting Jordan's proximity to Europe; (c) reforming the public sector and creating a sound
environment for private sector development; and (d) improving the functioning of the financial sector
to promote more efficient mobilization of savings and better investments. The policy actions to be supported
by the proposed ERDL will focus on further liberalization of the trade and investment regimes, which is an
integral part of the ERDP. The proposed ERDL also lays the ground work for further reforms in the
financial and public enterprise sectors.
16.          Maintaining macroeconomic stability will provide a solid basis for the Government to pursue
structural and sectoral reforms that will improve resource allocation and factor productivity, enhancing the
prospects for sustainable long-run growth. The Government's short-term response to the shift in currency
holdings in the WBG is to maintain the stability of the Jordan Dinar through a flexible interest rate policy,
and to keep under close review the option of adjusting the exchange rate in the medium to longer term. To
address the underlying structural imbalances in the internal and external accounts, the Government will
gradually shift the General Sales Tax it has already adopted into a full value added tax, thus consolidating
the bias in favor of savings. The Government has implemented and will continue to adopt strong fiscal
adjustment measures, including contaimnent of military expenditures and reforms of public enterprises to
boost public savings. Furthermore, the Government will continue to adopt and improve indirect monetary
control mechanisms, such as open market operations, to reduce the costs of financial intermediation and to
improve the incentives for financial savings. These measures would promote sustainable long-run growth by
consolidating the macroeconomic gains, reducing over time the reliance on external financing, and redressing



-6 -
long-term structural imbalances.
17.          An open trade regime and greater integration into world markets will help Jordan to meet
the challenges of increased international competition, which would lead Jordanian firms to improve their
efficiency and to realize their export potential. In this regard, the Government has adopted a number of
policy actions as described below (paras. 40-49).
18.          The Government is convinced that long-run sustainable growth of the Jordanian economy rests
on a growing role of the private sector and a rederintion of the role of the state in the economy. To this
end, the Government policy actions will focus on three general areas: (a) privatizing public enterprises and
government shares in public shareholding companies; (b) liberalizing the regulatory framework affecting
business entry, operation (including pricing policy), and exit; and (c) strengthening regulatory oversight of
utilities and separating policy, regulatory, and management functions. In this regard, the Parliament has
adopted the Investment Law of 1995, an amendment to the General Sales Tax Law, and an amendment to
the Income Tax Law (paras.51 and 55-56). In addition to the sector reforms (described in para. 9), the
Government has recently allowed private investors to take part in providing cellular telecommunications
services, and has approved schedules and terms of reference for developing strategies to privatize the Royal
Jordanian Airline. Also, as agreed with the Bank, the Government is at an advanced stage of preparation for
creating a regulatory regime for the telecommunications sector and for privatizing the Jordan
Telecommunications Company.
19.          The financial sector is expected to play two major roles: (a) serving as a facilitator for real
sector growth by mobilizing savings and channelling them to productive uses; and (b) becoming a growth
center in its own right. The financial sector would serve these roles best if it is capable of efficiently
providing a large variety of financial services for investors and savers to choose from. As a growth center,
the financial sector has ample room to expand and to provide services to the regional economies. The
Government is beginning to formulate a reform agenda to improve competition, increase efficiency and
effectiveness in this sector and foster the development of long-term finance, both equity and debt, which are
not yet sufficiently available. To this end, the Government will formulate action plans for the next five years
in order to: (a) facilitate the development of money markets; (b) further strengthen bank supervision and
establish a sound deposit insurance scheme; (c) facilitate and induce the development of secondary markets
for long-term financial instruments; (d) facilitate the development of non-bank financial institutions; (e)
liberalize the flow of capital through the Amman Financial Market and other channels; and (f) facilitate the
development of contractual savings institutions.
D. Bank Assistance to the Adjustment Process
20.           The objectives of the Bank assistance strategy are based on the same central theme as that of
the Government: to promote rapid and sustainable outward-oriented growth. To be rapid and sustainable,
growth needs to be private-sector driven and environmentally friendly. The strategy aims to establish a
private-sector-enabling environment in which the private sector, guided by market signals, will determine the
sectoral direction of investment and growth. The strategy will therefore focus on three areas in order of
priority: (a) fostering economic integration with the world economy through implementation of structural
reforms, including trade and financial sector liberalization, privatization of public enterprises and reform of
the regulatory regime; (b) addressing critical infrastructure constraints-particularly water-with special
efforts to facilitate private sector participation in infrastructure; and (c) addressing human resource
constraints and improving the efficiency of education, health and family planning services, as well as
protecting the poor during the adjustment.



-7-
21.           This strategy is predicated on macroeconomic stability. The on-going program supported by
an IMF EFF would help maintain its necessary macroeconomic underpinning. Bank support would focus on
structural adjustment issues, including trade and investment policy reforms aimed at stimulating competition
and outward-oriented growth; financial sector reforms to encourage savings mobilization and to ensure its
efficient allocation; and regulatory and public sector reforms to foster a business enabling environment. This
support is expected to be provided through a series of proposed policy-based operations, starting with this
loan.
22.           The policy reforms under the ERDL would constitute one important part of the overall reform
agenda. The Government has confirmed in its Letter of Development Policy that it would accelerate the
implementation of its ERDP, including the macroeconomic adjustment program as measured by compliance
with agreed criteria and other financial and economic targets, in particular the fiscal adjustment target, and
the target for build-up of gross official reserves.
E. Macroeconomnic Prospects
23.           Despite the progress in macroeconomic adjustment (para.7), Jordan needs to address two
immediate issues resulting primarily from recent external developments. The first months of 1995 saw signs
of a potential fiscal slippage for 1995: external interest payments were larger than expected (by 1.1 percentage
points of GDP) due to higher interest rates and the depreciation of the US dollar vis-a-vis other major
currencies; food subsidies were higher due to the rise of international food prices; and customs revenues were
lower due to the shifts in import composition toward raw materials and capital goods with relatively lower
tariffs. Furthermore, despite the maintenance of a tight monetary stance and rapid reductions of the current
account deficit in the last 18 months, the level of gross official reserves has remained low (at US$380 million
or 1.2 months of imports as of end June 1995), reflecting, among other things, a strong private sector
preference for holding U.S. dollar-denominated assets as well as the uncertainty surrounding the future
redemption of Jordan Dinar in circulation in the WBG.
24.           The Government has adopted a number of measures to address this fiscal challenge and to
restore the level of reserves. An increase of the basic general sales tax rate from 7% to 10% has been
approved by Parliament, and the Government has reduced the subsidies on barley and other animal feed by
adjusting their domestic prices. These measures, along with the adoption of a number of other fiscal
adjustments, are expected to enable full compliance with the fiscal target for 1995, and to help achieve
further fiscal adjustments in 1996. Furthermore, given the limited scope for further fiscal tightening in 1995,
the Government would maintain a tight monetary policy accompanied by further adjustments of interest rates
on Jordan Dinar-based assets, as needed, in order to achieve the reserve target.
25.           Over the medium term, the implementation of the adjustment program is essential for further
improving Jordan's macroeconomic prospects. The medium-term adjustment program supported by the
Bank/Fund envisages GDP growth at about 5-6% during 1995-98, a reduction in the current account deficit
to about 6.5% of GDP by 1998, and a reduction in the fiscal deficit to about 3.2% of GDP (see Table 1),
with inflation remaining at 4% p.a..
26.           These growth and stabilization objectives would be achieved by: (a) steadily reducing the
fiscal deficit through containing recurrent expenditures, improving the financial position of public enterprises
and revenue performance (i.e. consolidating the GST and reforms of the direct tax system); (b) improving
management of domestic credit and maintaining a moderate pace of credit expansion in line with GDP
growth; (c) maintaining stable and consistent interest and exchange rate policies; and (d) accelerating
structural reforms to spur private-sector-led growth and investment. The policy reform measures proposed
in this operation would form a major part of the structural reforms needed to spur growth and complement
macroeconomic stability.



- 8 -
27.              Within this context, the projected GDP growth requires an investment level of about 25-26%
of GDP during 1995-98 (See Table 1). The implicit improvement in investment efficiency reflects gains from
the policy reforms as well as increased capacity utilization. At the same time, an increasing share of
investment must be financed by domestic savings, which are projected to increase to 10% in 1998, reflecting
increases in savings of both the public and private sectors.
Table 2: Jordan - External Financing Requirements
(US$ Million)
Projected (1995-1998)
1994/est.        1995            1996            1997           1998
Current Account Balance'                     -349.9         -237.1         -220.2           -182.9        -157.7
Change in Reserves (-=increase)2              -93.9         -267.9         -176.0           -168.9        -180.0
Amortization on MLT Debt'                    -548.0         -561.0         -494.0           -478.0        -478.0
Interese                                     -373.0        -434.0          -406.5           -423.1        -434.1
Total Financing Requirement                  -1364.8       -1500.0        -1296.7          -1253.0       -1249.8
Financed By:                                 1364.8         1500.0         1296.7           1253.0        1249.8
Regular Financing Sources                    1112.8         1120.0          986.8           1011.0         930.8
Disbursement on LT Loans4                   537.0          548.0          472.0            446.2         306.0
Grants                                      323.8          332.0          294.8           294.8          294.8
Direct Foreign Investment                    26.0          70.0           120.0            170.0         220.0
Workers' Savings                            226.0          170.0          100.0            100.0         110.0
Extraordinary Financing Sources'              252.0          380.0          309.9           242.0          319.0
Exceptional Financing,
Multilateral and Bilateral Sources         252.0          170.0           40.0             60.0          30.0
of which, ERDL                           0.0          80.0             0.0             0.0            0.0
Financing Gap/excluding cofinancing             0.0         210.0           269.9            182.0         289.0
1/ Net of interest and grants.
2/ Including net IMF credits.
3/ Including $800 million debt forgiveness.
4/ Excluding financing gap and exceptional fmnancing from multilateral and bilateral sources.
5/ Exceptional financing, multilateral sources only except 1994.
28.              Achieving the above-mentioned targets also depends on adequate external financing. In 1995-
97, the current account deficit (excluding grants) is estimated at an average of about US$631 million, or 8%
of GDP. This deficit, along with scheduled amortization and build-up of reserves, would raise Jordan's gross
financial requirements to an annual average of over US$1.3 billion during 1995-1997 (see Table 2).
Disbursements of loans and grants that have already been committed, along with private capital inflows,
would cover most of the gross total financing requirements. But even with debt rescheduling, a financing
gap of about US$210 million is projected for 1995, US$270 million for 1996, and US$182 million for 1997.
The ERDL would entail a one tranche disbursement of US$80 million in 1995 (Table 2). Expected
cofinancing of the ERDL would bring in another US$92 million equivalent approximately. In addition, the
upcoming Consultative Group (CG) meeting tentatively scheduled for early 1996 is expected to confirm
balance-of-payments support from major donors (which are not yet included in Table 2), and to focus on the
medium-term investment financing requirement.



29.           Debt and Creditworthiness.  Jordan has managed its external debt well and its
creditworthiness has steadily improved. By limiting new borrowing, pursuing debt buy-backs at substantial
discounts, and obtaining official debt write-offs of about US$800 million in 1994, Jordan has reduced its
debt/GDP ratio from above 186% in 1991 to an estimated 106% in 1995. At the same time, successive
rescheduling and restructuring of debt and the relatively more concessional terms of new external financing
have kept the debt service ratio down to the 14-20% range, comfortably below that of most countries at a
similar level of debt. The debt service ratio is expected to fall from 18.4% in 1994 to 11% by 1998, and
the debt/GDP ratio is expected to fall to 82%. Although debt rescheduling would entail increased debt stock
in the future, Jordan's larger economy and strong foreign exchange earnings at that point would ensure a
smaller relative burden. With the benefit of its manageable debt service ratio, further Paris Club rescheduling,
and continued flows of remittance income at above US$1.3 billion annually would provide the necessary
ingredients for "growing out of debt".
Part II. Establishing an Open and Outward-oriented Trade Environment
30.           The Peace Accord between Jordan and Israel opens up the possibility of a major restructuring
of trade patterns. At the same time ongoing multilateral trade liberalization under the auspices of the World
Trade Organization (WTO) and the movement of several regional economies toward free trade relations with
the European Union (EU) pose both new challenges and new opportunities. Jordan's policy response to these
developments will play a key role in determining its economic future.
A. Trade Pattern and Prospects
31.          Jordan's trade is marked by unusually large imbalances. The trade deficit was equivalent to
over 38% of GNP in 1994. Trade in services is predominant. Gross workers' remittances in 1994 were
almost as large as total merchandise exports, and travel receipts amounted to 41 % of total merchandise
exports. Trade with Arab countries accounted for 42% of exports and 22% of imports, but Jordan is in
overall trade deficit with its neighbors. Most of Jordan's exports are raw materials. Phosphates, potash and
fertilizers accounted for 36% of all exports in 1994. Food accounted for 17% of total imports. India is the
largest single market for Jordan's potash and phosphates, with Saudi Arabia next for its fruits and vegetables.
Iraq is Jordan's largest trade partner, providing Jordan with virtually all of its oil needs, followed by the
U.S., then Germany as suppliers for manufactured goods. Exports to E.U. countries and Japan are small,
and Jordan has large trade deficits with the E.U. and the US. Real growth of exports p.a. was just 1 % over
the period 1985-90, but rose to 5.6% over the period of 1990-94 following the trade liberalization measures
adopted in 1989-90. During 1985-90, growth of non-traditional exports (excluding potash, phosphate and
fertilizer) was -1.6% p.a., and it rose to 10% during 1990-1994.
32.           Jordan's export prospects should improve as a result of the recent Uruguay Round (UR) trade
liberalization and the trade and investment policy reforms supported by ERDL. However, like all other Arab
countries, Jordan's potential gains from the UR would be relatively small due to the erosion of tariff
preferences it receives in the OECD markets, which offset the positive effects of reduced most favored nation
(MFN) tariffs on non-preference-receiving products. Also, Jordan's main raw material exports generally face
low or zero tariffs already. With the removal of the Multifibre Arrangement (MFA), Jordan will face
increased international competition from low-cost producers in India and China in textiles and
clothing-sectors in which Jordan expects to develop its export and employment potential. On the other hand,
as a food importing country, Jordan could be adversely affected by higher international food prices that are
expected to result from the UR trade liberalization. While Jordan could further expand its intra-regional trade
with energy-exporting countries such as Saudi Arabia, it also faces important constraints, namely its own
similarities in revealed comparative advantage and export profiles with many other energy-importing countries



- 10 -
in the region (Turkey, Lebanon and Israel for example), as well as the high levels of tariff and non-tariff
barriers that exist in many regional markets.
B. Trade Regime
33.           The Government initiated a successful trade liberalization program in 1989 supported by the
ITPAL. As a result, import bans were substantially reduced, price controls were lifted, direct controls over
crop production were removed, and subsidies on food production and consumption reduced. The weighted
average tariff rate (including fees and surcharges) fell from 34.4% in 1987 to 25% in 1992. The coverage
of quantitative import restrictions-affecting about 40% of production in 1987-was reduced substantially.
The incentive regime in Jordan has therefore shifted away from the strong anti-export bias that existed in the
late 1980s.
34.           Important distortions, however, continue to exist, limiting the attractiveness of engaging in
the production of non-traditional manufactured goods for export. These distortions are partly the result of
the trade regime and partly the consequence of domestic regulatory policies. Prior to September 1994, the
tariff level was high, at an average of 25%; 506 products (21.5% of the total tariff items), accounting for
about 17% of all imports, had tariff rates in excess of 50%, and the effective average rate of tariff protection
was about 30%. The coefficient of variation for tariffs was quite high (89%), implying considerable
discrimination within and across sectors and product groups. Domestic taxes on some imports were higher
than on domestically produced goods. Tariff exemptions further increased the effective variation in the
incentive structure facing finns and investors and undermined the legal tariff and surcharge structure in a non-
transparent way.
35.           While outright import bans have been largely removed, import licensing requirements were
still in effect until October 1995. In addition, implementation of regulations related to the enforcement of
product standards is sometimes quite lengthy and non-transparent.  Uncertainty with respect to the
enforcement of customs regulations-in particular relating to classification and valuation of goods-introduces
further variation in the treatment of imports. Non-acceptance by Customs of invoices in some cases leads
to an increase in the 'effective' tariff imposed. Another feature of Jordan's trade regime is protocol trade.
Of the JD 336 million of direct exports to Arab countries in 1994, nearly one-third occurred under protocol
trade arrangements, which involve preferential tariff treatment of a portion of trade originating in and going
to other Arab countries. Furthermore, relatively little use is made of the temporary entry and duty drawback
mechanisms, as seen in the level low of exports to the European markets under the EU's Outward Processing
Customs Regime. Thus, notwithstanding the successful trade reforms of the last five years, the trade regime
is still in need of further development and liberalization.
C. Strategy for Trade Liberalization
36.           The Government's objective for trade liberalization as outlined in its Five-year Development
Plan (1993-1997) is to expand exports and raise productivity and resource efficiency. Outward orientation
in trade and investment-to be driven by the forces of market competition-is a key element in achieving this.
The experience of East Asia suggests that export-led growth can be fostered by: (a) macroeconomic stability;
(b) high education attainment in relation to per capita income; (c) competitive wages; (d) high savings rates;
(e) flexible labor markets; and (f) a policy regime that fosters production for export, including the necessary
acquisition of technology and skills. The recent export growth of many Latin American countries also
demonstrates the importance of macroeconomic stabilization and significant liberalization of trade policy, in
conjunction with the effective resolution of external debt problems.



- I1 -
37.           Jordan has demonstrated solid performance in meeting the first two of the above-mentioned
elements of an export-led growth strategy. The Government is also pursuing broad reform efforts to improve
the flexibility of the labor market, export competitiveness, and incentives for savings and investment
(paras. 15-19). The proposed Export Development Project (EDP), currently under preparation for Bank
support, would further strengthen Government support for export production and for acquisition of technology
and skills.
38.           The immediate challenge facing the Government is to adopt an economically sound and
politically feasible trade liberalization strategy that will help increase and further diversify Jordan's exports,
both geographically and with respect to product composition and that will allow Jordan to cope with the
rapidly changing external environment. An important action that the Government has already initiated in this
connection is closer trade relations with the EU. The Government is convinced that a reciprocal free trade
agreement with the EU (a Partnership Agreement) could help alleviate the adverse impact of the UR trade
liberalization (para.32) by giving Jordan a headstart in competition with the low-cost producers in the EU
markets. The Agreement could prove very helpful in implementing a gradual liberalization process and in
reducing any uncertainty on the part of firms regarding the direction of trade policy. At the same time, the
Agreement could help streamline customs administration through the adoption of EU-consistent procedures
and documents, activities for which financing is likely to be made available by the EU.
39.           Given the opportunities associated with the Peace Accord with Israel, another possibility is
to seek the creation of a free trade area in the region. However, this option, as well as the EU option, should
be complemented by the pursuit of trade liberalization more generally. This is both because of the constraints
(outlined in para.32) in expanding intra-regional trade, and because the development of the capacity to export
to the global market is best pursued through nondiscriminatory trade policy. The Government set in motion
the process to accede to GATT in late 1993. However, with the establishment of the WTO in January 1995
and the expected phase-out of GATT by end 1995, the Government has initiated the internal process for
accession to the WTO. The ERDL and the EDP would facilitate Jordan's accession to the WTO by helping
to ensure that policy and procedures are consistent with WTO requirements. Future Bank operations would
support further multilateral-based trade liberalization.
40.           Reductions of Import Controls. Building upon the previous policy actions to liberalize the
trade regime (table 3), the Government has effectively implemented the Import and Export Regulation No.74
of 1993 to remove the import licensing requirements except for areas of health, security, safety and religion
that require the enforcement of product standards (also see para.47).
41.           Reductions and Restructuring of Import Tariffs. The Government has demonstrated its
commitment to the liberalization of trade flows by reducing, in October 1994, all tariffs in excess of 50%
to a maximum of 50% or below with the only exceptions for tobacco, alcohol and salon cars. Overall, these
actions as well as the changes in tariffs implemented under the ASAL have lowered the import weighted
average tariff from 25 % before October 1994 to 21 %. More recently, the Government has: (i) reduced the
maximum border tax (tariffs plus fees and surcharges) except for alcohol, tobacco and cars from 70% to
50%; (ii) reduced border taxes now at 45% to 40%; (iii) reduced the majority of border taxes now at 35%
to (weighted by import value) 30%, and adjusted the rest to 40% in order to rationalize the effective levels
of tariff protection for certain goods; (iv) reduced border taxes on three categories of capital goods (a specific
list of 491 items) to 0, 5 and 10% respectively; and (v) left those currently below 30% unchanged (Annex
IV).



- 12 -
Table 3: Evolution of Trade Policy: 1987-1995
1987                         1991 - 1994                          1995
Pre-ITPAL                       Post-ITPAL                          ERDL
(Board Presentation)
Tariff Average (Weighted              34.0%                          25.0%                             20.1%
by Imports)
Tariff Coefficient of                170.0%                          89.0%                             70.0%
Variation
Maximum Tariff, plus      above     200.0%                           70.0%                             50.0%
Surcharge and Fees
with an exceptional list of 506   with the only exception of
tariff items exceeding 70%.       tobacco, alcohol, and salon cars.
Import Bans               Import  bans  applied  to  a   Import bans were reduced to five   Tariffs adopted in order to remove
significant number of items in  items:  mineral water, table salt,  import bans and licensing in the
both   manufacturing   and   fresh milk, tomato paste and dairy   agriculture sector as agreed with
agriculture sectors,           products.    Other import bans,  the Govermment under ASAL.
formal or de facto, in the agriculture
sector, continued.
Import Monopolies         Import  monopolies  applied   They continued to apply in the   Removed in early 1995 as agreed
mainly in the agriculture sector.   agriculture sector.          under ASAL
Tax on Imports and on     Taxes  on  imports  and   Tax  equalization  was  delayed   Tax  equalization   has  been
Domestically Produced     domestically  produced  goods   pending the adoption of the General  underway since July 1994, and
Goods                     were applied at different rates.    Sales Tax.                    will be implemented under ERDL.
Import "Pennission"       Licensing had been applied to   Licensing continued to apply despite   Licensing will be   effectively
Licensing                 control imports.                the Import and Export Regulation   abolished under ERDL except for
No.74  of  1993  which  was   areas of health, security, safety,
introduced to remove the licensing   and  religion, as internationally
requirement.                      accepted.
42.                The Government has made a strong commitment to further reducing the tariff barriers through
the pursuit of free trade relations with EU and accession to the WTO. In this context, the Government
intends to reduce tariffs still further and to remove the other remaining barriers to trade so that Jordan will
favorably place itself among the liberal trading nations of the world in the future.
43.                Reauctions of Import Tariff Exemptions. The Government has adopted two supporting
actions in conjunction with the tariff reductions. First, The Government has eliminated tariff exemptions with
the exception of those that result from export and investment development schemes (e.g., temporary
admission), international obligations (e.g., diplomatic missions, UN organizations) as well as a number of
others.3 This will not only reduce the revenue implications of tariff reductions, it will also lower the effective
protection now granted to enterprises with exempt status. In particular, the Government has eliminated tariff
exemption for the Government organizations, and for those organizations that have been provided tariff
exemptions by executive orders as shown in Annex V. In addition, the Government has taken the decision
not renew any tariff exemption agreements as they expire and not to extend any new tariff exemptions.
44.               Establishment of a Safeguard Mechanism. The second supporting action relates to the
design and implementation of a mechanism allowing for the temporary reimposition of higher tariffs in case
3        Namely the armed forces, royal court, and other exemptions provided to certain investors by legislation.



- 13 -
the trade liberalization is followed by such a surge in imports that serious injury of domestic industries arises,
and that the resulting social and economic adjustment pressures require that a domestic industry be granted
extra time to adjust to the increased import competition. In this regard, the Government has decided to adopt
a Safeguard Mechanism under a new Customs Law in accordance with WTO rules. The Law would specify
a time-bound safeguard mechanism-based on objective criteria and administered by a central Government
authority-so as to ensure temporary protection only if it is in the interest of the economy as a whole.
45.           Protocol Trade. In line with the agreement reached under the ASAL, the Government will
renegotiate the bilateral protocol trade agreements (Annex V) that provide the quantitative-restriction-based
and exclusive preferential treatment of goods originating in specific countries, or alternatively, convert such
agreements into full-fledged free trade agreements that satisfy WTO rules.
46.           National Treatment. Consistent with the WTO requirement for national treatment, the ERDL
will support the equalization of domestic taxes applied to foreign and domestically produced goods. An
amendment of the GST Law has been approved by Parliament to provide for additional sales taxes to be
applied at the same rates for a number of domestically produced or imported goods. The additional taxes are
also expected to protect fiscal revenue in the context of tariff reductions and restructuring. In addition, the
Government has equalized the general sales tax on six major items by exempting the imports from the sales
tax. This would greatly facilitate accession talks with the WTO, as the current discriminatory application of
the GST contravenes WTO rules. The remaining items, including alcohol and tobacco for which the GSTs
are applied on imports only, would be addressed as part of Jordan's WTO accession.
47.           Establishment of Product Standards. The ERDL would support the establishment of
mechanisms to ensure that product standards, certification and conformity assessment procedures are
consistent with those that have been agreed to and developed in international bodies such as the ISO, IEC,
WHO,4 etc. The Government has indicated its intention to accept foreign certification of testing and
conformity assessment by recognized firms as well as international quality marks. Harmonization of
standards and acceptance of international certification would also facilitate satisfaction of the WTO
requirements as regards standards and certification procedures. The Government intends to apply protection
standards only for areas of health, security, safety and religion, as internationally accepted. Technical
assistance in the establishment of product standards is expected to be provided under the proposed EDP.
48.           Streamlining Customs Administration. The Government has recently prepared a draft
Customs Law with support from the Bank and Fund. The Government intends to present this draft Law to
the Parliament once a number of necessary tasks are completed, including: (i) adoption by July 1, 1996 of
the WTO-consistent post-audit system; (ii) adoption of a self-declaration system upon the computerization of
the customs; and (iii) revision of the employee incentive bonus system to replace the current system (this task
will take effect by July 1, 1996). The Government has publicly announced these three sets of measures in
order to reform and improve the Customs Administration. The Customs Law will be presented to the
Parliament following the implementation of these actions. The proposed EDP will support the establishment
of an import valuation system and a customs clearance procedure consistent with WTO requirements and
implementation of the Customs Law. Specific technical assistance in this regard will be provided through
the EDP.
49.           Strengthening the Duty-drawback and Temporary Admission Mechanisms. Schemes
4      The International Organization for Standardization, The International Electro-technical Commission, and the
World Health Organization.



- 14 -
designed to give domestic producers access to inputs at world market prices are crucial in inducing export-led
growth if tariffs are significant. Even if the Government lowers tariffs significantly, unless tariffs on
intermediate inputs become negligible there will be a need for a well-functioning, efficient temporary
admission and duty drawback system. The Government adopted both mechanisms several years ago.
However, they have not yet been effectively applied due to the following reasons: (a) the business
community is not fully aware of the advantages that can be obtained under these two schemes; and (b) a lack
of transparency and predictability in their implementation. The Government intends to improve the operation
of the two schemes by: (a) adopting pre-tabulated standard input-output coefficients that will be applied to
all exporters expeditiously, but starting with three subsectors first-shoes, furniture and garments; (b)
allowing valid documents such as bank guarantees with export orders or export transactions to serve as
sufficient evidence for duty rebates; (c) allowing an importer to transfer his duty draw-back claim to the
individual who manufactures and exports the items that were imported under the duty draw-back scheme; and
(d) adopting a new Regulation that will broaden the eligibility for the duty draw-back scheme so that a
manufacturer who identifies an export opportunity after he (or she) has started manufacturing will also be
eligible. Specific technical assistance in this regard will be provided under the EDP.
Part III. Creating an Open and Investment-Friendly Business Environment
50.           An open trade regime needs to be supported by an attractive investment regime in order to
encourage export-led growth. The substantially increased scope for trade flows between Jordan and the rest
of the world would make Jordan a potentially attractive location for transit trade and direct investment. The
realization of this great potential, however, requires a major improvement in Jordan's investment
environment. The Government has envisaged two phases in strengthening Jordan's investment regime. The
first phase would be legislative reforms to improve the business environment and to create a strong and
autonomous institution for investment promotion; the biases against foreign investment and major distortions
in the incentive regime would be removed, and the provision of investment incentives would become
automatic and non-discretionary. Once the reforms of the first phase are consolidated, the Government
intends to move to the second phase of the reform, when it would start divesting its control of public
enterprises, privatizing its equity holdings in public shareholding companies, and encouraging the private
sector to provide infrastructural services. As part of the first phase, the Government has implemented a
number of policy and legislative reforms focusing on: encouraging foreign investment, improving savings and
investment incentives, and creating Government capacity to assist private investors5.
A. Encouraging Foreign Investment
51.            The investment regime has been substantially improved under a new Investment Law of
1995 approved by Parliament. Previous investment legislation (The Law of 1992 Governing Arab and
Foreign Investments, and the Encouragement of Investment Law of 1987) had several weaknesses. It
differentiated between Arab and non-Arab foreign investors; it required all non-Arab foreign investors to
receive full cabinet approval prior to investing in Jordan; it prohibited non-Arab investment in shares of
public shareholding companies listed in the Amman Financial Market. Furthermore, it was ambiguous about
the definition of sectors where foreign participation was permitted in full and where it was limited to a
maximum of 49% of equity. It did not offer sufficient protection to foreign investors and did not allow for
internationally recognized third-party investment dispute resolution mechanisms.
52.            Recognizing these weaknesses, the Investment Law of 1995 has made the rules for foreign
5      A full description is provided in the Letter of Development Policy.



- 15 -
investors more transparent, simple and enabling. The new Law has: (a) eliminated the distinction between
Arab and non-Arab foreign investors; (b) accorded foreign investors equal treatment with Jordanians
regarding incentives and tax reduction; (c) eliminated the need for cabinet approval for foreign investments;
(d) specified clearly the sectors open for 100% foreign ownership and those in which foreign ownership is
limited to a certain percentage of equity; (e) allowed foreign investment in shares listed in the Amman
financial market up to a specified percentage of a company's capital with no prior approvals required for such
investment; (f) provided firm guarantees against nationalization or expropriation; (g) provided for third-party
dispute settlement consistent with international practice.
B. Improving Investment Incentives
53.            Parliament has approved amendments to the Income Tax Law and to the General Sales Tax
Law. These amendments complement the provisions under the new Investment Law, providing much
strengthened incentives for foreign and domestic investments. The investment incentives (as provided under
the Encouragement of Investment Law and the Income Tax Law) were severely distorted because: (a) the
tax holidays failed to give adequate incentives for starting new investment, and biased in favor of short-term
investment; (b) the distinction between approved economic projects and economic projects was arbitrary and
discretionary; and (c) tariff exemptions and other tax incentives were accorded in an arbitrary and
discretionary manner.
54.            These deficiencies led the Government to restructure the incentive regime. It was obvious
that amending the Encouragement of Investment Law itself without addressing other elements of the business
environment would-although improvement in itself-not be sufficient to achieve the required boost in
investment. The Government therefore decided to adopt a four-pronged approach to encourage savings and
reward investment: (a) streamline investment incentive procedures; (b) rationalize the corporate and income
tax system; (c) tax consumption rather than production; and (d) reduce customs duties for all companies.
This strategy underpinned the enactment of the new Investment Law, the amendments of the General Sales
Tax Law and of the Income Tax Law as well as the tariff reforms described above. In particular, the
Investment Law of 1995 has eliminated distinctions between projects in the same sector; removed the tax
holidays and provided automatic process of awarding investment incentives.
55.            The amendment to the Income Tax Law complements the Investment Law of 1995. It has
now established a reduced tax rate of 15% for the encouraged sectors, which used to be eligible for tax
holidays. In addition, the tax rate is reduced to 35 % for banks and financial institutions, and to 25% for all
other companies. The amendment also encourages capital accumulation by imposing a withholding tax of
10% on distributed profits. It has simplified the whole income tax structure as well.
56.            The General Sales Tax Law (GST) of 1994 imposed a basic rate of 7 % on goods produced
domestically and on imports. Experience during the past year highlighted some of the deficiencies of the
Law: (i) the GST rate of 7 % was too low to allow a restructuring of the income tax system; (ii) the treatment
of services was ambiguous; and (iii) tax rebates on inputs to production of tax-exempt goods were not allowed
for domestically produced goods, whereas imports of similar goods were exempt from the sales tax. The
amendment to the Law has addressed those issues by: (a) increasing the GST to 10%; (b) subjecting services
to the GST except for a negative list; and (c) allowing tax rebates for inputs to production if the final good
is exported whether the exporter is registered for GST or not.
57.            While the new investment incentive regime is generally sound, the Government is aware
that scope for further improvement remains in a few areas: (i) the three corporate income tax rates-at 35%,
25% and 15%-may be distortionary; (ii) agriculture and livestock companies are exempted from the income



- 16 -
tax; and (iii) the criteria for favorable treatment could be made more transparent. The Government intends
to address these issues. Technical assistance aimed at creating an automatic and streamlined process for
approving investment proposals and processing investment registration will be provided under the EDP
Project.
Part IV. Summary of the Loan's Conditions
58.                   The trade and investment policy actions as well as some other related actions within the
broader macroeconomic framework that are supported by the proposed ERDL are summarized in the
following matrix.
Matrix for ERDL Trade and Investment Policy Conditions
Policy Area                Policy As of                              Policy Actions Prior to
I September 1994                            Board Presentation
1. Macroeconomic Framework   Objectives: maintain macroeconomic stability, and consolidate the adjustment measures.
1.1 Macroeconomic         An EFF program  with the Fund was   Sufficient progress being maintained including a sound
Adjustments                adopted by the Goverdunent in May 1ck 4, j exte sal ftancing plan and the adoption of the necessary t
and has remained fully on tracky 1        measures to consolidate the fiscal adjustinents and to
J restore the level of gross official reserves.
2. Import Tariffs    Objectives: reduce anti-export bias to foster integration with world markets.
2.1 Structure              Range of 0-320%, 33 rates unweighted   Abolish the exceptional list and lower the maximum
average of 30%; import weighted average   border tax to 50%  (except for alcohol, tobacco and
of 25%. and coefficient of variation of   salon cars).  This involves a reduction of rates at 45%
88%. An exceptional list of products  to 40%, the majority of those at 35%  to 30%, the
accounting for about 21.5% of all products  remaining adjusted to 40%, and those below 30% will
has tariffs in excess of 50%.             remain unchanged.
2.2 Tariff exemptions      40-45% of imports during 1990-1992 were   Remove exemptions except for export and investment
tariff-exempted or zero rated; exemptions   development schemes, diplomatic and international
have been accorded  to a number of   organizations, and those contained in the existing
Government entities.                      legislation.
2.3 Licensing fees        Import licensing and associated fees and   Submit legislation to Parliament to consolidate all fees
and surcharges       surcharges range from 5 to 20%, with a   and surcharges into the tariff rates described in the same
total of 5 different fees.                column above (line 2.1).
2.4 Tax equalization       Consumption taxes are applied at different   Implement tax equalization by adopting the necessary
rates on domestic and foreign produced   legislative amendment and by removing taxes on the six
goods.                                    imported items for six locally produced equivalents
currently exempted from GST.
2.5 Customs Valuation      Customs officials use reference prices to   Announce (i) adoption by July 1, 1996 of reference-
and administration    value  imports,  and  procedures  are   based price list for import valuation pending adoption of
duplicated and time-consuming.            a WTO-consistent post- audit system; (ii) adoption of a
self declaration system upon computerization of
customs; and (iii) revision of the employee incentive
bonus system to replace the current system to be
_______________  _____________________  completed  and  take  effect by  July  1, 1996.



- 17 -
Policy Area             | Policy As of                            | Policy Actions Prior to
I September 1994                           Board Presentation
3. Nontariff Barriers  Objectives: reduce administrative obstacles that raise the costs of trading activity.
3.1 Import licensing      While the import licensing requirement was   Implement the Import and Export Regulations N. 74 of
requirements         formally removed with the Import and   1993 to remove the import licensing requirements
Export regulation No. 74 of 1993, in   except for areas of health, security, safety, and religion
practice, licensing has continued        as consistent with international practice.
4. Investment Regime  Objectives: attract foreign and domestic investment.
4.1 Investment Law        Within the previous Investment Law, (i)   The Investment Law of 1995 be adopted to:  (i)
tax holidays failed to provide incentives,   eliminate tax holidays; (ii) create an automatic and
(ii) differentiation between AEP and EP   transparent  approval  process;  (iii)  remove  the
often lead to unequal treatment, (iii) 5-year   differentiation between projects in the same sector; and
tax holiday favored short-term investments,  (iv) improve tax incentives (line 4.4).
(iv) tariff exemptions on capital goods were
accorded unequally; and (v) approval times
were lengthy.
4.2 Encouragement of      Previous Investment Law (i) differentiated   The Investment Law of 1995 be adopted to: (i) remove
Foreign Investment   between  Arab  and  non-Arab  foreign   restrictions (with a small negative list of subsectors
investors, (ii) defined poorly the sectors   where foreign ownership may be limited to 49%), (ii)
where  foreign  participation  was fully   eliminate cabinet approval for foreign investments, (iii)
permitted and where it was limited, (iii)  provide  guarantees  against  nationalization   and
provided  insufficient  guarantees  with   expropriation, and (iv) provide for third party dispute
respect to non-Jordanian investment, (iv)   settlement.
provided no allowance for internationally
recognized third party investment dispute
mechanisms, and (v) made investment
approval a lengthy, several-month-long
process.
4.3 General Sales Tax     The General Sales Tax rate was not high   An amendment to the General Sales Tax Law  be
enough to allow for a restructuring of the   adopted to: (i) increase tax from 7% to 10%, (ii) subject
income tax  system, the treatment of   services to the sales tax except for extended positive list,
services was ambiguous, and tax rebates on   and (iii) allow tax rebates for inputs to production if the
inputs to production of tax-exempt goods   final good is exported whether the exporter is registered
were not allowed for domestically produced   or not.
goods, whereas imports of similar goods
were exempt from the sales tax.
4.4 Income Tax Law        Corporate tax rates for companies differed   An amendment to the Income Tax Law be adopted to:
across types of companies and businesses;  (i) establish three flat corporate tax rates, (ii) reduce the
the highest tax rate reached 55 % of taxable   maximum rate from 55%  to 35%, and the minimum
income. The system was biased against  from 38% to 15%, and (iii) impose a withholding tax of
capital  accumulation   as  it  taxed   10% on distributed profits.
capitalization of profits and reserves but
not dividends.



- 18 -
Part V. Macroeconomic Impact of Reforms
59.            The trade and investment policy reforms supported by the ERDL will have a substantial
impact on the economy. Analysis by the Bank shows that the proposed reforms, if effectively implemented,
would lead to an increase in growth of GDP and exports, and probably a rise in employment. On the other
hand, it also shows that the reforms could lead to a moderate loss of customs revenue and an increase in the
current account deficit. The results are quite robust since the range of outcomes is narrow-the assumption
of higher import price elasticity for consumption goods, and higher substitutability between imported and
domestically produced goods does not lead to fundamentally different results.6
60.            Growth Impact. The analysis shows that the tariff reductions as well as the improvement
in the investment regime are tantamount to a positive supply side shock, giving rise to a one-time increase
in GDP growth by an estimated 0.7%, and in growth of exports by 5%, given that the economy is now
characterized by excess capacity, high unemployment and surplus private financial resources. Firms in the
tradable goods sector will benefit from the reductions in the costs of capital and intermediate goods, in
income taxes and in business transactions. The cost reductions will help improve their competitiveness in
the international markets, boosting exports and domestic production. For consumers, the reforms will entail
reduced costs of consumption goods, hence increasing real personal income and aggregate demand, which
will stimulate the economic activities.
61.            Employment Impact. The expected rise in GDP is associated with an increase in demand
for labor, which is partially offset by the reduced costs of imported production factors relative to the costs
of domestic production factors. However, because of the low substitutability between domestic and imported
production factors, the increase in demand for labor is likely to be larger than the decrease in demand for
labor resulting from the shifts in relative costs and the resultant increase in demand for imports. Therefore,
the overall impact on employment is likely to be positive, although some jobs would be shifted between
sectors, and some industries may go under.
62.            Fiscal Impact. The proposed adjustment measures will be implemented against the
background of the on-going Fund EFF program. The underlying objective in the design of the tariff
restructuring is to ensure that the fiscal program during the adjustment period is fully funded and that the net
fiscal revenue loss is minimized. Assuming that the tariff reductions would entail no changes in the level of
imports, the tariff reductions would result in a loss of customs revenue of about JD 40 million, including the
effects of tariff reductions on cars (Annex IV). If the estimated import elasticity is allowed, the estimate of
the customs revenue loss would be lowered. In any case, about JD 25 million revenue loss will be recaptured
by the imposition of an excise tax at the same rates on both imported and domestically produced goods, and
the remaining will be absorbed into the fiscal budgets of 1996 by a combination of revenue-compensating and
expenditure-reducing measures. In this connection, the amendment of the General Sales Tax has been adopted
to raise the basic rates of sales tax to 10%. The Bank and Fund will continue their close collaboration in
monitoring the fiscal impact of reforms so as to advise on ways in which additional domestic taxes may be
applied in case of a revenue shortfall.
63.            The Impact on the External Account. The analysis also shows that in the absence of any
6    "The Effects of Trade Liberalization," Mission Report, July 1995, available upon request.



(a) snecinec cleariv tne sectors
- 19 -
exchange rate adjustments, the reforms would lead to an increased current account deficit by JD 30-40 million
(US$45-60 million). This is largely due to an increase in imports that well exceeds the rise in exports. There
would also be some increase in the real debt service burden and a small increase in the real value of workers'
remittances due to the disinflationary pressure brought about by the proposed tariff reductions. As expected,
the worsening of the current account would be lessened if the reforms are accompanied by nominal wage
flexibility to prevent a rise in real wages.
64.             Risks. Jordan is implementing a comprehensive reform program while managing an
evolving peace process. There are two kinds of related risks. First, there are macroeconomic risks arising
from the external shocks in terms of capital movements, changes in the external demand for Jordanian goods
and services, and changes in demand for Jordan Dinar-based financial assets. Moreover, the possibility that
Jordan's external financing needs are not fully met also presents a macroeconomic risk. Second, despite the
expectation that reforms would benefit the bulk of the population, vested interests may succeed in arguing
against the reforms due to misperceived social and political risks from lowering trade protection.
65.             Maintaining the macroeconomic framework supported by the IMF programs, including the
flexible exchange rate and interest rate policy, would enable Jordan to better cope with external shocks that
would take place from changes of capital flows (i.e. worker's remittance, direct foreign investment, official
transfers, and transfers of private savings). The assurance of a sound macroeconomic framework has been
secured with the successful implementation of the programs supported by SBAs and the EFF, whereby
performance has consistently exceeded expectations. The Government has also demonstrated its ability,
during the Gulf crisis as well as in the recent past, to effectively manage macroeconomic policies. This
augurs well for the capacity to cope with similar shocks should they take place in the future. In addition,
international support for Jordan's economic adjustment program has been further strengthened following the
Peace Accord, and the debt reductions extended to date, as well as the likely increases in concessional
financing in the future, would enable Jordan to better cope with external shocks.
66.             The authorities will have an important role to play in public relations and political mediation
to sustain the implementation of the program. Their commitment to reform is also vital to handling specific
political risks (e.g. factionalism, religious militancy, shifts in economic and political balance attendant on the
peace settlement). The authorities have maintained a delicate balance between economic reforms and political
stability since 1989. The political liberalization they initiated has provided a democratic process for conflict
resolution, thus contributing to social and political stability. The authorities' appreciation of the political
feasibility of the reforms is thus vital and has been factored into the program (e.g., in the phasing of tariff
reductions), thereby reducing risks to program implementation. Furthermore, the matching of trade policy
reforms with export development support is a visible sign of the Government's commitment to assisting
domestic industries during the transition. Designed to improve the speed of supply response, the EDP Project
would also help to improve benefits and mitigate adverse effects, and hence reduce political risks to the
adjustrnent program as well.



- 20 -
Part VI. Utilization of Loan Proceeds
67.           Procurement. The proposed loan of US$80 million equivalent would be used to finance
the CIF cost of eligible import of goods and services by the private and public sectors, subject to a negative
list of ineligible items, such as military hardware, luxury goods, oil products and environmentally hazardous
products.
68.           Procurement would be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. A General
Procurement Notice has been published in Development Business. For contracts estimated to cost US$5.0
million equivalent or more, procurement would follow simplified international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures using the Bank's standard bidding documents. Procurement by the public sector of imports costing
below US$5.0 million equivalent would be made in accordance with the Government's public sector
procurement procedures, which have been reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank. Procurement by the
private sector of imports costing under US$ 5.0 million equivalent would be awarded on the basis of the
established commercial practices, provided that such contracts would be awarded on the basis of at least two
quotations from eligible suppliers from at least two countries. Current procedures used by some major
potential private importers have been reviewed and have been found efficient. Retroactive financing of 20
percent of the loan amount is provided for eligible imports made in the four months before the date of the
Loan Agreement.
69.           Disbursement. Loan disbursement would be made on the basis of 100 percent of the foreign
exchange cost of eligible imports. The Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ) would be responsible for the
administration of the loan, including the collection of relevant documentation and the submission of the related
withdrawal applications, and such documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to
support the withdrawal of funds from the loan account. Disbursement against contracts valued at less than
US$2.0 million equivalent would be made on the basis of a Statement of Expenditures (SOE) to be submitted
by CBJ, with the detailed documentation retained by CBJ for review by the Bank during loan supervision.
Full documentation would be required for disbursement under individual contracts valued at US$2.0 million
equivalent or above. CBJ would carry out the screening process to ensure that all procurement conditions
have been met. Applications for withdrawals would be consolidated and submitted in amounts of not less than
US$2.0 million equivalent. Expenditures for contracts valued at less than US$10,000 equivalent would not
be eligible for financing under the loan.
70.           Audit Reporting. Audits of the supporting documentation for the related accounts and SOEs
used for disbursement would be carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit report
of the related accounts and SOEs would cover review of procurement procedures in addition to evidence of
payment and other documentation, and would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the
close of the Government's fiscal year.
71.           Implementation. The Government has established a ERDL implementation team with an
appropriate operating framework. The team, comprising senior officials of Ministry of Finance (MOF),
Ministry of Trade and Industry (MOTI), Ministry of Planning (MOP) and Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ),
would be coordinated by a senior official appointed by the MOP. The MOF would have the responsibility
for implementing tariff and custom reforms, and for establishing the safeguard mechanisms. The MOTI



- 21 -
would have the responsibility for pursuing the WTO accession, and for implementing the removal of non-
tariff barriers, and the development of product standards.  CBJ would have the responsibility for
administering the loan disbursements.
Part VII. Recommendation
72.            I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments
September 15, 1995
Washington, D.C.
M:\UOR\FrSAL\PRES905






ANNEX I
Page 1 Of 19
No.   i/  /Il  5LJ2 L                                         i _L,_ jI  L4
Date ;- L5 /I9/ l 9 J J
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
MINISTRY OF PLANNING
MINISTER'S OFFICE
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. President:
THE ECONOMIC REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FOR AN INVESTMENT-FRIENDLY ECONOMY
1.   We wish to confinn the intention of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan to
carry out a mediurn-term Economic Reform and Development Program (ERDP)
aimed at making Jordan a more open and investment-friendly economy. We also
wish to confirm our intention to seek World Bank support in the form of a one-
tranche Economic Reform and Development Loan (ERDL) of US$ 80 million in
support of the policy actions the govermnent has implemented. These policy
actions form integral parts of our medium-term reform program and would
substantially improve our trade and investment regimes. The Loan would build on
the progress already achieved in structural reforms and would complement and
deepen the macroeconomic adjustment policies which are being undertaken with
the support of an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) from the International Monetary
Fund (IMF). This letter consists of two parts: an overview of our development
objectives and strategy, and a program of actions.
AN OVERVIEW
2.   Jordan enjoyed an unprecedented growth during 1973-1984, boosted by
exports to regional markets, workers' remittances and foreign assistance and loans.
This ended in the mid-1980s following the rapid decline in the price of oil and the
subsequent slowdown in regional economies.  As a consequence, Jordan
experienced a drastic slowdown in growth and severe deficits in fiscal and external
accounts. By 1991, real per capita income had declined to about half of its heights
I   B  555 AV  -/ Cale NPC.13 TelIN 23 N    Jo, 24258 Mo INPC Jo Tef :64341 NPC 6444l 6/70-J 6441a
P. O. Box sss Cable: NPC Telex: 2i3i9 NPC lo, 24258 Mi\NP Jo Telfax: 649341 Tel: 644466/70 - 644381/8S



ANNEX i
Page 2 of 19
accounts. By 1991, real per capita income had declined to about half of its heights
during the pre-crisis years: unemployment and poverty increased, and the income
of the middle class was substantially eroded. The government responded in 1989
by undertaking policy adjustments to stabilize the economy and to restore growth.
The stabilization policies --- notwithstanding the disruptions caused by the Gulf
crisis in 1991--- have been successful. Inflation has been contained and prices,
interest rates and exchange rates are now largely market-based. However, major
structural constraints to growth remain.
3.   Recent regional events leading to a peace treaty between Jordan and Israel
have brought a new perspective to the government's strong resolve to ensure long-
term social stability through rapid and sustained economic growth. While the
focus continues to remain on the longer term goal of achieving a higher quality of
life, the need to rapidly achieve tangible improvements in employment generation,
social services, including education and health, and protection of scarce resources
have decidedly been put under the spotlight.
4.   Sustaining and nurturing the peace is resolutely dependent on the
government's ability to maintain a level of growth that would reduce poverty and
unemployment, and to allocate the needed resources for both consumption and
investment. It is in this context that the government has devised a reform and
development program that it is continuing to implement and that is aimed at
achieving sustainable long-term growth, reducing unemployment and poverty by
enhancing the efficiency of production, strengthening its institutions and
mobilizing domestic and foreign resources.
Recent Achievements and Constraints
5.   Jordan has pursued with determination appropriate macroeconomic policies
embodying serious austerity measures to ensure economic stability in the country.
To achieve this, the government, in cooperation with the IMF and the World Bank
has embarked on a comprehensive program of adjustment and reform.  In
particular, the government has implemented a number of adjustment measures,
including: (a) a series of fiscal adjustments to reduce the budget deficits; (b) a
flexible exchange rate policy in line with market forces; (c) a reduction in tariff
protection and an improvement the regime of trade incentives; (d) structural
reforms measures in the energy, telecommunication, and agriculture sectors; (e) a
strengthening of institutional support for export development; and (f) a reduction
of govermment's direct participation in productive activities.
6.   The economic performance in the face of unprecedented economic
problems was exemplary. GDP grew which at 5.9% and 5.8% respectively 1993
and 1994. A surge in construction, trade, manufacturing and transportation



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 19
activities contributed to the increase in output. Preliminary estimates for 1995
indicate a growth rate slightly above 6%.
7.   Price stability was another noteworthy achievement, budgetary and
monetary restraint on the demand side and adequate availability of domestic and
imported goods on the supply side helped contain inflation to an average of 4.5%
in the last three years. The govermnent expects that inflation for 1995 will also be
no higher than about 4%, better than previously envisaged.
8.   The strong revenue performance together with continued strict control over
expenditures led to a decline in the fiscal deficit to 5.9% of GDP in 1994. The
govermnent remains committed to further fiscal consolidation. Accordingly, the
overall fiscal deficit (excluding grants) will be reduced to 4.6% of GDP in 1995, as
compared to 17% of GDP in 1991.
9.   The adjustment measures have been supported by two rounds of Paris Club
rescheduling (1992 and 1994).  More recently, debt reductions in the order of
US$ 800 million have been provided. These relief measures, in addition to the
previous buy-back of debt owed to the former Soviet Union and restructuring of
debt owed to the London Club members, have allowed the government to service
its external debt and to begin restoring Jordan's credit-worthiness. Our debt-to-
GDP ratio was reduced from over 200% in 1989 to less than 103% in 1994. The
government is conducting an active dialogue with various bilateral creditor
countries with a view to achieve further debt and debt service relief.
10.  The government of Jordan is fully aware of the possible impact and social
costs associated with the implementation of the economic adjustment program.
Notwithstanding the remarkable progress and restoring growth and reducing
internal and external imbalances, Jordan continues to face the twin problems of
unemployment and poverty. A healthy socio-economic environment is essential
for pursuing Jordan's priorities for peace and democracy. Hence, any reform
program will need to seriously address the problem of poverty and unemployment.
11.  There is a divergence between job-creating capacity at present growth rates
and the increase in the labor force. If growth rates are to be achieved beyond the
levels envisaged in  the program, it would necessitate increasing private
investments and improving the quality of public investment. However, an increase
in investments is constrained by the need to maintain moderate growth of domestic
per capita consumption. This calls for a reliance on the inflow of external capital.
12.  In the light of the above mentioned constraints, the economic reform
program currently under implementation is based on four basic premises.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 19
* The private sector must be allowed to develop and to become the
engine of economic growth and the main contributor to higher incomes
and employment opportunities;
* Adequate external financing on concessional terms and foreign direct
investment must be secured to support the reform program during the
transition.
* Poverty reduction through sustained economic growth, improving
human resources, and strengthening of the social safety net, will
remain as the highest priority item on the government's agenda; and
* Development activities must be environmentally sustainable.
In the face of these challenges and the rapidly changing environment, the
government intends to urgently mobilize external resources so that the
implementation of the adjustment program can be accelerated. The government
has thus devised a strategy that will increase domestic savings, promote foreign
direct investment, and provide all necessary incentives for private sector growth.
Structural reforms will continue to be a central element of our development policy.
Medium-Term Strategy: Objectives & Priorities
13.  Since the development agenda is too broad to be addressed at once and
needs to be phased, and properly sequenced, the government has prioritized its
development plan based on the four principles described above.
14.  To meet people's aspirations arising out of the peace treaty and resulting
financial requirements in the medium to long-term, Jordan must be able to attract
significant and long-term foreign investment and capital inflows. Given the
external debt relief we have received to date and the limited availability of further
external official financing, we are giving high priority to a more investment-
friendly environment.  Therefore, we are committed to accelerating the
implementation of our economic reform  program, with a strong focus on
liberalized trade and investment regimes and on creating an enabling policy and
institutional framework to promote growth through private sector initiatives. The
broad thrust of the govermnent's development strategy is based on the following
four objectives:
* Sustaining macroeconomic stability;
* Promoting economic integration with world markets, starting with the
European Union and the regional markets;



ANNEX I
Page 5 off 19
* Restructuring the role of the public sector and creating an environment
enabling private sector development; and
* linproving the functioning and standards of the financial sector to
promote Jordan as a regional financial hub for efficient resource
mobilization.
15.  Macroeconomic Stability. Maintaining macroeconomnic stability will
provide a solid basis for us to pursue structural and sectoral reforms that will
improve resource allocation and factor productivity, enhancing the prospects for
sustainable long-run growth. In this regard, we have adjusted domestic interest
rates and tightened the fiscal expenditures to achieve a stronger level of foreign
exchange reserves. To address the underlying structural imbalances in the internal
and external accounts, the government intends to gradually shift the General Sales
Tax into a full value added (VAT) tax, thus tilting the bias in favor of savings. The
Parliament has approved an amendment to the Income Tax Law with a view
toward rationalizing the tax structure and encouraging corporate and personal
savings. The govermnent has implemented and will continue to adopt strong fiscal
adjustment measures, including the reform of public enterprises to boost public
savings. Jordan has adhered to IMF Article VIII regarding currency convertibility
for current transactions. Steps to liberalize some categories of capital account
transactions have also been initiated by the Central Bank (CBJ). CBJ has also
increased reliance on indirect monetary control mechanisms, such as open market
operations, in order to refine credit control mechanisms and to maintain stability in
the foreign exchange market to reduce the costs of financial intermediation and
improving incentives for financial savings.  These measures are expected to
promote sustainable long-ran growth by consolidating the macroeconomic gains,
reducing over time the reliance on extemal financing, and redressing the long-term
structural imbalances.
16.   Over the 1995-98 period, we aim to keep inflation to remain at below 5%
p.a. and to achieve GDP growth at about 5-6%, while the current account deficit
would be reduced to about 5.4% of GDP by 1998, and the fiscal deficit would be
reduced to about 2.7% of GDP. These growth and stabilization objectives would
be achieved by: containing recurrent expenditures, improving the financial position
of public enterprises, and improving revenue performance through tax policy
reform; improving management of domestic credit and maintaining stable and
consistent interest and exchange rate policies; and accelerating the pace of real
sector reforms to spur private-sector-led growth and investment.
17.  Globalizing the Economy. An open trade regime and greater integration
into world markets would allow us to meet the challenges of increased
international competition, which would lead firms to improve their efficiency and



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 19
realize their export potential. In this regard, the government has substantially
reduced in October 1994 the exceptional list of imports subject to tariffs ranging
from 50% to over 200%, initiated the process for GATT accession, and started
formal negotiations with the European Union (EU) for a Partnership Agreement on
free trade. The government has also initiated its internal process for WTO
accession.
18.  Role of the Public Sector. The government is convinced that the continued
recovery and future growth of the Jordanian economy rests on a more pro-active
role of the private sector and a redefinition of the role of the government in the
economy. The govern ment has publicly announced its policy of reducing its direct
participation in the productive sectors. In principle, it will only undertake those
essential functions that the private sector is either unable or unwilling to provide.
Government's role, in general, will be regulatory rather than of as a producer of
goods and services. To this end, our policy actions will focus on three general
areas:
- Liberalizing the regulatory framework affecting business entry, exit and
operation (including pricing policy);
- Privatizing public enterprises and Government shares in public
shareholding companies;
* Strengthening regulatory oversight of utilities, and separating policy,
regulatory, and management functions.
In this regard, we have already implemented a number of measures agreed with the
World Bank under the Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL) to start
corporatizing, commercializing and eventually privatizing the Jordan Electricity
Authority. The government has recently allowed private investors to take part in
providing cellular telecommunications services. A Telecommunications Law has
been enacted to allow the private sector to offer telecommunication services and to
establish an independent regulatory body for the sector. The terms of reference for
developing strategies to privatize the Royal Jordanian Airline are being studied.
Furthermore, The Parliament has approved a new Investmnent Law, an amendment
to the Income Tax Law, and an amendment to the General Sales Tax Law. The
revisions of the Companies Law, the Customs Law and Foreign Exchange Control
Law are also underway.
19. Financial Sector Reform. The financial sector is expected to play two
major roles by: (i) serving as a facilitator for real sector growth by mobilizing
savings and channeling them to the optimal investments; and (ii) becoming a
transit point and an active service center for the Middle East Region.  The



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 19
* Restructuring the role of the public sector and creating an environment
enabling private sector development; and
* Improving the ftmctionimg and standards of the financial sector to
promote Jordan as a regional financial hub for efficient resource
mobilization.
15.   Macroeconomic Stability. Maintaining macroeconomic stability will
provide a solid basis for us to pursue structural and sectoral reforms that will
improve resource allocation and factor productivity, enhancing the prospects for
sustainable long-run growth. In this regard, we have adjusted domestic interest
rates and tightened the fiscal expenditures to achieve a stronger level of foreign
exchange reserves. To address the underlying structural imbalances in the internal
and external accounts, the government intends to gradually shift the General Sales
Tax into a full value added (VAT) tax, thus tilting the bias in favor of savings. The
Parliament has approved an amendment to the Income Tax Law with a view
toward rationalizing the tax structure and encouraging corporate and personal
savings. The government has implemented and will continue to adopt strong fiscal
adjustment measures, including the reform of public enterprises to boost public
savings. Jordan has adhered to IMF Article VIII regarding currency convertibility
for current transactions. Steps to liberalize some categories of capital account
transactions have also been initiated by the Central Bank (CBJ). CBJ has also
increased reliance on indirect monetary control mechanisms, such as open market
operations, in order to refine credit control mechanisms and to maintain stability in
the foreign exchange market to reduce the costs of financial intermediation and
improving incentives for financial savings.  These measures are expected to
promote sustainable long-run growth by consolidating the macroeconomic gains,
reducing over time the reliance on external financing, and redressing the long-term
structural imbalances.
16.  Over the 1995-98 period, we aim to keep inflation to remain at below 5%
p.a. and to achieve GDP growth at about 5-6%, while the current account deficit
would be reduced to about 5.4% of GDP by 1998, and the fiscal deficit would be
reduced to about 2.7% of GDP. These growth and stabilization objectives would
be achieved by: containing recurrent expenditures, improving the financial position
of public enterprises, and improving revenue performance through tax policy
reform; improving management of domestic credit and maintaining stable and
consistent interest and exchange rate policies; and accelerating the pace of real
sector reforms to spur private-sector-led growth and investment.
17.   Globalizing the Economy. An open trade regime and greater integration
into world markets would allow us to meet the challenges of increased
international competition, which would lead fimns to improve their efficiency and



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 19
realize their export potential. In this regard, the government has substantially
reduced in October 1994 the exceptional list of imports subject to tariffs ranging
from 50% to over 200%; initiated the process for GATT accession, and started
formal negotiations with the European Union (EU) for a Partnership Agreement on
free trade. The government has also initiated its internal process for WTO
accession.
18.  Role of the Public Sector. The government is convinced that the continued
recovery and future growth of the Jordanian economy rests on a more pro-active
role of the private sector and a redefinition of the role of the government in the
economy. The government has publicly announced its policy of reducing its direct
participation in the productive sectors. In principle, it will only undertake those
essential functions that the private sector is either unable or unwilling to provide.
Government's role, in general, will be regulatory rather than of as a producer of
goods and services. To this end, our policy actions will focus on three general
areas:
* Liberalizing the regulatory framework affecting business entry, exit and
operation (including pricing policy);
* Privatizing public enterprises and Government shares in public
shareholding companies;
. Strengthening regulatory oversight of utilities, and separating policy,
regulatory, and management functions.
In this regard, we have already implemented a number of measures agreed with the
World Bank under the Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL) to start
corporatizing, commercializing and eventually privatizing the Jordan Electricity
Authority. The government has recently allowed private investors to take part in
providing cellular telecommunications services. A Telecommunications Law has
been enacted to allow the private sector to offer telecommunication services and to
establish an independent regulatory body for the sector. The terms of reference for
developing strategies to privatize the Royal Jordanian Airline are being studied.
Furthermore, The Parliament has approved a new Investment Law, an amendment
to the Income Tax Law, and an amendment to the General Sales Tax Law. The
revisions of the Companies Law, the Customs Law and Foreign Exchange Control
Law are also underway.
19.  Financial Sector Reform. The financial sector is expected to play two
major roles by: (i) serving as a facilitator for real sector growth by mobilizing
savings and channeling them to the optimal investments; and (ii) becoming a
transit point and an active service center for the Middle East Region. The



AINNEX I
Paee 7 of 19
financial sector would serve these roles best if it is capable of efficiently providing
a large variety of financial services for investors and savers. As a service center,
the financial sector of Jordan has ample room to grow and provide services to the
regional economies. The govenunent has initiated the process to formulate a
reform  agenda to: (i) improve competition  and increase efficiency  and
effectiveness in this sector; and (ii) foster the development of long-term finance,
both equity and debt, which are not yet sufficiently available. In this regard, we
will also formulate further action plans to be implemented over the next five years
to: (i) facilitate the development of money markets; (ii) further strengthen bank
supervision and establish a sound deposit insurance scheme; (iii) facilitate and
induce the development of secondary markets for long-term papers, including a
secondary mortgage facility; (iv) facilitate the development of non-bank financial
institutions; (v) liberalize the flow of capital through the Amman Financial Market
and other channels; and (vi) facilitate the development of contractual savings
institutions.
A PROGRAM OF ACTIONS
I. INTRODUCTION
20.   The Government remains firmly committed to the objectives of economic
reform and development. To this end and to keep pace with regional and
international development, we have formulated a program of actions to be
supported by the bilateral and multilateral donors. Jordan faces unprecedented
opportunities and challenges as a result of the advent of the peace era in the
Middle East region. Although peace offers the prospects of an investment-led
boom in the region, it has led to high public expectations of a "peace dividend".
Peace dividends in terms of expanded trade opportunities, increase in tourism
revenues and improved business trust should indeed materialize. However, the
economic impact of peace for Jordan will probably unfold at a pace slower than
many hope. On the regional political front, events are intertwined and all efforts to
expedite the process are being made. On the economic front, Jordan is following a
strategy to increase domestic savings, promote foreign investment, and maintain
itself as an attractive location for capital transfers. A central theme of this strategy
is adequate resource mobilization at highly concessionary terms together with
structural reforms being undertaken by the government. The risk of not being able
to implement this strategy is very high if all its individual pieces are not put in
place and in proper order.
21.   The financing plans for 1995 and 1996 that we have already formulated
include a build-up of the gross official reserves in order to reduce vulnerability to
any future speculative run on the currency and to prepare for the eventual
redemption of Jordan Dinar in circulation in the West Bank and Gaza (WBG).
Given the ceiling set on external borrowing on commercial terms within the



ANNEX I
Page 8 of 19
financing plan, a Bank-supported loan, with associated cofinancing by other
donors, would play a critical part in helping Jordan to implement further policy
reforms, and to close its financing gaps during 1995-1996.
22   The medium-term action program is comprised of the following: Business
and Legal Environment, Public enterprise Reform and Privatization; Financial
Sector Development; the Social Safety Net; and Protection of the Environment.
The program will be phased-in over the next three years. The first phase of the
actions has now been substantially completed. Actions for the second and third
phases will be completed by end of 1996 and end of 1998 respectively (see
attached policy matrix). The government plans to conduct a bi-annual progress
review and make necessary adjustments to the program as needed. These reviews
will be undertaken in close cooperation with the World Bank.
II. TRADE SECTOR REFORMS
23.  The Government's long-term vision is to put in place by the year 2010 a
trade regime that would favorably place Jordan among the liberal trading nations
of the world. It has long recognized that a more open trade environment will
contribute to the transfer of new technologies, more investment, more exports,
more growth and more jobs. Rapid export growth is crucial for sustaining growth,
regaining access to capital markets, and providing for external debt service. The
thrust of trade reform is therefore to aim at accelerating the growth of exports and
exposing the domestic industry to greater external competition. Our efforts in
trade liberalization has been intensified. Full membership to the World Trade
Organization (WTO) is envisaged with the expectation that it will enhance
Jordan's ability to compete in the world markets. In addition, formal discussions
have recently begun with the European Union (EU) regarding a partnership
agreement with a view to creating a free trade area between Jordan and the EU by
2010.
24. In this context, The government has already implemented the following
trade reforms as part of its first phase of the action program:
(a) The implementation of the Import and Export Regulation No.74 of 1993
has abolished import licensing requirements, except insofar as
necessary for the enforcement of health, security, religious and safety-
related product standards, along with protocol trade;
(b) Maximum tariffs including fees and surcharges have been set at no
more than 50% except for alcohol, tobacco and cars;



_ANNEX I
Peee 9 of 19
(c) Draft legislation has been submitted to the Parliament to consolidate all
import licensing fees, surcharges, and any other applicable fees into one
basic tariff rate applied to each tariff line item, with the consolidated
tariffs to be no more than 50% except for alcohol, tobacco and cars;
(d) Import tariffs, surcharges and fees on the agreed list of capital goods
have been lowered to 0, 5 and 10% respectively;
(e) Tariff exemptions have been removed, except for export and investment
development schemes, diplomatic and international organizations, and
those contained in the existing legislation and agreements;
(f) The General Sales Tax Law has been amended to provide an additional
tax to be applied at the same rates on imports and domestic produced
goods for passenger cars, telephones, video and cassette recorders,
photographic equipments, and VCRs; and furthermore, the tax
equalization has been achieve by exempting the sales tax on six items;
and
(g) The government has announced (i) adoption by July 1, 1996 of
reference-based price list for import valuation pending adoption of a
WTO-consistent post-audit system; (ii) adoption of a self declaration
system upon computerization of customs; and (iii) revision of the
employee incentive bonus system to replace the current system to be
completed and take effect by July 1, 1996.
The government recognizes the need to introduce further liberalization of the trade
regime, thereby introducing greater transparency into it.  To that end, the
government stipulates to implement the following measures as part of the second
phase:
(a) Adopt the six tier rate structure of 0, 5, 10, 20, 30, and 40% except for
alcohol and tobacco. The tariff rates will be further reduced when
custom duties on passenger cars are shifted into a General Sales Tax;
(b) Reduce border taxes on the agreed list capital goods to zero from 5%
and 10%;
(c) Complete a thorough review of tariff exemptions and phase out
remaining exemptions for enterprises provided under legislation and
agreements as they expire;



ANNEX I
Paae 10 Of 19
(d) Complete and present to the Parliament the draft Customs Law in order
to adopt the WTO post-audit system for import valuation, and adopt an
internal regulation to revise the custom's bonus system.
(e) Establish a safeguard mechanism through the new Customs Law. This
safeguard mechanism will be based on a set of objective criteria to
allow temporary relief for domestic industries injured by sharp
increases of imports.  The resort to safeguard measures will be
determined by a Central Government Authority;
(f) Further reduce the exemptions to the abolishment of import licensing
requirements.
These trade reforms have been complemented by policy actions already
implemented (para.27, para.32, and para 35-36) to liberalize and rationalizes the
investment and tax regimes.
III. BUSINESS AND LEGAL ENVIRONMENT REFORM
25.  The government realizes that the creation of new job opportunities and the
maintenance of the growth momentum can only be achieved if the private sector is
allowed to grow  and develop.  The government has therefore adopted a
comprehensive program to unleash the energies of the private sector. The program
is being implemented in two phases. During the first phase, which is now
complete, the stage was set by reforming the legal environment and creating a
strong and autonomous institution for investment promotion. The biases against
foreign investment and major distortions in the incentive regime were removed,
and the provision of investment incentives became automatic and non-
discretionary. Corporate Taxes were lowered and rationalized. The General Sales
Tax was amended to tax consumption rather than savings and production. Once
the reforms of the first phase are consolidated, the government intends to move to
the second phase of the reform, where it will start divesting the control of public
enterprises, privatizing its equity holdings in public shareholding companies, and
encouraging the private sector to provide infrastructural services. Reforms of the
legal and regulatory environment will continue during the second phase to further
streamline investment and business establishment procedures and to remove any
remaining policy distortions and aggravation points for investors.
Promotion of Foreign Investment
26.  The primary piece of investment legislation was the Law  of 1992
Governing Arab and Foreign Investments. The Law outlined general investment
guarantees and other protection for foreign investors, it specified sectors in which



ANNEX I
PaRe 11 of 19
foreign participation is allowed. However, the legislation suffered from a number
of deficiencies:
(a) It differentiated between Arab and non-Arab foreign investors;
(b) It required all non-Arab foreign investors to receive full cabinet
approval prior to investing in Jordan;
(c) It prohibited non-Arab investment in shares of public shareholding
companies listed in the Amman Financial Market.
(d) It was ambiguous about the definition of sectors where foreign
participation was permitted in full and where it was limited to a
maximum of 49% of equity;
(e) It did not offer sufficient guarantees to protect non-Jordanian
investment;
(f) It did not allow for internationally recognized third-party investment
dispute resolution mechanisms.
27.  Recognizing that the weaknesses of this legislation posed serious
impediment to foreign investors' interest, the government has submitted to the
Parliament the new Investment Law of 1995. With the approval of the new Law
by Parliament, the overly restrictive provisions of the Law Governing Arab and
Foreign Investment of 1992 have been canceled and the investment procedures for
foreigners have been made more transparent and simple. The new Law:
(a) Eliminates the distinction between Arab and non-Arab foreign
investors;
(b) Accords foreign investors equal treatment with Jordanians regarding
incentives and tax reduction;
(c) Eliminates the need for cabinet approval for foreign investments;
(d) Specifies clearly the sectors open for 100% foreign investment and
those in which foreign ownership is limited to a certain percentage of
equity;
(e) Allows foreign investment in shares listed in the Amman Financial
Market up to a specified percentage of a company's capital. Also, no
prior approvals for such investment would be required;



ANNEX I
Page 12 of 19
(f) Provides fm  guarantees against nationalization or expropriation and
limits the power of the government to seize assets;
(g) Provides for third party dispute settlement consistent with international
practice.
Improving Investment Incentives
28.  Investment incentives were granted under the Encouragement of Investment
Law of 1987, which offered a number of incentives and benefits to qualified
enterprises. The Law allowed a committee ---The Encouragement of Investment
Committee--- to assess projects applying for incentives and hence classify them
into three categories: i) Those not eligible for any incentives, ii) Those classified
as Economic Projects (EP), which receive exemptions from customs duties for
their machinery and equipment but no reductions in income tax, iii) Those
classified as Approved Economic Projects (AEP), which used to receive a five-
year tax holidays, in addition to tariff exemptions.
29.  The effectiveness of the Law in promoting and encouraging investment was
limited because of the following deficiencies:
(a) Tax holidays failed to give adequate incentives for starting new
investment;
(b) The differentiation between AEP and EP was arbitrary, and the
decision-making process left substantial room for discretion on the part
of the Encouragement of Investment Committee. It was not uncommon
to fmd similar projects receiving significantly different incentives;
(c) The five-year tax holiday favored short term investments with limited
time spans and did not benefit most firms that were not profitable from
the outset. High corporate tax rates further compounded this problem;
(d) Tariff exemptions were accorded on capital goods to some companies
and not to others creating unfair competition among companies in the
same sector, as two categories of companies were created with different
cost structures;
(e) The Law contained numerous areas where decisions were left to the
Investment Committee to confer or extend other benefits; and
(e) The Law did not encourage investments in the less developed regions of
the country.



ANNEX I
Page 13 of 19
30.  The limitations of the Encouragement of Investment Law, the unintended
distortions that it created, and its general ineffectiveness in promoting investment
lead the government to restructure the whole investment environment. It was
obvious that amending the Law itself without addressing other elements of the
business environment --although an improvement in itself-- would not be sufficient
to achieve the required boost in investment. The government therefore decided to
adopt a four-pronged approach to encourage savings and reward investment: (a)
Streamline investment incentive procedures; (b) Rationalize the corporate and
income tax system; (c) Tax consumption rather than production; and (d) Reduce
customs duties for all companies. This necessitated the enactment of a new
Investment Law, and the amendment of the General Sales Tax Law, and the
Income Tax Law.
31.  The Investment Law. The new Investment Law of 1995, which replaces
both the Encouragement of Investment Law of 1978 and the Law Governing Arab
and Foreign Investments Law of 1992, has tackled the shortcomings of both laws.
32.  Para 27 highlighted the main features of the new law regarding foreign
investments. As for the general investment environment the new law offers the
following:
(a) Eliminates distinctions between projects in the same sector;
(b) Eliminates tax holidays;
(c) Offers tax reductions for less developed regions of the country;
(d) Specifies sectors eligible for tax incentives (reduction) very clearly in
legislation thereby eliminating the need to use discretionary judgment in
evaluating projects on a case-by-case basis; and
(e) Continues to offer tariff exemptions for imports of capital equipment
and machinery, however, no discretion is exercised in granting such
exemptions as eligible sectors are specified in the legislation. In the
second phase of the reform, taxes on the agreed list of capital goods
will be reduced to zero and, hence, the need to resort to this law for
tariff exemptions will be minimized.
33.  The Income Tax Law. Corporate tax rates for companies differed
depending on the type of company (public shareholding or partnership or
proprietorship) and on the type of business (industry, banking, other services).
The highest tax rate reached 55% of taxable income. The system was also biased
against capital accumulation as it taxed capitalization of profits and reserves but
not dividends.



ANNEX I
Page 14 of 19
The amendment to the Income Tax Lax complements the reforms in the new
Investment Law. As the latter eliminated tax holidays, the income tax law
established a fixed 15% tax rate for sectors which used to be eligible for tax
holidays under the previous Encouragement of Investment Law.
Specifically, the law now:
(a) Establishes three flat corporate tax rates of 15% for companies in the
encouraged sectors, 35% for banks and financial institutions and 25%
for all other companies;
(b) Does not differentiate between companies based on legal status;
(c) Encourages capital accumulation by imposing a withholding tax of 10%
on distributed profits; and
(d) Substantially reduces the whole tax structure.
34.  General Sales Tax Law. The General Sales Tax Law was enacted in 1994.
It imposed a General Sales Tax of 7% on goods produced domestically and on
imports. Experience during the past year highlighted some of the deficiencies of
the Law: i) the rate of 7% was too low to allow - because of fiscal constraints - a
restructuring of the income tax system; ii) the treatment of services was
ambiguous; and iii) tax rebates on inputs to production if the exported goods are
tax-exempt were not allowed for domestically produced goods, whereas imports of
similar goods were exempt from the sales tax.
35.  An amendment to the General Sales Tax Law, adopted in 1995, addressed
those issues by: (a) Increasing the GST to 10%; (b) Subjecting services to the sales
tax according to a specific positive list; and (c) Allowing tax rebates for inputs to
production if the exported final goods are exported, whether registered for GST or
not.
Institutional Framework For Investment Promotion
36.  There is a need to complement the new investment and tax legislation by
establishing a strong autonomous institution for investment promotion. The new
investment law provides for the establishment of an Investment Corporation (IC),
with strong emphasis on promotion rather than on regulatory and incentive-
approval functions only. The IC will undertake a wide range of image-building,
investment-generating and servicing activities. Being autonomous, the IC will be
able to have proper staffing and acquire the needed skills to undertake its
promotional functions as it will have strong private sector representation on its
board and will be freed from civil service administrative codes and pay scales. A
proposed Export Development Project to be implemented with the World Bank's



ANNEX I
Page 15 of 19
support will assist the newly established agency in its organizational set-up and in
developing its technical capabilities to undertake its new mandate and to create
linkages between national and foreign companies in the form of joint ventures,
strategic alliances, franchising, licensing, subcontracting or technical/marketing
agreements.
IV. PRIVATIZATION AND PUBLIC ENTERPRISES REFORMS
37.  The prospect for Jordan to generate jobs and to maximize its long-term
growth is also related to the efficiency of the services provided by the public
infrastructure and the efficiency of investments carried out to improve it. The
government has made progress towards privatization by taking steps to prepare
enterprise reforms, allowing the private sector to participate in a few infrastructure
activities, and selling some of the shares in public shareholding companies (PSCs).
The government has in this respect submitted legislation to allow private sector
participation in both the energy and telecommunication sectors. It has for the first
time given the private sector the responsibility for installing and operating a
cellular phone system. Furthermore, it has started implementing a program to sell
off its equity in hotels and has substantial progress in this area.
38.  The government intends to gradually liquidate, according to an action plan,
its holdings in commercial enterprises in competitive sectors except for strategic
industries.  The government also intends to start commercializing public
enterprises as a first step towards eventual privatization. In this respect, the
government intends to develop the regulatory regime for the energy and
telecommunication sectors, separate productive activities from the regulatory
functions and commercialize public enterprises in these sectors (JEA, TCC) and
transform them into public shareholding companies. Public enterprises in the
transport sector will also be restructured including Royal Jordanian Airlines and
Aqaba Railway Corporation and government will generally allow gradually entry
into service sectors where competitive markets exist.
V. FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORMS
39.  The outward-oriented and market-based growth strategy would require
changes in the financial sector to make it more flexible, efficient and customer-
oriented so that it would further support economic growth. It is our vision that the
financial sector already well established with basically sound institutions, could be
deepened in mobilizing medium- long-term resources needed to finance the growth
and investment opportunities and in providing more diversified and efficient
financial services that could enable Jordan to become a regional financial hub and
a point of transit trade. Towards this end, the reform program has two basic



ANNEX I
Page 16 of 19
objectives: (a) To increase banking sector's efficiency and improve competition;
and (b) To expand the availability of medium to long-term finance, both equity
and debt.
Banking Sector and Intermediation
40.  While the banking system is basically sound, its ability is limited in
attracting and encouraging medium and long-term investments. Furthermore, the
existing laws, regulations and preferential treatment pertaining to the specialized
credit institutions have contributed to some distortions in the market structure.
The govermnent strategy in encouraging banking sector competition and
intermediation is to increasingly adopt indirect monetary control instruments, to
safeguard the soundness of the banks, and to eliminate the preferential treatment of
specialized credit institutions.
41.  Indirect Monetary Instruments. The Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ) has
adopted a number of measures to replace the direct credit control with indirect
monetary instruments in order to encourage competition among the banks . In
1993, the CBJ started issuing Dinar denominated certificates of deposit (CD) and,
since then the monetary control has been applied through regular auctions of CDs
to the licensed commercial banks. In 1994, the CBJ abolished the limit on credit
expansion to no more than ten times the size of each bank's capital as a monetary
instrument . Finally, as a measure of confidence building, the CBJ removed the
credit-to-deposit ratio in March 1995, and encouraged the emergence of an
efficient interbank money market.
42.  With a view to establish a universal banking system, the CBJ is moving
towards adopting a unified reserve requirement system for all banks. In 1996, the
CBJ will start reducing the differences between reserve ratios applied to
commercial banks and investment banks to a maximum of 5 percentage points. It
has also removed the provision subjecting interbank deposits to reserve
requirements.
43.  The Soundness of the Banking Sector.  Jordan has made substantial
progress in adopting international norms relating to capital adequacy and
prudential lending. The system of "off-site" and "on-site" supervision has also
been strengthened. The CBJ plans to further improve the system, particularly as it
relates to full financial disclosure by the banks. Furthermore, the CBJ intends to
examine the issues related to deposit insurance. It will explore the possibility of
the banking system establishing an insurance system of its own on a voluntary
basis, and adopting the necessary measures to upgrade the reporting requirements
to the international standards. In this regard, a study on bank supervision and
prudential regulation will be carried out in 1996 with a Japanese PHRD grant.



ANNEX I
Page 17 of 19
44.  Specialized Credit Institutions. In the past, the government has relied on
direct intervention aimed at providing long-term credit that otherwise is not
available. Yet, each of the sectors targeted for special credit suffers from the
availability of long-term credit and our experience tells us that loan subsidization
does not necessarily encourage carrying out the targeted activities. With the
exception of the Housing Bank, the two specialized credit institutions, the
Industrial Development Bank (IDB) and the Agricultural Credit Corporation
(ACC) have remained small. Both IDB and ACC are dependent on credit from the
CBJ and international financial institutions. These sources, however, have proven
to be too small to satisfy the market needs. The government plans to reform each
of these institutions. Special privileges of the Housing Bank will be eliminated in
1996.
45.  With regard to  the Agricultural Credit Corporation  (ACC), a
restructuring plan is being developed under the ongoing Agriculture Sector
Adjustment Loan from the World Bank. The restructuring plan includes staff
training, portfolio diversification. During the third phase of the reform program,
and once a viable alternative for agriculture sector financing has been developed,
the government plans to move towards commercializing ACC's operations.
46.  The Industrial Development Bank is also being prepared for conversion
into a full bank under the Central Bank's supervision. The government will start
in 1996 to eliminate IDB's special privileges. It is expected that the IDB will be
able to diversify its operations in all sectors. The government intends to start
implementing a plan to privatize its ownership in IDB during the third phase of the
reform program.
47.  In line with the reforms described above, the CBJ has recently reduced the
rediscount subsidies to only one percentage point, except for the ACC, export
credit and for the small handicraft industry. It intends to phase out the remaining
interest rate subsidies ---other than the exceptions stated above--- by the end of
1997.
Development of Medium to Long-Term Financial Markets
48.  Availability of medium- long-term savings for investment is seriously
constrained in Jordan's domestic market. Pension and social security funds are
currently being deposited in commercial banks, which dilutes CBJ's ability to
control credit expansion. At the same time, this reduces the pool of financial
resources available for long-term financing. The government is convinced that
pension and social security funds, mutual funds and the insurance resources could
become major sources of long-term savings that, if effectively mobilized, could
gradually help reduce its reliance on external resources for investment. A study



ANNEX I
Page 18 of 19
funded by a Japanese PHRD grant is under way for completion by 1996 with a
view toward addressing issues in the social security and pension systems.
49.  The government is committed to addressing these issues in order to
encourage long-term savings in the economy. Legislation to create the regulatory
environment for a mutual fund industry will be introduced in the coming year
under the amended Company's Law. During the third phase of the reform
program, policy and regulatory reforms for pension funds will be implemented. In
the meantime, the government has lifted the restrictions against foreign firms to
provide insurance services. It also intends to raise the minimum capital required
so as to encourage mergers among insurance companies.
Development of Capital Market
50.  The Amman Financial Market (AFM) is already an important source of
long-term capital and could become a conduit for foreign capital financing of
domestic investment. Reforms to the AFM will be in three areas: First, the
government will seek assistance from the World Bank to carry out a study in 1996
to determine the optimum structure for its operations . It will specifically study the
feasibility of separating the operational entity, with responsibility for market
functions, from the supervisory functions. Based upon the results of the study an
action plan will be devised and implementation of the action plan will start in
1997. Second, the operational efficiency of AFM will be enhanced by acquiring
and installing trading, clearing, settlement and depository systems in 1996, and to
fully automating these systems in 1997. Third, the Companies Law will be
amended to allow market determination of issuing price for shares and to remove
constraining provisions on the ability of companies to issue bonds.  The
government is also reviewing mechanisms to create a secondary mortgage facility
to expand the availability of housing finance. These actions will gradually open
the capital markets to international transactions.
CONCLUSION
51.  Mr. President, we realize that our reform program as presented is an
ambitious one. We have no alternative but to succeed. The first phase of our
program has been substantially completed with a successful outcome. We also
know that we shall not be able to carry it through in a satisfactory manner without
full cooperation and support of our multi-lateral and bilateral partners. However,
we are confident that the government fully satisfies one of the key criteria our
development partners expect of us, namely, government's serious comnuitment to
follow through and implement this reform and stabilization program. The costs of
slippage is too large to do otherwise. The government's top agenda in the
aftermath of the regional peace is to alleviate poverty and to bring about visible



ANNEX I
Page 19 of 19
changes in the lives of the poor. I also wish to note that since the beginning of the
current reform program in 1992, our track record has been good. We have been
able to achieve, and in several instances exceed, the monetary, fiscal, and
structural reform targets set by the govermnent under the IMF's Extended Finance
Facility (EFF). We are continuing an active dialogue with our bilateral donors
with a view to securing most optimum levels of technical and financial assistance
to support us during this critical period. The response so far has been extremely
sympathetic.  The World Bank's contribution to this program  is of utmost
importance, not only in terms of its own direct assistance, but also in terms of
mobilizing other cofinancing resources. As you know, Mr. President, we have also
recently mobilized private financing for the Telecommunication Sector with the
World Bank's guarantee assistance. We wish to make use of such mechanism in
other commercial sectors as well. The upcoming Middle East & North Africa
Economic Summit to be held in Amman at the end of October of 1995 is expected
to focus on mobilizing activities and resources for the private sector. We hope that
the World Bank's guidance and assistance in furthering the objectives of this
conference would ensure the successful outcome of our efforts.
Regards,
Dr. Rima Khalaf Hunaidi
Minister of Planning






Attachment of ANNEX I
Page 1 of 9
Medium-Term Policy Framework Matrix
Trade Policy
Policy Area:                  | Policy Actions taken prior to    Policy Actions for Phase H    Policy Actions for Phase III
Trade Policy                           October 1995                     (1996)                       (1997-1998)
(Indicative)                   (Indicative)
1. Import Tariffs: Objectives: reduce anti-export bias to foster integration with world markets.
1.1 Structure                  Abolished the exceptional list Adopt 6 rate structure of 0, 5, Reduce the maximum tariffs and
and  lowered  the  maximum  10, 20, 30 and 40%.             the number of tariff bands in
border tax to 50%  (except for                              line with    commitments to
alcohol, tobacco  and  salon                                WTO.
cars). This involves a reduction
of rates at 45% to 40%. the
majority of those at 35% to
30%, the remaining adjusted to
40%, and those below 30% will
remain unchanged.
1.2 Long-term  Tariff Reduction                              Formulate and adopt a time- Implement the action plan to
Target                                                       bound and specific action plan to  achieve the   tariff reduction
achieve the average tariff target target.
agreed upon with the WTO.
1.3 Capital goods              Border taxes on the agreed list Reduce  border taxes on  the
(490 items) of capital goods agreed list of capital goods to
reduced to 0, 5, and  10%  zero.
according   to  the  three
categories.
1.4 Tariff exemptions          Removed exemptions, except Complete a thorough review of
for  export  and  investment remaining tariff exemptions, not
development schemes, renew tariff exemptions provided
diplomatic  and  international by legislation and agreements as
organizations,  and  those  they expire, and not extend any
contained  in  the  existing  new exemption.
legislation and agreements.
1.5 Licensing fees and surcharges Legislation   submitted  to  Consolidate all charges and fees
Parliament to consolidate all into one single tariff rate.
fees and surcharges into the
tariff rates.
1.6 Safeguard mechanism                                      A  safeguard mechanism  to be
established through the new
Customs Law.  This safeguard
mechanism will be based on a set
of objective criteria to allow
temporary relief for domestic
industries  injured  by  sharp
increases of imports. The resort
to safeguard measures will be
determined   by  a  central
Government authority.                                       l



Attachment of ANNEX I
Page 2 of 9
Trade Policy
Policy Area:                     Policy Actions taken prior to    Policy Actions for Phase II   Policy Actions for Phase I1
Trade Policy                            October 1995                       (1996)                       (1997-1998)
(Indicative)                    (Indicative)
1.7 Tax equalization            Tax equalization implemented                                   Adjust tax equalization of the
by  adopting  the  necessary                                  remaining items as agreed with
legislative amendment, and by                                 WTO upon accession.
removing GST taxes on the six
imported goods for which
locally produced equivalents are
exempted from the GST.
1.8   Customs  Valuation   and  Announced (i) adoption by July  Complete  and   present  to
Administration                   1, 1996 of reference-based price  Parliament the  new  Customs
list for import valuation pending  Law.
adoption of a WTO-consistent
post- audit system; (ii) adoption
of a self declaration system
upon   computerization   of
customs: and (iii) revision of
the employee incentive bonus
system to replace the current
system to be completed and take
effect by July 1, 1996.
2.0 Nontariff Barriers:      Objectives: reduce administrative obstacles that raise the costs of trading activity
2.1 Import licensing requirements  The   Import  and   Export Implement further measures to
Regulation No.74 of 1993 be establish and improve product
effectively  implemented  to  standards  as  consistent  with
remove the import licensing  intemational practice.
requirements except for areas of
health, security, safety, and  Further  reduce  the  list  of
religion  as  consistent  with  exceptions to the abolishment of
international practice.       import license requirements.



Attachment of ANNEX I
Page 3 of 9
Financial Policy
Policy Area                  | Policy Actions taken prior to    Policy Actions for Phase II  Policy Actions for Phase III
October 1995                  (1996)                          (1997-1998)
(Indicative)
3. Banking Sector: Objectives: to improve bank competition, and the efficiency of financial intermediation.
3. 1 Reserve Requirement       Removed the provision subjecting   Reduce the difference between   Continue  progress  towards
interbank  deposits to reserve   reserve  ratios  applied  to   unification of the reserve ratio
requirement.                   commercial  banks  and   consistent with the monetary
investment banks to a maximum   policy objectives.
of 5 percentage points.
3.2 Credit Control             Removed the Credit to Capital   Continue  to  adopt  and
Ratio as a monetary instrument   consolidate  the  indirect
and continue to use it only as a   monetary control instruments as
prudential instrument.         envisaged  in  the  macro
economic adjustment program.
Removed the Credit to Deposit
Ratio.
3.3 Local and regional Banking                                Relax  the  constraints  on   Formulate a phased action plan
Competition                                                   mergers.                      to  eliminate  any  legal
discrimination  for  entry
Encourage the establishment of   between Jordanian and foreign
ownership  linkages  between   commercial banks.
Jordanian and foreign banks.
Complete  the  study   on
"Banking Sector Competition'.
3.4 CBJ's Rediscount/Advance   Reduced interest rate subsidies to   Reduce the interest rate subsidy   Eliminate  the  interest rate
Facility                       one percent except for ACC,   for ACC, handicraft industry   subsidy with the exception of
export credit and small handicraft  and  export  credit  to  2   ACC,  export  credits  and
industry.                      percentage points.            handicraft industry.
3.5 Foreign Exchange interbank   Accepted provisions under the
market                         Article VIII of the IMF Articles
of Agreement.
Permitted banks, without prior
approval of the CBJ, to use up to
50% of their foreign exchange
denominated deposits in:
(i) syndicated loans;
(ii) to lend to each other; and
(iii) to invest in AAA and AA
securities in the international
market.
4.0 Specialized Credit Institutions:  Objectives--to eliminate the financial distortions, and to improve the financial viability of the
institutions.
4.1 The Housing Bank                                          Eliminate special privileges of   Develop an action plan to
the Housing Bank, and make   privatize  the  Government's
the Bank subject to the same   ownership  in  the Housing
Central Bank supervision as in   Bank.
the case of all other banks.
4.2 The   Agriculture Credit                                  Finalizing  study  for  the   Commercialize the operations
Corporation (ACC)                                             restructuring of ACC to cover   of ACC through full fmnancial
training of staff, diversifring its  and managerial autonomy.
portfolio, and formulating a
plan for commercializing.



Attachment of ANNEX I
Page 4 of 9
Financial Policy
Policy Area                     Policy Actions taken prior to    PoDcy Actions for Phase 11  Policy Actions for Phase m
October 1995                  (1996)                          (1997-1998)
(Indicative)
4.3 The Industrial Development                                Start  to  eliminate  special   Develop an action plan to
Bank (IDB)                                                    privileges of the IDB to convert  privatize  the  Government's
it into a full bank subject to the   ownership in the IDB while
Central Bank supervision.     maintaining its provision of
medium-  and  long-term
financing to industry.
5.0 Long-term Financial Markets:    Objectives: to encourage longer-term savings, and promote the development of capital markets
5.1   The Amman Financial                                     Conduct a study to determine   Based on study results, develop
Markets (stocks and bonds)                                    optimum  strncture for AFM    an  action  plan  and  start
including  the  feasibility  of  implementation.
separating  the  operational
function from  the supervisory   Automate  systems,  create
one.                          central  settlements  and
securities depository.
Acquire and install a trading
clearing   settlement  and   Adopt  and  announce  the
depository system.            principle of full and credible
financial disclosure.
Implement  new   procedures
concurrendy on a stock by stock   Adopt a uniform  code of
basis, starting with less active   general accounting principles.
stocks.
The  Companies  Law  with
following provisions will be
presented to the Parliament:
(i) the removal of the provision
which requires that the issuing
price to be determined by the
Issuing   Committee,  and
replacing it with a provision
that the  market (i.e.  the
underwriting  company)
determine the price at issue.
(ii)  the  removal  of  the
provisions requiring that the full
value of corporate bonds must
be guaranteed by a mortgage;
(iii) allowing 100% pre-emptive
rights for share-holders; and
(iv) removal of the provision
requiring  that the value of
corporate  bonds  must  not
exceed the paid-up capital.
5.2.  Contractual  Savings   Amended the Insurance Law  to   Adopt by law to set standards   Adopt policy and regulatory
Institutions                   open market for competition and   for insurance sector.       reforms  in  pension  furd
allow new entry.                                              management as needed.
Conduct a study to review the
social security  and  pension   Continue  to implement and
funds to allow private pension   consolidate  the  regulatory
schemes.                      reforms  in  pension  and
insurance industries.



Attachment of ANNEX I
Page 5 of 9
Financial Policy
Policy Area                           Policy Actions taken prior to       Policy Actions for Phase II         Policy Actions for Phase 111
October 1995                        (1996)                               (1997-1998)
_______________________________                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Indicative)
5.3  Financial Diversification                                            Companies Law be amended to    Consolidate the regulatory and
permit the  establishment  of   supervisory  capacity  for the
mutual funds and the necessary    mutual  fund   industry  and
regulatory capacity.                establish   the   necessary
supervisory   institutional
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ _   __ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___ capacity.



Attachment of ANNEX I
Page 6 of 9
Investment and Regulatory Regime
Policy Area                       Policy Actions taken prior     Policy Actions for Phase 11           Policy Actions for Phase m
to October 1995                     (1996)                              (1997-1998)
l _____________________________   _______________________________   ____________________________________         (Indicative)
6.0 Investment and Regulatory Regines:            Objectives--to encourage entry, improve the incentive regime and to apply national
treatment to all investors.
6.1 Investment Law              A new Investment  Law, has   Complete procedural guidelines and
been enacted , to:              implement the law.
(i) eliminate tax holidays; (ii)
create an automatic approval
process;  (iii)  remove  the
differentiation between projects
in the same sector; (iv) offer tax
reductions for less developed
regions of the country; and (v)
reform the tax incentives.
6.2  Restrictions on Foreign   The new Investment Law has        Review  implication  of  reducing
Investment                      i) Removed restrictions (with a   barriers to wholly owned foreign
negative list of subsectors where   business.
foreign  ownership  may  be
limited to 49%)
ii) Eliminated Cabinet approval
for foreign investments
iii) Provided guarantees against
nationalizationandexpropriation
iv) Provided  for third  party
dispute settlement
6.3 General Sales Tax           An amendment to the General
Sales Tax Law  was adopted
that: (i) increased tax from 7%
to 10%, (ii) subjected services
to the sales tax according to an
extended positive list, and (iii)
allowed tax rebates for inputs to
production  if final good  is
exported, whether the exporter
is registered for GST or not.
6.4 Income Tax Law              An amendment to the Income
Tax Law  has: (i) established
three flat corporate tax rates, (ii)
reduced the maximum rate from
55% to 35%, and the minimum
from  38%  to 15%, and (iii)
imposed a withholding tax of
10% on distributed profits.



Attachment of ANNEX I
Page 7 of 9
Investment & Regulatory Regime
Policy Area                         Policy Actions taken prior       Policy Actions for Phase II             Policy Actions for Phase HI
to October 1995                       (1996)                                (1997-1998)
l__________________ __________   ________ ___________________ __   ________________ ________________ _   (Indicative)
6.5 Companies Law                                                    Submit  to   Parliament  a   new
Companies Law, that: (i) abolishes
the Ministerial approval for several
sector-specific  economic activities;
(ii) simplifies company registration
requirements; (iii) abolishes other
excessively centralized and duplicated
licensing  requirements,  and  (iv)
improves corporate governance and
finance.
6.6 Land Acquisition and                                             Take  necessary  action  to  allow
Allocation                                                           private establishment of industrial
estates as well as specialized free
zones.      Adopt  the   necessary
legislative and regulatory actions to
simplify  land  allocations  by  the
Industrial Estate Corporation and the
Free   Zone   Corporation,   and
encourage the emergence of private
investment estate companies.



Attachment of ANNEX I
Page 8 of 9
Privatization & Restructuring
Policy Area                      Policy Actions taken prior    Policy Actions for Phase II    Policy Actions for Phase III
to October 1995                   (1996)                        (1997-1998)
(Indicative)
70. Privatization and Restructuring:   Objectives: to improve opportunities for private sector firms, increase competition, allow
the government to concentrate on its core functions and achieve greater efficiency.
7.1 The Housing Bank            (See 4.1)
7.2 The Amman Financial         (See 5.1)
Markets
7.3 The Agriculture Credit      (See 4.2)
Corporation (ACC)
7.4 Privatization in the        A   program  to  sell  off   Continuespin-offofgovernment   Continue, according to action
Competitive Sectors--Jordan     government equity in hotels  shares in hotels and contract out   plan, the liquidation of JIC's
Investment Corporation (JIC)    has been adopted. Substantive   management of Hotel Training   holdings in the rest of the
progress has already  been   Institute to the private sector.    economy except for strategic
made in hotels area.                                         industries.
7.5 Privatization and                                         Allow gradual entry into these   Establish and consolidate the
Commercialization in the                                      service  sectors  where   regulatory regimes.
Infrastructure Sectors (general)                              competitive markets exist.
Develop the regulatory regime
for those services with natural
monopolies.
Start the transformation of the   Complete the transformation
public enterprises into limited   and the separation.
liability companies, and separate
the  operational  from   the
regulatory functions.
7.6 Privatization in the Energy    Submitted to Parliament a new    Transform  JEA  into a joint  Implement agreed plan.
Sector                          law that would (i) establish a   stock company to be owned by
regulatory body for the energy   JIC.
sector;  (ii)  allow   for
privatization  of JEA; (iii)   A study will be commissioned
allow   private   sector   to establish a predictable and
participation   in  power   transparent  mechanism   of
generation; and (iv) introduce   setting prices insuring adequate
competition to the sector.   returns on investment.
Finalize an action plan for
institutional  and  financial
restructuring of the sector.
7.7 Privatization in the        Privatization study for RJ has   Restructuring   of  Aqaba   Study possible privatization of
Transport Sector                been completed and  initial   Railways Corporation (ARC).   the ARC.
steps have been taken to
implement  a  Corporate
Change Program for Rl.



Attachment of ANNEX I
Page 9 of 9
Pnivatizafion & Restructuring
Policy Area                      Policy Actions taken prior    Policy Actions for Phase U    Policy Actions for Phase III
to October 1995                  (1996)                        (1997-1998)
l____________________________   _______________________________      (Indicative)
7.8 Privatization in the        A  new  law  that will (i)   Continue to undertake the steps   Complete corporatization and
Telecommunications Sector       establish a regulatory body for   required in the context of the   commercialization of TCC.
the   Telecommunications   B a n k - s u p p o r t e d
Sector; and (ii) allow  for  telecommunications project
privatization of TCC has been
enacted.
Private sector has been given
the responsibility for installing
and  operating  a  cellular
system.
M:\JOR\FTSAL\MATRIX.M-T
September 28, 1995



Annex II page 1 of 1.
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ECONOMIC REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Time Table of Key Events
(a) Identification Mission:            October 1994
(b) Preparation Mission:               January 1995
(c) Pre-appaisal Mission:              April 1995
(d) Project prepared by:               The Government/Bank
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission:    July 6, 1995
(f) Negotiations:                      September 11-14, 1995
(g) Board presentation:                October 24, 1995
(h) Loan effectiveness                 Maximum of 90 days after signing.
Section II: Special Implementation Action
None



Annex m Page 1- of 1.
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JORDAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of June 30, 1995)
Fiscal                                                 Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
Loan No.      Year          Borrower    Puriose                            (US$ Million)
15 Credits closed                                                           86.13
31 Loans closed                                                     745.80                  4.92
Of which SECALs, SALs and Program Loans               150.00
Ln. 28900    88            Jordan       Education VII                40.00                  5.54
Ln. 31060     89           Jordan       Human Res. Sector            73.00                  7.51
Ln. 31720     90           Jordan       Integrated Phosphate         25.00                   1.04
Ln. 35680     93           Jordan       Transport III                35.00                 29.85
Ln. 35740     93           Jordan       Health II                    20.00                  19.50
Ln. 36510     94           Jordan       Energy Sector Loan           80.00                 40.00
Ln. 37380     94           Jordan       Jordan Telecom               20.00                 20.00
Ln. 38170     95           Jordan       ASAL                         80.00                 30.00
Ln. 38180     95           Jordan       TA for Agriculture            6.60                  6.60
Ln. 38640     95           Jordan       Human Resources Dvt          60.00                 60.00
Total                                1,185.40  86.13         224.96
of which has been repaid               378.84   15.73
Total now held by Bank and IDA         806.56  70.40
Amount sold           11.53
of which repaid       11.53
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of June 30, 1995)
Fiscal                                    Type of                     Loan   Equity       Total
Year            Borrower                  Business                          (US$ Million)
1974           Jordan Ceramic Ind. Co.    Structural clay products     1.60     0.23      1.83
1975/78/81/82   Jordan Fertilizer Ind. Co.    Phosphatic fertilizer   79.48     8.75     88.23
1979/85        Jordan Lime and Silicate   Building materials           2.50     1.35      3.85
1981           Jordan Leasing Co. Ltd.    Capital Market              0.00      0.29      0.29
1987/90/93/94   Al-Hikma Pharmaceuticals   Mfg. of drugs & med.        7.19     2.71      9.90
1979           Jordan Securities Corp.    Capital Market              0.00      0.67      0.67
1995           Al-Keena Paper Products    Timber, pulp and paper       8.00     0.00      8.00
1995           Indo-Jordan Chemicals Co.  Fertilizers                 30.00     0.00     30.00
Total commitments                                    128.77    14.00    142.77
Less: Total repaid, sold or cancelled                 85.77    11.29     97.06
Total commitments now held by IFC                     43.00     2.71     45.71



Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan          Tariff Reductions and Restructuring Schedules                             Annex IV
Economic Reform and Development Loan     (JD millions; annualized, Jan-Aug 1994 data)                        Page 1 of 9
pre-October    Current     ERDL Board Present.      Phase II (indicative)  Phase IlIl (indicative)
1994 Regime    Regime      incl. cars  excl. cars    incl. cars  excl. cars    incl. cars  excl. cars
Total Imports                      2223.2       2223.2       2223.2    2223.2        2223.2    2223.2        2223.2    2223.2
Value of Imports by Institutions
Currently Exempted from Tariffs   680.2        680.2        680.2      680.2        680.2      680.2        680.2      680.2
Potential Tariff Revenue           545.9        461.4        418.6      445.9        393.9      425.1        348.7      383.8
Realized Tariff Revenue            426.9        366.5        328.8      353.5        308.2      336.7        270.4      302.6
Change in Potential Tariff Revenue
(compared to current regime)       84.5         0.0         -42.8      -15.5        -67.5      -36.3       -112.8      -77.6
Change in Realized Tariff Revenue
(compared to current regime)       60.4         0.0         -37.7      -13.0        -58.3      -29.8        -96.1      -63.9
Tariff Revenue Loss from Automobiles                         -24.8       n.a.        -28.5       n.a.        -32.2       n.a.
Import Weighted Average Tariff     24.6%        20.8%        18.8%      20.1%        17.7%      19.1%        15.7%      17.3%
Realized Tariff Rate               19.2%        16.5%        14.8%      15.9%        13.9%      15.1%        12.2%      13.6%
Simple (unweighted) Average Tariff  31.0%       29.0%        27.2%      27.8%        25.5%      26.2%        22.0%      22.8%
Standard Deviation                 28.2%        22.7%        18.7%      21.6%        16.9%      20.3%        14.5%      18.5%
Maximum Combined Tariff
excl. automobiles, alcohol, tobacco  260.0%    70.0%        50.0%      50.0%        40.0%      40.0%        30.0%      30.0%
automobiles                       340.0%       220.0%       50.0%     220.0%        40.0%     220.0%        30.0%     220.0%
alcohol, tobacco                  180.0%       180.0%       180.0%    180.0%        180.0%    180.0%       180.0%     180.0%
Capital Goods
(agreed list of 491 lines)
Import Value                     226.6        226.6        226.6      226.6        226.6      226.6        226.6      226.6
Import Weighted Average Tariff   10.6%         4.6%         4.6%      4.6%         0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%
Simple (unweighted) Average Tariff  4.3%       3.7%         3.7%      3.7%         0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%
Realized Tariff Rate              9.8%        3.8%          3.8%      3.8%         0.0%       0.0%         0.0%       0.0%
Ca ital Goods
(original working list of 757 lines)
Import Value                     319.9        319.9        319.9      319.9        319.9      319.9        319.9      319.9
Import Weighted Average Tariff   19.9%        14.5%        13.7%      13.7%        9.9%       9.9%         8.7%       8.7%
Simple (unweighted) Average Tariff    16.3%   15.3%        14.6%      14.6%        11.6%      11.6%        10.5%      10.5%
Realized Tariff Rate             16.9%        11.9%        11.2%      11.2%        8.6%       8.6%         7.0%       7.0%
Capital Goods
(SINTIA classification, 1310 lines)
Import Value                     583.4        583.4        583.4      583.4        583.4      583.4        583.4      583.4
Import Weighted Average Tariff   26.7%        20.3%        19.3%      19.3%        16.4%      16.4%        15.1%     15.1%
Simple (unweighted) Average Tariff    26.2%   22.9%        21.8%      21.8%        18.6%      18.6%        16.9%      16.9%
Realized Tariff Rate             20.8%        15.3%        14.5%      14.5%        12.8%      12.8%        11.1%     11.1%



Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan             Tariff Reductions and Restructuring Schedules                           Annex IV
Economic Reform and Development Loan                  (JD millions)                                           Page 2 of 9
Pre-October 1994 Tariff Regirme             Import  Exempted      Realized     Weighted   Realized    Simple  Standard Maximum
(annualized, based on Jan-Aug 1994 data)    Value   Imports       Revenue      Avg. Tariff  Tariff Rate  Average  Deviation   Rate
SINTIA Classification of Imports:
Aariculture (364 lines)                      166.4     100.8         10.5          8.8%       6.3%    22.4%     16.9%   100.0%
Mining (11 2 lines)                          228.9     205.4          3.2         10.4%       1.4%    29.6%    43.5%   170.0%
Manufacturina (6438 lines)                  1827.9     374.0        413.2         27.8%      22.6%    31.5%    28.3%   340.0%
Consumer Goods (2116 lines)                 571.0     107.7        194.7         40.1%      34.1%    45.7%    36.4%   340.0%
Intermediate Goods (3012 lines)             673.5     110.9         97.3         18.2%      14.5%    23.8%    17.4%   170.0%
Capital Goods (1310 lines)                  583.4     155.4        121.2         26.7%      20.8%    26.2%    24.4%   120.0%
Manufacturing Imports (6438 lines)
(by three-digit ISIC sectors)
Food. Beveraaes. Tobacco (591 lines)         299.2     100.3         34.5         19.8%      11.5%    35.1%    32.3%   180.0%
Food Manufacturing (548 lines)             289.2      96.9         29.2         17.3%      10.1%    29.5%     19.9%   100.0%
Beverages (32 lines)                         2.1       0.4          1.9        119.2%      88.4%    117.5%    67.5%   180.0%
Tobacco (11 lines)                           7.8       3.0          3.5         83.0%      44.8%    73.6%    27.8%   100.0%
Textiles and Leather (953 lines)             134.4       2.8         46.8         35.8%      34.8%    37.8%     18.8%   100.0%
Textiles (721 lines)                        99.3       1.1         31.8         32.5%      32.0%    34.5%    20.4%   100.0%
Wearing Apparel (1 44 lines)                28.5       0.4         12.3         44.0%      43.3%    49.4%      4.6%    50.0%
Leather Products (59 lines)                  2.1       0.9          0.6         47.3%      28.1%    43.6%      5.7%    50.0%
Footwear (29 lines)                          4.5       0.4          2.1         50.0%      45.8%    50.0%      0.0%    50.0%
Wood. Cork. and Products (1 31 lines)         46.6       0.8         15.3         33.5%      32.7%    34.8%    14.9%   120.0%
Wood, Cork and Products (113 lines)         43.6       0.2         14.0         32.3%      32.2%    32.6%     14.8%   120.0%
Wooden Furniture, Fixtures (18 lines)        3.1       0.6          1.3         50.0%      40.6%    48.6%      4.1%    50.0%
Paper and Printing (233 lines)                51.1       2.1          8.9         17.9%      17.4%    26.6%     15.9%    70.0%
Paper Products (195 lines)                  42.9       0.4          8.0         19.0%      18.7%    26.7%     15.3%    70.0%
Printing and Publishing (38 lines)           8.2       1.7          0.8         11.9%      10.2%    25.9%    19.0%    50.0%
Chemicals. Petroleum, Coal (1565 lines)      360.7      79.3         46.2         17.4%      12.8%    24.3%    20.9%   260.0%
Industrial Chemicals (981 lines)           150.3      23.2         12.3         11.6%       8.2%     19.1%    14.9%    50.0%
Other Chemical Products (342 lines)        107.8       8.7         15.8         17.6%      14.7%    33.8%    30.9%   260.0%
Petroleum Refineries (424 lines)            54.4      42.1          2.9         16.5%       5.3%    27.9%     14.5%    50.0%
Petroleum and Coal Products (10 lines)       0.5       0.0          0.2         32.0%      32.0%    22.0%     13.8%    40.0%
Rubber Products (96 lines)                  25.1       3.4          8.3         38.2%      33.1%    29.6%     14.2%    50.0%
Plastic Products (112 lines)                22.5       1.9          6.7         33.6%      29.6%    35.3%    18.2%    70.0%
Nonmetallic Minerals (193 lines)              37.3       4.5         11.7         36.2%      31.4%    42.3%    28.7%   170.0%
Ceramic Products (15 lines)                  4.4       0.2          2.0         46.0%      44.1%    50.0%    31.2%    120.0%
Glass and Glass Products (68 lines)         20.8       1.7          5.5         28.5%      26.3%    39.6%    22.5%   120.0%
Other Nonmetallic Min. Prod. (110 lines)    12.0       2.5          4.3         45.8%      35.6%    42.9%    31.6%   170.0%
Basic Metal Industries (569 lines)           146.8       3.0         23.7         16.6%      16.1%    19.8%    12.1%    50.0%
Iron and Steel Basic Metal Ind. (326 lines)  121.7     2.8         19.6         16.6%      16.1%    18.0%    10.9%    35.0%
Nonferrous Basic Metal Ind. (243 lines)     25.1       0.3          4.1         16.8%      16.5%    22.2%     13.2%    50.0%
Metal Products. Machinery (1993 lines)       730.3     180.6        219.6         36.7%      30.1%     35.3%    37.8%   340.0%
Metal Prod., not else. class. (438 lines)   88.6      18.3         24.5         34.0%      27.7%    38.1%    23.7%   120.0%
Nonelectric Machinery (669 lines)          251.5      43.6         38.5         19.6%      15.3%    20.2%    22.4%   120.0%
Electrical Machinery (346 lines)            78.2      22.8         27.3         50.1%      34.9%    46.1%    30.9%   105.0%
Transport Equipment (268 lines)            258.7      82.1        123.2         54.3%      47.6%    61.2%    73.7%   340.0%
Scientific Equipment (272 lines)            53.3      13.7          6.1         16.6%      11.5%    28.5%    19.4%    80.0%
Other Manufacturina (210 lines)               21.5       0.6          6.6         32.0%      30.7%    34.8%     17.0%   120.0%



Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan             Tariff Reductions and Restructuring Schedules                           Annex IV
Economic Reform and Development Loan                  (JD millions)                                           Page 3 of 9
Current Tariff Regimfe                      Import  Exempted      Realized     Weighted   Realized    Simple  Standard Maximum
(annualized, based on Jan-Aug 1994 data)    Value    Imports      Revenue      Avg. Tariff  Tariff Rate  Average  Deviation   Rate
SINTIA Classification of Imports:
Agriculture (364 lines)                      166.4     100.8         11.1          9.2%       6.7%    24.8%     18.5%   100.0%
Mining (112 lines)                           228.9     205.4          1.4          1.0%       0.6%    19.0%    15.8%    70.0%
Manufacturina (6438 lines)                  1827.9     374.0        354.0         24.3%      19.4%    29.4%    23.0%   220.0%
Consumer Goods (2116 lines)                 571.0     107.7        167.9         35.1%      29.4%    42.3%     27.8%   220.0%
Intermediate Goods (3012 lines)             673.5     110.9         96.7         18.6%      14.4%    23.2%     15.7%    70.0%
Capital Goods (1 310 lines)                 583.4     155.4         89.4         20.3%      15.3%    22.9%     19.4%   100.0%
Manufacturing Imports (6438 lines)
(by three-digit ISIC sectors)
Food. Beverages. Tobacco (591 lines)         299.2     100.3         33.9         21.0%      11.3%    35.2%     31.4%   180.0%
Food Manufacturing (548 lines)             289.2      96.9         28.6         18.6%       9.9%    29.8%     18.8%    70.0%
Beverages (32 lines)                         2.1       0.4          1.8        117.0%      87.0%    113.8%    69.5%   180.0%
Tobacco (11 lines)                           7.8       3.0          3.5         83.1%      44.9%    75.0%    27.5%    100.0%
Textiles and Leather (953 lines)             134.4       2.8         46.4         35.5%      34.5%    36.9%     16.8%    70.0%
Textiles (721 lines)                        99.3       1.1         31.4         32.2%      31.7%    33.3%     17.6%    70.0%
Wearing Apparel (1 44 lines)                28.5       0.4         12.3         44.0%      43.3%    49.4%      4.6%    50.0%
Leather Products (59 lines)                  2.1       0.9          0.6         47.3%      28.1%    43.6%      5.7%    50.0%
Footwear (29 lines)                          4.5       0.4          2.1         50.0%      45.8%    50.0%      0.0%    50.0%
Wood. Cork, and Products (131 lines)          46.6       0.8         15.2         33.5%      32.7%     34.1%    13.1%    70.0%
Wood, Cork and Products (113 lines)         43.6       0.2         14.0         32.3%      32.1%    31.8%     12.6%    70.0%
Wooden Fumiture, Fixtures (18 lines)         3.1       0.6          1.3         50.0%      40.6%     48.6%     4.1%    50.0%
Paoer and Printing (233 lines)                51.1       2.1          8.5         17.2%      16.7%    26.4%     16.0%    70.0%
Paper Products (1 95 lines)                 42.9       0.4          7.7         18.3%      18.0%    26.5%    15.4%    70.0%
Printing and Publishing (38 lines)           8.2       1.7          0.8         11.9%      10.2%    25.9%    19.0%    50.0%
Chemicals. Petroleum. Coal (1565 lines)      360.7      79.3         43.9         16.5%      12.2%    23.1%     17.0%    70.0%
Industrial Chemicals (981 lines)           150.3      23.2         12.1         11.5%       8.1%    19.0%    14.9%    50.0%
Other Chemical Products (342 lines)        107.8       8.7         13.8         15.0%      12.8%    29.0%     18.9%    70.0%
Petroleum Refineries (424 lines)            54.4      42.1          2.9         16.5%       5.3%    27.9%     14.5%    50.0%
Petroleum and Coal Products (10 lines)       0.5       0.0          0.2         32.0%      32.0%    22.0%     13.8%    40.0%
Rubber Products (96 lines)                  25.1       3.4          8.3         38.1%      33.0%    29.4%     14.0%    50.0%
Plastic Products (112 lines)                22.5       1.9          6.6         33.5%      29.5%    34.5%     18.1%    70.0%
Nonmetallic Minerals (193 lines)              37.3       4.5         11.3         35.0%      30.3%    38.0%     16.1%    70.0%
Ceramic Products (15 lines)                  4.4       0.2          1.9         44.6%      42.6%    43.3%     16.8%    70.0%
Glass and Glass Products (68 lines)         20.8       1.7          5.4         28.2%      26.0%    37.3%     15.9%    70.0%
Other Nonmetallic Min. Prod. (110 lines)    12.0       2.5          4.0         43.3%      33.1%    37.7%     16.2%    70.0%
Basic Metal Industries (569 lines)           146.8       3.0         23.7         16.6%      16.1%    19.7%    12.1%    50.0%
Iron and Steel Basic Metal Ind. (326 lines)  121.7     2.8         19.6         16.6%      16.1%    18.0%    10.9%    35.0%
Nonferrous Basic Metal Ind. (243 lines)     25.1       0.3          4.1         16.8%      16.5%    22.0%    13.3%    50.0%
Metal Products. Machinerv (1993 lines)       730.3     180.6        164.5         28.1%      22.5%    30.6%    28.5%   220.0%
Metal Prod., not else. class. (438 lines)   88.6      18.3         23.2         32.5%      26.2%    35.1%    16.1%    70.0%
Nonelectric Machinery (669 lines)          251.5      43.6         34.0         16.9%      13.5%    18.3%    19.2%    70.0%
Electrical Machinery (346 lines)            78.2      22.8         22.6         41.2%      28.9%    38.1%    20.8%    70.0%
Transport Equipment (268 lines)            258.7      82.1         78.6         35.9%      30.4%    46.6%    55.4%   220.0%
Scientific Equipment (272 lines)            53.3      13.7          6.1         16.6%      11.5%    28.2%     18.5%    70.0%
Other Manufacturing (210 lines)               21.5       0.6          6.5         31.3%      30.0%    34.2%    15.3%    70.0%



Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan             Tariff Reductions and Restructuring Schedules                           Annex IV
Economic Reform and Development Loan                  (JD millions)                                           Page 4 of 9
Board Presentation: 60% max., incl. cars   Import  Exempted       Realized     Weighted   Realized   Simple  Standard Maximum
(maximum rate excludes alcohol, tobacco)    Value    Imports      Revenue      Avg. Tariff  Tariff Rate  Average  Deviation   Rate
SINTIA Classification of Imports:
Agriculture (364 lines)                      166.4     100.8         10.6          8.8%       6.3%    24.0%     17.6%   100.0%
Mining (112 lines)                           228.9     205.4          1.4          1.0%       0.6%     1 8.0%    13.1%    50.0%
Manufacturing (6438 lines)                  1827.9     374.0        316.8         22.0%      17.3%    27.6%    18.8%   180.0%
ConsumerGoods (2116 lines)                  571.0     107.7        137.1         29.1%      24.0%    38.3%     19.7%   180.0%
Intermediate Goods (3012 lines)             673.5     110.9         95.0         18.3%      14.1%    22.5%    15.0%    50.0%
Capital Goods (1310 lines)                  583.4     155.4         84.8         19.3%      14.5%    21.8%    17.5%    50.0%
Manufacturing Imports (6438 lines)
(by three-digit ISIC sectors)
Food. Beverages. Tobacco (591 lines)         299.2     100.3         32.6         20.4%      10.9%    33.9%    30.7%    180.0%
Food Manufacturing (548 lines)             289.2      96.9         27.3         18.0%       9.4%    28.4%     17.1%    50.0%
Beverages (32 lines)                         2.1       0.4          1.8        117.0%      87.0%    113.4%    69.8%   180.0%
Tobacco (11 lines)                           7.8       3.0          3.5         83.1%      44.9%    75.0%    27.5%   100.0%
Textiles and Leather (953 lines)             1 34.4      2.8         45.0         34.4%      33.4%    35.7%     16.1%    50.0%
Textiles (721 lines)                        99.3       1.1         30.0         30.7%      30.2%    31.8%    16.4%    50.0%
Wearing Apparel (144 lines)                 28.5       0.4         12.3         44.0%      43.3%    49.4%      4.6%    50.0%
Leather Products (59 lines)                  2.1       0.9          0.6         47.3%      28.1%    43.4%      5.9%    50.0%
Footwear (29 lines)                          4.5       0.4          2.1         50.0%      45.8%    50.0%      0.0%    50.0%
Wood, Cork. and Products (131 lines)          46.6       0.8         14.5         31.9%      31.1%    33.1%     12.8%    50.0%
Wood, Cork and Products (113 lines)         43.6       0.2         13.2         30.6%      30.4%    30.6%     11.9%    50.0%
Wooden Furniture, Fixtures (18 lines)        3.1       0.6          1.3         50.0%      40.6%    48.5%      4.5%    50.0%
Paper and Printing (233 lines)                51.1       2.1          8.4         16.9%      16.4%    25.4%     14.9%    50.0%
Paper Products (195 lines)                  42.9       0.4          7.5         17.9%      17.6%    25.4%     14.1%    50.0%
Printing and Publishing (38 lines)           8.2       1.7          0.8         11.7%      10.1%    25.4%     18.8%    50.0%
Chemicals. Petroleum. Coal (1565 lines)      360.7      79.3         42.7        116.1%      11.8%    22.1%    15.9%    50.0%
Industrial Chemicals (981 lines)           150.3      23.2         11.8         11.2%       7.9%    18.2%    14.1%    50.0%
Other Chemical Products (342 lines)        107.8       8.7         13.0         13.9%      12.1%    27.3%    16.7%    50.0%
Petroleum Refineries (424 lines)            54.4      42.1          2.8         16.5%       5.2%    27.3%    14.2%    50.0%
Petroleum and Coal Products (10 lines)       0.5       0.0          0.2         32.0%      32.0%    22.0%     13.8%    40.0%
Rubber Products (96 lines)                  25.1       3.4          8.2         37.9%      32.8%    28.8%     13.8%    50.0%
Plastic Products (112 lines)                22.5       1.9          6.6         33.1%      29.1%    33.7%     17.6%    50.0%
Nonmetallic Minerals (193 lines)              37.3       4.5         11.1         34.6%      29.8%    36.5%     14.3%    50.0%
Ceramic Products (15 lines)                  4.4       0.2          1.9         44.0%      42.0%    40.7%     13.3%    50.0%
Glass and Glass Products (68 lines)         20.8       1.7          5.4         28.1%      25.9%    36.3%    14.5%    50.0%
Other Nonmetallic Min. Prod. (110 lines)    12.0       2.5          3.9         42.4%      32.2%    36.1%    14.3%    50.0%
Basic Metal Industries (569 lines)           146.8       3.0         23.7         16.6%      16.1%    19.4%    11.7%    50.0%
Iron and Steel Basic Metal Ind. (326 lines)  121.7     2.8         19.6         16.6%      16.1%    17.9%    10.7%    33.0%
Nonferrous Basic Metal nd. (243 lines)      25.1       0.3          4.1         16.6%      16.3%    21.4%     12.7%    50.0%
Metal Products. Machinery (1 993 lines)      730.3     180.6        132.6         23.2%      18.2%    26.8%     17.9%    50.0%
Metal Prod., not else. class. (438 lines)   88.6      18.3         22.5         31.5%      25.4%    33.6%    14.3%    50.0%
Nonelectric Machinery (669 lines)          251.5      43.6         32.1         16.1%      12.8%    17.6%    18.1%    50.0%
Electrical Machinery (346 lines)            78.2      22.8         19.6         35.9%      25.1%    33.7%     15.3%    50.0%
Transport Equipment (268 lines)            258.7      82.1         52.5         24.8%      20.3%    30.0%     18.1%    50.0%
Scientific Equipment (272 lines)            53.3      13.7          5.9         16.0%      11.0%    26.2%     15.3%    50.0%
Other Manufacturing (210 lines)               21.5       0.6          6.3         30.7%      29.5%    33.5%     14.6%    50.0%



Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan             Tariff Reductions and Restructuring Schedules                           Annex IV
Economic Reform and Development Loan                  (JD millions)                                           Page 5 of 9
Board Presentation: 60% max., excl. cars   Import  Exempted       Realized     Weighted   Realized    Simple  Standard Maximum
(maximum rate excludes alcohol, tobacco)    Value   Imports       Revenue      Avg. Tariff  Tariff Rate  Average  Deviation   Rate
SINTIA Classification of Imports:
Agriculture (364 lines)                      166.4     100.8         10.6          8.8%       6.3%    24.0%     17.6%   100.0%
Mining (112 lines)                           228.9     205.4          1.4          1.0%       0.6%     18.0%    13.1%    50.0%
Manufacturing (6438 lines)                  1827.9     374.0        341.6         23.5%      18.7%    28.2%    21.9%   220.0%
Consumer Goods (2116 lines)                 571.0     107.7        161.9         33.8%      28.3%    40.3%    27.0%   220.0%
Intermediate Goods (3012 lines)             673.5     110.9         95.0         18.3%      14.1%    22.5%     15.0%    50.0%
Capital Goods (1 310 lines)                 583.4     155.4         84.8         19.3%      14.5%    21.8%    17.5%    50.0%
Manufacturing Imports (6438 lines)
(by three-digit ISIC sectors)
Food, Beverages. Tobacco (591 lines)         299.2     100.3         32.6         20.4%      10.9%    33.9%    30.7%   180.0%
Food Manufacturing (548 lines)             289.2      96.9         27.3         18.0%       9.4%    28.4%     17.1%    50.0%
Beverages (32 lines)                         2.1       0.4          1.8        117.0%      87.0%    113.4%    69.8%   180.0%
Tobacco (11 lines)                           7.8       3.0          3.5         83.1%      44.9%    75.0%    27.5%   100.0%
Textiles and Leather (953 lines)             134.4       2.8         45.0         34.4%      33.4%    35.7%     16.1%    50.0%
Textiles (721 lines)                        99.3       1.1         30.0         30.7%      30.2%    31.8%    16.4%    50.0%
Wearing Apparel (144 lines)                 28.5       0.4         12.3         44.0%      43.3%    49.4%      4.6%    50.0%
Leather Products (59 lines)                  2.1       0.9          0.6         47.3%      28.1%    43.4%      5.9%    50.0%
Footwear (29 lines)                          4.5       0.4          2.1         50.0%      45.8%    50.0%      0.0%    50.0%
Wood. Cork, and Products (131 lines)          46.6       0.8         14.5         31.9%      31.1%    33.1%    12.8%    50.0%
Wood, Cork and Products (113 lines)         43.6       0.2         13.2         30.6%      30.4%    30.6%    11.9%    50.0%
Wooden Furniture, Fixtures (18 lines)        3.1       0.6          1.3         50.0%      40.6%    48.5%      4.5%    50.0%
Psper and Printing (233 lines)                51.1       2.1          8.4         16.9%      16.4%    25.4%     14.9%    50.0%
Paper Products (195 lines)                  42.9       0.4          7.5         17.9%      17.6%    25.4%    14.1%    50.0%
Printing and Publishing (38 lines)           8.2       1.7          0.8         11.7%      10.1%    25.4%    18.8%    50.0%
Chemicals, Petroleum. Coal (1 565 lines)     360.7      79.3         42.7         16.1%      11.8%    22.1%    15.9%    50.0%
Industrial Chemicals (981 lines)           150.3      23.2         11.8         11.2%       7.9%    18.2%    14.1%    50.0%
Other Chemical Products (342 lines)        107.8       8.7         13.0         13.9%      12.1%    27.3%     16.7%    50.0%
Petroleum Refineries (424 lines)            54.4      42.1          2.8         16.5%       5.2%    27.3%     14.2%    50.0%
Petroleum and Coal Products (10 lines)       0.5       0.0          0.2         32.0%      32.0%    22.0%     13.8%    40.0%
Rubber Products (96 lines)                  25.1       3.4          8.2         37.9%      32.8%    28.8%     13.8%    50.0%
Plastic Products (112 lines)                22.5       1.9          6.6         33.1%      29.1%    33.7%     17.6%    50.0%
Nonmetallic Minerals (193 lines)              37.3       4.5         11.1         34.6%      29.8%    36.5%     14.3%    50.0%
Ceramic Products (15 lines)                  4.4       0.2          1.9         44.0%      42.0%    40.7%     13.3%    50.0%
Glass and Glass ProdLucts (68 lines)        20.8       1.7          5.4         28.1%      25.9%    36.3%    14.5%    50.0%
Other Nonmetallic Min. Prod. (110 lines)    12.0       2.5          3.9         42.4%      32.2%    36.1%    14.3%    50.0%
Basic Metal Industries (569 lines)           146.8       3.0         23.7         16.6%      16.1%    19.4%    11.7%    50.0%
Iron and Steel Basic Metal Ind. (326 lines)  121.7     2.8         19.6         16.6%      16.1%    17.9%    10.7%    33.0%
Nonferrous Basic Metal Ind. (243 lines)     25.1       0.3          4.1         16.6%      16.3%    21.4%     12.7%    50.0%
Metal Products. Machinery (1993 lines)       730.3     180.6        157.3         26.9%      21.5%    28.9%    27.0%   220.0%
Metal Prod., not else. class. (438 lines)   88.e      18.3         22.5         31.5%      25.4%    33.6%    14.3%    50.0%
Nonelectric Machinery (669 lines)          251.5      43.6         32.1         16.1%      12.8%    17.6%    18.1%    50.0%
Electrical Machinery (346 lines)            78.2      22.8         19.6         35.9%      25.1%    33.7%     15.3%    50.0%
Transport Equipment (268 lines)            258.7      82.1         77.3         35.3%      29.9%    45.9%    55.3%   220.0%
Scientific Equipment (272 lines)            53.3      13.7          5.9         16.0%      11.0%    26.2%     15.3%    50.0%
Other Manufacturing (210 lines)               21.5       0.6          6.3         30.7%      29.5%    33.5%     14.6%    50.0%



Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan             Tariff Reductions and Restructuring Schedules                           Annex IV
Economic Reform and Development Loan                  (JD millions)                                            Page 6 of 9
Phase II, indicative: 40% max., incl. cars  Import  Exempted      Realized     Weighted   Realized   Simple  Standard Maximum
(maximum rate excludes alcohol, tobacco)    Value    Imports      Revenue      Avg. Tariff  Tariff Rate  Average  Deviation   Rate
SINTIA Classification of Imports:
Agriculture (364 lines)                      166.4     100.8         10.3          8.6%       6.2%    23.3%    15.8%   100.0%
Mining (112 lines)                           228.9     205.4          1.2          0.9%       0.5%    18.4%    12.4%    40.0%
Manufacturinq (6438 lines)                  1827.9     374.0        296.7         20.6%      16.2%    25.7%     17.0%   180.0%
Consumer Goods (2116 lines)                 571.0     107.7        123.7         26.6%      21.7%    34.3%     17.5%   180.0%
Intermediate Goods (3012 lines)             673.5     110.9         99.1         18.7%      14.7%    22.4%     13.9%    40.0%
Capital Goods (1310lines)                   583.4     155.4         73.9         17.1%      12.7%    19.6%    17.3%    40.0%
Manufacturing Imports (6438 lines)
(by three-digit ISIC sectors)
Food, Beverages. Tobacco (591 lines)         299.2     100.3         31.9         19.8%      10.7%    32.2%    29.8%   180.0%
Food Manufacturing (548 lines)             289.2      96.9         26.6         17.4%       9.2%    26.6%    14.6%    40.0%
Beverages (32 lines)                         2.1       0.4          1.8        117.0%      87.0%   113.1%    70.1%   180.0%
Tobacco (11 lines)                           7.8       3.0          3.5         83.1%      44.9%    75.0%    27.5%   100.0%
Textiles and Leather (953 lines)             134.4       2.8         40.7         31.1%      30.3%    31.5%    12.4%    40.0%
Textiles (721 lines)                        99.3       1.1         28.1         28.8%      28.3%    28.8%    13.2%    40.0%
Wearing Apparel (144 lines)                 28.5       0.4         10.4         37.1%      36.6%    39.6%      3.1%    40.0%
Leather Products (59 lines)                  2.1       0.9          0.5         40.0%      23.3%    39.4%      2.2%    40.0%
Footwear (29 lines)                          4.5       0.4          1.7         40.0%      36.6%    40.0%      0.0%    40.0%
Wood. Cork, and Products (131 lines)          46.6       0.8         14.2         31.1%      30.5%    30.9%     10.3%    40.0%
Wood, Cork and Products (113 lines)         43.6       0.2         13.2         30.5%      30.3%    29.5%     10.4%    40.0%
Wooden Furniture, Fixtures (18 lines)        3.1       0.6          1.0         40.0%      32.5%    39.6%      1.6%    40.0%
Paper and Printing (233 lines)                51.1       2.1          8.5         17.0%      16.6%    25.5%    13.1%    40.0%
Paper Products (195 lines)                  42.9       0.4          7.7         18.3%      18.0%    26.0%     12.5%    40.0%
Printing and Publishing (38 lines)           8.2       1.7          0.7         10.4%       8.8%    22.8%     15.5%    40.0%
Chemicals. Petroleum. Coal (1565 lines)      360.7      79.3         40.7         15.5%      11.3%    21.5%    14.5%    40.0%
Industrial Chemicals (981 lines)           150.3      23.2         12.0         11.6%       8.0%    18.2%    13.9%    40.0%
Other Chemical Products (342 lines)        107.8       8.7         12.1         12.9%      11.2%    26.1%    14.1%    40.0%
Petroleum Refineries (424 lines)            54.4      42.1          2.5         15.7%       4.6%    26.6%     11.8%    40.0%
Petroleum and Coal Products (10 lines)       0.5       0.0          0.2         32.5%      32.5%    23.0%     14.2%    40.0%
Rubber Products (96 lines)                  25.1       3.4          8.2         37.4%      32.5%    28.4%     12.8%    40.0%
Plastic Products (112 lines)                22.5       1.9          5.7         28.7%      25.4%    29.7%     13.9%    40.0%
Nonmetallic Minerals (1 93 lines)             37.3       4.5          9.9         30.8%      26.6%    32.9%    11.0%    40.0%
Ceramic Products (15 lines)                  4.4       0.2          1.7         39.9%      38.0%    36.0%    10.6%    40.0%
Glass and Glass Products (68 lines)         20.8       1.7          4.9         25.7%      23.5%    32.6%     11.2%    40.0%
Other Nonmetallic Min. Prod. (110 lines)    12.0       2.5          3.4         36.2%      27.9%    32.6%     10.9%    40.0%
Basic Metal Industries (569 lines)           146.8       3.0         30.0         21.0%      20.4%    21.6%     12.6%    40.0%
Iron and Steel Basic Metal Ind. (326 lines)  121.7     2.8         25.3         21.4%      20.8%    20.7%     12.3%    33.0%
Nonferrous Basic Metal Ind. (243 lines)     25.1       0.3          4.7         19.1%      18.8%    22.8%     12.9%    40.0%
Metal Products. Machinery (1993 lines)       730.3     180.6        114.4         20.3%      15.7%    24.1%    16.6%    40.0%
Metal Prod., not else. class. (438 lines)   88.6      18.3         20.6         29.3%      23.3%    30.8%    12.0%    40.0%
Nonelectric Machinery (669 lines)          251.5      43.6         30.1         15.1%      12.0%    15.8%     17.4%    40.0%
Electrical Machinery (346 lines)            78.2      22.8         17.3         31.3%      22.1%    30.1%     14.3%    40.0%
Transport Equipment (268 lines)            258.7      82.1         41.7         20.4%      16.1%    24.1%     16.8%    40.0%
Scientific Equipment (272 lines)            53.3      13.7          4.8         13.3%       8.9%    25.7%     15.0%    40.0%
Other Manufacturing (21 0 lines)              21.5       0.6          6.4         30.9%      29.8%    31.0%     12.0%    40.0%



Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan             Tariff Reductions and Restructuring Schedules                           Annex IV
Economic Reform and Development Loan                  (JD millions)                                           Page 7 of 9
Phase II, indicative: 40% max., excl. cars  Import  Exempted      Realized     Weighted   Realized    Simple  Standard Maximum
(maximum rate excludes alcohol, tobacco)    Value    Imports      Revenue      Avg. Tariff  Tariff Rate  Average  Deviation   Rate
SINTIA Classification of Imports:
Agriculture (364 lines)                      166.4     100.8         10.3          8.6%       6.2%     23.3%    15.8%   100.0%
Mining (112 lines)                           228.9     205.4          1.2          0.9%       0.5%     18.4%    12.4%    40.0%
Manufacturing (6438 lines)                  1827.9     374.0        325.2         22.4%      17.8%    26.5%    20.6%   220.0%
Consumer Goods (2116 lines)                 571.0     107.7        152.1         32.1%      26.6%    36.6%     25.9%   220.0%
Intermediate Goods (3012 lines)             673.5     110.9         99.1         18.7%      14.7%    22.4%     13.9%    40.0%
Capital Goods (1310 lines)                  583.4     155.4         73.9         17.1%      12.7%    19.6%    17.3%    40.0%
Manufacturing Imports (6438 lines)
(by three-digit ISIC sectors)
Food, Beverages. Tobacco (591 lines)         299.2     100.3         31.9         19.8%      10.7%    32.2%    29.8%    1 80.0%
Food Manufacturing (548 lines)             289.2      96.9         26.6         17.4%       9.2%    26.6%     14.6%    40.0%
Beverages (32 lines)                         2.1       0.4          1.8        117.0%      87.0%    113.1%    70.1%   180.0%
Tobacco (11 lines)                           7.8       3.0          3.5         83.1%      44.9%    75.0%    27.5%   100.0%
Textiles and Leather (953 lines)             134.4       2.8         40.7         31.1%      30.3%     31.5%    12.4%    40.0%
Textiles (721 lines)                        99.3       1.1         28.1         28.8%      28.3%    28.8%    13.2%    40.0%
Wearing Apparel (144 lines)                 28.5       0.4         10.4         37.1%      36.6%     39.6%     3.1%    40.0%
Leather Products (59 lines)                  2.1       0.9          0.5         40.0%      23.3%    39.4%      2.2%    40.0%
Footwear (29 lines)                          4.5       0.4          1.7         40.0%      36.6%    40.0%      0.0%    40.0%
Wood Cork, and Products (131 lines)           46.6       0.8         14.2         31.1%      30.5%     30.9%    10.3%    40.0%
Wood, Cork and Products (113 lines)         43.6       0.2         13.2         30.5%      30.3%    29.5%     10.4%    40.0%
Wooden Furniture, Fixtures (18 lines)        3.1       0.6          1.0         40.0%      32.5%    39.6%      1.6%    40.0%
Paper and Printing (233 lines)                51.1       2.1          8.5         17.0%      16.6%    25.5%     13.1%    40.0%
Paper Products (195 lines)                  42.9       0.4          7.7         18.3%      1 8.0%    26.0%    12.5%    40.0%
Printing and Publishing (38 lines)           8.2       1.7          0.7         10.4%       8.8%    22.8%     15.5%    40.0%
Chemicals. Petroleum. Coal (1565 lines)      360.7      79.3         40.7         15.5%      11.3%    21.5%     14.5%    40.0%
Industrial Chemicals (981 lines)           150.3      23.2         12.0         11.6%       8.0%    18.2%    13.9%    40.0%
Other Chemical Products (342 lines)        107.8       8.7         12.1         12.9%      11.2%    26.1%    14.1%    40.0%
Petroleum Refineries (424 lines)            54.4      42.1          2.5         15.7%       4.6%    26.6%     11.8%    40.0%
Petroleum and Coal Products (10 lines)       0.5       0.0          0.2         32.5%      32.5%    23.0%    14.2%    40.0%
Rubber Products (96 lines)                  25.1       3.4          8.2         37.4%      32.5%    28.4%     12.8%    40.0%
Plastic Products (112 lines)                22.5       1.9          5.7         28.7%      25.4%    29.7%     13.9%    40.0%
Nonmetallic Minerals (193 lines)              37.3       4.5          9.9         30.8%      26.6%    32.9%     11.0%    40.0%
Ceramic Products (15 lines)                  4.4       0.2          1.7         39.9%      38.0%    36.0%     10.6%    40.0%
Glass and Glass Products (68 lines)         20.8       1.7          4.9         25.7%      23.5%    32.6%     11.2%    40.0%
Other Nonmetallic Min. Prod. (110 lines)    12.0       2.5          3.4         36.2%      27.9%    32.6%     10.9%    40.0%
Basic Metal Industries (569 lines)           146.8       3.0         30.0         21.0%      20.4%    21.6%     12.6%    40.0%
Iron and Steel Basic Metal Ind. (326 lines)  121.7     2.8         25.3         21.4%      20.8%    20.7%     12.3%    33.0%
Nonferrous Basic Metal Ind. (243 lines)     25.1       0.3          4.7         19.1%      18.8%    22.8%     12.9%    40.0%
Metal Prwucts. Machinery (1993 lines)        730.3     180.6        142.9         24.6%      19.6%    26.5%    26.6%   220.0%
Metal Prod., not else. class. (438 lines)   88.6      18.3         20.6         29.3%      23.3%    30.8%     12.0%    40.0%
Nonelectric Machinery (669 lines)          251.5      43.6         30.1         15.1%      12.0%    15.8%    17.4%    40.0%
Electrical Machinery (346 lines)            78.2      22.8         17.3         31.3%      22.1%    30.1%    14.3%    40.0%
Transport Equipment (268 lines)            258.7      82.1         70.2         32.5%      27.1%    42.6%    56.7%   220.0%
Scientific Equipment (272 lines)            53.3      13.7          4.8         13.3%       8.9%    25.7%     15.0%    40.0%
Other Manufacturing (210 lines)               21.5       0.6          6.4         30.9%      29.8%    31.0%     12.0%    40.0%



Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan             Tariff Reductions and Restructuring Schedules                           Annex IV
Economic Reform and Development Loan                  (JD millions)                                           Page 8 of 9
Phase III, indicative: 30% max., incl. cars  Import  Exempted     Realized     Weighted   Realized    Simple  Standard Maximum
(annualized, based on Jan-Aug 1994 data)    Value    Imports      Revenue      Avg. Tariff  Tariff Rate  Average  Deviation   Rate
SINTIA Classification of Imports:
Aariculture (364 lines)                      166.4     100.8          9.6          8.2%       5.7%    20.2%     13.0%   100.0%
Mining (112 lines)                           228.9     205.4          1.1          0.8%       0.5%    17.6%    11.2%    30.0%
Manufacturing (6438 lines)                  1827.9     374.0        259.8         18.2%      14.2%    22.2%     14.7%   180.0%
Consumer Goods (2116 lines)                 571.0     107.7        103.4         22.7%      18.1%    28.2%     16.3%   180.0%
Intermediate Goods (3012 lines)             673.5     110.9         91.9         17.1%      13.6%    20.3%     11.9%    30.0%
Capital Goods (1310 lines)                  583.4     155.4         64.5         15.1%      11.1%    16.9%    14.5%    30.0%
Manufacturing Imports (6438 lines)
(by three-digit ISIC sectors)
Food, Beveraaes. Tobacco (591 lines)         299.2     100.3         29.2         18.3%       9.8%    28.0%    29.1%   180.0%
Food Manufacturing (548 lines)             289.2      96.9         23.8         15.8%       8.2%    22.2%    11.0%    30.0%
Beverages (32 lines)                         2.1       0.4          1.8        117.0%      87.0%   112.2%    71.2%   180.0%
Tobacco (11 lines)                           7.8       3.0          3.5         83.1%      44.9%    75.0%    27.5%   100.0%
Textiles and Leather (953 lines)             134.4       2.8         34.3         26.1%      25.5%    25.6%      9.2%    30.0%
Textiles (721 lines)                        99.3       1.1         24.3         24.8%      24.5%    24.2%     10.2%    30.0%
Wearing Apparel (144 lines)                 28.5       0.4          8.4         29.9%      29.5%    29.8%      2.1%    30.0%
Leather Products (59 lines)                  2.1       0.9          0.4         30.0%      17.5%    30.0%      0.0%    30.0%
Footwear (29 lines)                          4.5       0.4          1.2         30.0%      27.5%    30.0%      0.0%    30.0%
Wood. Cork, and Products (131 lines)          46.6       0.8         12.8         27.9%      27.4%    26.7%      7.9%    30.0%
Wood, Cork and Products (113 lines)         43.6       0.2         12.0         27.8%      27.7%    26.2%      8.4%    30.0%
Wooden Furniture, Fixtures (18 lines)        3.1       0.6          0.8         30.0%      24.4%    30.0%      0.0%    30.0%
Paperand Printing (233 lines)                 51.1       2.1          7.9         15.9%      15.5%    22.9%     11.0%    30.0%
Paper Products (195 lines)                  42.9       0.4          7.3         17.3%      17.1%    23.6%     10.7%    30.0%
Printing and Publishing (38 lines)           8.2       1.7          0.6          8.8%       7.3%    19.2%     11.9%    30.0%
Chemicals. Petroleum. Coal (1565 lines)      360.7      79.3         35.3         13.6%       9.8%    19.2%    12.2%    30.0%
Industrial Chemicals (981 lines)           150.3      23.2         11.6         11.1%       7.7%    16.8%    12.3%    30.0%
Other Chemical Products (342 lines)        107.8       8.7         10.5         11.2%       9.8%    22.5%     11.3%    30.0%
Petroleum Refineries (424 lines)            54.4      42.1          2.1         14.4%       3.9%    24.0%      9.7%    30.0%
Petroleum and Coal Products (10 lines)       0.5       0.0          0.1         25.7%      25.7%    20.0%    10.5%    30.0%
Rubber Products (96 lines)                  25.1       3.4          6.3         29.1%      25.1%    24.4%    10.0%    30.0%
Plastic Products (112 lines)                22.5       1.9          4.6         23.1%      20.6%    24.2%    10.5%    30.0%
Nonmetallic Minerals (193 lines)              37.3       4.5          8.0         24.8%      21.4%    26.8%      7.7%    30.0%
Ceramic Products (15 lines)                  4.4       0.2          1.3         30.0%      28.5%    27.3%      7.0%    30.0%
Glass and Glass Products (68 lines)         20.8       1.7          4.0         21.2%      19.1%    26.8%      7.9%    30.0%
Other Nonmetallic Min. Prod. (110 lines)    12.0       2.5          2.7         29.1%      22.7%    26.8%      7.8%    30.0%
Basic Metal Industries (569 lines)           146.8       3.0         29.9         21.0%      20.3%    20.9%    12.0%    30.0%
Iron and Steel Basic Metal Ind. (326 lines)  121.7     2.8         25.2         21.4%      20.7%    20.5%    12.2%    30.0%
Nonferrous Basic Metal Ind. (243 lines)     25.1       0.3          4.6         18.7%      18.3%    21.5%     11.7%    30.0%
Metal Products. Machinery (1993 lines)       730.3     180.6         96.8         17.4%      13.3%    20.3%    13.5%    30.0%
Metal Prod., not else. class. (438 lines)   88.6      18.3         17.1         24.4%      19.3%    25.9%      9.1%    30.0%
Nonelectric Machinery (669 lines)          251.5      43.6         26.0         13.3%      10.3%    13.6%    14.6%    30.0%
Electrical Machinery (346 lines)            78.2      22.8         13.8         24.9%      17.7%    24.5%     10.9%    30.0%
Transport Equipment (268 lines)            258.7      82.1         35.6         17.9%      13.8%    20.0%    13.2%    30.0%
Scientific Equipment (272 lines)            53.3      13.7          4.3         12.0%       8.0%    22.7%    12.7%    30.0%
Other Manufacturing (21 0 lines)              21.5       0.6          5.6         27.0%      26.2%    25.7%      8.8%    30.0%



Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan             Tariff Reductions and Restructuring Schedules                           Annex IV
Economic Reform and Development Loan                  (JD millions)                                           Page 9 of 9
Phase III, indicative: 30% max., excl. cars  Import  Exempted     Realized     Weighted   Realized    Simple  Standard Maximum
(annualized, based on Jan-Aug 1994 data)    Value   Imports       Revenue      Avg. Tariff  Tariff Rate  Avage  DeWiation   Rate
SINTIA Classification of Imports:
Agriculture (364 lines)                      166.4     100.8          9.6          8.2%       5.7%    20.2%    13.0%   100.0%
Mining (112 lines)                           228.9     205.4          1.1          0.8%       0.5%     17.8%    11.2%    30.0%
Manufacturing (6438 lines)                  1827.9     374.0        292.0         20.1%      16.0%    23.1%    18.9%   220.0%
Consumer Goods (2116 lines)                 571.0     107.7        135.5         28.9%      23.7%    30.8%    25.6%   220.0%
Intermediate Goods (3012 lines)             673.5     110.9         91.9         17.1%      13.6%    20.3%    11.9%    30.0%
Capital Goods (1 310 lines)                 583.4     155.4         64.5         15.1%      11.1%    16.9%    14.5%    30.0%
Manufacturing Imports (6438 lines)
(by three-digit ISIC sectors)
Food. Beverages. Tobacco (591 lines)         299.2     100.3         29.2         18.3%       9.8%    28.0%    29.1%   180.0%
Food Manufacturing (548 lines)             289.2      96.9         23.8         15.8%       8.2%    22.2%    11.0%    30.0%
Beverages (32 lines)                         2.1       0.4          1.8        117.0%      87.0%   112.2%    71.2%   180.0%
Tobacco (11 lines)                           7.8       3.0          3.5         83.1%      44.9%    75.0%    27.5%   100.0%
Textiles and Leather (953 lines)             134.4       2.8         34.3         26.1%      25.5%    25.6%      9.2%    30.0%
Textiles (721 lines)                        99.3       1.1         24.3         24.8%      24.5%    24.2%    10.2%    30.0%
Wearing Apparel (1 44 lines)                28.5       0.4          8.4         29.9%      29.5%    29.8%      2.1%    30.0%
Leather Products (59 lines)                  2.1       0.9          0.4         30.0%      17.5%    30.0%      0.0%    30.0%
Footwear (29 lines)                          4.5       0.4          1.2         30.0%      27.5%    30.0%      0.0%    30.0%
Wood. Cork. and Products (131 lines)          46.6       0.8         12.8         27.9%      27.4%    26.7%      7.9%    30.0%
Wood, Cork and Products (113 lines)         43.6       0.2         12.0         27.8%      27.7%    28.2%      8.4%    30.0%
Wooden Furniture, Fixtures (18 lines)        3.1       0.6          0.8         30.0%      24.4%    30.0%      0.0%    30.0%
Paoer and Printing (233 lines)                51.1       2.1          7.9         15.9%      15.5%    22.9%     11.0%    30.0%
Paper Products (195 lines)                  42.9       0.4          7.3         17.3%      17.1%    23.6%    10.7%    30.0%
Printing and Publishing (38 lines)           8.2       1.7          0.6          8.8%       7.3%    19.2%    11.9%    30.0%
Chemicals. Petroleum. Coal (1565 lines)      360.7      79.3         35.3         13.6%       9.8%     19.2%    12.2%    30.0%
Industrial Chemicals (981 lines)           150.3      23.2         11.6         11.1%       7.7%    16.8%    12.3%    30.0%
Other Chemical Products (342 lines)        107.8       8.7         10.5         11.2%       9.8%    22.5%    11.3%    30.0%
Petroleum Refineries (424 lines)            54.4      42.1          2.1         14.4%       3.9%    24.0%      9.7%    30.0%
Petroleum and Coal Products (10 lines)       0.5       0.0          0.1         25.7%      25.7%    20.0%    10.5%    30.0%
Rubber Products (96 lines)                  25.1       3.4          6.3         29.1%      25.1%    24.4%    10.0%    30.0%
Plastic Products (112 lines)                22.5       1.9          4.6         23.1%      20.6%    24.2%    10.5%    30.0%
Nonmetallic Minerals (1 93 lines)             37.3       4.5          8.0         24.8%      21.4%    26.8%      7.7%    30.0%
Ceramic Products (1 5 lines)                 4.4       0.2          1.3         30.0%      28.5%    27.3%      7.0%    30.0%
Glass and Glass Products (68 lines)         20.8       1.7          4.0         21.2%      19.1%    26.8%      7.9%    30.0%
Other Nonmetallic Min. Prod. (11 0 lines)   12.0       2.5          2.7         29.1%      22.7%    26.8%      7.8%    30.0%
Basic Metal Industries (569 lines)           146.8       3.0         29.9         21.0%      20.3%    20.9%    12.0%    30.0%
Iron and Steel Basic Metal Ind. (326 lines)  121.7     2.8         25.2         21.4%      20.7%    20.5%    12.2%    30.0%
Nonferrous Basic Metal Ind. (243 lines)     25.1       0.3          4.6         18.7%      18.3%    21.5%     11.7%    30.0%
Metal Products. Machinerv (1993 lines)       730.3     180.6        129.0         22.2%      17.7%    23.1%    25.3%   220.0%
Metal Prod., not else. class. (438 lines)   88.6      18.3         17.1         24.4%      19.3%    25.9%      9.1%    30.0%
Nonelectric Machinery (669 lines)          251.5      43.6         26.0         13.3%      10.3%    13.6%    14.6%    30.0%
Electrical Machinery (346 lines)            78.2      22.8         13.8         24.9%      17.7%    24.5%    10.9%    30.0%
Transport Equipment (268 lines)            258.7      82.1         67.8         31.5%      26.2%    41.0%    56.9%   220.0%
Scientific Equipment (272 lines)            53.3      13.7          4.3         12.0%       8.0%    22.7%    12.7%    30.0%
Other Manufacturing (21 0 lines)              21.5       0.6          5.6         27.0%      26.2%    25.7%      8.8%    30.0%



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ECONOMIC REFORM DEVELOPMENT LOAN
TRADE AGREEMENTS*
A. Multilateral Trade Agreements and Protocols
COUNTRIES                                   DATE OF SIGNING
1. Arab Common Market Agreement                                           August 13, 1964
Countries: Jordan, Syria, Iraq, Lybia and Egypt
2. Agreement for Trade Facilitation and                                      1982-1993
Development Among Arab Countries
Countries: Jordan, United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Tunisia, Saudi
Arabia, Sudan, Syria Somalia, Iraq, West Bank-Gaza, Kuwait,
Lebanon, Lybia, Morocco, and Yemen.
B. Bilateral Trade Agreements and Protocols
COUNTRY                         DATE OF SIGNING                DATE OF
REMOYAL
1. Bahrain                                     December 22, 1975              13-4-1995
2. Tunisia FTA                                     June 6, 1981               27-4-1995
3. Saudi Arabia                                  August 28, 1962            Still Effective
(revised November 22, 1966)
4. Sudan                                        November 14, 1962
(revised by trade protocols dated
February 26, 1974 and June 11,
1987)
5. Syria                                        February 18, 1954              6-4-75
6. Egypt FTA                                   September 14, 1967              9-1992
(Revised August 29, 1970)
7. Iraq                                         December 9, 1965              1-5-1980
(Revised by protocols dated April 20,
1968, April 7, 1970, and Septemer
28, 1972)
8. Qatar                                          April 15, 1968            Still Effective
9. Lebanon                                       October 1, 1992            Still Effective
10. Lybia                                       January 20, 1992            Still Effective
*These agreements exempt agricultural and animal products from customs duties; most agreements also
exempt surcharges and fees.



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
THE HASHEMITE KTNGDOM OF JORDAN
ECONOMTC RFFORM DEVFLOPMENT LOAN
Organizations Exempted from Tariffs and Duties
for Which Exemption to be Retained
(Imports, January-August 1994, I'D millions)
Armed Forces                                                                        35.6
Charitable Organizations                                                             8.5
Diplomatic Corps                                                                     2.8
Palestinian Refugees                                                                 3.5
Red Cross                                                                            0.2
Royal Court                                                                          6.1
UNESCO                                                                               0.1
United Nations                                                                      0.5
TOTAL                                                                               57.3
Organizations Exempted from Tariffs and Duties by Legal Concession
Exemption to be Removed Upon Expiration of Concession
(Date current concession agreement ends; Imports, January-August 1994, JD millions)
Arab Potash Company (February 24, 2058)                                             10.7
Irbid Electric Power Company (March 16, 2011)
Jordan Electric Power Company (Amman) (November 22, 2012                             4.9
Jordan Tanning Comapny (January 1, 2002)                                             1.6
Jordan Phosphate Company (II)                                                       21.5
Jordan Petroleum Refinery Company (February 10, 2008)                              169.5
Jordan Cement Company (December 16, 2001)                                            6.5
Vegetable Oil Company (February 27, 2001)                                            0.1
TOTAL                                                                              214.8
*Imports of Irbid Electric Power Company unknown.
"*Concession agreement extends until completion of renewal of phosphoric acid factory.
Organizations Currently Exempted from Tariffs and Duties
Exemption to be Removed
(Imports, January-August 1994, JD millions)
Arab Pharmaceutical Manufacturing                                                    4.1
Government                                                                           0.1
Government                                                                         219.8
International Aviation Company                                                       0.2
Jordan Hotels and Tourism Company                                                    0.4
Municipalities                                                                       1.8
Railway                                                                              0.3
TOTAL                                                                              226.7






.         m              .           .        .                   I
- I



