Report No. PIC2732
Project Name                     Jordan-Economic Reform and Development...
loan (ERDL)
Region                        Middle East and North Africa
Sector                       Economic Management
Project ID                    JOPA34118
Loan Amount                     US$ 80.0 million
Implementing Agency              Government, represented by the Ministry of
Planning as main coordinator.
Contact Mr. Nabil Ammari,
Fax No. 9-626-649341
Date PID Prepared            October 4, 1995
Appraisal Date                    July 1995
Board Date                              October 24, 1995
Country and Sector Background
I.    The proposed Economic Reform and Development Loan (ERDL)
would support trade and investment policy adjustments, thus
broadening and deepening Jordan's structural reform efforts.
These efforts have registered impressive achievements in the past
few years with the assistance of an IMF Extended Fund Facility
(EFF) and of World Bank adjustment operations in the energy and
agriculture sectors. The ERDL would support a set of Government
actions aimed at establishing a credible path toward free trade
with neighboring economies, with the European Union (EU), and
eventually with the rest of the world. ERDL would be complemented
by a proposed parallel World Bank-supported Export Development
Project.
II.   The Government's reform program has been effectively
implemented despite the disruptions caused by the Gulf crisis of
1990-91. GDP has been growing at an annual average of 6 percent
since then; inflation has declined sharply; budgetary and
external sector performance have strengthened considerably with
an overall reduction of the fiscal deficit; although still high,
unemployment has been reduced, and poverty has started to
decline. Notwithstanding this progress, major economic
challenges still remain. Jordan needs to address a number of
domestic policy constraints. The trade regime is still inward-
oriented with relatively high tariffs and pockets of non-tariff
barriers. The regulatory regime is tilted in favor of public
enterprises. Investment incentives are often discretionary and
trade procedures burdensome. The public sector is overextended
and inefficient in a few respects. The financial system is
segmented, not sufficiently flexible, and characterized by high
costs and low volume of financial intermediation. Jordan will
have to restrain aggregate demand and sustain economic growth
over the medium term. Such potential conflict in policy goals
points to the need to implement structural reforms that would



help increase investment efficiency and establish a strong base
for non-inflationary growth, in particular the outward
orientation in trade and investment--to be driven by the forces
of market competition.
III. The regional peace process, and the Peace Accord between
Jordan and Israel presents Jordan with unprecedented
opportunities and challenges. On the first account, peace carries
new growth opportunities for Jordan's banking sector, tourism and
exports, and opens up the possibility of a major restructuring of
trade patterns. It offers the prospect for regional cooperation
in water, natural resource management and environmental
protection, and it could lead to a broad-based investment
recovery throughout the region. On the other hand, peace could
challenge macroeconomic stability due to circulation of several
currencies in the West Bank and Gaza (WBG) and the potential loss
of substantial seigniorage once WBG introduces its own currency
and redeems the Jordanian Dinars it holds; it could also cloud
the prospect for growth due to the potential diversion of
investment capital and migration of skilled labor to WBG; and it
could intensify demands on the Government for better social
services due to expectations for a rapid improvement in living
standards. Jordan intends to seize the opportunities of peace,
and to meet the challenges by accelerating its reforms.
IV.   The Government has demonstrated its commitment to reforms by
initiating efforts toward a closer trade relation with the
regional economies, by initiating its internal process for
accession to the World Trade Organization, by moving to establish
free trade relations with the European Union (EU), by focusing on
the development of the domestic export capability, and by
strengthening the investment environment.
Project Objectives
V.    A key objective of this loan is to support Jordan to address
the constraints on its long-term growth imposed by the limitation
of a small domestic market. This would be achieved through close
integration with international markets and the establishment of
an investment-friendly environment. An important policy
direction supported by this loan is the ultimate removal of the
remaining trade and investment barriers, paving the way for a
closer trade relation (an Association Agreement) with the
European Union (EU), and accession to the World Trade
Organization (WTO). A further objective is to support the
adoption of trade and investment procedures and practices
consistent with international practices and with WTO
requirements. This is expected to reduce uncertainty, raise the
level and efficiency of investments and lead to accelerated
growth.
Project Description
VI.   The ERDL supports trade and investment policy reforms to:
(a) remove the quota-based preferential treatment of goods
- 2-



originating in or going to specific countries, or convert it into
a full-fledged free trade agreement that satisfies WTO rules; (b)
remove import licensing requirements; (c) reduce and restructure
tariffs, including the elimination of the various import fees and
surcharges; (d) remove tariff exemptions; (e) establish a
credible path to achieving full long-term trade liberalization;
(f) equalize domestic taxes on imports and domestically produced
goods; (g) establish a business- enabling investment environment
and strengthen investment incentives; (h) streamline and
rationalize customs administration; and (i) improve the
operations of export development schemes.
VII. Technical Assistance: the ERDL would be accompanied by a
technical assistance project (Safeguard Study) which is critical
to the implementation of the trade reforms. This study will be
financed by the Japan PHRD fund. The ERDL will also be
complemented by other technical assistance under a parallel
Export Development Project being prepared by the World Bank.
Financing Plan
VIII.        The Government has requested cofinancing of US$ 80
million equivalent from Japan, and cofinancing of Lira 20.0
billion (about US$12 million equivalent) from Italy. The project
will disburse in one tranche.
Project Implementation
IX.   The Ministry of Planning will be the principal coordinating
agency, with the support of an implementation committee
comprising the Ministry of Trade and Industry, the Ministry of
Finance, and the Central Bank of Jordan.
Poverty Category
X.    Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects
XI.   The proposed operation has no direct and significant
environmental impact.
Contact Point       Public Information Centre
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



