Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5156 
Operation Name 
DPL on Promoting an Inclusive, Equitable and Efficient Social 
Protection System 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Other social services (100%) 
Project ID 
P106708 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Depart
amento Nacional de Planeación 
Calle 26 No.13-19 
Bogota 
Colombia 
Tel: (57-1) 596-0300   
Jarias@dnp.gov.co 
Date PID Prepared 
October 26, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
December 2, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
February 18, 2010 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Following the global financial crisis, the Colombian economy has faced the impacts of a significant 
aggregate demand contraction, but sound macroeconomic policies implemented in recent years have 
substantially improved the country’s economic resilience against crisis. In the near term, as the global 
economy is improving, economic activity is likely to experience a modest rebound or circa 0.4 percent 
in 2009 and a more significant growth of economic activity in 2010 with circa 2.5 percent GDP growth. 
 
Despite the impact of global conditions, the impact in Colombia has not been as severe as feared, as the 
country is in a better position to confront the global crisis than other LAC countries. This outcome is a 
result of the countercyclical monetary policy together with the fiscal stimulus through higher public 
sector investment over 2009. Risks of macro-economic deterioration in 2010 are decreasing, and 
external and fiscal sustainability are not a major concern. Even under a low growth scenario, Colombia 
has enough reserves to cushion a potential external financing shock without affecting exchange rate 
stability. This scenario does not pose a serious problem to the public debt sustainability. 
 
Over the past few years, the Government’s strategy in social protection has focused mostly on expansion 
of coverage for core social assistance, social insurance (health and old-age), and training programs. In 
addition, the Government has focused on issues of efficiency, as illustrated, among others, by the effort 
to develop a national targeting system which can be used by all programs to reach the poorest and most 
vulnerable and by the efforts to design and begin the implementation of core information systems. 
Despite important gains, challenges remain in particular in expanding the coverage of social insurance 
and strengthening programs to foster employability through training, labor intermediation, and 
unemployment services. Efforts are also required to reach the poorest and most vulnerable families and 
to promote greater coordination of programs. 
 
The crisis has highlighted both the strengths and the weaknesses of the existing social protection system. 
The crisis and the response of the Government have shown that core social protection programs were 
Page  2
able to protect the poorest and that the system could function within a crisis context. This is the legacy 
of a decade of investment in programs and information systems. However, the crisis also highlighted 
remaining needs for greater coverage of social insurance programs and active labor market policies, and 
better integration. 
 
The operation proposes to consolidate past gains, seek cost-cutting measures and increases in efficiency, 
and supports the reform agenda in areas that need strengthening and consolidation. 
The objective is to 
build the 
basis for a social protection system that is more 
inclusive
,
equitable
 and 
efficient.
 To this end, 
the operation supports policy actions in a broad range of areas. In particular, the proposed reform agenda 
includes:  
(a) 
efforts to increase the coverage of 
inclusive
 systems serving the entire population such as the 
national training and labor intermediation system or health insurance,  
(b) 
efforts to build an 
equitable 
system that serves the poor and vulnerable through improved 
targeting and coordination of social assistance and greater efforts to reach the poorest, and  
(c) 
efforts to increase the 
efficiency
 of social protection through improved information systems, 
rationalization, simplification of processes, and improvements in program design.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s): 
 
The development objective of the proposed operation is to strengthen an 
inclusive
,
equitable
 and 
efficient
 social protection system by (1) promoting greater integration and efficiency of social insurance, 
(2) improving the equity, efficiency, and articulation of social assistance programs, and (3) promoting 
higher quality training and employment services.  
 
3. Preliminary 
description: 
 
The operation is organized along the three major pillars of the social protection system:  
(1) promoting greater integration and efficiency of social insurance,  
(2) improving the equity, efficiency, and articulation of social assistance programs, and  
(3) promoting higher quality training and employment services.  
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
This loan is not expected to have a significant effect on the environment. Following OP 8.60, the 
operation was reviewed for any potential effects relating to the environment, forest, and natural 
resources. As this operation focuses on strengthening the institutions, policy framework, and quality of 
social protection in Colombia, it has been determined that the operation is not likely to have any 
significant effects on the environment.  
The Government of Colombia is well prepared to identify potential environmental impacts and to 
address them, given an ongoing program of reforms to improve its environmental management capacity. 
The Government has engaged in a number of activities to protect the environment and embarked on an 
extensive environmental reform program with the support of the Bank. The government prepared a 
Page  3
strategy outlined in the 2006-2010 National Development Plan, which focuses on guaranteeing 
sustainable growth and reducing poverty by improving cross-sectoral planning and calling for the 
strengthening of the National Environment System (SINA). As a result, the Government now has greater 
institutional capacity to plan and implement policies to ensure environmentally sustainable development. 
Institutional capacity is expected to keep improving in the future.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: 
 
($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
300 
 Total 
300 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Aline Coudouel 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-3495 
Fax: (202) 522-0050 
Email: acoudouel@worldbank.org
 
